DRN-3034700
The complaint
Mrs D complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Better Retirement Group Ltd 
(BRG), trading as Fiducia Prosperity, in January 2018 to invest the value of her self-
personal pension plan (SIPP) in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio managed by SVS 
Securities Plc following a pension transfer from the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS). 
Mrs D is represented in this complaint by a third party (Representative).
What happened
Mrs D was advised by BRG, trading as Fiducia Prosperity. To make this decision easier to 
follow, Ill refer to BRG throughout since its the legal entity that remains responsible for the 
advice about which Mrs D has complained. I issued my provisional decision on this 
complaint on 13 May 2022. I set out the background and my provisional findings. Ive 
repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mrs Ds employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel) announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their 
safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  
the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to members of defined 
benefits pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel closed the 
BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017. In May 2017, the PPF announced that 
the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed  this was 
approved by the Pensions Regulator in August 2017. Under the announced plans, Tata 
Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new defined benefits pension scheme, the BSPS2, 
subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mrs D, 
under the Time to Choose exercise. This explained that BSPS members had three options 
regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted. Those that didnt choose an option 
remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the PPF. 
The details of Mrs Ds safeguarded benefits were as follows:
She had accrued 6 years and 5 months qualifying service between 4 October 2010 
and 31 March 2017;
The scheme pension provided was a safeguarded benefit defined by reference to her 
final salary, pensionable service and benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving 
the scheme on 31 March 2017, her annual scheme pension was £2,447.43;
The scheme pension comprised several elements, each part of which would be 
revalued by a prescribed amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age 
of 65 and, once in payment, would escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
The revaluation and escalation rates were guaranteed in line with the BSPS rules;
Payment of benefits before 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction on a 
sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at 55 and a 18% reduction at 60;
The estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS at 65 was 
£3,527.00 on the basis Mrs D took pension income only. The estimated figures at 65 
based on Mrs D taking a reduced pension plus tax-free cash werent calculated by 
BRG. In addition, the estimated figures based on Mrs D taking benefits early at 55, in 
line with her lump sum objective (covered below), werent calculated by BRG;
The estimated revalued annual income payable by the PPF at 65 was £2,940.30 or a 
reduced pension of £2,354.23 plus tax-free cash of £15,694.91. The estimated 
figures based on Mrs D taking benefits at 55, in line with her objective, werent 
calculated by BRG;
On death before retirement, a refund of contributions of £10,574.50 plus interest at 
3% per year compound and a 50% spouses pension would be provided  after 
retirement, a potential lump sum equivalent to her remaining annual pension between 
the date of death and five years after the date of retirement and a 50% spouses 
pension thereafter calculated as if no tax-free cash was taken by Mrs D at retirement; 
The provision of a dependants allowance for any qualifying dependants calculated 
as five sixths of the spouse's pension with this amount being shared between 
dependants; and
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of her safeguarded benefits was 
£50,910.96 which had been reduced by 5% (from £53,590.42) due to the BSPS 
being in deficit.
Following the announcement by Tata Steel, Mrs D was introduced to BRG to obtain advice 
on the value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. The introducer created a note in 
December 2017 which was passed to BRG. The note recorded some details about Mrs D 
and her husbands circumstances and objectives. 
It was noted that Mrs D and her husband rented their property from a local housing 
association and they wanted to buy it on a shared ownership basis in about five years time 
when she would be 55. They thought the property was valued at £120,000 and would be 
able to purchase 70% at a cost of about £84,000. In meeting that cost of £84,000, it was 
noted that Mrs D was interested in transferring the value of her safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS to a private pension arrangement with a view to withdrawing a lump sum of about 
£12,000 to £16,000 at 55 and to start a repayment mortgage for the balance payable over a 
10-year term to 65.
In January 2018, BRG issued its suitability report to Mrs D recommending that she transfer 
the value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to a SIPP. At that time, her personal and 
financial circumstances were as follows:She was 50, in good health and employed by Tata Steel on a gross annual salary of 
about £32,000;
Her husband was 54, in good health and a self-employed carpenter with a gross 
annual salary of about £25,000;
They had adult children who were financially independent;
They lived in rented accommodation;
Their non-pension assets totalled £1,500 in cash savings which was held in joint 
names;
They didnt have any debts or liabilities; 
They had joint surplus monthly income of about £1,755 after paying all their regular 
bills and outgoings;
She was building up retirement benefits in the Tata Steel defined contribution 
pension scheme and had been since April 2017  she and Tata Steel were, in total, 
contributing about £600 per month into that plan;
She also had safeguarded benefits in another defined benefits pension scheme. This 
represented about seven years worth of pensionable service. The scheme normal 
retirement age was 60;
Her husband had a Scottish Widows personal pension plan into which he had paid 
contributions for a few years;
They both planned to retire at 67 and expected to receive the full State pension; and
From 67 they required, in 2018 terms, joint gross annual pension income of about 
£18,000 (£12,000 for Mrs D and £6,000 for her husband); 
On a scale of 10 risk profiles, with 1 the lowest risk and 10 the highest risk, BRG 
established that she had a score of 8 which was a High risk profile. This was defined 
as Your priority is likely to be making higher returns on your investments but you are 
still probably concerned about losing money due to rises and falls. Your preferred 
investment portfolio is likely to contain mainly higher risk investments such as shares, 
with a few lower risk investments such as bonds.
Mrs Ds objectives
In its suitability report, BRG recorded that Mrs D had the following objectives:
To transfer your deferred pension(s) to your selected receiving scheme. This will 
provide you with the income you require and flexibility to take your required level of 
income during ongoing years in retirement.
You have advised that you will have sufficient retirement income from your intended 
retirement age which will be derived from state pension(s), your current company 
pension scheme(s), income from your future savings and investments and income 
from other pensions you have.Your partner will also receive a state pension.
You have also advised us that you would like, as far as possible, to leave any 
remaining funds to your partner and or family in the form of a lump sum benefit or 
beneficiaries drawdown in the event of your death.
You have confirmed that you may wish to release the maximum amount of tax free 
cash available from your pension, along with improving the capital death benefits 
available.
When discussing your retirement options and completing our questionnaire you 
confirmed that you would use the maximum tax-free cash to:
oto give much better overall financial security now and in the immediate future
ouse the funds as deposit to part purchase your current home
You plan to retire at age your intended retirement age [67] and will use this pension 
to provide you with an income in retirement. You have informed us that you do not 
feel the need to draw an income from these funds yet and that you have adequate 
income for the time being from other sources but you may need the tax-free cash 
lump sum.
You would like to leave any remaining funds to your family in the event of your death 
in both the short term and long term.
You are planning to part purchase this home in 5 years at 55 and wish to use your 
lump sum [of about £12,000 to £16,000] as the deposit for this.
In meeting the lump sum objective at 55, BRG stated in its suitability report that Mrs D had 
considered alternative sources of finance. It stated: 
We confirm that you have looked at other means of raising the money you require 
for the objectives mentioned above including selling tangible assets (property, 
possessions, jewellery etc.), renting out property, taking out a loan, selling other 
assets such as life assurance policies, credit cards and mortgage arrangements. 
These additional ways of raising capital have been dismissed either based on
you not wishing to sell or rent any assets you have or because you do not wish to 
incur any further debt. Taking future debt to finance your current capital needs has 
been fully explored and you have stated categorically you do not wish to go into or 
add to any debt whatsoever. 
You have therefore demonstrated a need for a capital sum which is not readily 
available from any other sources.
Critical yield 
BRG arranged for a Transfer Value Analysis System (TVAS) report to be produced to 
calculate the following critical yield figures based on a transfer value of £50,910.96. This 
report showed the average annual investment return required by the SIPP to provide 
benefits of equal value to either the BSPS or PPF, as follows:
At age 55 based 
on a full pensionAt age 55 based 
on a reduced At age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashpension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS Not calculated Not calculated 10.89% Not calculated
PPF Not calculated Not calculated 8.21% 7.82%
In its suitability report, BRG only quoted the critical yield figure of 10.89%.
BRGs recommendation to Mrs D
BRG recommended that Mrs D transfer the value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to 
a SIPP for the following reasons:
Our core recommendations are as follows:
You should draw your state pension on your retirement as this may provide you with 
a minimum of £159.55 per week or £8,296.60 per annum of guaranteed income. This 
is based on the current maximum state pension. Actual amount at state pension age 
will depend upon several factors. You are recommended to seek a more accurate 
estimate of your state pension direct from HMRC. There is now a brand new online 
service which you can use: https://www.gov.uk/check-state-pension
You transfer the benefits from your ceding scheme(s). This recommendation is to 
transfer out your defined benefit pension scheme [BSPS] to the receiving scheme 
above fully managed by you and or your independent financial adviser. We will not 
be providing any future advice.
Although we investigated providing a guaranteed income equal to the estimated 
deferred pensions at scheme normal retirement dates shown above, we recommend 
that in the early years of your retirement you use your flexi access drawdown to 
provide additional income and to ensure your pension fund will be available to your 
beneficiaries in the event of your death.
Specific investment advice on where to invest your CETV funds post transfer will be 
dealt with by BRG.
The suitability report set out the generic advantages and disadvantages of a pension 
transfer. 
Investment strategy
BRG recommended that once the transfer to the SIPP was completed the transfer value of 
£50,910.96, after the deduction of initial charges, be invested in the SVS Securities Growth 
portfolio managed by SVS Securities Plc on a discretionary management basis. BRG stated 
in its suitability report:
We confirm that this investment strategy is commensurate with the risk profile and 
capacity for loss assessments that have been assessed for you. We would also 
confirm that this investment strategy is appropriate for the required level of returns to 
ratify the decisions we have made within this report. Should you choose to move 
away from this investment strategy this would most certainly adversely affect our 
recommendations detailed within this report.
The costs and charges associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability 
report, summarised as follows:Initial charges
£1,350  transfer advice fee deducted from the transfer value and payable to BRG 
£1,272  initial investment advice fee deducted from the transfer value and payable 
to BRG 
Ongoing charges
1.00% of SIPP fund value  investment fund portfolio annual management charge 
1.00% of SIPP fund value  ongoing adviser charge payable to BRG
£250 (plus VAT) per year  SIPP and platform charge
This complaint
The Representative complained to BRG about the suitability of the advice it gave to Mrs D in 
January 2018. The thrust of the complaint concerned the advice to invest the value of her 
SIPP in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio managed by SVS Securities Plc. The 
Representatives position can be summarised as follows:
The SVS Securities Growth portfolio was a complex and high-risk unregulated 
collective investment scheme (UCIS) which meant the investment was exposed to 
the material risk of total capital loss. In 2014, which was before BRG advised Mrs D, 
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) had laid down rules that specified UCIS 
could only be promoted to sophisticated or high net worth investors. But Mrs D wasnt 
a sophisticated or high net worth investor. Therefore, the SVS Securities Growth 
portfolio shouldnt have been promoted to her;
The SVS Securities Growth portfolio was promoted to Mrs D as providing 
guaranteed returns and as a suitable investment for her SIPP. But this wasnt the 
case since there were no guaranteed returns. So she was misled about the true level 
of risks and returns associated with the investment;
BRG failed to carry out adequate due diligence and determine the suitability of the 
pension transfer from the BSPS and the subsequent investment in the SVS 
Securities Growth portfolio considering Mrs Ds objectives, financial circumstances, 
and knowledge and experience;
The recommendation for the SVS Securities Growth portfolio led to Mrs D paying 
significant upfront fees and exposed the money in her SIPP to more risk than she 
realised and wouldve been willing to accept had the risks associated with the 
investment been clearly and correctly disclosed to her;
Mrs Ds safeguarded benefits in the BSPS were secure and carried a very low level 
of risk which was suitable for Mrs D in her circumstances. The recommendation for 
the SVS Securities Growth portfolio was unsuitable based on her objectives, 
financial circumstances, and knowledge and experience. As a result of the advice 
and the loss of the money in her SIPP, she faces a poorer retirement;
Overall, it thought that BRG had failed to adhere to several regulatory requirements 
including COBS 4.2.1(1) R, COBS 4.2.4 A, COBS 4.2.5 A, and COBS 9.2.2 R. To put things right, the Representative stated that BRG should compensate Mrs D on the 
basis that she had remained in the ceding scheme, which in this case was the BSPS. In 
addition, it said that it should reimburse her legal costs in bringing this complaint.
BRGs response to Mrs Ds complaint
BRG didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint. Its position can be summarised as follows:
As part of its advice process, it reviewed Mrs Ds and her husband's personal 
circumstances, assessed her capability of dealing with the requirements of managing 
her pension income along with ongoing support from professional advisers. This 
included reviews of her attitude to risk, capacity for loss, attitude to any potential loss 
and a cash flow review of her retirement income needs. It also undertook a pension 
transfer analysis. Its review and analysis process revealed that a pension transfer 
could be recommended to Mrs D;
It recommended investment in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio because it was 
appropriate to Mrs Ds recorded High attitude to risk; and
Before recommending investment in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio it had 
undertaken extensive due diligence and obtained reduced fund charges. It also 
asked questions of SVS Securities Plc and its relationship with the FCA which didnt 
reveal any concerns at the time it advised Mrs D. However, following its 
recommendation, investors money was mis-managed by SVS Securities Plc. This 
led to it being placed in special administration by its directors in August 2019 
following action by the FCA after it identified serious concerns about the way the 
business was operating. The issues concerning SVS Securities Plc were outside of 
BRGs control and therefore it wasnt responsible for any financial loss suffered as a 
result of Mr Ds investment being mis-managed.
Our investigators assessment
The Representative didnt accept BRGs response to this complaint. It referred the matter to 
this service for an independent assessment. Our investigator thought that this complaint 
should be upheld. His findings can be summarised as follows: 
Scope of assessment: The investigator acknowledged that the complaint made by 
the Representative primarily concerned the investment recommendation for the SVS 
Securities Growth portfolio. But he thought it was necessary to consider BRGs 
advice as a whole starting with its advice that Mrs D transfer out of the BSPS since it 
was part and parcel of the investment advice that followed;
Importance of BSPS benefits: The investigator noted that Mrs Ds safeguarded 
benefits in the BSPS amounted to 6 years and 5 months pensionable service and 
represented a reasonable proportion of her retirement provision built up by that point 
in time. So shed likely be reliant on these benefits to help meet her retirement 
income need. While Mrs D was building up additional retirement provision in her Tata 
Steel defined contribution pension plan and had safeguarded benefits in another 
defined benefits pension scheme, it was the case that she had limited other 
investments and savings upon which she could rely to support her desired standard 
of living in retirement. This meant she had limited capacity for loss to absorb financial 
loss in connection with the value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS;
Critical yield: The critical yield of 10.89% (on the basis that Mrs D took pension income only at 65) was likely unachievable. The required rate of investment growth of 
10.89% to match the relinquished benefits was higher than the relevant discount rate 
of 4.2% per year for the 14-year investment time horizon to 65 published by this 
service and higher than the FCA's projection rates for pensions. As a result, he 
concluded that the CETV offered by the BSPS represented poor value for money and 
that Mrs D would likely receive lower overall retirement benefits under the SIPP;
Mrs Ds concerns about the BSPS: He thought that BRG ought to have done more 
to allay Mrs Ds misapprehensions about the security of her safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS and explained that, in the worst case scenario, shed still receive 90% of 
her pension benefits if it (or the BSPS2) was transferred to the PPF;
Mrs Ds lump sum objective: Mrs D lived in rented accommodation and, according 
to BRGs records, required a cash lump sum of around £12,000 to £16,000 at 55 to 
but the property she and her husband lived in. The investigator noted that, in its 
suitability report, BRG stated alternative sources of funding to meet this objective had 
been considered but these were dismissed as unviable. He didnt agree. He noted 
that Mrs D was building up benefits in the Tata Steel defined contribution pension 
scheme and had been since April 2017. He hadnt seen evidence that BRG had 
adequately considered the alternative options of using money built up in defined 
contribution plan or taking early retirement (from the BSPS2 or PPF) at 55 to meet 
the lump sum objective at 55. Therefore, he concluded that there wasnt any 
reasonable justification for a pension transfer at that time;
Mrs Ds risk profile: The investigator noted that Mrs D was in good health, had 
limited investment knowledge and experience, and likely required a secure income 
stream in retirement. So he wasnt convinced that it was appropriate for her to 
relinquish her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS to invest in a high-risk investment 
portfolio when the evidence showed that she would likely be worse off by transferring 
to a SIPP;
Suitable advice: He concluded that suitable advice at that time wouldve been for 
Mrs D to maintain her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS. He thought it more likely 
than not that, had BRG recommended this, Mrs D wouldve accepted it.
To put things right, our investigator recommended that BRG carry out a redress calculation 
in line with the FCAs Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate 
redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers on the basis that Mrs D remained a member of 
the BSPS and would be a 20% income tax payer in retirement. 
BRGs response to our investigators assessment
The Representative confirmed that Mrs D accepted our investigators assessment. It 
requested that compensation be made to it on behalf of Mrs D, rather than into her SIPP.
BRG didnt accept our investigators assessment and provided substantial comments in 
response. Some of these comments essentially repeated points made in its initial response 
to this complaint. Its additional comments can be summarised, as follows:
Other pension arrangements: Mrs D had safeguarded benefits in another defined 
benefits pension scheme which would provide over 10% of her final salary. It advised 
her to maintain those benefits. In addition, she was building up benefits in the Tata 
Steel defined contribution plan, her husband had a Scottish Widows personal 
pension plan and they expected full State pensions. These other pension arrangements would meet her retirement income needs which meant she could 
afford to accept the risks associated with transferring her safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS to the SIPP;
Mrs Ds objectives: Mrs Ds desire to transfer the value of her safeguarded benefits 
in the BSPS was clearly motivated by her objective to buy at 55 the property she 
shared with her husband and her concerns about the BSPS being transferred to the 
PPF. It didnt agree with our investigators view that the timing of the house purchase 
could be delayed nor capable of being met by other means. In reaching its 
conclusion that a pension transfer at that time was the only viable option, it said it 
considered the following factors:
oThe BSPS would be transferred to the PPF and, once that happened, no 
transfer would be available and the income benefit reduced by 10% along 
with other minor devalued benefits;
oMrs D was saving a significant amount into her Tata Steel defined 
contribution plan. This fund, if left to grow, would be capable of providing 
additional pension benefits on a flexible basis; 
oHer core retirement income need would be covered by guaranteed pensions 
from other sources;
oHaving incurred substantial costs relating to her adult children in the                      
12 month period prior to its advice, Mrs D intended in 2018 to start saving her 
surplus income to provide additional money to add to her tax-free cash from 
the SIPP for the deposit to buy the property; and
oMrs D had agreed to buy her house on a shared ownership basis from the 
local housing association where she had previously worked and had accrued 
her other safeguarded benefits. The agreed value and discount were not 
available indefinitely. The mortgage required to complete the purchase would 
have needed to reflect the mortgages available and capable of being repaid 
prior to her retirement.
Critical yield: It fully understood the concept of the critical yield because it helped 
the former financial services regulator develop the TVAS between 1996 and 1998 
following the introduction of income drawdown in 1995. But in Mrs Ds case, the 
critical yield of 10.89% was irrelevant because she wasnt seeking a higher level of 
income and had no intention of using the value of the SIPP to secure a lifetime 
annuity when she retired. Therefore, it thought that the investigator should disregard 
its importance in assessing the suitability of the advice it gave to Mrs D. Rather, it 
thought the investigator should instead focus on Mrs Ds plan to access her pension 
benefits flexibly and to recognise the sustainability of income from the SIPP, as 
evidenced by its cashflow analysis. It felt that the investigators decision to compare 
Mrs Ds objectives and outcomes with the critical yield of 10.89% was unfair and 
wrong;
Mrs Ds risk profile: It said that Mrs D confirmed to it that the total loss of her BSPS 
benefits wouldve had some impact on her retirement lifestyle but not affect her 
income needs. She confirmed, I do have some other pension provision and my 
spouse does have significant pension provision. It determined that Mrs D had a 
High attitude to risk based on her answers to its risk profile questionnaire. The 
questions were designed to potentially yield contradictory answers, and, where they 
did, the adviser would seek to filter down to the true position. In Mrs Ds case her answers were all consistent with a high-risk investor and so its recommendation for 
the SVS Securities Growth portfolio was appropriate considering her attitude to risk 
and capacity for investment loss; and
Basis of complaint: In its opinion, the real issue Mrs D is complaining about is the 
investment in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio. BRG undertook a significant 
amount of due diligence both prior to and during its relationship with SVS Securities 
Plc, which was a fully regulated stockbroker, AIM-stocks market maker and 
investment manager, who had been in existence for 25 years. However, following its 
advice to Mrs D, SVS Securities Plc misled and misinformed BRG and the FCA 
which was outside of its control. As a result, it doesnt believe its responsible for the 
financial loss claimed by the Representative on behalf of Mrs D.
The investigator considered BRGs additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change his 
assessment of Mrs Ds complaint. Since agreement couldnt be reached, this complaint has 
been referred to me for review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When considering whats fair and 
reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 and the 
Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to take into account relevant: law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. Having 
considered the evidence, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator and for 
much the same reasons. Ive set out below my reasons why.
Scope of this decision
In its comments to this service, BRG stated that its pension transfer advice to leave the 
BSPS was suitable and that Mrs D only made this complaint because of the investment loss 
she suffered as a result of the mis-management of her investment by SVS Securities Plc. It 
says this was outside of its control. Therefore, it doesnt believe that Mrs Ds complaint about 
its advice should be upheld.
The thrust of the complaint put forward by the Representative, on behalf of Mrs D, 
concerned the advice to invest the value of her SIPP in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio 
managed by SVS Securities Plc. The Representative provided little comment on the 
suitability of the pension transfer advice to relinquish benefits in the BSPS or the 
consideration of alternative options to achieve Mrs Ds objectives. But, to remediate the 
matter, the Representative stated that BRG should compensate Mrs D on the basis that she 
had remained in the ceding scheme, which in this case was the BSPS. So, while it hasnt 
explicitly stated so, it does seem that the Representative has questioned the suitability of the 
pension transfer advice to leave the BSPS, along with that of the subsequent reinvestment.
The FCAs suitability rules and guidance
Im going to set out below my impartial view on the suitability of BRGs advice to transfer out 
of the BSPS. Id like to make clear that the purpose of this decision isnt to address every 
point raised by the parties. So, if I havent commented on any specific point, its because I 
dont believe that it affects what I think is the right outcome. 
What follows isnt a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
BRG advised Mrs D, but provides useful context for my assessment of its actions here.The FCA sets the rules and guidance that businesses must follow when advising clients on 
pension transfers. Businesses are required under COBS 2.1.1R to act honestly, fairly and 
professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
The suitability rules and guidance that applied are set out in COBS 9. The purpose of the
rules and guidance are to ensure that businesses take reasonable steps to provide advice 
that is suitable for their clients needs and to ensure theyre not inappropriately exposed to a 
level of risk beyond their investment objectives and risk profile. To ensure that this is the 
case, and in line with the requirements in COBS 9.2.2R, the business must gather the 
necessary information for it to be confident its advice is suitable. Broadly speaking, this 
section of COBS 9 sets out the requirement for a regulated advisory business to undertake a 
fact find process. 
There were also specific requirements and guidance relating to pension transfers involving 
safeguarded benefits  these were contained in COBS 19.
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must:
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a SIPP scheme, stakeholder pension scheme or other 
pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail client to transfer out 
of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded 
benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firms advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
Under the heading Suitability, COBS 19.1.6G set out the following:
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the clients 
best interests. [my emphasis added]
COBS 19.1.7G also stated:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.And COBS 19.1.8G stated that:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to adhere to these rules and guidance because the FCA considers 
safeguarded benefits to be valuable. The overarching requirement, as set out in the FCAs 
rules, is that a business must take the necessary steps to establish suitability and make a 
recommendation in the clients best interests. Further, based on the above regulatory 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers must start by assuming that the existing 
defined benefits scheme is suitable and only to recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests. The FCA requires businesses to consider alternative options to achieve the 
clients objectives to enable them to maintain their safeguarded benefits.
The important point to make here is that the FCA refers to clearly in the above guidance. In 
my view, borderline cases  those which appear evenly balanced as to whether to transfer or 
not  dont meet the clearly requirement, as set out by the FCA. Therefore, if I conclude 
that alternative options couldve met Mrs Ds objectives and enabled her to maintain her 
safeguarded benefits, then its likely Ill find the advice to transfer unsuitable given the FCAs 
default position within its guidance on this. 
Id also like to highlight that the FCA refers to contemporaneous evidence in its guidance. 
This means that any further analysis carried out by BRG after its advice in response to this 
complaint is essentially irrelevant to my consideration of its actions in 2018. In line with the 
FCAs rules and guidance, to determine suitability when the advice was given, I must base 
my decision on the evidence from the period leading up to and including January 2018 to 
decide whether BRGs pension transfer recommendation was suitable and clearly in Mrs D's 
best interests.
Mrs Ds situation
Mrs Ds situation at the time BRG advised her was unusual for the reasons set out in the 
background above. To briefly recap, after the BSPS closed in March 2017, Mrs D was given 
in October 2017 three options regarding her safeguarded benefits in that scheme:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a SIPP.
Members had to decide which option they wanted by a deadline in December 2017  those
that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred to the
PPF. I recognise that BRG advised Mrs D in January 2018 which was after the deadline. But 
I understand that there was still time up until March 2018 for Mrs D to inform the BSPS of 
her final decision.
Based on the above considerations and for the purposes of my decision, Ill work on the 
basis that Mrs D still had the three options listed above at the time BRG advised her in                         
January 2018. Id like to acknowledge that the FCAs default position that advisers must start 
by assuming the existing defined benefits scheme is suitable didnt quite apply here. This is 
because maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS wasnt an option for Mrs D. But she could transfer to the BSPS2 and maintain safeguarded benefits in that scheme or opt for the 
guaranteed benefits offered by the PPF.
In line with the FCAs default position within its guidance, its my view that BRG shouldve 
only considered a pension transfer to a SIPP if it could demonstrate, on the 
contemporaneous evidence, that it was clearly in Mrs Ds best interests rather than the 
alternative options to either maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 or the guaranteed 
benefits offered by the PPF.
Ill now go on to consider the suitability of the advice BRG gave to Mrs D.
Critical yield, discount rate and risk profile
BRG said it was unfair and wrong for the investigator to consider the critical yield relevant 
when assessing Mrs Ds complaint. However, the TVAS rules applied at the time BRG 
advised Mrs D and so it was relevant from a regulatory perspective. The rules required BRG 
to carry out a transfer value analysis and to calculate the critical yield applicable for the 
proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return required on the 
invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the benefits offered 
by the defined benefits scheme (and at a different age, if selected) on the assumption that 
the value of the alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal 
retirement age  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative pension will 
achieve sufficient investment growth to match the safeguarded benefits under defined 
benefits scheme, which in this case was the BSPS. 
The TVAS report isnt a precise tool or personalised to reflect individual circumstances and 
objectives. But a TVAS report has a role to play where its likely the individual would use the 
accumulated fund at retirement to provide steady, secure income. So a TVAS report was 
likely useful for a client, like Mrs D, that had a retirement income objective  in her case, it 
was recorded that from 67 she required, in 2018 terms, joint gross annual pension income of 
about £18,000 (£12,000 for Mrs D and £6,000 for her husband).
The critical yield also gives an indication of the value offered by the transfer value and the 
ability to secure comparable benefits on the open market. So, its useful in that regard. 
BRGs recommendation was given to Mrs D after the FCA gave instructions in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments 
where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 
similar rates were published on our website. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer to 
these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably achievable when the 
advice was given in this case. The closest discount rate which I'm able to refer to and 
published by this service for the period before October 2017 was 4.2% per year based on 
Mrs D taking benefits at the BSPS normal retirement age of 65. Furthermore, the FCA's 
projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for 
the middle rate and 2% per year for the lower rate. 
In contrast, using the TVAS rules, BRG calculated the critical yield figures in the table below 
based on a transfer value of £50,910.96. This showed that the average annual investment 
return required by the SIPP to provide benefits of equal value to either the BSPS or PPF, as 
follows:
At age 55 based 
on a full pensionAt age 55 based 
on a reduced At age 65 based 
on a full pensionAt age 65 based 
on a reduced pension and 
maximum tax-
free cashpension and 
maximum tax-
free cash
BSPS Not calculated Not calculated 10.89% Not calculated
PPF Not calculated Not calculated 8.21% 7.82%
In its suitability report, BRG only quoted the critical yield figure of 10.89%. The critical yield 
figures for the PPF were stated in the TVAS report given to Mrs D but, in my view, that was a 
technical document which was unlikely to be understood by an unsophisticated investor.
I have a few concerns about the transfer analysis carried out by BRG.
Firstly, in its suitability report, BRG stated the following about the critical yield of 10.89%:
Based upon the figures provided by the regulator in assessing your scheme benefits 
and the CETV offered by your ceding scheme(s), it should be noted that it is not 
possible this level of growth could be maintained over a period based upon the 
investment choices available to you within the parameters of your attitude to risk. We 
believe the critical yield is achievable, given your attitude to risk. That said, the fact 
you have no intention, at present, of buying an annuity at your retirement age 
achievement of the critical yield is not a significant factor in determining advice.
I find this statement confusing. It initially suggested that the critical yield was unachievable. 
But then, in the following sentence, it stated it was achievable. I dont think these 
contradictory statements wouldve helped Mrs D make an informed decision or understand 
the level of investment risk she was accepting.
Secondly, the TVAS report, and therefore the critical yield figures, were based on Mrs D 
taking benefits at 65. But the basis of the recommendation was that Mrs D would crystallise 
benefits at 55 to draw tax-free cash of about £12,000 to £16,000 to use as a deposit to buy 
her property. So I wouldve expected the critical yield figures at 55 to have been calculated 
since that was relevant to Mrs Ds objective. But BRG didnt do this. Accessing benefits 
earlier than 65 wouldve led to a higher critical yield because the invested transfer value 
wouldve had less time to grow, further undermining the case for a pension transfer. Since 
the critical yield figures at 55 werent provided to Mrs D, its my view that she made the 
decision to transfer from an uninformed position regarding the required growth of investment 
return to 55.
Finally, I cannot see that the TVAS report that generated the critical yield figure of 10.89%  
included the annual SIPP and platform charge of £250 (plus VAT), implying less investment 
growth was required to match the relinquished safeguarded benefits than was the case.  
Had the SIPP and platform charge been included in the TVAS report, the critical yield 
wouldve been even higher than disclosed to Mrs D. 
In my view, these issues undermine BRGs recommendation for the transfer because it led 
to Mrs D making the decision to transfer from an uninformed position. In any event, the 
critical yield figure of 10.89% was significantly higher than the discount rates of 4.2% and the 
upper-growth rate of 8% stipulated by the FCA, implying that Mrs D would need to accept a 
very high degree of investment risk in the SIPP just to match the relinquished safeguarded 
benefits, let alone exceed them. 
BRG assessed Mrs D as having a high risk profile, suggesting that she was willing to 
accept a high degree of investment risk with the value of her safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS. But her circumstances simply werent consistent with this. At the time she had limited 
investment knowledge and experience. She and her husband held £1,500 in cash savings for emergencies. They didnt hold any investments or own their home, although I 
acknowledge that they did have other pension arrangements. Overall, Im not convinced       
Mrs D could reasonably be described as having the attributes which would be consistent 
with a high-risk investor categorisation and who was willing and able to tolerate  and 
moreover fully understand  the risks associated with the pension transfer; put simply, the 
categorisation of her being a high risk investor seems completely at odds with her personal 
and financial circumstances at that time.
Based on the above considerations, I think it was highly likely that Mrs D would receive 
benefits from the SIPP of a lower financial overall value than compared to maintaining her 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS (which would be ultimately transferred to the PPF) or the 
alternative option of transferring to the BSPS2. So, based on this alone, its my view that a 
pension transfer wasnt in Mrs Ds best financial interests.
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice, 
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B (G). A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or 
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and conversely, there 
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this.
BRGs rationale for transferring
In accordance with COBS 9.2.2R, BRG undertook its fact finding for Mrs D and then set out 
its assessment of her circumstances and objectives which may be summarised as follows:
Lump sum objective: At 55 she required a lump sum of about £12,000 to £16,000 
to use as a deposit to buy her property on a shared ownership basis; 
Income objective: At 67 to retire and receive, in 2018 terms, joint gross annual 
pension income of about £18,000 (£12,000 for Mrs D and £6,000 for her husband); 
and
Death benefit objective: To provide, as far as possible, a death lump sum benefit to 
her nominated beneficiaries on her earlier death.
Ive considered Mrs Ds objectives as stated in the three bullet points above. For ease of 
reference, Ive set my findings out under separate headings below. 
Changes to the BSPS
As explained above, Mrs D couldnt maintain benefits in the BSPS. The changes to the 
BSPS were communicated to members under the Time to Choose exercise in                           
October 2017 which was before BRG advised Mrs D. This communication explained that 
BSPS members could transfer to the BSPS2 and maintain safeguarded benefits in that 
scheme or opt for the guaranteed benefits offered by the PPF. 
There were differences between the BSPS2 and PPF. These differences meant that the PPF 
was likely the better option for unmarried, deferred members who expected to retire early or 
take the maximum tax-free cash available, even allowing for the 10% reduction in the 
starting entitlement. But the BSPS2 was likely the better option for married pensioners and 
deferred members who expected to draw benefits at or close to the scheme normal 
retirement age of 65. In basic terms, at 65 the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits 
than the PPF but lower than the BSPS.In my view, depending on how and when a client intended to draw their benefits, a regulated 
business acting in its clients best interests wouldve considered a move into the BSPS2 or 
the PPF as the starting point for advice in Mrs Ds circumstances. But the suitability report 
didnt make any reference to the changes happening to the BSPS or the option for members 
to transfer to the BSPS2 or PPF. I find this very odd given the timing of BRGs advice. 
Therefore, its unclear to me how Mrs D was able to make an informed decision regarding 
the options available to her, as set out above, to meet her lump sum, retirement income and 
death benefit objectives.
Lump sum objective 
In its correspondence to this service, BRG stated that Mrs D:
didn't intend to retire and start using the fund until 67, she wanted to take 
greater investment risks for a potential greater reward and finally she was very clear 
about her rationale for taking the transfer which was the ability to own her own home 
and as she saw it, change her financial status for her and eventually her children. 
[my emphasis added]
BRGs statement that Mrs D didnt plan on accessing the money in her SIPP until 67 
contradicts its advice in 2018. The basis of BRGs advice was that Mrs D would at 55 
withdraw a lump sum of about £12,000 to £16,000 from her SIPP to use as a deposit to buy 
her property. So the basis of the recommendation was that shed access her SIPP in five 
years time at 55 rather than 67.
In its suitability report, BRG stated that alternative sources of finance to meet the lump sum 
objective at 55 had been considered by Mrs D. It stated: 
We confirm that you have looked at other means of raising the money you require 
for the objectives mentioned above including selling tangible assets (property, 
possessions, jewellery etc.), renting out property, taking out a loan, selling other 
assets such as life assurance policies, credit cards and mortgage arrangements. 
These additional ways of raising capital have been dismissed either based on
you not wishing to sell or rent any assets you have or because you do not wish to 
incur any further debt. Taking future debt to finance your current capital needs has 
been fully explored and you have stated categorically you do not wish to go into or 
add to any debt whatsoever. 
You have therefore demonstrated a need for a capital sum which is not readily 
available from any other sources.
And when it responded to this complaint, BRG maintained this position  it stated that a 
pension transfer was the only viable option at that time to meet Mrs Ds lump sum objective 
and no alternative options were available.
I note that the suitability report stated that Mrs D had looked at alternative options. But 
theres no further detail of what precisely she looked at. But, in any event, it was for BRG, as 
the professional and regulated party in the transaction, to investigate all the viable options 
and to provide expert advice. After all, that is what Mrs D paid it to do. I dont think it was 
reasonable for BRG to rely on Mrs Ds own assessment of alternative options and proceed 
on the basis that a pension transfer was the only viable option available by the time it 
advised her.
As noted above, given the default position within its guidance that a pension transfer is not 
suitable, the FCA expects businesses to adequately consider alternative options to achieve the clients objectives to enable them to maintain safeguarded benefits. This needs to be 
documented so that it can be shown what alternative options were considered and 
discounted. If a business fails to do this then it will be difficult to demonstrate that it acted 
honestly, fairly and professionally in the best interests of its client and that it met the clearly 
suitable threshold in the FCAs guidance. 
In my view, the BSPS2 was likely the better option for Mrs D rather than the PPF given that I 
think she could delay drawing benefits until the scheme normal retirement age of 65, as Ive 
set out in the section below. I think Mrs D couldve maintained safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS2 and still met her lump sum objective by utilising a range of alternative options. Ive 
set out my view below on these:
Surplus monthly income: BRG recorded that Mrs D and her husband had joint 
surplus monthly income of about £1,755 after paying all their regular bills and 
outgoings. The reason they had minimal cash savings at the time of the advice was 
because they had a large capital outlay relating to their adult children. But it was 
noted in the fact find document they planned to start saving that surplus income 
going forward. I think BRG couldve reasonably expected that, over the five-year 
period to 55, Mrs D and her husband could use some of their joint surplus monthly 
income of about £1,755 to build up a lump sum of up to £16,000. And once the 
deposit was paid, Mrs D and her husband could re-direct the surplus monthly income 
to pay for a repayment mortgage for the 10-year period to 65. 
Mrs Ds defined contribution plan: Mrs D had been an active member of the Tata 
Steel defined contribution pension scheme since April 2017 after the BSPS had 
closed to further benefit accrual. It was recorded that she and Tata Steel were, in 
total, contributing about £600 per month into that plan. It appears that Mrs D intended 
to continue working full-time for Tata Steel for the foreseeable future. I think BRG 
couldve reasonably expected that, based on that contribution rate, and 5-year time 
horizon, Mrs D wouldve had access to about £40,000, of which 25% could be taken 
tax-free without impacting her Annual Allowance, by the time she reached 55. This 
ignores likely increases in contributions linked to rises in Mrs Ds pensionable salary 
and investment growth over that timeframe. If there was a shortfall, Mrs D couldve 
used cash savings built up using surplus monthly income, as noted above. 
Mr Ds defined contribution plan: BRG recorded that Mrs Ds husband had a 
Scottish Widows personal pension plan that he had paid in for a few years. BRG 
didnt obtain the fund value or the estimated pension and tax-free cash payable at his 
selected retirement age. The basis of BRGs recommendation took into account both 
Mrs Ds and her husbands estimated State pensions and the lump sum objective 
was linked to purchasing the home they shared. So I think its fair to say that BRG 
viewed Mrs Ds and her husbands finances on a joint basis when it advised her. 
Therefore, I think it ought to have obtained more information about Mr Ds personal 
pension plan and given due consideration to this as a potential means of helping to 
achieve the target lump sum of about £12,000 to £16,000 so that she could maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. If there was a shortfall, Mrs D couldve used 
cash savings built up using surplus monthly income, as noted above.
I think that these were viable, alternative options to achieve the lump sum objective. Further, 
these alternative options wouldnt entail Mrs D taking on debt, which was apparently a key 
requirement.
Its my view that BRG shouldve considered and presented these alternative options in a fair 
and balanced way to Mrs D so that she could make an informed decision on the options and 
whether it was suitable to relinquish her safeguarded benefits at that time for the purposes of accessing a lump sum in five years time. But I cannot see evidence that these options were 
adequately considered by BRG or discussed with Mrs D. So I think she made the decision to 
transfer from an uninformed position. 
In its suitability report, BRG stated:
You have therefore demonstrated a need for a capital sum which is not readily 
available from any other sources.
I dont agree with this statement  its my conclusion that the lump sum objective couldve 
been met by other means while enabling Mrs D to maintain safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS2, as set out above.
Notwithstanding the above, I think its important to note the following. In responding to this 
complaint, BRG said the property value and discount were agreed and that there wasnt any 
flexibility in terms of timing of the purchase. BRGs comments suggest that the property 
purchase at a fixed price and discount was a certainty. But I havent seen any evidence that 
confirms this, such as a written agreement between Mrs D, her husband and the housing 
association. The introducers handwritten note from December 2017, which led to the 
introduction to BRG and ultimately the pension transfer, stated, Clients think they can buy 
current property from housing association £120k x 70% [my emphasis added]. This note 
isnt worded in a way that suggests certainty to me. Whilst I accept that its entirely 
appropriate to consider aspirations and objectives in giving advice, to more robustly support 
its recommendation to transfer, I wouldve expected BRG to obtain evidence that showed an 
agreement was in place for Mrs D and her husband to buy the property. But I havent seen 
any such evidence. The wider point, however, as set out above, is that Mrs D couldve met 
this objective, if the opportunity did materialise, through alternative means. 
Overall, Im not satisfied that BRG demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it 
adequately considered alternative options or why it was clearly in Mrs Ds best interests to 
relinquish her safeguarded benefits at that time to achieve the lump sum objective.
Income objective 
While Mrs D wanted a lump sum at 55, as noted above, BRG recorded that she planned to 
retire at 67, at which point she and her husband required, in 2018 terms, joint gross annual 
pension income of about £18,000 (£12,000 for Mrs D and £6,000 for her husband).
Mrs Ds husband is four years older than her. So by the time she reaches her State pension 
age, he would already be in receipt of his State pension.
BRG stated that Mrs D and her husband were expected to receive full State pensions. The 
full State pension in 2017/18 was £8,296.60. It increases each year in line with changes to 
the CPI. So, in 2018 terms, Mrs D and her husbands State pensions would provide total, 
combined gross annual income of about £16,500  which was about £1,500 less than the 
stated joint gross annual pension income of about £18,000. I think this shortfall of £1,500 
couldve been met by the BSPS2. Ill explain why.
BRG calculated the estimated revalued annual scheme pension payable by the BSPS and 
PPF was as follows:
Scheme At age 65 based on a full 
pensionAt age 65 based on a reduced pension 
and maximum tax-free cash
BSPS £3,527.00 Not calculated
PPF £2,940.30 £2,354.23 plus tax-free cash of £15,694.91At 65 the BSPS2 would pay a higher level of benefits than the PPF but lower than the BSPS. 
So the income provided by the BSPS2 at 65 likely fell somewhere between the figures of 
£2,940.30 and £3,527.00, which is greater than the shortfall of £1,500. So it seems to me 
that a combination of the BSPS2 and State pensions couldve met the joint income need. 
The guaranteed income provided by the BSPS2 and State pensions would escalate in 
payment, providing protection against inflation. This course of action was the safest option 
for Mrs D and didnt involve any of the risks associated with investment in a SIPP or advice 
costs.
My analysis above ignores the pension income that would be provided by Mrs Ds 
safeguarded benefits in another defined benefits pension scheme amounting to about seven 
years worth of pensionable service payable from 60 (BRG didnt obtain the estimated 
pension), her Tata Steel defined contribution plan and her husbands Scottish Widows 
personal pension plan. So it seems that Mrs D and her husband would be in receipt of 
excess income by the time she retired at 67. But its my view that the priority here was to 
secure the income need at 67 and that any excess income could be reinvested for future 
use.
Mrs D was building up additional retirement provision in her Tata Steel defined contribution 
plan and the expectation was that this would, over time, grow to a significant pot of money 
upon which she could rely to help meet her retirement income need from 67. But by 
transferring to a SIPP it meant that she would concentrate more of her retirement provision 
on a defined contribution basis where the benefits received arent guaranteed but instead 
based on investment performance. Had she maintained safeguarded rights in the BSPS2, 
shed have received guaranteed income from that source and benefitted from a more 
diversified approach, reducing the overall risk in achieving her retirement income need. The 
pension transfer was unnecessary and led to Mrs D exposing a proportion of her retirement 
provision to investment, inflation and mortality risk when she didnt need to  risks that 
wouldve been borne by the BSPS2 had she maintained her safeguarded rights in that 
scheme.
Given that Mrs D was 50 and couldnt access pension benefits until she was at least 55, its 
my view that there wasnt any need to transfer at that time. Doing so meant that all the risks 
transferred from the BSPS to Mrs D during the intervening period until she could access 
benefits. Had she opted for the BSPS2 she wouldve maintained safeguarded benefits and 
retained the option to transfer to a SIPP at a later date if then deemed suitable and, crucially, 
more accurately determine her lump sum and retirement income needs than she could at 50. 
I havent seen evidence that BRG made her aware of this. 
In conclusion, I havent seen any evidence that BRG considered the option of Mrs D 
maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 to achieve her retirement income need. As a 
result, Im not satisfied that BRG demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it 
adequately considered the alternative option of the BSPS2 or why it was clearly in Mrs Ds 
best interests to relinquish her safeguarded benefits at that time.
Death benefit objective
BRG recorded that Mrs D wanted, as far as possible, to leave any remaining funds to her 
husband and/or family in the form of a lump sum benefit or beneficiaries drawdown in the 
event of earlier death.
The recommended SIPP offered flexible death benefits  nominated beneficiaries could 
choose to convert the fund value to secure a lifetime annuity, death lump sum or income 
drawdown or any combination of these. Based on the applicable tax rules, if death occurred under 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after 75 the benefits are taxed at the 
beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that immediately following the 
transfer to the SIPP and for the period until Mrs D could draw any benefits from 55 onwards, 
the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment performance) due to 
the simple fact she couldnt access and deplete the fund value for at least five years.
But Mrs D was recorded as being in good health. So she could expect normal life 
expectancy into her late 70s or early 80s. The value of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS 
represented about half of the retirement provision she had built up by that time. And as Ive 
concluded above, I think Mrs D would be reliant on these benefits to meet her core income 
needs in retirement. Withdrawing money from the SIPP at 55 to obtain a lump sum of around 
£12,000 to £16,000 for the purposes of buying her house, and possibly drawing flexible 
income or ad-hoc lump sums throughout retirement, would likely mean that the size of the 
fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than 
expected. 
In demonstrating that the pension transfer was clearly suitable and in Mrs Ds best interests, 
BRG was required, under the FCAs rules, to consider alternative options to meet her death 
lump sum objective. As Ive noted above, Mrs D had the alternative option to maintain 
safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 which offered a 50% spouses pension which may have 
been a valuable feature in the event of her earlier death. BRG was required to consider this 
and any other viable options. It said that Mrs D wanted to leave her husband and family a 
lump sum from her SIPP. But, as Ive noted above, its questionable as to what level of death 
lump sum benefit might be available from the SIPP based on her life expectancy and 
expected withdrawals from 55 onwards.
If it was a genuine objective for Mrs D to provide a lump sum on her death, as asserted by 
BRG, then life cover couldve achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while 
enabling her to maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2. I note that Mrs D had 
substantial disposable income available every month after paying bills which couldve been 
used to pay for life cover to achieve the death lump sum objective. Pure life cover for a 
defined term is generally cheap and some cover may have been affordable for Mrs D given 
she was 50 and recorded as being in good health. However, I cannot see evidence that BRG 
adequately investigated the life cover option. For example, I havent seen evidence that it 
quantified Mrs Ds death lump sum need, over what term, how this might change over time, 
how it might be met by other means or present personalised life cover quotes to her to 
enable her to make an informed decision.
Its my view that Mrs D had no health issues at the time BRG advised her which might 
reasonably have prompted her to relinquish the guarantees attached to her own retirement 
income for the sake of an enhanced safety net for her husband and family. So Im not 
convinced there was any real merit in Mrs D transferring to a SIPP at that time to provide a 
lump sum death benefit. Theres simply no real evidence that a death lump sum was 
required for Mrs Ds husband and family.
But, in any case, I understand that through her employment with Tata Steel, Mrs D was 
entitled to a death in service lump sum benefit, meaning a lump sum would be paid in the 
event she died while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of whether 
her safeguarded benefits were transferred to BSPS2, PPF or a SIPP. In addition, the value 
of her Tata Steel defined contribution plan would be paid as a lump sum to her nominated 
beneficiary(ies). So, it seems to me that in the immediate future, certainly while Mrs D 
remained employed by Tata Steel, that a lump sum would be paid on her death. In addition, 
Mrs D and her husband didnt have any debts or liabilities that needed to be repaid on death.So I think its fair to say that there wasnt any immediate need to transfer at that time to 
provide death benefits bearing in mind the cover already in place while Mrs D remained 
employed by Tata Steel. With no immediate health concerns, this existing cover enabled 
BRG and Mrs D enough time to properly investigate obtaining additional life cover to meet 
her death benefit objective so that she could maintain safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2.
Therefore, based on the above considerations, I disagree with BRGs view that the only way 
to achieve Mrs Ds death benefit objective was by transferring to a SIPP at that time. 
Recommendation for the SVS Securities Growth portfolio
The Representative has complained about BRGs advice to invest the value of Mrs Ds SIPP 
in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio managed by SVS Securities Plc. The Representative 
says the investment was a complex and high-risk UCIS. And that, contrary to the FCAs 
rules, it was incorrectly promoted to Mrs D because she wasnt a sophisticated or high net 
worth investor.
I havent seen evidence that confirms the SVS Securities Growth portfolio was a UCIS. But 
I dont think this is relevant in deciding this complaint. This is because, for the reasons 
explained above, I think the pension transfer advice itself was unsuitable. And as Ive set out 
below, my suggested remedy will take into account the value of the SIPP as at the point in 
time when a loss assessment is carried out, should my final decision remain along these 
lines  which will take into account the value of the SIPP including any loss suffered on 
investment in the SVS Securities Growth portfolio. 
What should BRG have done  and would it have made a difference to Mrs Ds decision? 
During 2017, the situation was rapidly evolving and there were serious concerns relating to 
Tata Steel and the BSPS at the time BRG advised Mrs D  and I fully acknowledge this. Its 
undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mrs D. But this 
only serves to emphasise the need at that time for a balanced assessment of the options 
available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice where a regulated advisory business 
was appointed. Any concerns Mrs D had about the security of her benefits shouldve been 
addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the transaction, BRG.
I recognise that there wasnt a perfect solution for Mrs D. And that the value of her 
safeguarded benefits was ultimately her money to do with as she saw fit. However, she was 
relying on BRG to provide expert, balanced information and advice, taking into account all 
the information available to it at that time  so that she could then make an informed 
decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client seeks financial advice with 
preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an employer or pension 
scheme, but, as the professional party, BRG was tasked with rationally addressing those 
concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the available options.
BRG believes that a pension transfer was necessary at that time and that it fulfilled Mrs Ds 
wishes after she had discounted alternative options. Financial planning isnt simply about 
wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever course of action a client wishes to take. If an 
advising business considers a course of action to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise 
not in their best interests, its incumbent upon them to explain this  and why. 
I acknowledge that this may misrepresent BRGs position, and it was referring to Mrs Ds 
expressed objectives, in that it wouldnt be up to an adviser or indeed this service to tell    
Mrs D that she shouldnt have the aim of, for example, utilising her safeguarded benefits in 
the BSPS to provide a lump sum at 55. That aside, however, it was nevertheless the 
responsibility of BRG to explain to Mrs D why she didnt need to make any irreversible decision on relinquishing valuable safeguarded benefits at that time and that consideration of 
a pension transfer was a decision that could be delayed until her plans and expected 
expenditure in retirement could be determined with greater clarity than at 50. There seemed 
little point in transferring at 50 when Mrs D couldnt access the benefits until 55 at the 
earliest.
As Ive said above, there was no imminent prospect of the BSPS2 entering the PPF, which 
wouldve ruled out a later transfer. On the contrary, the indication was that the BSPS2 would 
be successfully implemented meaning that she would retain the option to transfer out of that 
scheme at a later date, if then deemed suitable. Ive also thought very carefully about 
whether the service provided to Mrs D was a balanced appraisal of the options available to 
her, coupled with a robust and candid discussion about her own concerns relating to the 
BSPS. 
Mrs D, amongst many others in a similar position, may have been concerned by 
developments relating to her employment and the BSPS, but she was nevertheless entitled 
to an impartial review of her options. And looking at those options, one of the key recorded 
objectives  obtaining a lump sum of between £12,000 and £16,000 at 55  was, in my view, 
likely achievable by maintaining safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 and utilising alternative 
options. For the reasons given above, I dont think the perceived advantage of flexibility and 
control of income outweighed the guaranteed benefits offered by the BSPS2, and Im 
satisfied that Mrs Ds income need likely couldve been met by a blended and well-planned 
access to her different types of accrued benefits by the time she came to retirement. The 
available evidence simply doesnt support the position as to why control or flexibility wouldve 
been sufficiently compelling reasons for Mrs D to relinquish valuable benefit guarantees  
especially at 50. 
My further view is that, if properly discussed, Mrs Ds concerns about the BSPS couldve 
been successfully allayed, such that she appreciated the important guaranteed benefits 
under the BSPS2 and even under the PPF, if required, which she would be relinquishing 
mainly for the sake of obtaining a lump sum at 55 which she could in any case access in 
other ways, such as through saving surplus monthly income or utilising her Tata Steel 
defined contribution plan. 
Death benefits were also payable from the BSPS2, albeit in a different format from those 
available from the SIPP. But for the reasons set out above, I dont think these shouldve 
been a more important consideration than Mrs Ds own retirement guarantees which shed 
be relinquishing through the transfer. 
The critical yield is usually a telling indicator of the value of the benefits being relinquished. 
Notwithstanding my comments about the critical yield figures in Mrs Ds case likely being 
understated due to the SIPP and platform charge not being included, the critical yield was in 
any event higher than the discount rate and upper growth rate set out by the FCA. So I think 
it was unlikely to be achievable, year on year, to even simply match the relinquished 
safeguarded benefits. Whilst I accept that the critical yield isnt the only factor to consider 
when weighing the suitability of a transfer, Im unconvinced by what BRG considers to have 
been the overriding justifications for proceeding with the transfer, for the reasons given 
above.
Mrs D was relying on BRG to provide expert advice and advise her what to do. I think the 
advantages of Mrs D maintaining her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS2 coupled with any 
misapprehensions about that option and the PPF being suitably assuaged, wouldve 
persuaded her to do just that.I accept that Mrs D was given risk warnings. But its important to note that disclosure isnt the 
same as suitability. If the recommendation to transfer was fundamentally unsuitable then the 
provision of risk warnings doesnt transform it into a suitable one. I dont disagree that 
properly informed, correctly advised individuals would be able to take that kind of 
responsibility and decide for themselves if they wanted to transfer their safeguarded 
benefits. The problem here is that this was a complex matter involving many factors with 
which Mrs D, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar  hence her reliance on a 
professional party to take those factors into account and provide suitable, balanced advice.
For the reasons given above, my view is that Mrs D simply wasnt placed in a properly 
informed, or suitably advised, position to be able to take that kind of personal responsibility. 
Her decision to proceed may well have been borne of wider concerns relating to the financial 
viability of the BSPS and the successor scheme, the BSPS2, but as Ive said above, this was 
due to the absence of a detailed and balanced assessment of the schemes attributes and 
prospects in the advice process. Taking account of Mrs Ds circumstances, risk profile, 
objectives and the guarantees provided by the BSPS2 and even the PPF, if required, my 
view is that BRG shouldve advised against the pension transfer. And I think that, had this 
happened, Mrs D wouldve followed that advice and likely transferred to the BSPS2.
Conclusion
In its response to this complaint, BRG said that the pension transfer at that time was the only 
option available to meet Mrs Ds objectives. I disagree. For the reasons explained above, Im 
not satisfied BRG demonstrated, on the contemporaneous evidence, that it adequately 
considered alternative options to meet Mrs Ds lump sum and retirement income objectives 
or why it was clearly in her best interests to relinquish her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS 
to achieve these. Im also concerned that it appears to have misrepresented the true critical 
yield figure to match the relinquished benefits which meant Mrs D made the decision to 
transfer from an uninformed position, further undermining the case for a pension transfer.
The key contributing factors here relate to inadequate consideration of alternative options to 
achieve Mrs Ds stated objectives, likely understatement of the true critical yield required to 
match the relinquished benefits, the unbalanced and misrepresentative portrayal of the value 
of Mrs Ds safeguarded benefits compared to the recommended pension transfer, exposing 
her retirement provision to more risk than she was likely willing and able to tolerate  all of 
which are a failure to adhere to COBS 2.1.1R, COBS 4.2.1, 9.2.2R, 19.1.2R, 19.1.6G, 
19.1.7G and 19.1.8G.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was fair
compensation based on the position Mrs D wouldve been in had she instead opted for the 
BSPS2 and takes benefits when she reaches 65. I asked both parties to this complaint to 
provide any further comments or evidence that they wanted me to consider before I made 
my final decision. I gave the parties until 13 June 2022 to respond.
The Representatives response to my provisional decision
Mrs Ds Representative acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision. It confirmed that 
she accepted it.
BRGs response to my provisional decision
Following issuance of my provisional decision on 13 May 2022, our investigator contacted 
BRG on 30 May and 14 June to check whether it intended to provide any further comments or evidence for me to consider before I made my final decision. As at the date of this final 
decision, BRG hasnt responded. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this final 
decision. I need to be fair to both parties to this complaint. The Representative, on behalf of 
Mrs D, acknowledged receipt of my provisional decision and confirmed that she accepted it 
before the stated deadline of 13 June 2022. As at the date of this final decision, BRG has 
had about five weeks to provide any further comments or evidence for me consider. I dont 
think its appropriate to have an open-ended situation waiting for BRGs response. I consider 
that Ive treated BRG fairly by giving it adequate time to respond.
Since this service hasnt heard from BRG in response to my provisional decision on this 
complaint, Ive assumed that it doesnt intend to provide any further comments or evidence 
for me to consider. Since I havent received further evidence to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional decision of 13 May 2022 to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
Putting things right
My aim is to put Mrs D, as closely as possible, into the position shed be in but for BRGs 
unsuitable advice. Reinstatement of her safeguarded benefits in the BSPS isnt possible. 
Therefore, BRG should undertake a redress calculation in line with the pension review 
guidance as updated by the FCA in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how 
to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
My view is that had Mrs D been properly advised, she wouldve opted to transfer to the 
BSPS2 rather than the PPF. Ill explain why. 
There would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the PPF, whereas 
the BSPS2 wouldnt reduce the starting entitlement for deferred members. The reduction for 
early retirement under the PPF was lower and the commutation factors for tax-free cash 
entitlement were also more favourable than the BSPS2. And so, on the basis of prospective 
early retirement, both the starting income and the tax-free cash would likely have been 
higher with the PPF. But for the reasons set out above, I think its likely that, properly 
advised, Mrs D wouldve envisaged utilising her cash savings built up by 55 and, if 
inadequate, possibly accessing her Tata Steel defined contribution plan to make up any 
lump sum shortfall before starting to take her safeguarded benefits at 65. In terms of death 
benefits, if it later became relevant for Mrs D, under the BPSP2 the spouses pension would 
be set at 50% of her pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no tax-
free cash was taken at retirement. And so its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which 
should be used for comparison purposes. 
As such, the calculation on the basis of entering the BSPS2 should be carried out using the 
most recent financial assumptions at the date of the actual calculation and on the basis that 
Mrs D takes benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65. BRG may wish to contact 
the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ds contribution history to the 
State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These details should then be 
used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the 
impact of leaving the BSPS on Mrs Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any future loss should if possible be paid into Mrs Ds SIPP. The payment should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the SIPP if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. 
If a payment into the SIPP isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should 
be paid directly to Mrs D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for future 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss couldve been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% wouldve been taxed according to Mrs Ds likely income tax 
rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the future loss adequately reflects this. 
The compensation amount should where possible be paid to Mrs D within 90 days of the 
date BRG receives notification of her acceptance of this final decision. 
Further interest should be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of this final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
that 90 day period, that it takes BRG to pay Mrs D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
I acknowledge the Representatives request that compensation be made to it on behalf of 
Mrs D rather than into her SIPP. However, my aim is to put Mrs D, as closely as possible, 
into the position shed be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. And, given that reinstatement 
of her safeguarded benefits isnt possible, paying compensation into her SIPP most closely 
fits that requirement. But as noted above, if that isnt possible then the compensation should 
be paid to Mrs D.
 
Determination and money award: I require BRG to pay Mrs D the compensation amount 
as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation 
amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require BRG to pay Mrs D any 
interest on that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already 
exceeds £160,000, I would only require BRG to pay Mrs D any interest as set out above on 
the sum of £160,000. 
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I would also 
recommend that BRG pays Mrs D the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs D.
In addition, I think that this matter will have caused Mrs D trouble and upset due to the 
prospect of having a poorer retirement due to BRGs unsuitable advice. So I think BRG 
should pay £300 to Mrs D in respect of this. 
If Mrs D were to accept this final decision on the above basis, the determination and money 
award would be binding on BRG. My recommendation wouldnt be binding on BRG. Further, 
its unlikely that Mrs D could accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. 
Mrs D may want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to 
accept this final decision.The loss assessment calculation should be provided to Mrs Ds Representative in an easy to 
understand format.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Better Retirement Group Ltd must redress Mrs D as Ive
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman