DRN-3198721
The complaint
Mr J complains about a number of issues with his mortgage with Preferred Mortgages 
Limited, including what it has reported to his credit file, how it has communicated with him, 
and how it assisted him in past financial difficulties.
What happened
In 2007, Mr J took out a mortgage of just over £50,000 on capital and interest repayment 
terms. The mortgage was originally in joint names with Mr Js ex-partner. She was removed 
from the mortgage in 2008.
Unfortunately, Mr J struggled to manage his monthly payments and the mortgage fell into 
arrears. In 2009, Preferred obtained a suspended possession order.
In 2016, Preferred took further legal action and the court issued a possession order. It 
sought to obtain an eviction notice in 2017, but ultimately Mr J sold the property and 
redeemed the mortgage.
A different ombudsman previously reached a decision about a number of issues, including 
Preferred not removing Mr Js ex-partner from the title, and not adding her back on to the 
mortgage, as well as the fees and charges applied to the account.
I previously issued a further decision about Preferreds decision to take possession and 
eviction action in 2016-2017, and its communication with Mr J at that time.
Mr J raised a complaint with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) and our service 
regarding the information applied to his credit file, and the balance of the account. Following 
the complaint with the ICO, Preferred agreed to refund a number of charges.
Mr J raised a number of further complaints, including:
that Preferred didnt offer to switch the mortgage to interest only terms following the 
break down of Mr Js relationship with his ex-partner;
a default was placed on his credit file for £350 at the start of the mortgage, and that 
default remained on his credit file, preventing him re-mortgaging elsewhere;
despite the mortgage being redeemed, how it is reported continues to damage his 
credit score;
Preferred failed to respond to his correspondence.
One of our investigators considered the complaint. She explained she was unable to 
comment on any of the points Mr J had raised which had been covered by the previous final 
decisions. She thought that parts of Mr Js complaint  that Preferred hadnt offered to switch 
the mortgage to interest only repayment terms, and that a default was placed on his credit 
file at the start of the mortgage - had been brought out of time.
Our investigator asked Mr J for a copy of his credit file, but he said he wasnt able to obtain 
it. He was able to provide a screen shot of part of his credit file, showing an association with 
his ex-partner  which hes told us has now been removed. Our investigator said she wasnt 
reasonably able to conclude that the association had been reported by Preferred, and not 
another financial business.
Regarding Preferreds communication with Mr J, our investigator thought that it looked like 
Preferred had blocked his emails. She thought Preferred had failed to respond to Mr Js 
emails, and should have made sure he had an accessible means of communication with 
them, as well as responding to any new issues. Given the ongoing investigation by the ICO 
at the time, she thought there was a reasonable possibility that Mr J might have new 
concerns to communicate to them. She recommended that Preferred pay Mr J £150 by way 
of apology for the distress and inconvenience of not being able to contact Preferred by 
email.
Both Mr J and Preferred disagreed with the investigators view. Mr J thought he had brought 
all the complaint points in time, and that we should be able to consider all his complaint 
points as a whole.
Preferred thought it hadnt acted unreasonably in not communicating with Mr J by email as it 
had written to him in January 2017 to say it would only communicate with him by letter 
moving forwards. Our investigator looked at the contact notes for the account and found that 
Preferred hadnt consistently only communicated with Mr J by letter after that time, and had 
continued to sometimes correspond by email. So she continued to think her 
recommendation was fair.
As both parties disagreed with the outcome the investigator reached, the complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision setting out my thoughts on the case.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
There is a long history of events here, and Mr J has raised numerous complaints with 
Preferred over the years. Mr J has provided detailed explanations about what hes unhappy 
about, and I can confirm Ive read and considered them in their entirety. Mr Js strength of 
feeling about the complaint is clear. But I hope Mr J will understand that I havent responded 
to every point. Ive set out what I consider to be the key issues and my findings on them. And 
Ive explained why Im not going to consider some of the points hes made. That includes not 
re-visiting issues weve decided before in other complaints.
Time limits
The Financial Ombudsman Service operates under a set of rules which set out the sorts of 
complaints we can and cannot consider. One of the rules says that there are strict time limits 
for the making of a complaint.
A complaint must be made to us no later than:
Six years from the date of the event complained of; or, if it gives more time,
Three years from when the complainant knew, or ought reasonably to have known, of 
cause for complaint.
If a complaint is made out of time, we can only consider it if the firm complained about 
consents, if there is evidence of an earlier complaint having been made in time, or if there 
are exceptional circumstances which explain why the complaint couldnt have been made in 
time.This complaint is about multiple issues. Theres no dispute that Mr Js complaint points about 
the current reporting of the mortgage to his credit file or Preferreds communication with Mr J 
recently have been brought in time. But our investigator thought that his complaint points 
about Preferred not offering to switch the mortgage to interest only repayment terms when 
the mortgage was transferred to Mr Js sole name, and the default for £350 he believes was 
reported to his credit file at the beginning of the mortgage, had been brought out of time. 
Mr J took out the mortgage in 2007, and his ex-partner was removed from the mortgage in 
2008. Both events occurred more than six years before Mr J complained about them to 
Precise in 2019. They are therefore out of time under the first part of the rule. So I need to 
go on to consider whether the three year rule gives Mr J more time to complain  and I dont 
think it does.
As Ive explained above, Mr J struggled to manage his monthly payments following the 
removal of his ex-partner from the mortgage in 2008. He was in regular contact with 
Preferred at that time, and agreed different repayment plans over the years.
Mr J has previously raised complaints about how Preferred has treated him while he was in 
financial difficulties. So I think Mr J was aware of the status of his mortgage and the 
forbearance measures Preferred was taking, more than three years before he complained 
about it not proposing he switch to interest only terms or about the default he believes was 
placed on his credit file in 2007. I therefore think these parts of his complaint have been 
brought out of time.
We can consider a complaint thats been brought out of time where there are exceptional 
circumstances which mean the complainant wasnt able to bring the complaint sooner. As 
Ive said, Mr J has raised a number of complaints over the years, so I dont think there were 
any exceptional circumstances which prevented him raising these complaint points sooner. 
Im satisfied I can consider whats been reported to Mr Js credit file over the six years prior
to the complaint.
Parts of the complaint previously considered by our service
Mr J has raised a number of complaints with Preferred over the years, some of which hes 
referred to our service, and which have had a decision by an ombudsman.
I appreciate that Mr J would like our service to look at all of his complaint points as a whole, 
and its clear he feels very strongly about this. An ombudsmans decision is the final stage of 
our process. That means we wont look at issues an ombudsman has already decided again, 
unless theres material new evidence likely to change the outcome. We also wont look at 
issues that have been dealt with by a comparable alternative dispute resolution service, such 
as the ICO.
As Ive said, I appreciate how strongly Mr J feels about the complaint and about whats 
happened, but I cant see there is any material new evidence likely to change the outcome of 
the complaint points our service has previously considered. So I wont be commenting on 
them again.
Reporting to Mr Js credit file for the six years prior to the complaint
Preferred has a duty to report accurate information to credit reference agencies about Mr Js 
mortgage. Even where an account is settled, as is the case here, Id expect a lender to continue to report the last six years of the accounts history. In other words, Mr Js mortgage 
will remain on his credit file until six years after it ended.
I asked the investigator to contact the credit reference agency to obtain the information being 
reported to Mr Js credit file by Preferred. I can see the account shows as settled, with a 
balance of £325. This is not a default balance, but rather an amount that was refunded to 
Mr J following the redemption of the mortgage.
Mr Js account was in arrears when the mortgage was redeemed. And Id expect Preferred 
to continue to report that, along with showing the account status as settled  which is whats 
shown on his credit file. That may well have an impact on his credit score, though Id expect 
that impact to lessen over time. But Im satisfied Preferred has been reporting accurately. 
Mr J had difficulties providing our investigator with a copy of his credit file, though he was 
able to provide her with an excerpt that showed a connection with his ex-partner. That 
excerpt didnt confirm which business was reporting the connection, though Mr J has 
informed our service that its now been removed.
The information provided to our service by the credit reference agency doesnt show any 
connection to Mr Js ex-partner. From the information available to me, I dont have enough 
evidence to safely conclude that Preferred was recently reporting a connection to Mr Js 
ex-partner. In either case, that connection has now been removed.
For these reasons, I am not upholding this part of Mr Js complaint.
Preferreds communication with Mr J
In January 2017, Preferred informed Mr J that it would only communicate with him by letter. 
Ive previously issued a decision about Preferreds decision to stop communicating with Mr J 
by phone, and its methods of communication with him during the period it was seeking 
possession of the property. So I wont comment on that further.
I have thought about Preferreds communication with Mr J more recently. Mr J is unhappy 
that Preferred failed to respond to a number of his emails.
By that time the mortgage had been redeemed, and Mr J was no longer a customer of 
Preferred. Following the redemption of the mortgage, I see there was a balance to be repaid 
to Mr J. Preferred struggled to contact Mr J to arrange repayment, as it didnt hold an 
address for him. Ultimately, it contacted him by phone solely to obtain his bank details and 
make payment in 2018. I cant see it corresponded by email with Mr J.
So, when Mr J contacted Preferred by email, I can understand that it was in a difficult 
position. It had already informed Mr J that it would only correspond with him by letter, but it 
didnt hold an address for him. When it did receive an address for Mr J, I can see it issued a 
final response letter to the points hed raised and provided him with a pre-paid envelope for 
him to raise any further points he wished. It explained it would only respond to new issues, 
and not respond to issues it had previously considered.
I think that was reasonable. As Ive said, Mr J was no longer a customer of Preferred by that 
time. Preferred had taken the decision to limit its methods of communication with Mr J while 
the account was live. Mr J describes himself as vulnerable, due to the mental health 
conditions he has, but he had previously corresponded with Preferred by letter and I think he 
could have continued to do so rather than by email.
For these reasons, I am not upholding this part of Mr Js complaint.The responses to my provisional decision
Preferred accepted my provisional decision. Mr J did not reply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered again everything I said in my provisional decision. But as neither party 
has made any further arguments or provided any further evidence, I see no reason to 
change my mind.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman