DRN-3102482
The complaint
P complains about the decline of its business interruption insurance claim by 
The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited. The claim was made 
following interruption to Ps business as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.
What happened
P held a commercial insurance policy underwritten by The National Farmers' Union Mutual 
Insurance Society Limited (NFU). The policy provided cover for a number of areas, including 
business interruption. Following closure of Ps premises in March 2020 due to the national 
government-imposed restrictions intended to control the spread of COVID-19, P made a 
claim on that policy to cover its losses.
NFU declined the claim, saying no cover was provided by the policy in the circumstances. 
NFU said that there had been no Damage as required by the policy and other areas of 
business interruption cover that didnt require Damage didnt apply to the circumstances. 
P complained about this decision. And when NFU did not alter its decision to decline the 
claim, P brought the complaint to this service. As well as arguing that there had been 
Damage, P said that the Action of Competent Authority extension to the business 
interruption section applied to the circumstances. P also said that there was no general 
exclusion on pandemics, and the specific exclusion on diseases in relation to the Public 
Emergency extension meant cover for disease was tacitly included in the rest of the policy.
Our Investigator did not consider the complaint should be upheld though. He thought NFU 
had fairly applied the terms of the policy to the circumstances of the claim. P remained 
unsatisfied and this complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
P is represented in this complaint. Ps representative has submitted detailed arguments as to 
why it feels Ps claim should be met and the complaint upheld. Many of the arguments 
submitted and pursued by Ps representative are largely the same arguments that it has 
submitted on other complaints from other policyholders.
The role of this service is to consider each complaint based on its own individual 
circumstances. However, we have developed certain approaches that are then applied to 
those individual circumstances. And where circumstances are similar, it is inevitable that 
similar conclusions will be reached. Ps representative has had this services approach to its 
arguments explained, including within other final decisions of this service. And, unless the 
circumstances of this particular complaint are dissimilar from those previous cases, the 
same approach will be applied to this case.
However, for the benefit of P, I will set out in this decision why its representatives arguments 
have not persuaded me to uphold its complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact lockdown had on P. But, largely 
for the same reasons the Investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain 
why.
The starting point is to consider the specific policy P took out and what situations the 
insurance it provides responds to. As such Ive considered every aspect of the policy P held 
with NFU to determine whether there are any sections that would require NFU to meet the 
claim P is making. Having done so, I dont think there are.
Damage
The core cover provided by the Business Interruption section of the policy, along with
several of the extensions (including Prevention of Access and Customers and Suppliers), 
requires there to have been Damage to Property. 
Damage is defined within the policy as:
Accidental physical loss, destruction or damage.
And Property is defined as:
Material property.
Ps representative has argued that COVID-19, and the related Government restrictions, were 
damage. And that such damage does not need to be physical. However, I am not persuaded 
by these arguments. I consider that loss, destruction, or damage as used in this policy is 
most likely to refer to something physical. As well as the definition of Damage including the 
word physical, this Damage must occur to material property. And damage, etc. to something 
material must inherently be physical. 
Ps representative has referred this service to a number of legal cases to argue that the virus 
leading to COVID-19, SARS-COV-2, is capable of causing damage. However, having 
considered the cases referred to, as well as the rest of the legal landscape, I do not agree. 
Instead, I agree with the Investigator that damage, as it is required under the policy, would 
require either a physical change to property or specialist cleaning to remove the cause of 
damage.
I dont consider it can be said that physical changes were caused by SARS-COV-2 to 
property, whether that be Ps property, its suppliers or customers property, or property 
within the vicinity of Ps premises. And I also dont consider that any specialist cleaning of 
such property was required. So, I dont think there was relevant damage, and I think NFU 
acted fairly and reasonably when declining Ps claim under the parts of the policy that 
required such damage.
I also dont think, for similar reasons, that there has been destruction of property. And I dont 
think the temporary loss of use of Ps premises (or the premises of their 
suppliers/customers) would constitute loss as required by the policy. I consider this would 
need to be more than a temporary loss, where recovery was uncertain.
Whilst I appreciate the pandemic has caused substantial financial loss, I dont think 
COVID-19, or the related government measures, caused Damage which has led to an 
interruption of Ps business.So, I dont think either the standard business interruption cover, or the extensions that rely 
on there having been damage, provide cover in the circumstances of Ps claim. And I think 
NFU acted fairly and reasonably in not meeting Ps claim under these areas of cover.
Action of Competent Authority
A further extension to the business interruption section of Ps policy provides cover 
disruption to business activities as a direct result of, in part:
the closure or restriction in use of the PREMISES by a competent local authority 
due to defects in the drains or other sanitary arrangements or discovery of vermin or 
pests at the PREMISES.

Ps representative has said that there was defective sanitation at Ps premises because safe 
social distancing could not be maintained and, as a result, regulations were imposed on Ps 
business. Ps representative has said this was a shortcoming in the public health conditions 
at Ps premises.
However, I consider a key question here is whether or not an inability to enforce social 
distancing could be said to qualify as a defect in the sanitary arrangements at Ps premises. 
To reach a fair and reasonable outcome Ive considered, amongst other things, relevant 
case law, in particular the case of Brushfield Ltd (T/A The Clarence Hotel) v Arachas 
Corporate Brokers Ltd & Anor [2021] IEHC 263. This case took place in the Irish courts, so 
as Ps representative says this is not binding on English courts nor, for a number of reasons, 
this service. However, in the absence of a comparable English case, I feel it is useful to 
consider the points made in this case in terms of considering how an English court might 
decide this point of contractual interpretation. As Ps representative says, these points might 
be considered persuasive.
The judge in this case considered policy wording similar to that in Ps policy and considered, 
in part, the meaning of the term other sanitary arrangements, when used in context similar 
to Ps complaint.
The judge in this case said at paragraph 164:
 it is essential to consider the meaning of a contractual provision as of the date 
when the contract was concluded. The question, accordingly, is whether a 
reasonable person, in the position of the parties at the time the contract was 
concluded, would understand that the reference to a defect in the other sanitary 
arrangements at the premises was intended to capture an inability to ensure that 
appropriate social distancing was maintained.
This reflects the position of English Law that the meaning of a contract should be interpreted 
objectively, by considering what would be understood by a reasonable person, with the 
relevant background knowledge, at the time the contract was entered.
Ps policy renewed in July 2019, before COVID-19 even existed and certainly prior to the 
disease being widely known. And, whilst social distancing has been practiced throughout 
history as a means of preventing the spread of disease, until recently, this was not the case 
in the UK. So, I am not persuaded that a reasonable person reading the particular wording of 
Ps policy in July 2019 would have considered this subclause to refer to an inability to 
enforce social distancing at Ps premises.Additionally, it isnt clear what Ps representatives consider the defect at Ps premises 
actually is. As the judge in Brushfield said at paragraph 166, A defect inherently involves 
some element of deficiency or fault. And Ps representatives dont appear to disagree with 
such a definition  theyve merely proposed slightly different wording, referring to 
shortcoming rather than deficiency. P is a sports club and no evidence has been provided 
to suggest there was any deficiency/shortcoming or fault in its sanitary arrangements. Im not 
persuaded that the normal operation of a business can be called a defect, and certainly not a 
defect specific to Ps premises which led to its closure.
Ps representatives have said that P was subject to the regulations that impacted it 
specifically due to public health considerations. But whilst that may be true, those 
considerations were not due to the arrangements at Ps premises in particular. 
For these reasons, I consider NFUs decision to not to meet Ps claim under the Action of 
Competent Authority extension was fair and reasonable.
Public Emergency and general exclusions
Ps representatives have accepted there is no cover for Ps claim under the Public 
Emergency extension, as this contains an exclusion on claims resulting from infectious or 
contagious disease. However, they have argued that the fact this extension includes this 
exclusion means the rest of the policy must be assumed to provide cover for losses resulting 
from such disease.
However, whilst there is no general exclusion on diseases that applies to the rest of the 
policy, in order for P to be able to claim they must establish their claim falls within the scope 
of the policy. Only once that has been shown would it be necessary to consider whether 
there are any exclusions that limit that cover. 
The Public Emergency extension relates to claims resulting from actions taken by a public 
authority which cause a business to close. As has been shown by recent events, a public 
authority might take such action due to the impact of a disease. However, NFU has 
recognised that such circumstances might arise and has chosen to exclude such 
circumstances from the covered offered by this extension. 
It is not however necessary for NFU to specifically exclude cover in relation to disease from 
the rest of the policy P took out, as that policy does not (other than the Public Emergency 
extension) generally offer cover for circumstances relating to disease. 
I should point out here that the policy does potentially include a separate extension to the 
business interruption section that specifically provides cover for Human Disease. This is 
limited to cover for a specified list of diseases, not including COVID-19. However, P did not 
take out this optional extension, so it is not necessary for me to consider it here  albeit I will 
say it does not impact on my finding here in relation to the lack of a general exclusion on 
disease related claims. 
Ive carefully looked at the rest of the terms in Ps policy. But I dont consider Ps claim ought 
to have been met under any of them. I know this decision will be disappointing for P and its 
members, but I hope Ive provided them with a thorough explanation of why this policy 
doesnt offer cover in the circumstances of Ps claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman