DRN-2278772
The complaint
Mr B complains that MBNA Limited offered him promotional balance transfer rates but then 
declined his requests. 
What happened
Mr B has a credit card with MBNA and it contacted him about promotional interest rates for 
balance transfers. Mr B called MBNA on 21 March 2020 but his balance transfer request 
was declined.
MBNA didnt give Mr B a specific reason to explain why his balance transfer had been 
declined and he complained. MBNA responded on 24 March 2020 but didnt agree an error 
had been made when it turned down the balance transfer. MBNA paid Mr B £30 to apologise 
for the way his calls were handled. 
Mr B referred his complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator said that MBNAs decision was based on information relating to Mr Bs credit file. 
They thought MBNAs decision to decline the balance transfer was reasonable. As the 
investigator thought MBNA had dealt with Mr Bs complaint fairly, she didnt ask it to do 
anything else. 
Mr B asked to appeal and said he had met the terms set out in the balance transfer offers. 
Mr B also thought MBNAs explanation of why his application was declined had changed. As 
he asked to appeal, Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mr B is upset. He was sent details of promotional interest rates for 
balance transfers and expected to be approved. I understand Mr B is already a credit card 
holder with MBNA and that he wants a clearer explanation of why he wasnt successful. 
As our investigator has said, businesses generally wont release details of the lending 
criteria used because its commercially sensitive. If details of how a business assesses 
borrowing applications were public, the criteria could potentially be abused. So its often not 
possible to get a specific answer to explain why an application has been turned down. In this 
case, MBNA has explained that Mr Bs request was declined based on information reported 
by the credit reference agencies.
Mr B has forwarded a copy of his credit file and pointed out there are no records of credit 
searches by MBNA in March 2020. But MBNA has confirmed it receives batch data from 
the credit reference agencies. 
To provide some context, this sort of data is generally sent by the credit reference agencies 
to lenders each month and includes various pieces of information about borrowers. For 
example, new arrears or an increase in the amount of money borrowed could be highlighted 
by this information. But, its not the same as completing a full credit search and doesnt leave 
a mark on a consumers credit file. So whilst I understand Mr B hasnt been able to find a 
record of MBNAs search, Im satisfied it did take information from the credit reference 
agencies into account before it made its decision. 
Both Mr B and the investigator have quoted various parts of MBNAs terms in their 
correspondence. Ive read everything provided and understand Mr B feels MBNA hasnt 
acted in line with the terms. Im sorry to disappoint Mr B but I dont agree that MBNA has 
made a mistake. The terms dont say that card holders are pre approved for promotional 
interest rates on balance transfers. 
Ive looked at the email MBNA says was sent to Mr B with information about promotional 
interest rates. Whilst it says Youre eligible for this rate based on your account status the 
Understand transfers guidance section says that balance transfers are subject to status. Im 
satisfied that the information Mr B was sent didnt say the balance transfer promotional rate 
was guaranteed. 
Whilst I appreciate the situation has caused frustration, I havent found that MBNA treated 
Mr B unfairly or made a mistake. Im satisfied that MBNAs promotional interest rates for 
balance transfers were subject to approval and that it fairly declined Mr Bs request. MBNA 
paid Mr B £30 because of issues he experienced when calling about his application. I think 
thats fair in all the circumstances so Im not telling MBNA to take any other action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2020.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman