DRN-1628523
The complaint
Miss R complains about a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In March 2019, Miss R took out a conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance the 
purchase of a used car. The car was nine years old, had travelled more than 105,000 miles 
and cost just over £5,000.
Miss R says she found fault with the engine within the first few days. She said the engine 
had a very serious carbon leak, and the heat protection cover was covered in carbon. The 
dealer carried out a repair, and Miss R said it told her it had replaced the fuel injector seals 
and cleaned the carbon.
In July 2019 the car broke down. Miss R said white smoke was coming out of the engine. 
She said her partner, a qualified vehicle technician, diagnosed the cause as an oil leak 
caused by the injector seals. She said she contacted the dealer as she thought this would be 
fixed under the warranty shed been given. She said the warranty provider told her to provide 
a diagnosis. She provided a diagnosis from her partner. This stated that the injector seals 
were leaking and there was a hole on the inside of the rocker cover caused by the leaking 
seal. 
She said the warranty provider told her the fault wasnt covered. So she went back to the 
dealer because the new fault was related to the seals the dealer had fixed when she first got 
the car. She said she knew this was the reason because mechanics from garages near to 
her own garage had looked at the engine and agreed the rocker cover could only have been 
broken because of the leaking injector seals.
The dealer collected the car but disagreed with her diagnosis. She said it wouldnt repair the 
car under the service warranty. She said she called to collect the car at the beginning of 
September 2019. She said the dealer then agreed to replace the injector seals. She said she 
found this confusing as the dealer had previously said the seals were not broken. She said it 
now told her there was a hole in the rocker cover, and this was caused by a screw, and it 
looked like it had been burned from the outside of the cover.
She said the dealer told her in September 2019 it had replaced one of the seals in March 
2019, not all of them as it had previously told her. She said it told her one of the seals had 
failed, but it was not the one it had replaced. She said it told her this was due to wear and 
tear as she had done 10,000 miles since the previous repair.
So she complained to Moneybarn.
In September 2019 Moneybarn said they received Miss Rs complaint. She told them she 
hadnt had use of the car for four weeks and was worried the dealer wouldnt fix the car 
properly. Moneybarn told Miss R they would arrange for the car to be independently 
assessed, by an engineer appointed by them. They agreed the assessment would be done 
at Miss Rs garage.
Moneybarn didnt uphold Miss Rs complaint. They said the expert engineers report found 
that the fault was likely to have been due to wear and tear. And they said she was 
responsible for repairs as she was the registered keeper of the car.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She felt that it was reasonable for Moneybarn to 
conclude the faults were a result of wear and tear, and it was fair that they didnt allow Miss 
R to reject the car.
Miss R disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn supplied Miss R with the car under the conditional sale agreement they had with 
her. Theres a term implied in the agreement that the car would be of satisfactory quality. 
What is satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In this case this would include 
things such as the age and mileage of the car.
Miss Rs car was nine years old and had travelled more than 105,000 miles when she got it. 
So, a reasonable person might expect to have to repair or replace some parts of the car over 
time.
Miss R first reported faults with the injector seals within days of getting the car. The relevant 
law, The Consumer Rights Act 2015, gives her the right (amongst other things) to ask for a 
repair or a replacement. She returned the car to the dealer and it carried out the repair.
It was several months later that the car broke down. And by this time the car had travelled 
more than 8,600 miles since Miss R got it. So I think we can assume the repair worked  and 
it seems likely that Miss R accepted the repair had been carried out properly.
Both Miss R and the supplying dealer have given varying and contradictory reasons for the 
fault that caused the car to breakdown in July 2019. And both have relied on their own 
experts to support their opinions. Miss R says the damage to the rocker cover was caused 
by the leaking seals. Moneybarn say it was damaged by someone removing the cover. Ive 
not seen enough evidence to find that it was the dealer that caused the damage to the 
rocker cover. So I have to consider whether or not Moneybarn has acted fairly.
The first test is whether or not the car they supplied to Miss R was of satisfactory quality. Ive 
explained above how this would include the age and mileage of the car. There was a fault at 
the point of supply that was relevant to the quality of the car  but this was fixed by the 
dealer. And as Ive said, the repair worked.
In July 2019 the car broke down  within six months of her getting it. The law says that 
goods found to be faulty within six months would be considered to be faulty when they were 
supplied. So I need to consider whether or not the breakdown was caused by a fault present 
at the point of supply. Miss R says that the car broke down because the earlier fault wasnt 
fixed properly, or at all.
I disagree. She drove the car for several months, and for more than 8,600 miles before it 
broke down. This is a significant amount of miles in a relatively short period of time. And as our investigator pointed out, significantly more than the UK average of 7,000 miles a year. 
So I think it was reasonable for Moneybarn to conclude the fault was caused by wear and 
tear.
And theyve reached this position after obtaining the opinion of an independent engineer. He 
found a hole in the rocker cover which he thought could be coming from the injector seals. 
But he was unable to fully determine what caused this, because some dismantling of the 
engine had already taken place.
He did say that on the balance of probability, considering the time and mileage done since 
the car was supplied to Miss R, the fault would not have been developing when she got the 
car. I find this persuasive. I think it unlikely that Miss R would have been able to travel more 
than 8,500 miles without warning signs if the repair hadnt been carried out properly, or at all. 
I say this because the independent engineer says the fault presented a potential fire risk. So 
I think it likely that this would have happened sooner if the fault was present from the time of 
the repair.
He also confirmed faults were present at the inspection, and they would not have been 
present at the time the car was supplied.
So I think it was reasonable for Moneybarn to conclude that the faults that led to the 
breakdown in July 2019 were not present at the time of sale. So they dont need to do 
anything more.
I know this has been frustrating for Miss R. She bought a car that she says she is unable to 
use. And she feels that the dealer didnt carry out the repair it said it did. But Im satisfied 
from the evidence Ive seen, that it was reasonable for Moneybarn to conclude that the latest 
fault was caused by wear and tear to a part  a part that its reasonable expect to wear out 
due to the amount of mileage the car has done, before and after she got it. Ive seen no 
evidence that it was the initial repair done by the dealer that caused the latest fault.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 December 2020.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman