DRN-1398096
The complaint
Miss C complains that N.I.I.B. Group Limited refused to let her reject a faulty car.
What happened
On 5 March 2019 Miss C acquired a second-hand car costing £7,827 funded by a cash 
deposit and the balance with hire purchase agreement. Shortly after acquisition Miss C 
identified a fault with the car popping out of gear while she was driving. She took it back to 
the dealer within 30 days and asked to reject it. The dealer said it couldnt find any fault, but 
it sent the car to Peugeot for further diagnostics. The job sheet (dated 1 April 2019) shows 
no issues.
It didnt find any fault with gear selection but the gear seals were found to be leaking. This 
was repaired and the gearbox was topped up with oil. NIIB rejected Miss Cs complaint and 
suggested that she may wish to have the car subjected to an independent inspection.
Miss C stopped using he car and brought her complaint to this service where it was 
considered by one of our investigators who recommended it be upheld.
He noted the car was second hand and therefore would have been subjected to some wear 
and tear, but he didnt think it reasonable for it to go wrong in less than three weeks. He said 
he recognised that NIIB had said there was no evidence of a fault with gear selection, but 
the job sheet dated 1 April 2019 noted there was a fault with the gear seals. He thought it 
unreasonable to expect such a fault to occur within three weeks.
He considered the faults Miss C complained about (gears popping out/sticky gears/problems 
selecting gears) were linked to the issues with the gear seals leaking. He said that NIIB 
hadnt put forward any argument to say otherwise. He concluded the car was faulty at the 
point of sale and as Miss C had asked to reject it within 30 days she was entitled to do so. 
He recommended that NIIB take the car back.
NIIB said that after it had issued its final response letter Miss C had told it she was going to 
sell the car and had settled the agreement in full on 15/05/2019. NIIB said it couldnt take the 
car back. Miss C responded to say she hadnt sold the car but had taken it off the road. A 
friend had paid off the agreement and she was paying him back. 
Our adjudicator said his view remained as before, but NIIB should refund the third party. It 
said it thought the car had been sold to a third party and it shouldnt be involved in any 
transaction between Miss C and another person.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
The finance agreement, that is the hire purchase agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
NIIB is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a 
complaint about their quality.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory.
The relevant law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any description of 
the goods, price and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case 
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might 
include things like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and 
other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the goods.
There seems to have been a number of misunderstandings in this complaint and the dealer 
didnt make NIIB aware that the car had been repaired shortly after the point of sale and 
there is no record of Miss C agreeing to this. I am satisfied that she asked to reject the car 
within 30 days and if it was faulty this should have been accepted. 
NIIB were not aware that the dealer had repaired it and took its assurance that there was no 
fault. However, that was inaccurate and the gearbox was repaired. Miss C should have been 
allowed to reject it at that point. The second issue that arises is the matter of redress.
Our investigator has suggested that NIIB refund the third party, but I dont agree. The 
agreement was between Miss C and NIIB. The third party has nothing to do with that 
contract. He has a separate contract with Miss C in which he lent her money to repay the 
agreement. I am satisfied the fact he paid NIIB direct doesnt mean he has taken ownership 
of the car. Any refund should go to Miss C and she can then deal with any debt she has as a 
separate matter.
Putting things right
My conclusion is that Miss C should be allowed the reject the car.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct N.I.I.B. Group Limited to:
collect the car from Miss C at no cost to her.
return the deposit initially paid by Miss C and pay 8% simple interest from the date of 
payment until the date of settlement
return all repayments made under the agreement and pay 8% simple interest from 
the date of payment until the date of settlement
return the settlement amount that was paid in May 2019 and pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment until the date of settlement
remove any information recorded with credit reference agencies about the agreement
pay Miss C £150 for the trouble and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 October 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman