DRN-2917533
The complaint
 Ms J complains that she was misled about a loan by London Community Credit Union 
Limited (LCCU).
What happened
 Miss J applied for a loan of £3,520.15 payable over 251 weeks from LCCU at a rate of 
19.6%APR. This was agreed in March 2019.
Miss J complained that she had been misled on a call with LCCU that the discounted rate 
being offered  of 19.56% - was only for new customers. The call wasnt clear. And  once 
shed got the loan - she thought she was being charged too much. The interest over the 
period of the loan was £1,009.18  she calculated it to be £689.95.
LCCU said the loan was correctly set up to charge 19.6%. The interest was applied to the 
loan on a reducing balance basis  not on the full amount at the outset.
Miss J brought her complaint to us. Our investigator said that LCCU hadnt provided the call 
in question, so he couldnt say whether Miss J had been misled or not. But in the absence of 
any other information, he said she should receive compensation of £50. On the loan interest, 
he said that the information provided by LCCU was clear and accurate.
Miss J disagreed. LCCU didnt reply to our investigators view. And so, Miss Js complaint 
has been looked at by an ombudsman
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Miss J says that when she called LCCU about the loan offer they said it was for new 
customers only. And she was therefore misled  as she already had a loan with £520 
outstanding. We havent been given this call to listen to, and so its not possible to reach a 
view on what was said. But  in the absence of any contrary information, we have accepted 
Miss Js version of events and awarded £50 compensation to her. But I also note that even 
though the offered sale rate was 19.56% APR  I can see that she was given a rate of 
19.6% APR  so this was a very small difference.
Miss J borrowed £3,520.14 at an APR (Annual Percentage Rate) of 19.6%, payable over 
151 weeks. This was on a reducing balance basis  so as the balance came down, so did 
the interest payable. Miss J says shes worked out that the interest should be £689.95, 
whereas the loan agreement provided by LCCU  and which she signed  said interest was 
£1,009.18. Ive looked at this  and Miss Js calculations assume that the loan was only for 
one year  not almost three years. The interest rate is an annual rate - payable each year. 
So  her calculations arent correct. Ive looked at LCCUs calculations  and theyre correct. 
They show the interest being applied for three years. If Miss J looks at the loan schedule  
which she sent to us  thats what it says. It also shows that the amount lent starts at 
£3,520.14 and reduces as payments are made. In the early months of the loan, there is 
more interest being paid off and less capital being paid off  but later in the loan, there is 
less interest being charged and more capital being paid off. This is what we would expect to 
see. And so  on this aspect of Miss Js complaint, LCCU have acted fairly. And I wont be 
asking them to do anymore.
But  for the misleading information that Miss J was given on the call, and in the absence of 
any other information I agree that LCCU should pay compensation of £50.
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint and London Community Credit Union Limited must:
Pay compensation of £50.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman