DRN-2723600
The complaint
Mr H and Mr H (a father and son) complain that a car that was supplied to them under a hire 
purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited, trading as 
Mercedes-Benz Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr H (the son) has been dealing with 
this complaint on behalf of both of them.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr H and Mr H and to Mercedes-Benz 
Finance on 27 January 2021. In my provisional decision I set out what had happened as 
follows:
A new car was supplied to Mr H and Mr H under a hire purchase agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Finance that they signed in June 2019. Mr H returned the car to the 
dealer later that month because the instrument cluster had gone blank and it carried 
out a software update. He returned the car to the dealer again in August 2019 
because of an oil warning light but no fault was found.
Mr H continued to have issues with the car and complained to the dealer in 
December 2019 about the car stalling, an oil warning light and an issue with the seat 
belts. The dealer removed and replaced a control unit to re-secure the connection to 
deal with the seat belt issues but no other fault was found.
He complained to the dealer in January 2020 about issues with two of the cars 
windows, the speakers, the sat-nav, and the collision warning system and its camera. 
A control unit was updated to deal with some of the issues but no other faults were 
found. He returned the car to the dealer again the following month and an issue with 
the passenger window was dealt with but no other fault was found. The job sheet 
shows that the cars mileage at that time was 6,577.
Mr H complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance about those issues and the on-going 
concerns that he had about the cars oil consumption  and said that he wanted to 
reject the car. He wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
that it was reasonable for a consumer to keep having to have their cars oil topped-up 
or to expect so many problems to occur so soon - and she wasnt persuaded that the 
car was of a satisfactory quality at the point of sale. She recommended that Mr H and 
Mr H should be allowed to reject the car and that Mercedes-Benz Finance should 
refund his deposit, with interest, and 10% of his monthly payments.
Mercedes-Benz Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says, in summary, that the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr H and Mr H, any faults have been repaired and that theres no 
evidence to show that theres a fault concerning the oil consumption of the car. It 
says that the dealer will do an oil consumption test on the car but Mr H hasnt agreed 
to that. He said that he would do his own test  but Ive seen no evidence to show 
that hes done so.
And my provisional findings were:
Mercedes-Benz Finance, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring 
that it was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr H and Mr H. Whether or 
not it was of satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, 
including the age and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it. The car 
that was supplied to Mr H and Mr H was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for them to expect that it would be free from even minor defects. 
Satisfactory quality also covers durability which means that the components within 
the car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly how long 
that time is will depend on a number of factors.
Its clear that there have been some issues with the car and Mr H has returned it to 
the dealer for repairs. The dealer carried out a software update in June 2019, 
repaired an issue with the seat belts in December 2019 and repaired an issue with 
the passenger window in February 2020. The dealer says that no other faults have 
been found.
I can understand Mr Hs disappointment and frustration about those issues but the 
dealer has repaired each of them and Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for him to be able to reject the car because of those issues.
Mr H has also complained about the cars oil consumption. The dealer has 
investigated Mr Hs concerns but has been unable to find a fault. Mercedes-Benz 
Finance says that the car can use up to 0.8 litres of oil in 1,000 km of driving and that 
its not unusual for new cars to require that. It says that Mr H would need to arrange 
an oil consumption test with the dealer.
Mr H clearly feels that theres a fault with the cars oil consumption but theres no 
mechanical or independent evidence of such a fault. Mr H has raised concerns about 
the dealer testing the cars oil consumption and has said that he would do his own 
test - but hes not provided any evidence of such a test.
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that theres an issue with 
the cars oil consumption that causes the car not to have been of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied to Mr H and Mr H. I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in 
these circumstances for me to require Mercedes-Benz Finance to allow Mr H and Mr 
H to reject the car, to pay them any compensation or to take any other action in 
response to their complaint.
So, subject to any further representations by Mr H and Mr H or Mercedes-Benz Finance, my 
provisional decision was that I wasnt minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr H says that he was getting the car checked by a different garage and that hed booked a 
health check with the manufacturers dealer in March 2021 so it could compare diagnostics. 
He said that he was preparing his evidence and needed more time so the deadline for his 
response was extended  but he hasnt provided a detailed response or any additional 
evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to delay a final decision on this 
complaint any longer. As Mr H hasnt provided a detailed response to my provisional 
decision or any additional evidence, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 19 May 2021.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman