DRN-4332530
The complaint
Mrs Q has complained about her property insurer QIC Europe Ltd in respect of a claim she 
made when her home was damaged by lightning and a resultant fire. 
What happened
Mrs Qs home was hit by lightning in the early hours of the morning on 5 December 2020 
and a fire ensued. A claim was made to QIC.
Mrs Q complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service in April 2022. She was disappointed 
at the lack of progress of repair by QIC; seventeen months on the home was still 
uninhabitable and she was still waiting for work to be authorised  with the bespoke bath 
only just having been ordered. She had concerns about the contents claim too, which was 
also unresolved. Mrs Q said she hadnt been refunded for utilities used in drying her home. 
She noted she had never been offered alternative accommodation  she and her youngest 
child had been staying with family since the incident, her eldest child couldnt come and stay 
with them as there was no room. Shed been told QIC had stopped the allowance it was 
giving her for staying with family (a disturbance allowance, DA) from 11 December 2021  
she said QIC told her that her policy only gave her the benefit of that for a year. 
When this service contacted QIC it became apparent it was aware of Mrs Qs concerns and 
felt they were unfounded but it hadnt issued a final response letter. It provided us with its file 
on 27 April 2022.
Our Investigator confirmed that he would assess Mrs Qs complaint up to the date of QICs 
file submission. He initially felt QIC had handled things reasonably and wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint. Following further comment from Mrs Q he felt that QIC had caused 
some delays and should pay £250 compensation. Neither QIC nor Mrs Q were happy with 
his findings, so the complaint was referred to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I also felt it should be upheld, but with a higher compensation award and further DA to be 
paid by QIC, as well as some directions for it too. So I issued a provisional decision to share 
my views with both parties. My findings were:
Contents
Having read all the available detail, Im not really sure what contents issues remain 
outstanding. But I am satisfied that QIC should reasonably have been aware that this was 
not finalised. In its file submission in April 2022, QIC said it had settled the contents claim in 
March 2021. But correspondence from its file, along with detail submitted by Mrs Q shows 
that, generally speaking, the contents claim was still being discussed after that time. In fact 
QICs claim handler emailed Mrs Q in May to arrange to speak to her to discuss the contents 
claim and an email from Mrs Q in June 2021 refers to her reviewing a spreadsheet, providing 
costs for vinyl records but setting aside, at that time, costs for items that might be restorable. 
That handler seems to have left shortly after that. I havent seen that the contents claim was 
further resolved after this point. But QIC should have been managing this claim. As such, 
I think its reasonable for me to now require it to review the contents claim and speak with 
Mrs Q to determine what remains outstanding and look to finalise that. 
Utilities and council tax
QIC, when I asked it about paying Mrs Q for these said Mrs Q hadnt presented it any costs 
for gas and electricity. But I can see that Mrs Q has presented costs at certain points even 
confirming that some payments to her for utilities were made, the last being for a bill dated 
July 2021. This is another aspect of the claim QIC should have been managing but again 
I havent seen anything in its submissions that make me think it was doing that in respect of 
this on-going claim issue. QIC will need to gather detail from Mrs Q as to the utility usage at 
the property after the bill from July 2021 and determine what costs are outstanding for it to 
pay. As QIC did not manage this aspect previously, to any bill payment that now needs to be 
reimbursed to Mrs Q, QIC will have to add interest* from the date Mrs Q paid any sum until 
settlement is made. 
Turning to council tax, usually, if a home is uninhabitable a policyholder is placed into rented  
alternative accommodation and the insurer will pay the council tax costs for the rented 
property  because the costs for the home are something for the policyholder to always pay. 
Here Mrs Q lived with her parents, rather than moving into a rented property, so there was 
no council tax, under usual alternative accommodation arrangements, for it to pay.
I did ask Mrs Q for details of council tax paid by her parents so I could consider any 
reasonable loss she may have had for contributing towards household bills. But she was 
unable to provide anything. Im mindful though that she was able to confirm that her own 
home was exempt from council tax charges until March 2022. Im not persuaded that Mrs Q 
incurred any extra costs regarding council tax on account of the claim. So Im not going to 
require QIC to do or pay anything further in this respect.
Alternative accommodation and disturbance allowance (AA and DA)
Mrs Qs policy, where her home cant be lived in due to an insured event will cover her 
reasonable costs for staying elsewhere. So it doesnt promise that QIC will find or provide 
AA for Mrs Q. And it requires that she agrees costs with it first. Here QIC is viewing the DA it 
paid to Mrs Q for living with her parents, as falling under that cover. A DA is often paid by 
insurers when a policyholder stays in their uninhabitable home, but sometimes where AA 
they stay in is not like their own home, a hotel for example. In either event the policyholder 
likely incurs extra costs, and it is the extra cost the DA is paid for. In this instance QIC felt 
Mrs Q might incur extra costs having to live with her parents, so I can see why it felt this 
would fall for cover under the AA section of the policy.
I can see that, initially, Mrs Q was happy to stay with her parents. And that even into spring 
2021 she told QIC she was still deciding whether or not she wanted to look for a rented 
property. During summer 2021 she told QIC that she would start to look for somewhere from 
October  the rental market being too busy in her area during the summer months. So I dont 
think its fair to say QIC failed Mrs Q with AA during the claim up until October 2021.
I think QIC could and should have done more when Mrs Q began contacting it in 
October 2021 about rentals though. Seemingly the area was still very busy, with rental 
properties being put on and then taken off the market within a couple of days. But, even 
knowing Mrs Q had been out of her home for so long, QICs response was that she would 
have to send it details of each property and wait for up to five days for its approval. 
Interestingly, despite the policy limiting QICs outlay to costs incurred within 12 months of the 
date of loss, it did not tell Mrs Q, at this time, that it would not be responsible for the full cost 
of a six-month let. It seems it had no issue, in principle, to covering such a cost even though 
part of the let period would fall outside the limit of the policy. 
Given the circumstances here, I think QIC should have looked to arrange a price with Mrs Q 
which it was prepared to pay for a rental without her having to present a specific property for it to consider the cost of  it would have been easy enough for it to determine what the likely 
costs of rentals in the area were and make a payment to her on that basis. Theres no 
guarantee, of course, that in such a fast-moving market, even having an agreed budget 
would have allowed Mrs Q to secure a property. But I think it would have eased some of her 
worry and concern, and made the possibility of her finding somewhere more of a likely 
prospect. So Ill take that into account when I award compensation.  
As I noted above, the AA cover does limit QICs outlay in this respect to a 12-month period. 
This was the reason it gave for stopping the DA payment to Mrs Q in December 2021. But 
QIC cant reasonably rely on the policy to limit its outlay in a situation where it has caused 
delays. So if I think QIC caused the claim to be delayed in the 12 month period, and that, but 
for those delays, Mrs Q would have been home, with extra costs outside of the limitation 
period being avoided, Ill likely find it should make a further DA payment to Mrs Q. This at the 
same rate QIC was previously paying, in line with the period of delay.   
Claim progress and delay
In considering this Im mindful that the house suffered significant damage as a result of the 
lightning strike. In short the lightning struck the roof, causing a hole and a fire which spread 
through the wall cavities. With the home then being subjected to hours of saturation by the 
fire-brigade to put the fire out. This was a substantial and complex repair prospect which 
would always have required a significant period for reinstatement. But QIC still had to handle 
it in a reasonably timely manner. So Ive looked at what I think are the key issues at the 
heart of this claim and complaint to see if QIC caused any delays. 
QIC acted in December 2020 to assess the damage and put a tarpaulin up for protection. 
Enabling works for replacing the roof took place in February, with the replacement itself 
commencing in March and completed in late April 2021. That feels like a long time. But 
I think this is an instance of the time mainly resulting from the complexity and scale of the 
work. With the surveyor looking for quotes quickly and the agreed contractor being on-board 
early in the new year. A lead time would be expected and I cant see the repair programme 
was delayed at all. I might have expected a tin hat or similar to have been put up initially, 
rather than just tarpaulin, to prevent further damage. It would be more effective than a 
tarpaulin. But I think, given the scale of the damage already caused to the property, a 
tarpaulin was a reasonable choice in the circumstances. I think the use of a tarpaulin likely 
did not delay the claim at all. 
I see that QIC cleared the propertys contents in the run up to the roof work starting. With 
some stripping out also being done. I think that was reasonable and allowed drying to start in 
short succession following completion of the roof work. I dont think it could reasonably have 
started before then, not even had a tin hat or similar been fitted. The property was declared 
dry around the start of July 2021. I think that was a reasonable period in the circumstances 
here and I havent seen anything to make me think that drying of the property was 
mishandled such that the necessary reinstatement work, due to follow once the property was 
dry, was delayed.
I would have expected though that QIC would have handled the claim such that, once the 
drying was complete, the reinstatement work would then start quickly and flow towards 
completion. From what Ive seen, Im not persuaded QIC did that here. 
QIC has said that the main reason the reinstatement work remained largely incomplete by 
the end of 2021, with the kitchen and flooring only being fitted in early 2022, is down to 
Mrs Q not making choices regarding materials to be used. But I think QIC put too much 
choice onto Mrs Q and it also didnt manage the kitchen and flooring choices effectively, 
such that delays resulted.A policyholder will always need to have some input in a reinstatement programme. But I can 
see here that Mrs Q, at times, was overwhelmed with the amount of choices QIC was asking 
her to make. And Ive noted that QICs contractor was often asking Mrs Q to make choices 
for things like style of coving and skirting boards, with Mrs Q replying she wanted what had 
been there before. I see the contractor, at one time told Mrs Q, we fit [X-style] coving as 
standard  are you ok with that, or shed have to show it what else she wanted. The 
contractor also told Mrs Q she had to source replacement internal doors, and she was given 
a budget for that. Mrs Q expressed at times how difficult all this was for her. QIC had taken 
on the reinstatement of the property, so it was up to QIC to do that reasonably on a like 
basis to that which Mrs Q had before. The property was heavily damaged by the event  but 
a strip-out programme managed with foresight for the necessary reinstatement to come 
would have enabled that to be done with minimal input required by Mrs Q. If any delay was 
caused because Mrs Q didnt provide the detail asked of her, that is QICs fault. Let me be 
clear  I am not saying Mrs Q had a free pass to not cooperate with QIC, she should 
cooperate. And I think she tried her best to do so here. 
Its also very clear from the submissions that the kitchen and flooring installation, not starting 
until January 2022, held up the reinstatement programme. With the property still lacking a 
kitchen and bathroom at the end of 2021 having meant it was still uninhabitable. 
Mrs Q submitted details for the kitchen to QIC in early 2021. I can see QIC had some 
concerns about the costs. It required them to be reworked, which Mrs Q sought to do. In 
June 2021 QIC said it was finally happy with all but the fitting costs. The kitchen company 
subsequently said that kitchen was no longer available. Mrs Q had to source another kitchen 
and it was August before costs for that were agreed by QICs surveyor. But the surveyor had 
to refer to the claim handler, who was on leave. And even when the claim handler returned 
from leave and agreed the cost, it was more than a fortnight before payment was made. All 
of which meant the installation date for the kitchen was January 2022. 
In my view QIC knew there would likely be at least a 12-week lead time for the kitchen, and 
getting it installed was integral to Mrs Q being able to move home. It also knew of the limited 
cover for AA. So, at the very least, when the costs for the alternative quote became available 
for approval and payment in August 2021, this should have been expedited. Mrs Q shouldnt 
have just been left to wait whilst the handler was on leave  or for a significant period after 
her return before this was all agreed. About six weeks in total. That would have allowed for 
an earlier start for the installation. But I also think QIC should have managed things earlier 
on regarding the initial quote. As soon as it knew the initial cost for fitting was too high it 
should have given Mrs Q a simple choice between progressing with that company with a 
limitation to what it would pay for fitting, or for that company to supply the kitchen, with its 
contractor fitting it. That would have allowed that kitchen to be ordered such that it could 
have been ready for fitting shortly after the property was declared dry in July 2021, certainly 
before the AA limitation period expired in December 2021.
I think the flooring installation was similarly mismanaged by QIC. It was also subject to delay 
due to the handler being on leave in August 2021. But costs had needed to be reviewed at 
that time because QIC hadnt paid for or ordered the flooring in early 2021 when it initially 
received quotes. By the time the flooring came to be ordered costs had increased and the 
sums involved had to be reviewed, with the flooring finally being paid for in November 2021. 
I know there is reference in QICs file to it thinking Mrs Q was wanting to change her choice 
in flooring  but this was never clarified, and QICs file also notes the quote received in early 
2021 was like-for-like as well as reasonably priced. Ive seen no good reason for this to be 
so delayed. I think its something QIC could have managed better, and if it had the flooring 
could likely have been installed before the AA limitation period expired in December 2021.I know that Mrs Q told us in April 2022 that the bespoke bath had only just been ordered. 
From QICs file this is another reinstatement issue I think it has caused delays in respect of. 
Its file shows that, in July 2021, Mrs Q had said quotes for a bespoke bath were about 
£2,500  seemingly the bath was of a design not commonly found but which matched the 
sink and toilet (which were not being replaced). QICs file notes it felt a bespoke bath wasnt 
necessary, that like baths were available for about £700 or £800, so Mrs Q was encouraged 
to keep looking for a suitable replacement. The issue then seems to have remained 
unresolved until a bespoke bath was eventually ordered in 2022. I think QIC should have 
handled this differently. If it had examples of like baths it should have told Mrs Q what it was 
prepared to pay and shown her evidence of why that was (the models it felt were like hers). 
Mrs Q could then have accepted its position, with the agreed bath being ordered, or ordered 
the bath she wanted whilst challenging QIC as to its proposed cost settlement. Either way 
the reinstatement would have moved on. Im also mindful in reviewing the file that QIC had 
initially also asked Mrs Q to source a replacement shower cubicle and tray. This was 
recorded in the visit notes from September. This is another example of QIC placing too much 
work with Mrs Q. I see it then, in December 2021, agreed to have its contractor pick 
materials like that in place before for reinstatement. Again, had that all been planned and 
managed correctly, I think the home could have had some sanitary facilities in place before 
the AA limitation period expired in December 2021.
All of which means that I think QIC caused delays which meant the home was uninhabitable 
in December 2021, which it otherwise wouldnt have been. Mrs Q and her family were still 
not home by the time of the complaint to this service and then QICs file submission in 
April 2022. I intend to require QIC to continue its agreed DA arrangement to the end of that 
period. It said that was £14 per adult per day, with Mrs Q and her son both being classed as 
adults. In all of the circumstances here I think that is fair and reasonable. And because 
I dont know and cant consider how the repair claim continued to be progressed after that 
time, I think its fair that I limit the scope of my award in this way. QIC paying DA in the 
period December 2021 until April 2022, reasonably, in my view, makes up for the delays it 
caused during 2021 which Im satisfied prevented the home from being habitable in 
December 2021. And Ill also take into account the upset caused by this when making my 
compensation award.
Outstanding repairs (as of April 2022)
I know that in Mrs Qs complaint form she has asked for certain work to be agreed and for 
dates to be set by which certain things will be done. As well as for some additional costs in 
respect of flooring. On this occasion though I dont feel I can reasonably make 
determinations in many of these respects within this decision. The claim has moved on 
within the last year  and what has happened therein remains very much outside of my 
scope of consideration. It is also not my role to handle claims. Rather I make decisions on 
points of contention in respect of which a stalemate has been reached between the parties. 
Bearing all that in mind, there are three repair issues, including the settlement for the 
flooring, which I feel I can reasonably comment on here.
Patched flat roof 
 The roof works were completed in early 2021. QIC, having seen Mrs Qs complaint in late 
2022 did not look to answer Mrs Qs concerns about the roof work. Essentially they are that 
QIC repaired it by patching it, potentially voiding the 30 year warranty Mrs Q had from its 
then relatively recent installation. Shed like a specialist roofer to be appointed to assess the 
roof/repairs. At this stage, I am minded to direct QIC to consider Mrs Qs concerns  
including any specialist report she may choose to present. But I wont direct QIC to be liable 
for arranging such a report or to being bound by its findings. That is because I currently 
havent seen any evidence which makes me think its most likely that QIC failed Mrs Q by 
carrying out an unreasonable repair to her flat roof. Security to windows should be fixed 
 QICs file, along with submissions provided by Mrs Q show me that this is also a 
long-standing issue. In meetings at the property in September and October it was noted that 
the security locking handles of the windows at the property needed replacing. This was still 
outstanding when Mrs Q and QIC spoke in December 2021. I havent seen any detail from 
the months since, up until 27 April 2022 that suggests this was resolved. If the window 
handles still havent been replaced, QIC should now do that as a matter of urgency. Ill bear 
in mind the fact that they remained as an outstanding repair point between September 2021 
and April 2022 when awarding compensation.
Flooring costs 
 The extent of the damage caused as a result of the lightning at the property meant that all 
the wood flooring had to be replaced. Most of the wood flooring was solid wood. But there 
was laminate in Mrs Qs bedroom. She wanted to take the opportunity to upgrade the 
bedroom, so it matched the rest of the wood flooring. QIC agreed for her flooring company to 
supply and fit flooring throughout the house, agreeing to the upgrade for the bedroom. But 
said it wouldnt pay for the additional cost of solid wood flooring in the bedroom over and 
above the cost of like-for-like laminate. So it said it would pay Mrs Q a contribution to the 
solid wood, bedroom flooring costs. Mrs Q has said it offered her £500 but has never paid 
this. She feels that its too low  much lower than what she paid for the laminate damaged as 
a result of the lightning. QIC hasnt addressed this point. It seems to me that the sum of 
£500 is akin to what perhaps it might have cost QIC itself to fit laminate in the bedroom. But 
here, I dont think QIC would ever have sought to replace the bedroom flooring, not whilst 
having agreed to Mrs Qs wood flooring company undertaking the fitment of the rest of the 
flooring. Given my general understanding of costs for items like this, I think it seems unlikely 
that £500 would have been sufficient to cover the wood flooring companys cost for 
supplying and fitting like-for-like laminate in the bedroom. Im minded to require QIC, on sight 
of proof from Mrs Q as to what the cost from the wood flooring company would have been 
for supplying and fitting like-for-like laminate; to pay her that sum. It should also add interest* 
to that sum from the date Mrs Q paid for the solid wood flooring in the bedroom until 
settlement is made. 
Compensation
I think that here, the details Ive set out, are the main failings of QIC which have caused 
Mrs Q distress and inconvenience. I know shes reported an unsettling out of hours phone 
call from one of QICs previous case handlers, who Mrs Q felt was sharing to much personal 
detail. I also see an internal email conversation which Mrs Q further cites as a sign of 
unprofessionalism, where the contributors are being very informal with each other. I can 
understand these caused Mrs Q some frustration. But I think that neither the call nor email 
materially impacted the claim or Mrs Q. So Im not minded to take these issues into account 
when awarding compensation.
 
Looking at the other details Ive set out above, I cant be sure here exactly when its most 
likely the family should have been able to move home. And they were always likely to be out 
of their home for an extended period. And Ive noted as well that Mrs Q seemed content to 
keep staying with her parents at least through summer 2021. I am satisfied they should have 
been home before December 2021, even if the propertys reinstatement wasnt entirely 
finished. So I think its fair to say theyve certainly had five months away from home that 
could have been avoided (between December and April) but for QICs delays. Ive identified 
other failures above too which have caused Mrs Q distress and inconvenience which would 
have been avoided with better claims management. All in all, I think £1,000 compensation is 
fairly and reasonably due.
Mrs Q said the work had been delayed during December 2021 and April 2022 as well. QIC 
said it agreed with most of my findings  but it felt my compensation award was unfairly and unreasonably high. It said that our guidance on awards, available on the internet, suggested 
a sum between £300 and £750 would be fair and reasonable. It offered to pay £500.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate that the property repairs between December 2021 and April 2022 were 
delayed. There was still some on-going communication regarding repair choices at this time 
and I said provisionally that QIC generally placed too much emphasis on Mrs Q providing 
choices. Ive made an award of DA which covers the period December 2021, when QIC 
stopped the DA payment, until 27 April 2022. I remain of the view that is fair and reasonable 
in this instance.
QIC has said that in giving Mrs Q choices, it was only fairly executing its responsibility to 
place the property as closely as possible into the condition it was in before the incident. Im 
not persuaded that, in this case, that is a fair assessment by QIC. As I acknowledged 
provisionally, some choice is often given to policyholders, sometimes its even necessary for 
them to choose materials where, for example, finishing materials featured in the home 
before the loss are no longer available. But I explained provisionally that the choices which 
QIC was expecting Mrs Q to make here went far beyond that  for example asking her to 
source doors when damaged doors were on site and could easily have been replaced 
like-for-like by the contractor with no sign something similar was not available.
I appreciate QICs view on what award, when taking into account our guidance, I should 
make. I can assure QIC that, as with every complaint I assess, I did take our guidance into 
account when I came to my provisional decision on compensation for Mrs Q. As QIC 
helpfully quoted, an award of £1,000 might be made where there has been serious 
disruption to daily life over a sustained period, with the impact felt of over many months 
causing substantial distress. QIC clearly views the upset caused as more like considerable 
distress, which our guidance says warrants compensation of up to £750. But I bear in mind 
that my findings showed Mrs Qs home, but for QICs delays, would likely have been 
habitable before December 2021. Not only did Mrs Q have to spend a lot of time choosing 
items which should just have been replaced on a like basis, she was out of her home for 
many months longer than she otherwise would have been. Im satisfied that my suggested 
award of £1,000 is both in line with our guidance and other awards made in similar 
circumstances. I remain of the view £1,000 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Having reviewed the complaint, my thoughts on it have not changed. As such my provisional 
findings, along with my comments here, are now the findings of this, my final decision.
Putting things right
I require QIC to:
Further review the contents claim to consider and settle, in line with the terms of the 
policy, any outstanding aspects.
Upon sight of proof from Mrs Q as to utility usage at the property after that covered by 
the July 2021 bill, consider its liability for such, reimbursing Mrs Q any costs reasonably 
incurred due to the claim. Plus interest* on any sums to be reimbursed which Mrs Q had 
paid, from the date of payment until settlement is made.
Pay Mrs Q a sum equivalent to £28 a day (£14/adult) for the period 11 December 2021 
to 27 April 2022 inclusive.Review Mrs Qs concerns about the flat roof repair, considering any expert report she 
should provide in this respect.
As a matter of urgency, if this has not been done already, replace the window handles.
Upon sight of proof from Mrs Q as to costs, make a payment to her which reflects what 
the flooring company would have charged for supplying and fitting like-for-like laminate in 
the bedroom.
Pay Mrs Q £1,000 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require QIC to take off tax from this interest. 
If asked, it must give Mrs Q a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require QIC Europe Ltd to provide the redress set out above at 
Putting things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 October 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman