DRN-3135932
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complaint is about a lifetime mortgage they hold with Legal & General Home 
Finance Limited (L&G). They are unhappy about the administration of two applications to 
port their mortgage to a new property, which resulted in them making the decision to pay off 
their mortgage and incur an early repayment charge (ERC). In settlement of the complaint 
they want L&G to refund the ERC.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with L&G in 2017. The mortgage offer sent said that If 
you move home you can transfer this lifetime mortgage to a new property that is acceptable 
to us and meets our lending criteria at the time.
On 9 July 2020 Mr and Mrs S applied to port their mortgage to a new property. They were 
told at that point that an average turnaround for such applications was 12 weeks. In addition, 
they were told they needed to pay an administration fee and a valuation fee for the transfer 
of the mortgage and the valuation of the new property. These fees were paid on 
17 July 2020 and the valuation was commissioned. 
The valuation was completed on 23 July 2020. The valuer noted possible damp problems 
and recommended a timber and report be arranged. Mr and Mrs S were told about the 
requirement a few days later. 
It doesnt appear that Mr and Mrs S arranged for a timber and damp report to be completed 
as L&G had requested. Rather, in the middle of August 2020 they forwarded to L&G a copy 
of a building survey theyd had done on the property. They also told L&G that they knew how 
to deal with damp issues and that they would start the necessary work when they moved in.  
Three days later L&G responded to Mr and Mrs S. It said that it needed a specialist timber 
and damp report before it would proceed further with the application. The next day 
Mr and Mrs S asked L&G for clarification  would it require just the report or would it need 
any recommended works to be completed too? 
Mr and Mrs S forwarded, on 21 August 2020, another copy of the building survey and 
comments from the surveyor whod completed the building survey. The surveyor suggested 
that the report required in the valuation wouldnt be suitable because it was a listed property. 
In addition, Mr and Mrs S also informed L&G that their solicitor had suggested that it produce 
a legal undertaking that the works would be completed following completion, rather than the 
works having to be done as a condition of completion. L&G has acknowledged that these 
emails were not dealt with at the time. However, it said that when it did consider them during 
the complaint, that they would have altered its requirement for a specialist damp and timber 
report. 
L&G confirmed on 23 August 2020 that works would need to be completed by the time of the 
purchase.  Mr and Mrs S responded on the same day and asked whether L&G thought the 
property would ever be considered suitable. It doesnt appear this query was answered as a 
few days later Mr and Mrs S withdrew from the purchase and porting application. They found 
an alternative property and submitted a new porting application. The fees were paid for the 
new application. 
The following week Mr and Mrs S told L&G that damp works were being completed on the 
first property the following week. L&G again requested a copy of the timber and damp report 
that had been completed. 
On 10 September 2020 Mr and Mrs S confirmed to L&G that they wanted to proceed with 
the porting application for the second property. The valuation was completed on 
29 September 2020 and the mortgage offer was issued on 3 October 2020. At this point 
Mr and Mrs S were concerned about losing the sale of their own home and asked for 
timescales for the port. They were told that it would usually take 8-12 weeks from the point 
the mortgage offer was issued. Less than a week later Mr and Mrs S withdrew from the 
porting application due to the timescales involved. 
Mr and Mrs S sold their house and paid off their mortgage in December 2020. As the 
mortgage wasnt being ported, they had to pay an ERC.
Mr and Mrs S complained about the service they had received from L&G, as they believed it 
was poor and had caused them to incur the ERC.
L&G responded upheld Mr and Mrs S complaint in part. It said that the service they had 
received between 18 and 23 August 2020 in relation to the first application hadnt been 
adequate as it hadnt acknowledged all the points they had raised. It also said that it didnt 
think it made it clear enough to Mr and Mrs S that they couldnt have two active porting 
requests running at the same time. L&G offered to reimburse the valuation fee for the 
second property and pay Mr and Mrs S £100 for the trouble and upset the poor service had 
caused them. In addition, L&G confirmed that as no legal work happened before the 
applications were withdrawn, it would be refunding the administration fees for both 
applications. 
However, L&G didnt think that its decision regarding the timber and damp report being 
needed was wrong. In relation to the decision to withdraw from the second purchase, L&G 
said this was Mr and Mrs S choice and wasnt due to anything that L&G did wrong.
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept L&Gs position. L&G didnt change its position following 
Mr and Mrs S further comments. It reiterated that despite them having provided a copy of a 
survey theyd had done on the property; it had still needed the specialist report the valuer 
had said was needed. It also confirmed that in circumstances where work was needed on a 
property, it asked for the work to be done before it would agree to transfer a mortgage.
As Mr and Mrs S remained unhappy with L&Gs response, they asked this service to 
consider the complaint. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt accept the investigators conclusions. They said they couldnt have tried 
harder, but they were continually ignored throughout the porting process. They highlighted 
that L&G had admitted the failure in service, which Mr and Mrs S interpret as L&G having 
defaulted the mortgage contract. They asked that as this was the situation, how L&G was 
allowed to get away without financial consequences and that it could offer only a derisory 
amount as an apology. As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided that the complaint should be referred to 
an ombudsman for consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A lender will decide what types of property it is willing to lend on. This involves the lender 
deciding what types of risk it is willing to take when it lends, and thats not something this 
service would normally look to interfere with. 
On both occasions, when Mr and Mrs S applied to port their mortgage L&G employed a 
suitably qualified expert to assess the property and decide whether it was suitable security 
for the mortgage. The valuer was concerned with the damp in the property associated with 
the first porting application and recommended that a specialist report be obtained. 
L&G was entitled to rely on the expert opinion it had commissioned. So I cant find it was 
unreasonable for it to ask Mr and Mrs S to obtain the recommended report. 
I would also explain that where an issue has been identified on a valuation has the potential 
to affect the value of the property going forward if not remedied, it is not unusual for a lender 
to insist that the issue is dealt with. A lender can ensure works needed are completed in one 
of two ways. Where new lending is being advanced, a retention can be placed on the 
mortgage advance, meaning that the borrower doesnt receive all of the mortgage advance 
until it has been proven that the works have been done. The second option is that the lender 
requires the works to be done before the mortgage is advanced, or in the case of 
Mr and Mrs S situation, before it is ported. Its not unreasonable for a lender to require 
works to be done if they might affect the value of its security in the future. As such, I cant 
find that L&Gs stance on the issues with the first property was unreasonable.
That said, L&G has admitted that it didnt pick-up and respond to two of Mr and Mrs S 
emails and it should have made them aware that they couldnt run two applications in 
parallel. It has accepted this was below the standard of service that it should have provided. 
Ive considered whether this had a material affect on the porting application. L&G has 
confirmed, having now considered the content of the emails, that it would still have required 
the specialist report. Given what it had said up to that point and what was said afterwards, I 
accept that is the case. So I dont think the lack of response on L&Gs part is likely to have 
changed the ultimate outcome of the application, but it is possible, if L&G had responded to 
these emails, Mr and Mrs S might have withdrawn their application and started the new one 
a few days earlier. 
Mr and Mrs S withdrew the second porting application in early October 2020 as they werent 
persuaded that it would go through in the timescale their buyer wanted to move. I am not 
persuaded a few days would have made a difference to that decision. 
I have said above, I dont consider L&G acted unreasonably in relation to the 
recommendation the valuer gave. While I know that Mr and Mrs S were concerned that they 
might lose their buyer, I cant hold L&G responsible for the consequences of their decision 
not to port their mortgage to the second property they selected. As such, it wouldnt be 
reasonable for me to ask L&G to refund the ERC Mr and Mrs S paid.
That said, there was poor service on L&Gs part when it failed to respond to two emails in 
August 2020. L&G has offered to pay Mr and Mrs S £100 and refund the valuation fee on the 
second application to compensate them for the upset and inconvenience this caused them. I think that is a reasonable offer, as I do the refund of the administration charges, due to the 
lack of legal work completed. If Mr and Mrs S havent been paid these sums and now want 
to accept them, they should contact L&G directly.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept or reject my decision 
before 7 January 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman