DRN-2812017
The complaint
Mr T complains Tandem Bank Limited caused him inconvenience when his fixed-rate 
savings account came to an end. 
What happened
Mr T held a two-year fixed rate savings account with Tandem. At the end of the two years, 
Tandem offered some options to Mr T. One of those was to reinvest his money for three 
years, at an interest rate of 0.7% (which was lower than hed had for the previous two-year 
fixed deal). 
Initially Mr T didnt accept that, but he then found Tandem were advertising the same three-
year account at 1.2% interest for new customers. He complained to Tandem that he hadnt 
been offered that rate.
Tandem agreed to honour the higher rate and the savings account was set up. Mr T asked 
for £100 compensation as hed had to go to a lot of trouble to get the higher interest rate 
applied.
Tandem didnt agree to pay any compensation, so Mr T brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt think Tandem had treated Mr T unfairly. She appreciated he was 
frustrated about the situation but didnt think any compensation needed to be provided and 
thought Tandem had acted fairly by allowing Mr T to take advantage of the higher rate. 
Mr T didnt accept that, so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says by not offering him the higher rate for the savings account as he was an existing 
customer, Tandem has mis-sold it. I dont agree thats the case. I dont think Tandem has 
acted outside of any banking codes by choosing to offer different interest rates to new and 
existing customers. Banks are entitled to make a commercial decision to offer higher or 
lower interest rates for new customers.
There are regulations which Tandem should follow in relation to changing interest rates of 
existing accounts, but that isnt what has happened here. Mr T came to the end of the two-
year fixed deal. Tandem wrote to him to notify him it was coming to an end and provide his 
options about what would happen next. So Im satisfied it acted reasonably towards Mr T at 
the end of his fixed-rate deal. 
When Mr T realised he could get a higher rate if he was a new customer, he emailed 
Tandem to complain. That email wasnt responded to. But he got in touch again and Tandem 
agreed to give him the higher rate. All of this was agreed in a matter of days, and before his 
previous product came to an end, so he hasnt lost out on any interest. 
If I were to find that Tandem had done something wrong in not offering the higher rate at the 
start  which I dont think it has  a suitable remedy would be to ask Tandem to apply the 
higher rate. As its already done that, I dont think it needs to do anything else.
This service can award compensation where mistakes made by businesses cause 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. But I havent found that Tandem has made a 
mistake here. Whilst Mr Ts first email wasnt picked up, the issue was still resolved in a 
matter of days and didnt result in any loss of interest on his account or any significant 
inconvenience to him. So Im not going to make Tandem pay any compensation to Mr T. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman