DRN-4398787
The complaint
Miss E complains that Santander UK Plc failed to provide reasonable support when she 
asked it to write off a credit card debt.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
Miss E has a credit card with Santander. In 2021 Miss E and her representative sent 
Santander information about her unsecured borrowing which was around £53,000 at the 
time and completed a financial assessment that showed she wasnt working. In light of Miss 
Es circumstances, she asked Santander to write of the credit card debt. Santander didnt 
offer to write off the balance but agreed to suspend interest and accept payments of £25 a 
month.
In February 2022 Miss E completed another income and expenditure assessment that 
showed she only had around £15 a month in disposable income. Miss E and her 
representative asked Santander to consider accepting a partial settlement or writing off the 
outstanding balance in light of her circumstances. Medical evidence was supplied by Miss 
Es doctors, including a letter that gave details of the impact of her mental health conditions 
on her ability to manage finances and return to work. Santander reviewed the information but 
didnt agree to write off the balance or accept a partial settlement. But Santander agreed to 
continue to suspend interest and accept monthly payments of £25.
Payments were missed between February and May 2022 and Miss E has told us she 
borrowed money to make them up. From that point Miss E made payments of £25 a month. 
In early 2023 Santander wrote to Miss E to say her credit card was exiting the Financial 
Support team and was now up to date. Miss E spoke with Santander via a web chat and was 
advised that when interest started to be applied her minimum payment would go from £25 to 
around £51. The agent added that the last income and expenditure assessment was 
completed in March 2022 and asked Miss E to complete a new one.
Miss E raised concerns about the way her credit card had been handled. Santander issued a 
final response on 16 February 2023 and said Miss Es account was no longer in arrears so it 
was normal practice for it to exit the Financial Support team and for interest to be applied. 
Santander repeated its request for a new budget planner and added that a letter of authority 
to speak with Miss Es representative had expired. Payments ceased from February 2023.
Santander issued a follow up final response on 15 March 2023. Santander said it had 
considered all the information provided by Miss E when reaching its decision to decline the 
request to write off the outstanding balance. Santander also said that Miss E could discuss a 
pay down arrangement to make affordable repayments to the credit card without paying 
interest or charges. Santander added the account would eventually default but wouldnt been 
passed to a debt collector. Santander also said Miss Es representative had been registered 
on the account. Santander offered £100 for the service provided.
Miss Es representative referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an 
investigator. Miss Es representative explained that Miss Es health problems and 
circumstances hadnt improved and that she wanted Santander to write off the outstanding 
balance, as her other creditors agreed to do. The investigator wasnt persuaded that 
Santander had treated Miss E unfairly and didnt uphold her complaint.
On Miss Es behalf, her representative asked to appeal. They said Santander was aware of 
Miss Es vulnerability and medical history but had failed to follow guidelines. They also said 
Santander had incorrectly advised Miss E her account was up to date as she was paying 
less that the minimum payment while interest wasnt being applied. Miss Es representative 
said that the decision to exit Miss Es account from specialist support was unfair. As Miss Es 
representative asked to appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In response to the investigator, Miss Es representative asked why the partial settlement and 
write off requests had been rejected. Santander hasnt specifically said why. But looking at 
its systems notes and internal emails, I can see that the amount offered was considered to 
be too low. An email between staff from March 2023 said that Santander wouldnt look to 
write off a debt solely on the basis of medical evidence. It adds there was nothing to suggest 
Miss E would be unable to return to work. Whilst the emails and information appear to have 
been recorded during the complaint investigation in 2023, Im satisfied they show the sort of 
things Santander took into account when considering Miss Es request.
Ive reviewed the information Miss E submitted last year. Ive paid particular attention to the 
supporting medical evidence supplied. I wont go into detail as the information is very 
personal in nature and all sides have received a copy. But the medical evidence lists all Miss 
Es conditions and talks about how they impact her life. In particular, I note that Miss E 
submitted a letter from the Department of Neurology that confirmed her health problems go 
back to 2018 and that the symptoms are likely to be with her for the rest of her life. The 
doctor confirmed that Miss E is unable to work and unlikely to see improvement sufficient to 
return to employment again. That goes against the points Santander has made concerning 
whether Miss E is likely to be able to return to work and begin repayments. In my view, 
Santander has already received medical evidence that confirms Miss E is unlikely to be in a 
position to return to work due to her conditions. 
I also note Santander reviewed Miss Es budget planner on a number of occasions, all of 
which have showed she is unable to afford to make repayments. The financial assessments 
show Miss E has been in receipt of benefit income for several years. And the most recent 
budget planner showed Miss E only had £15 a month left as disposable income after her 
priority bills were paid.
Given the information provided by Miss Es doctors and included in her financial statements, 
I think Santander had information that verified what shed told it about her circumstances at the time. We know Miss E suffers with serious mental health issues that impact her day to 
day life, work and finances. And Miss Es doctors have confirmed Miss Es circumstances or 
ability to work are unlikely to change in the long term. The budget planners show Miss Es 
income isnt sufficient to make sustainable repayments towards the outstanding balance in 
the long term.
We wont always tell a business to write off a debt. But there are cases where we may say 
that pursuing the debt would cause unreasonable harm to a borrower. I think this is a case 
where Santander already has information on file that shows Miss E is unlikely to ever be in a 
position to repay the debt. And I havent seen anything that shows continuing to offer to 
revisit the financial assessment or discuss potential payment arrangements is likely to 
change that position. I think that requiring Miss E to continue to complete these steps is 
likely to cause her an unreasonable level of distress and without changing the situation.
I havent been persuaded that Santander treated Miss E positively and sympathetically as it 
is obliged to do. Overall, I agree with Miss E that shes submitted clear evidence that shows 
she cant afford to make repayments and is unlikely to be able to do so in the future. Taking 
Miss Es mental health concerns and vulnerability into account, think the fairest approach 
would be for Santander to write off the outstanding balance and stop pursuing her for 
payment.
In my view, the lack of positive and sympathetic support to Miss E has caused a significant 
level of distress and inconvenience. So in addition to the above, I also intend to tell 
Santander to pay Miss E £500. I think that figure more fairly reflects the lack of support and 
the impact on Miss E.
In my provisional decision I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or 
information they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. On Miss Es behalf, 
her representative responded to say Santander had recently issued a default notice, ignoring 
all the medical evidence and other information it had been sent. They advised other lenders 
had made the decision not to pursue outstanding balances in light of Miss Es 
circumstances. The representative added that when they spoke with Santander it admitted 
Miss Es account had been moved to its collections team in error. 
Santander responded and said it agreed to pay Miss E £500 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused as set out in my provisional decision. But Santander did agree it had 
made an error with the arrears on Miss Es account and didnt agree to write off the balance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Es representative has explained that Santander sent her a default notice and 
collections letter after incorrectly moving her account to the collections team. Ive read the 
default notice. Im surprised Santander took the decision to issue a default notice after I 
issued a provisional decision that explained I intended to tell it to write off Miss Es 
outstanding balance. Id have expected Santander to have placed the account on hold in the 
circumstances, awaiting the outcome of Miss Es complaint. 
With that being said, my provisional decision explained that Miss E had supplied evidence 
that verified her claim that she is very unlikely to be in a position to return to work in the long 
term due to long term mental health difficulties. That means Miss E isnt in a position to 
repay the outstanding balance. So whilst I think the fairest approach is for Santander to write 
off the outstanding balance on the account, as I said in the provisional decision, I dont find it unfair for Santander to record a default on Miss Es credit file. Ultimately, that does 
accurately reflect how the account has been administered. But if Miss E accepts this 
decision, Santander will be obliged to close the account and write off the outstanding 
balance in full. That means Miss E wont be liable for any further repayments and wont be 
pursued further, which is in line with what shes told us other lenders have done. 
Santander responded and said no errors had been made with the arrears on Miss Es 
account. But I think that misses the key point in the provisional decision which is that whilst 
Miss Es account may be in arrears, shes verified health conditions that mean she is very 
likely unable to repay it in the long term. As I said in the provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that in Miss Es circumstances pursuing her for the outstanding balance will cause an 
unreasonable level of harm. Which is why I said I was telling Santander to write off the 
outstanding balance. I havent been persuaded by Santanders response to change my view 
of how to resolve Miss Es case. 
I remain of the view that Santander has caused Miss E a significant level of upset and 
difficulties by the way its handled her account. So Im going to continue to award £500 to 
Miss E for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Miss Es complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to settle as 
follows: 
- Write off the outstanding credit card balance (ceasing all collections activity)
- Pay Miss E £500
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman