DRN-2747450
The complaint
Mr Rs complaint is about a claim he made on his home insurance policy with Aviva 
Insurance Limited. He is unhappy that the claim made for storm damage to the roof of his 
three-storey house was declined. In addition, he is unhappy about how the claim was 
handled both before and after the claim was declined.
What happened
Mr Rs roof sustained damage. He recollected this was during a storm in 2019, but he 
couldnt remember when the damage happened. Mr R said he completed a temporary repair 
at the time by using polythene to stop rain entering the property. As both he and the late 
Mrs R were ill at the time, they didnt make a claim for the damage and nor did they get a 
permanent repair done.
In February 2020 Mr R noticed some of the polythene he had used to complete a temporary 
repair had been sucked out of the gap in the flashing and it, and a small piece of slate from 
the roof, were found below in the garden. They told Aviva that subsequently, birds had 
pecked out the remainder of the polythene used for the temporary repair and birds could 
now enter the roof space. 
Mr R made a claim to Aviva in June 2020. It arranged for the claim to be assessed. Avivas 
representative said that the roof needed maintenance. It said the flashings on the two rear 
hips had slipped, but it was difficult to determine whether this had just happened, if it was 
due to the many storms during 2019/2020, or one storm in 2019.  It concluded the damage 
to the flashings was due to deterioration over time rather than a storm, and this would be 
considered as a gradually operating cause. However, due to the delay in the claim being 
made, it recommended the claim be considered further by a firm of loss adjusters. Mr R was 
told this would happen and that an appointment was made. However, before the 
appointment, Aviva changed its mind about looking into the claim further, it cancelled the 
referral to loss adjusters and declined the claim.  
Mr R was disappointed with Avivas decision. He was recorded as having said to Aviva 
during the call in which he was told Avivas decision, that it wasnt his fault the damage 
wasnt noticed earlier, but he was certain it was storm damage. As Mr R was dissatisfied 
with Avivas conclusion, it set up a complaint 
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint and said it was unable to consider the damage where the 
polythene was installed as this had been installed as a temporary repair the previous year  
as a proper repair hadnt been done, the property was in a vulnerable state and further 
damage wouldnt be covered by the policy. It also said that had a claim been made the 
previous year when the damage originally happened, the damage could have been 
assessed and validated at the time. However, because of the delay and lack of information 
about when the damage had occurred, it couldnt validate a claim. In relation to the slate that 
had fallen in 2020 it said it would consider that matter further, but Mr and Mrs R would need 
to provide a surveyors report on the damage and its cause. 
Mr R didnt accept Avivas response or that the damage to the roof was due to wear and 
tear. He asked that we consider the complaint. When referring the complaint to this service, 
Mr R explained that the damage happened in 2019, but he was unable to remember the 
date. At that time, hed inserted some polythene to the roof structure to stop water 
penetrating. A claim hadnt been made a claim for the damage at the time it occurred as he 
and Mrs R were both unwell. In addition, one area of damage wasnt visible from the ground 
and the other was difficult to see. It was not until after a named storm in February 2020 that 
they noticed a slate and some of the polythene hed inserted into the roof the previous year, 
were lying on the ground and more polythene was hanging out of the roof. 
Mr R commented about the assessment of the claim made by Avivas representatives  the 
inspection of the roof had been completed from the ground without the aid of binoculars. 
Mr and Mrs R also said the general condition of the slate roof and flashings was good for its 
age with no slates requiring lead tingles (fixing straps). As such, he didnt accept the damage 
was not caused by a storm, and was simple age related deterioration.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
concluded that as it couldnt be established when the original damage happened and that it 
was as the result of a storm, it wasnt unreasonable for the claim for the flashings to have 
been declined. He also didnt think Aviva had acted inappropriately when handling the claim, 
although he acknowledged this was during a very difficult time for Mr R personally. The 
investigator also thought the offer to consider the fallen slate during the early 2020 storms if 
a supporting report was provided, was fair.
Mr R didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He highlighted that there had been nine 
named storms in 2019 and the early part of 2020. He knew the damage hadnt happened in 
the last of those storms as the temporary repair had been done before that storm. He said 
the fact that the polythene had been sucked out from the interior of the roof proved beyond 
doubt that is not just wind strength but suction which did the damage. In addition, he 
considered that considerable force would have been required to rip the hip flashings off their 
fixings.  Mr R also highlighted that his policy included accidental damage cover, in the event 
that it might provide for any of the damage.
Our investigator considered Mr Rs further submissions, but he wasnt persuaded to change 
his mind. He reiterated that there were many periods of inclement weather that could have 
been responsible for the damage, including the ones Mr R had highlighted, but there was no 
evidence of when the damage had occurred. As such, it couldnt be established whether it 
had been a storm that had caused the hip flashing damage. The investigator didnt think the 
damage could reasonably fall for consideration under any section of the policy, other than 
storm. 
Mr R again didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He provided details of his and 
Mrs Rs medical appointments in early 2020. He said, based on those dates, he thought the 
damage to the hips had most likely happened in a storm on 13/14 January 2020. 
Our investigator forwarded the new information to Aviva, but it maintained its stance that it 
couldnt validate the damage having been caused by a storm. The investigator also 
confirmed that the new evidence hadnt persuaded him to change his opinion. In light of this, 
Mr R asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Aviva declined the claim for the damage to the roof because it couldnt validate the claim 
(confirm it was caused by something covered by the policy) and it wasnt persuaded the 
dominant cause of the damage was storm, as its representative said the roof was in need of 
maintenance. Alternatively, Mr R, who was a professional in the construction industry, 
believes the roof is in good condition for its age and the damage had to have been caused 
by storm conditions because the flashings were torn from the nails securing them in place.
The type of insurance policy Mr R has doesnt cover every event that happens to a building. 
It covers only specific risks or perils, that the insurer has chosen to provide cover for. In the 
case of the damage to Mr Rs roof, the only peril that might cover the damage is storm. So in 
order for there to be a valid claim, the damage must have been caused by a single, 
identifiable storm. If the damage was caused by any other cause, such as general 
deterioration over time, it would be considered a maintenance issue and not be covered by 
the policy, even if bad weather brought the deterioration to the policyholders notice. 
Throughout the claim Mr R said that he didnt know when the damage occurred, but he 
thought it was in 2019. This was because the damage was difficult to see from the ground, 
especially that behind the chimney. He went on to explain that when he did notice the 
damage had happened, he undertook some emergency repairs to stop rain entering the 
fabric of the building. Again, he wasnt originally able to tell us or Aviva when the temporary 
repairs were done. The only definite date Mr R was initially able to give was when hed 
noticed the temporary repairs had failed, which was following storm Dennis in 
February 2020. 
Mr R has recently said that he believes, based on when he and Mrs R received medical 
treatment, that the damage must have happened during a storm in January 2020. I am not 
doubting Mr Rs thought processes when hes come to this conclusion, but I dont think this 
alters the uncertainty over when the damage happened. In general, a policyholders initial 
recollections tend to be more accurate and I find it unlikely that if the temporary repairs had 
failed within only a few weeks of them being installed, Mr R wouldnt have remembered that 
timescale. It would also not confirm the date of the damage, as Mr Rs explanations about 
the situation said it wasnt immediately noticed. 
As I have said above, for the claim to be a valid one, Aviva needs to be satisfied that the 
damage was caused by a single event of storm. It is entirely understandable in the 
circumstances that Mr R didnt report the claim immediately upon noticing the damage. 
However, not knowing when the damage happened, means that Aviva was unable to verify 
whether the weather around the time was sufficiently bad to be considered a storm. It wasnt 
unreasonable for it to have declined the claim in the circumstances where its unable to 
establish whether there is a valid claim. 
That is more so when the inspection reports the roof is old and in need of maintenance. I 
note that Mr R has said the roof is in good condition for its age and I accept that may well be 
the case. However, in good condition for its age doesnt mean it hasnt deteriorated and 
isnt in need of maintenance. I note that Mr R has said that age related deterioration wouldnt 
cause the flashings to tear away from its fixings and that is true. However, lead flashings do 
deteriorate over time and that can allow damage that otherwise wouldnt be caused, to 
happen in bad weather. In other words, the deterioration makes the flashings prone to other 
forms of damage. Its clear from his photographs that the roof has had work completed on it 
before, in that the photographs he provided show that slates have been replaced in the past. 
The photographs also show areas where the flashings are no longer flush with the roof.  I 
again dont think Aviva was wrong to conclude that if the damage had happened in a storm, 
the storm wouldnt have been the dominant cause.Aviva offered to consider a claim for just the fallen slate Mr R reported from the February 
2020 storm, if he wished to pursue it and provided further evidence to support the claim. I 
dont think that was an unreasonable position for it to take ad the offer remains open to Mr R 
if he wishes to accept.
Mr R raised concerns about the assessment Avivas representative conducted before the 
claim was declined. Its not unusual for such concerns to be raised by policyholders who 
have worked as construction industry professionals, as claim verification processes often 
dont fulfil what would be expected from a full survey conducted by a RICS surveyor.  
However, that type of survey is not what would be expected in most claim assessments and 
I cant find that Aviva was wrong to rely on the report produced. 
I can understand that Mr R was frustrated at being told the claim assessment would be 
escalated to a firm of loss adjusters for consideration, and then this referral was cancelled. 
That said, I dont think the amount of time it took for Aviva to make a decision on the claim 
was unreasonable, given the uncertainty about the circumstances surrounding the claim. 
Furthermore, I havent seen that the timescales had any difference to the outcome of the 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 
17 June 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman