DRN-2373968
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain about the decision by U K Insurance Limited (UKI) to turn down their 
travel insurance claim for medical expenses. 
What happened
Whilst on holiday, Mr A became unwell and was admitted to hospital with chest pains. He 
told the hospital that hed been drinking alcohol and had used a recreational drug. Tests 
were carried out, however, the hospital hadnt reached a diagnosis before Mr A decided to 
discharge himself so that he could make his return flight to the UK.
Mr and Mrs A then made a claim to UKI for the medical expenses Mr A had incurred whilst 
on holiday. 
UKI turned down the claim. It said the policy excluded claims that arise from alcohol or drug 
use, and there was no other confirmed diagnosis for Mr As symptoms as Mr A had left the 
hospital against medical advice. Unhappy with this, Mr and Mrs A brought a complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought UKIs decision to 
turn down the claim had been reasonable. 
Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed 
to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for emergency medical costs if the insured dies, is injured, 
becomes ill or is quarantined while on a trip. 
Under general exclusions, the policy says:
We will not cover any claim resulting from:

You being under the influence or effect of alcohol or drugs (other than drugs taken under 
medical supervision and not for the treatment of drug addiction). We dont expect you to 
avoid drinking on your trip but we will not cover any claims where you have drunk so much 
alcohol that your judgement is seriously affected.
For UKI to rely on this exclusion, the onus is on UKI to show that it (most likely) applies. Ive 
therefore looked at the hospital report. 
The report says that Mr A was having chest pains after consuming alcohol and using a 
recreational drug several hours earlier. He also complained of dizziness and sweating.
An electrocardiogram took place which ruled out a heart attack. A chest x-ray also took 
place, which ruled out heart disease. A CT scan was carried out to see if Mr A had an 
embolism, but Mr A decided to leave the hospital before the results could be read. Though 
Ive looked at the scan results, and I see no embolism was found. 
The hospital report says the doctor discussed the possibilities of a pulmonary embolism, 
dissection or death during the flight, but Mr A wished to leave, despite the risks. The report 
also said that Mr A left the hospital against medical advice. 
The report listed some differential diagnoses  myocardial infarction, unstable angina, 
anxiety, pulmonary embolism, atypical chest pain, aortic dissection, pneumonia, reflux 
disease, costochondritis, chest wall pain, dyspnea, congestive heart failure. 
Mr and Mrs A have said that, after they returned to the UK, Mr A continued to experience 
chest pains  though I havent seen any evidence of that. Theyve said that Mr A went to see 
his GP and had investigations, but no problems were found. 
Mr and Mrs A have also explained that Mr A was diagnosed with anxiety the following year, 
and they think this was the reason for his hospital admission during the trip.
I appreciate that one of the differential diagnoses does include anxiety, however, I have to 
take into account that Mr A was diagnosed with this the following year. If Mr A had been 
diagnosed with anxiety soon after returning home, there might be an argument to link his 
symptoms on the trip with anxiety  but that didnt happen. Consequently, I dont think 
theres enough evidence for me to conclude that Mr As symptoms on the trip were caused 
by anxiety.
Mr A wasnt diagnosed with any of the other differential diagnoses given in the report on his 
return to the UK. I can therefore understand why UKI thought his symptoms likely related to 
his consumption of alcohol and/or a drug, rather than any of the conditions listed in the 
report.
Mrs A has referred to a health website to support her argument that the effects of the 
particular recreational drug taken by her husband roughly last up to 30 minutes (and had 
therefore worn off by the time he experienced the chest pain several hours later). But I note 
that timing refers to the high associated with the drug. And the same website says that use 
of that drug can cause heart-related symptoms, such as chest pain.
Given that the chest pain Mr A experienced can be caused by the recreational drug that he 
used, and that no other diagnosis was reached during his hospital admission (or on his 
immediate return to the UK), I think it was reasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr As claim 
fell under the above exclusion. 
Mr and Mrs A also say they were led to believe the claim would be accepted by UKI. Ive 
listened to the calls between UKI and Mrs A, and I think its apparent Mrs A understood that 
the claim hadnt been accepted, and that the relevant documents would need to be 
considered before a claims decision could be made. 
Mr and Mrs A have also raised concerns about the policy document. UKI has provided the 
policy terms from 2015, and say these were the ones that applied at the time of the claim. 
The policy terms were updated in 2018, though this was after the claim was made. However, I note the relevant exclusion is the same in both documents, so I dont think Mr and Mrs A 
were disadvantaged by UKI referring to the later policy document.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 May 2021.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman