DRN-2690827
The complaint
Mr M complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited treated him unfairly when 
calculating his car insurance premium.
What happened
In 2019, Mr M took out a car insurance policy underwritten by Advantage (the policy).  He 
says this was after hed obtained two quotes within minutes of each other from Advantage 
via a comparison website. 
The more expensive quote was based on him confirming that hed been a UK resident since 
2003. This was the quote that he ultimately accepted as it accurately reflected how long hed 
been a UK resident for. 
Mr M says the second quote (the second quote) was based on him putting down that hed 
been a UK resident from birth. Other than that, he says he answered all the questions in the 
same way - but the premium quoted was noticeably cheaper. 
Unhappy, Mr M complained to Advantage. By charging a higher premium because he hadnt 
been a UK resident from birth, Mr M said Advantage had discriminated against him on the 
grounds of his race (his national origin), in breach of the Equality Act 2010 (the EqA).
Advantage disagreed. It said premiums were based on statistical analysis, and its data 
reflected that policyholders who hadnt resided in the UK from birth were more likely to make 
a claim. It said it was unable to share this data with Mr M because it was commercially 
sensitive.
Mr M remained unhappy, so he complained to our Service. Our investigator didnt think 
Advantage had done anything wrong. From what shed seen, she was satisfied that 
Mr Ms premium had been calculated fairly and reasonably. And the data it had provided 
reflected that drivers who hadnt been resident in the UK from birth were more likely to make 
a claim on their car insurance policy.
Mr M disagreed. He said he couldnt accept that Advantage had acted reasonably without 
seeing the evidence relied on by our investigator - or knowing more information about how 
Advantage applied this evidence when calculating premiums. So, his complaint has been 
passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Insurers calculate premiums based on the risk its presented with. In general terms, where 
the risk is higher, the insurance premium will usually be higher. And when assessing the risk, 
insurers will use various data, and the answers provided by potential customers, to calculate 
the premium.
Its not the role of our Service to tell an insurer what criteria it should use when pricing an 
insurance policy  or which weighting it should apply to a certain criterion when calculating 
insurance premiums. Those are commercial, business decisions for it to make. 
But our Service can consider whether an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably when 
calculating the insurance premium for individual customers, given their individual 
circumstances. 
Advantage has given us a screenshot of some of the questions Mr M wouldve been asked 
when applying for the policy. One reads:
How long have you continuously lived in the UK?
Ill refer to this as the residency question.
Advantage says it only retains quotes for 30 days. So, it cant locate the second quote  or 
confirm the way in which Mr M answered the questions which generated the second quote, 
including the residency question. 
However, Advantage accepts, under its pricing criteria, someone not being a UK resident 
from birth would likely increase the cost of the premium quoted. So, Im persuaded that the 
second quote generated was lower than the price Mr M ultimately paid for the policy, as he 
says. And that this was likely due to him changing his answer to the residency question to 
from birth.
At the time of taking out the policy with Advantage, Mr M had been residing in the UK for 
almost 16 years. He had a clean licence with no driving convictions or penalty notices. The 
schedule of insurance dated July 2019 also reflects that hed held his UK driving licence for 
eight years and hadnt made a claim during that time. 
So, from Mr Ms perspective, I can understand why he feels its unfair for Advantage to 
charge him a higher premium because of the length of time he has been resident in the UK  
and why he feels discriminated against. 
When considering whether Advantage has acted fairly and reasonably, Im required to 
consider a number of things including relevant law. And, as its relevant to this complaint, I 
have taken the EqA into account. But its not for our Service to make any finding about 
whether Advantage has breached the EqA  thats the role of the Courts.
Advantage has told us when assessing someones risk rating, it considers many factors, and 
length of residency is just one of those. Its provided us with statistical information based on 
claims and settlements made on its own private car insurance policies over a substantial 
period.
I have considered the data very carefully. And Im satisfied that it supports Advantages 
position that those who havent been a resident in the UK from birth are more likely to make 
a claim on their car insurance policy. Although the data reflects that the risk generally 
reduces the longer someone resides in the UK for; it also shows that the risk remains higher 
than someone who has been resident in the UK from birth. Mr M would like to see the statistical data Advantage seeks to rely on. And I can understand 
why he would want to. But the Financial Conduct Authoritys Dispute Resolution: Complaints 
Sourcebook (DISP), which sets out how complaints should be handled, says at 
DISP 3.5.9 (2) and 3.5.10 that our Service can accept certain information in confidence. Im 
satisfied that the data Advantage has given us is genuinely commercially sensitive and can 
be accepted - and considered by us - in confidence.
All in all, Im satisfied Advantage hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by charging Mr M a 
higher premium for the policy because he hadnt been resident from birth. And that this was 
a reasonable and proportionate response to the statistical risk that Mr M posed based on 
Advantages claims data  which it was entitled to rely on when pricing the policy.
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it will help him to know that his 
complaint has been reviewed by someone who is impartial and independent.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman