DRN-1054586
 
The complaint
Mr H complains that his Aviva Life Services UK Limited policies wont pay anything out 
despite him having paid all the premiums.
What happened
In 2008 and 2009 Mr H took out two Over 50s Life Cover policies with Aviva. They each 
provided life cover of around £5,000 for a premium of £50 a month. Both policies said the 
premiums needed to be paid until 2020.
In 2019 Mr H spoke to Aviva to ask about cashing in his policies once the premiums had all 
been paid. Aviva explained that wasnt how the policies worked and there was no value to 
cash in. Mr H complained. He said the policies must be endowment policies because the 
premiums only had to be paid for a limited time.
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think Aviva had done anything wrong. 
He concluded the policies were life insurance and didnt have any features which meant 
Mr H could redeem any value or recoup his premiums once theyd been paid. So he didnt 
think Aviva was wrong to say it wasnt going to pay Mr H anything.
Mr H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. He maintained these 
werent life policies, and said it wasnt fair for Aviva to keep his premiums. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Avivas treated Mr H unfairly by not agreeing to pay him anything once his 
premiums are all paid. So I wont be asking it to do anything differently. Overall, Im afraid I 
dont agree with Mr H that these policies say Aviva will do what he thinks they should.
Mr Hs policies are both Over 50s Life Cover plans. These arent an uncommon type of 
policy  which provide life insurance to those over 50. That means in return for the payment 
of a regular premium, the insurer will agree to pay a certain amount to the policyholders 
estate when they die. Some policies require premiums to be paid until the policyholder dies, 
some allow for premiums to stop once a certain age (for example, 90) is reached. And some, 
like Mr Hs policies, require premiums to be paid for a certain number of years.
Once the premiums have been paid, cover doesnt stop. The policies wont mature when 
that happens. Aviva will still pay Mr Hs estate the agreed amounts when he dies. But the 
limited term during which premiums are payable doesnt mean the policies are something 
other than life insurance. Or that Mr H can cash in the policies for the sum assured himself.
I appreciate Mr H has noted this means hell end up paying more in premiums than the 
amount of cover Aviva will pay to his estate. But thats the nature of all forms of insurance  some people will pay more in cover than they claim, to subsidise those whose claims exceed 
the premiums paid. And I note that, had Mr H died between the first anniversary of his 
policies and about eight years in, the payment to his estate would have exceeded what hed 
paid. The policy documents clearly explain the possibility Mr H may pay in more than Aviva 
pay out when he dies.
Mr H is right to say there are some kinds of products which contain life cover and allow the 
policyholder to redeem some value  or cash in  their policy. Endowment policies are an 
example. 
But thats not what his policies did. As Ive said above, the policies themselves arent for a 
fixed term and dont mature when the premiums have been paid. The policies will run until 
he dies, at which point Aviva will pay out the sum assured. The length of time Aviva asked 
Mr H to pay premiums for simply reflects the price it needed him to pay in order to provide 
that cover.
Ultimately, Mr H took out two policies which said Aviva would pay a certain amount when 
Mr H died. In return he had to pay monthly premiums for 11 or 12 years. Im satisfied these 
policies have operated as they ought to have done, and that the sum Aviva said it would pay 
isnt something Mr H can redeem during his lifetime. I think the policy documents are clear 
Mr H was paying for life insurance, and that he may end up paying more in premiums than 
the amount of cover Aviva was providing. So I dont think Aviva has done anything wrong 
here, and dont require it to do anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2019.
Luke Gordon
Ombudsman