DRN-3079815
The complaint
Mr F complains about the compensation that Aviva Insurance Limited offered him after he 
was stopped by the police for driving without a motor insurance policy for his car. He wants a 
significant increase.
What happened
Mr F was stopped by the police for driving whilst uninsured. He said he was kept in a police 
car for over an hour until Aviva confirmed that he was covered. Mr F said the experience 
caused him lasting stress and nightmares. Aviva offered Mr F £250 compensation for the 
trouble and upset caused. But Mr F declined this as he thought it wasnt sufficient. He 
wanted about £5,000 compensation. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought the 
police had made the initial error by stopping Mr F when he was insured. He thought the 
police had then kept Mr F waiting until offices opened so his insurance could be checked. He 
thought Aviva had made an error by initially saying that Mr F didnt have cover. But this was 
corrected a few minutes later. So he thought Avivas offer of compensation was fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr F replied that he thought Aviva had recorded that he had no insurance in place. He 
thought the police were just doing their job. He thought Aviva should pay him £1,000 
compensation for the trauma he experienced and the effect it had on his health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr F was upset by being stopped by the police. He was then held for 
over an hour until the matter was cleared up. So Ive looked to see whether Aviva made 
mistakes that caused or contributed to this unfortunate situation. 
The problem arose when Mr F arranged with Aviva to change the car on his policy. Mr F told 
Aviva the date when he was to drop off his old car and collect his new one. Aviva later 
explained that there may be a small gap when his old car or the new one may not show on 
the Motor Insurance Database (MID), but cover was still in place. 
When the police stopped Mr F, his car wasnt showing on MID, so they contacted Aviva to 
check whether cover was in place. Unfortunately, the agent misread the policy and told the 
police that cover was no longer in place. Mr F then called Aviva a few minutes later. The 
error was corrected, and the car wasnt impounded. 
Firstly, I would like to clear up some confusion. In Mr Fs response to the investigators view 
he thought the investigator had said that he was stopped by the police after driving for an 
hour. I can see how Mr F misunderstood this, but the sentence is intended to state that Mr F 
was held by the police for over an hour. So Im satisfied that Avivas timeline of events on the 
morning in question matches Mr Fs. 
Aviva has explained that when a car is changed on a policy. Only one of the cars will show 
on MID. So there is a chance that if the police checked MID for Mr Fs old car, then it would 
show as uninsured. Aviva explained that cover for the old car would still be in place until the 
new car was driven off. But its agent wrongly told the police that the car wasnt covered. 
I can see that Aviva arranged the change of cars on the policy as Mr F instructed. It isnt 
responsible for how MID is operated. And so I cant say that Aviva made a mistake that led 
to Mr F being stopped by the police.
But it did make a mistake by giving the police the wrong information. When a business 
makes a mistake, as Aviva accepts it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers 
position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the error had on the 
consumer. 
I think Aviva restored Mr Fs situation the moment he pointed out the mistake. This was after 
only a few minutes from it giving the police the wrong information. And so I think this was fair 
and reasonable. Mr Fs car wasnt impounded, and the police took no further action. 
As Ive said above, Aviva wasnt responsible for Mr F being stopped. Nor was it responsible 
for the police keeping Mr F in their car for an hour until Avivas office opened and the 
situation could be resolved. So I think Aviva was only responsible for the impact caused by 
the few minutes of uncertainty until Mr F called it and it confirmed that cover was in place. 
Aviva offered Mr F £250 compensation for this as it had wrongly thought it was also 
responsible for the hours wait. So I think its offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
and it remains open to Mr F to accept it if he so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman