DRN-4028516
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy he wasnt able to downgrade his accounts with Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax) online. 
What happened
Mr W held a number of Reward current accounts with Halifax. In July 2022 Mr W decided 
he wanted to downgrade some of them to current accounts, which didnt carry a monthly fee 
 as hed moved the funds in them to another bank. 
Mr W was able to downgrade some of them himself online - but after that he wasnt 
presented with the option to change any more. Mr W was already in conversation with 
Halifax about some transfers that had been blocked, and during a call the bank offered him 
the contact details for its downgrade team. That helpline had closed, though, when he tried 
to reach them  and the opening times for it were the same as his usual working hours. So 
Mr W raised a complaint about the difficulties he was having in downgrading. 
Mr W did manage to speak to the relevant team, but wanted to raise a complaint about the 
number of security questions he was asked. The agent wasnt able to verify Mr W, as he 
didnt answer the security questions correctly  so the account details couldnt be accessed 
in order to log a complaint. Instead the agent said Mr W could raise his concerns via email or 
in branch, and eventually terminated the call. Halifax separately offered compensation for 
the service provided in that instance, which Mr W accepted. 
In its response to the complaint about not being able to downgrade online, Halifax 
apologised and said it could have been more helpful when Mr W called. The bank added that 
the terms and conditions only allow two Reward current accounts to be held, one sole and 
one joint. Further downgrades were likely prevented as the system realised that limit had 
been exceeded. Halifax said it had changed the remaining accounts over to standard current 
accounts, to avoid further fees being incurred. It also paid Mr W £50 compensation by way of 
apology for the inconvenience. 
Mr W had wanted to keep some Reward accounts, so he was unhappy Halifax had 
downgraded them all. The bank apologised and paid him £15 to cover any missed rewards  
it also said he could ring to speak about upgrading. I appreciate that matter was covered in a 
separate final response, but Ive had to comment on it in this decision  as downgrading all 
the accounts was something Halifax did in resolution of this complaint. So I need to conclude 
whether or not that was reasonable in the circumstances. 
An investigator here reviewed everything and agreed there had been failings. But, in his 
view, the compensation Halifax had paid was fair in the circumstances. Mr W didnt accept 
the investigators opinion, and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision on the 
complaint. So the matter was passed to me.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided Halifaxs apology and the compensation paid sufficiently 
resolves the complaint. 
I acknowledge it would have been inconvenient for Mr W to need to ring to complete the 
downgrades, particularly during his working hours. But one short call was likely all that would 
have been needed to achieve the changes he was looking for. That didnt end up being the 
case here, as Mr W didnt pass the security checks  so couldnt proceed to discuss the 
downgrades on the call. Ive detailed in another decision that I considered the security 
measures in place at the time were reasonable. So, Im not holding Halifax at fault for Mr W 
not being able to complete the downgrades at that point  though I appreciate the issue of 
the service provided during the call was settled separately.   
It seems the error, that prevented Mr W from downgrading all the accounts he wanted to 
online, stemmed from Halifaxs earlier mistake of allowing him to hold more Reward 
accounts than the terms allowed. While that oversight did mean Mr W later encountered 
problems when trying to downgrade, it also meant he likely benefitted from the Reward 
features on more accounts than perhaps he was entitled to. 
I know Mr W was unhappy all of his accounts were downgraded, as part of the resolution to 
the complaint. But I think Halifax was in a difficult position  as in some calls Mr W said his 
intention was to move all his money, due to his disagreement with the banks policy of 
allowing its staff to add their preferred pronouns to their name badges. He also said he was 
worried about being charged the fee for the accounts, when there was no money in them  
as well as the potential impact of not meeting the other criteria for them. 
Some of the accounts did have funds left in them at the point they were downgraded. But I 
dont think Halifax could reasonably have known Mr W intended to retain a Reward account 
(the maximum he was allowed in his sole name). He also told the bank he didnt want to 
speak to the downgrades team again  and the issue was time sensitive, due to the 
upcoming monthly cycle of fees and features that would soon be applied. So, I find that 
downgrading all the accounts was the safest option, and a reasonable step to take in the 
circumstances.
Overall, I think what Mr W likely gained from the initial error, of being allowed multiple 
Reward accounts, balances out the later inconvenience he experienced (of having to make a 
call). But given Halifax has also paid £50 to compensate his time and effort, as well as £15 
towards any potential lost rewards, I find the bank has done enough to fairly resolve the 
dispute. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as 
Halifax). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 January 2024.
 
Ryan Miles
Ombudsman