DRN-4346406
The complaint
Miss M complains that Inter Partner Assistance SA (Inter Partner) only paid part of a claim 
she made on her travel insurance policy. She also complains about the service Inter Partner 
provided.
What happened
Miss M had travel insurance through Inter Partner. Unfortunately she had to make a claim on 
the policy after her flight was delayed which meant she had to abandon her flight. So Miss M 
was claiming for the cost of her airport parking and the hotel. Miss M says there have been 
delays with the handling of her travel insurance claim. She says she received no 
acknowledgement from Inter Partner when she sent in all the information requested; 
including written evidence from the airline to say the flight had been cancelled. 
Miss M made a claim on her travel insurance policy in March 2023. Inter Partner asked her 
to provide additional information which she did. 
In April 2023 Miss M was asked to provide written confirmation from the airline stating the 
cause and length of delay, and how much, if any, compensation was paid. Miss M was 
unable to obtain this from the airline. She explained this to Inter Partner and was told she 
would receive a settlement letter shortly, but that didnt happen.
Miss M says there have been major delays with the handling of her travel insurance claim. 
there was no acknowledgement when she sent all the information requested; including 
written evidence from the airline to say the flight had been cancelled. 
Miss M eventually managed to obtain written evidence from the airline and sent it to the 
business but got no acknowledgement for weeks after.
Miss M says she had to chase Inter Partner on numerous occasions to check the status of 
her claim. So she complained to Inter Partner in May 2023.
Inter Partner apologised for the service Miss M received. It said although obtaining written 
confirmation from the airline was the correct process, it noted she was unable to do so. And 
so it passed her claim to the relevant team to arrange for it to be settled. It also offered £100 
to compensate for any distress and inconvenience caused. In June 2023 Miss Ms claim was 
accepted, but only 50% of the cost of the hotel and airport parking was paid. 
Miss M remained dissatisfied. She said she had paid for the whole trip and so thats what 
she expected her refund would be. Inter Partner said it can only pay out for the insured party 
regardless of who paid for the trip. It awarded her £50 for service issues. Because Miss M 
remained dissatisfied the complaint was referred to this service. 
Our investigator looked into things for her. The investigator said she wouldnt recommend 
Inter Partner pay the remainder of the claim. It accepted there were service issues and paid 
a total of £100. It offered a further £50 so the total amount offered was £150, and the 
investigator thought this was reasonable in the circumstances and in line with the services 
approach. So she didnt uphold the complaint. 
Miss M says no one else is named on the booking information so the other party isnt able to 
claim anything back for the curtailed trip. She booked and paid for everything on her credit 
card and she wants her money back. Because Miss M didnt agree the complaint has come 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Miss M, I think it was fair for Inter Partner 
to turn down part of the claim and Ill explain why. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of the policy and the circumstances of Miss Ms claim, to decide whether I think 
Inter Partner treated Miss M fairly. 
Its important that I make clear that no insurance policy covers every eventuality and insurers 
are entitled to decide what level of risk they wish to accept in return for the premium paid for 
a policy. Therefore, Inter Partners obligations under the contract are limited by the terms, 
conditions and exclusions which are set out in the contract. 
The assessment of the claim
Ive carefully considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the 
insurance contract. Miss M cancelled her holiday so I think it was reasonable and 
appropriate for Inter Partner to consider the claim under the cancellation or curtailment 
section of the policy. 
The policy says, This is your travel insurance policy. It contains details of what is covered, 
conditions and what is not covered, for each insured person.  (my emphasis)
In section A of the policy under Cancellation or curtailment charges it says, we will pay you 
up to £2,000 of your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation 
costs.
The insurance policy is in Miss Ms name only and so Inter Partner are only obligated to 
cover her proportion of the costs of the trip regardless of who has paid.
Miss Ms booking had been made for two people. And so Inter Partner agreed to cover half 
of the claim for her share of the accommodation and airport parking. Whilst I sympathise with 
the position Miss M finds herself in, Inter Partner has acted in line with the terms of the 
policy. 
I therefore find it was reasonable for Inter Partner to decline paying the remaining 50% of the 
claim. 
The service received 
Ive carefully considered the information provided and looked at what happened. I agree that 
Inter Partner could have provided better information, especially as Miss M was told her claim 
would be covered in the absence of any written documentation when it might not have been. Inter Partner accepts that there had been avoidable delays and misinformation in assessing 
Miss Ms claim and said sorry for this. It also paid Miss M £100 and offered a further £50. In 
the circumstances of this particular case, Im persuaded an apology and £150 compensation 
fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by Miss M as a result of the 
service she received from Inter Partner.
I appreciate that Miss M thinks its unfair as she incurred the total cost of the holiday but the 
policy only covers half of the costs. Ive considered everything and can understand that the 
situation has been frustrating. But as it stands there is no cover for costs of a party not 
named on the policy. Ive considered whats fair and reasonable based on what happened 
here and I think Inter Partner paying £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused seems fair and reasonable overall. It has already paid £100 so I think it should now 
pay the remaining £50 in resolution of the complaint. 
Putting things right
Inter Partner Assistance SA has already made an offer to pay £150 to settle the complaint 
and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
So my decision is that Inter Partner Assistance SA should pay the remaining £50, if it hasnt 
already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman