DRN-3670186
The complaint
M, a company, complains about the settlement paid under a commercial insurance policy by 
U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
What happened
Ms business is covered under a commercial policy, which is underwritten by UKI. After a fire 
damaged the insured property, a claim was made. This was accepted by UKI, and a 
settlement paid. 
The only aspect of the claim in dispute is the settlement payment in respect of the clear-up 
costs after the fire for the removal of debris. These amounted to £94,360. UKI paid £50,000, 
leaving a shortfall of £44,360. 
M complained to UKI about the settlement, as it wanted UKI to cover the shortfall. M also 
complained about UKIs handling of the claim. UKI didnt increase its settlement offer, but 
accepted there had been some delays in its handling of the claim. It offered M £500 
compensation for this. Unhappy with this, M brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought UKIs settlement 
for the clear-up costs had been fair, and in line with the policy terms. Whilst she accepted 
UKI had caused some delays, she thought its compensation offer was reasonable.
 
M didnt accept our investigators findings, and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Settlement for removal of debris
Section one of the policy (Material Damage) says the policy provides cover in the event of 
damage to the insured premises which is caused by one of the listed perils (which includes 
fire). It then states:
the Company will pay to the Insured the value of such Property Insured or the amount of 
the Damage at the time of such Damage or, at its own option, reinstate or replace such 
property.
Provided that:
a. the liability of the Company under this Section in total for all claims or series of 
claims, arising out of any one original cause, shall not exceed the Sum Insured for 
each item (or any other stated limit of liability); and
b. unless otherwise stated, the Sum Insured (or any other stated limit of liability) applies 
in the aggregate to property collectively described by each item under this Section.
Damage is defined under the policy as Accidental loss, destruction or damage. 
Section one of the policy includes several extensions of cover. One of those is Extension J 
Cost of Debris Removal/Re-erection. This section covers the cost of removing debris 
(amongst others). It states:
The maximum liability of the Company under this Extension and this Section, for any item, 
will in no case exceed the Sum Insured for that item. However, the Company will pay up to 
£50,000 in addition to the Sum Insured under this Extension in respect of the removal of 
asbestos debris.
UKIs settlement under section one of the policy was for the maximum sum insured. I agree 
with UKI that it therefore did not need to make any payment under Extension J for the 
removal of debris. However, as it was known that the debris did contain asbestos, UKI paid 
M £50,000. Im satisfied this was fair and in line with the policy terms under Extension J.
  
Ms representative considers the clear-up cost shortfall of £44,360 could fall under two other 
extensions under section one. Ill consider each in turn. 
Extension L Fire Brigade and Rescue Services Damage to Grounds
This covers damage to the grounds caused by the fire brigade and rescue services following 
an emergency. 
The spread of debris apparently happened due to the fire itself and wind conditions, as well 
as the fire brigades actions in fighting the fire. I dont think the spreading of debris whilst 
putting out a fire would be considered damage to the grounds. So I dont find that UKI needs 
to make any payment under Extension L. 
Extension AG Loss Minimisation and Prevention Expenditure
This covers the costs incurred by the insured in preventing, reducing or mitigating imminent 
damage which would have been insured under section one, or otherwise alleviating damage 
insured under section one during and after the event of such damage. 
Ms representative says that the fire brigade made the decision to remove as much 
combustible material as possible both in and around the property to less risky areas. And 
that whilst this meant the debris footprint was increased, this prevented a nearby property 
(also insured by UKI) as well as others, from being damaged. 
Ive read the information provided to UKI by the fire brigade. Sometime after the fire brigade 
arrived, they found a very intense fire involving a line of stacked straw bales. They 
committed a crew, utilising a main jet, in an attempt to prevent the spread of flames from 
those bales into a number of other bales stored nearby, as well as nearby premises. The fire 
brigade also utilised a main jet in an attempt to prevent wooden pallets igniting, but werent 
able to do so. After the conditions worsened, the fire brigade changed their priority from 
attacking the fire within the buildings to ensuring that nearby dwellings were protected, and 
said that to facilitate this, the crews positioned two fan sprays within the area. 
There was no indication that the fire brigade removed combustible material and placed it 
elsewhere as a way of stopping the fire from reaching another insured building. It seems the 
debris was spread as a consequence of the fire (according to the loss adjuster, the insured said a strong wind was blowing at the time of the fire), and the fire brigades actions in 
fighting the fire and preventing its spread. The evidence doesnt support that the debris was 
spread solely because the fire brigade was attempting to prevent damage to a nearby 
insured building. 
Im therefore satisfied that UKI also doesnt need to make a payment under Extension AG.
Ms representative also thought the clear-up cost shortfall could fall under section seven of 
the policy (Environmental Liabilities). 
This section includes cover for costs, charges and expenses to investigate, neutralise, 
remove, remediate, monitor and dispose of a Pollution Condition, if required by 
Environmental Law. This section includes the following exclusion:
The Company shall not be liable under this Section in respect of:

9 any asbestos, asbestos containing materials
I dont know that the debris was required to be removed by Environmental Law, though I 
would assume that any asbestos containing material likely would be. 
I agree with our investigator that although not all the debris contained asbestos, its 
reasonable to conclude that it was contaminated by asbestos to some extent, and would 
therefore fall under the exclusion. If the material didnt contain any asbestos, I dont know 
that it would be required to be removed by Environmental Law. I therefore dont find that UKI 
needs to make any payment under section seven of the policy.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI has correctly assessed Ms claim for the clear-up costs in line 
with the policy terms, and the £50,000 settlement was fair. 
Claims handling
M says UKI caused excessive delays in processing payments, and there had been a lack of 
communication throughout UKIs handling of the claim.
The fire happened in March 2020, and all payments (apart from the clear-up costs in 
dispute) were made by October 2020. Its not in dispute that this was a complex claim which 
caused a lot of damage. Taking this into account, I dont think there were excessive delays 
caused by UKI in making the payments.
However, UKI accepted it had caused some delays. Ms representative had requested a 
payment on 26 August 2020, which was not paid until 1 October 2020 due to an 
administrative error. UKI also accepts that there were some delays in responding to some 
emails. UKI paid M £500 compensation for these issues. Im satisfied this amount was 
reasonable compensation for the inconvenience M experienced.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, as Im satisfied that U K Insurance 
Limited has settled the claim appropriately and paid reasonable compensation for its failings. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman