DRN-2742590
The complaint
Mr E complains about the amount that hes been charged by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, for damage to a car that he 
returned at the end of his hire purchase agreement.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr E under a hire purchase agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Finance that he signed in June 2017. He returned the car when the agreement ended and it 
was inspected by a third party on behalf of Mercedes-Benz Finance in June 2020. The 
inspection report recorded the cars mileage as 23,065 and identified damage to the front 
bumper and left front alloy wheel, and a faulty spare key.
Mercedes-Benz Finance charged Mr E a total of £1,075.99 which comprised £85 for a 
refurbishment of the alloy wheel, £360 for a replacement key and £630.99 for a repair to the 
bumper. Mr E didnt agree with the charges so he complained to Mercedes-Benz Finance. It 
said that the charges had been raised correctly but Mr E wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service. He says that the car was returned in an excellent condition and 
he always kept it clean inside and out. He paid the invoice but said that the charges for the 
key and bumper were unreasonable. 
Our investigator recommended that Mr Es complaint should be upheld in part. She 
considered that the damage to the front bumper and left front alloy wheel fell outside of the 
fair wear and tear guidelines of the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association so 
Mercedes-Benz Finance was entitled to charge for the damage to them. But she didnt think 
that it was fair or reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge him for a replacement of 
the spare key and she recommend that £360 should be refunded to him with interest.
Mr E has accepted our investigators recommendations but Mercedes-Benz Finance has 
asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has responded in detail and 
says, in summary, that theres no evidence to support that the key wasn't working at the time 
of supply to Mr E, it was in his possession and has been returned faulty so he should be 
required to pay for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
the hire purchase agreement that Mr E had signed included Mercedes-Benz 
Finances vehicle return standards which said:   you must return the vehicle in line 
with the Vehicle Return Standards  The vehicle must be: Free from any broken or 
damaged items with no missing components or parts ; Free from any defects or 
conditions that would be in breach of statutory requirements; Free from accident 
damage; In good, clean and marketable condition;
it also said: you must return the vehicle together with everything originally supplied 
with the vehicle; and the list included: spare/additional keys;
and it said: if you fail to take reasonable care of the vehicle and fail to maintain the 
vehicle in accordance with the manufacturers guidelines and/or the Vehicle Return 
Standards, you will have to pay our costs either of repairing and/or refurbishing the 
vehicle, or the cost of the consequent reduction in the sale value of the vehicle, as 
compensation;
I consider that the photos included in the inspection report show that the damage to 
the front bumper and left front alloy wheel are more than would reasonably be 
considered to be fair wear and tear in accordance with Mercedes-Benz Finances 
vehicle return standards;
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the charges for that 
damage are excessive and I consider that its fair and reasonable in these 
circumstances for Mercedes-Benz Finance to charge Mr E for that damage;
Mr E returned the spare key with the car but the inspection report says that it 
wouldnt start the engine and the cost of replacing it and deactivating the old key was 
£360;
Mr E says that he took the spare key on the day that he got the car, put it in a box 
with all of the paperwork and then gave it back when he returned the car  and he 
says that hes never used the spare key;
Mercedes-Benz Finance says that Mr E had a battery fitted for the key transmitter in 
September 2019 and its likely that he would have used the spare key at that time;
it also says that the spare key would have been checked as part of the 
manufacturers pre-delivery inspection and its more likely that the key stopped 
working during the three years that Mr E had the car rather than the short time that 
the car was at the dealer before it was supplied to him;
in complaints such as this one, where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or 
contradictory, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances;
Mr E says that hes never used the spare key that he returned with the car and the 
inspection report says that the spare key wont start the engine  but Im not 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the spare key isnt working as a 
result of anything thats been done by Mr E; and
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable in these circumstances for Mercedes-Benz 
Finance to have charged Mr E for replacing the spare key.
Putting things right
Mr E has paid Mercedes-Benz Finances invoice, which included £360 for the spare key. I 
find that it would be fair and reasonable for Mercedes-Benz Finance to refund to Mr E the 
£360 that its charged him for the spare key, with interest.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint in part and I order Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited, trading as Mercedes-Benz Finance, to:1. Refund to Mr E the £360 that its charged him for the spare key.
2. Pay interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Mercedes-Benz Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred to at 2 above. Mercedes-Benz Finance must give Mr E a certificate 
showing how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman