DRN-2722470
The complaint
Mr P complains Watford Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his motor insurance 
policy on the grounds of misrepresentation following a claim he made for theft.
Mr P is represented in bringing this complaint, but for ease Ive referred to all actions and 
comments as being those of Mr P.
What happened
Mr P took out a motor insurance policy with Watford in September 2018 through a price 
comparison website. In March 2019, he reported the car as stolen. He later withdrew the 
claim as he found the car hadnt been stolen but impounded by the council.
When Watford were looking into the claim, it said Mr P had answered the question it asked 
about his occupation incorrectly when hed taken out the policy. It said Mr P had been 
working in entertainment alongside another full-time role. It said Mr P hadnt informed him of 
this work in entertainment when the policy was taken out, and it considered this to be a 
reckless misrepresentation which entitled it to avoid the policy from when he took it out.
Mr P complained to Watford, he said he had evidence that his work in entertainment had 
ended in August 2018 before he took out his policy. Watford didnt agree to change its 
position, so he brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought Watford had acted reasonably in avoiding the policy. Whilst Mr P 
had another full-time role, she thought Watford had reasonably concluded he also undertook 
some work in entertainment. She thought Mr P should have told Watford about this when it 
asked him about his occupation at the time the policy was taken out. And if he had been, 
Watford had shown it wouldnt have offered him a policy.
Mr P didnt agree. He said whilst he had an entertainment show planned, this wasnt until 
after the period of insurance had ended in September 2019, so it shouldnt be relevant when 
considering if it was fair to avoid the policy. And he hadnt done any paid entertainment work 
for the duration of the policy so Watford couldnt prove that he did do any other work.
As Mr P didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer doesnt do this, the insurer has certain remedies it can take provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Watford thinks Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
answered questions about his occupation. Ive looked at what Watford asked Mr P at the 
point of sale. He was asked what job he did and he declared his full-time role. He was then 
asked do you do any other work?, he answered no. Watford thinks this is a 
misrepresentation as it found information online that he was working as an entertainer. It 
found hed had a show on a streaming channel around three months before the policy was 
taken out, and a live show planned for September 2019.  
Mr P has given reasons for not answering yes to the above question. He firstly told Watford 
that he could prove he ceased his entertainment work in August 2018, before the policy was 
taken out. Mr P later said he didnt end up doing any work during the time the policy was in 
force. He said the show in 2019 was deliberately booked to run after his period of insurance 
would end in September 2019. He later said the show had actually been cancelled before 
the insurance was taken out in September 2018, but he cant provide evidence of this as 
theatres are now closed during the covid-19 pandemic. 
Ive thought about Mr Ps explanation, but Im not persuaded that this means he took 
reasonable care to not make a misrepresentation in line with CIDRA. In deciding this Ive 
considered how the information was presented to Mr P. Next to where it says do you do any 
other work? there some notes to help answer the question. The notes say this is asked to 
help work out the price of insurance. I think the question asked by Watford is clear, and the 
explanatory notes say that more than one type of work could affect the insurance premium. I 
consider a reasonable consumer would have been aware to disclose the entertainment work 
based on what was asked.
Ive also considered that his show had only recently aired before the policy was taken out 
and Mr P had previously taken some time away from his full-time job to focus on his 
entertainment role. He had his own company that hed registered around six months before 
taking out the policy, and a show booked for after the policy term would have ended. Whilst 
hes later said this was cancelled before the policy started, I havent seen anything which 
supports that. Based on what Ive outlined, I dont think its unreasonable for Watford to have 
considered Mr P to have had other work when the policy was taken out.
Mr P has said Watford hasnt treated him fairly as it cant prove he did work whilst the policy 
was in force. I accept that it cant. But the central issue here is whether Mr P took reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation at the point of sale, not whether Mr P did end up 
undertaking any other work when the policy was in force. Some 
I accept its also possible that Mr H had stopped his entertainment role before the policy was 
taken out. But from what Ive seen I dont think this is mostly likely. And when deciding cases 
at this service, our role is review them on the balance of probabilities. We dont apply the 
same standard as a criminal court does. Watford has provided its underwriting criteria which shows that if Mr P had disclosed any 
work in the type of entertainment Mr P does, it would not have offered Mr P a policy. So Im 
satisfied Mr Ps misrepresentation was a qualifying one. Watford said it considered it a 
reckless misrepresentation, but the action theyve taken  in avoiding the policy but 
refunding the premium  means theyve effectively treated it as careless. As the remedy for 
a careless misrepresentation is more favourable to Mr P Im not going to interfere with 
Watfords actions. From what Ive seen, Watford has acted in line with the remedies set out 
in CIDRA. After it discovers a careless qualifying misrepresentation, under CIDRA, it is 
entitled to avoid the policy but must return the premium to Mr P. And this means that  in 
effect  the policy never existed. 
Overall, based on everything Ive seen Im satisfied Watford acted fairly and reasonably in 
avoiding the policy for misrepresentation. I know this will come as a great disappointment to 
Mr P. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman