DRN-2045948
The complaint
Mr W complains that Aviva Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in connection
with his home emergency insurance.
What happened
The Financial Ombudsman Service deals with each consumer complaint about one
insurance company or other regulated financial firm at a time. In our final decision we name
that insurance company or other firm but we dont name any other party.
We deal with complaints about regulated activities and ancillary activities. Where a complaint
is about a claim under an insurance policy, we treat it as a complaint against the insurance
company that was responsible for dealing with that claim.
Prior to May 2017 Mr W had a policy in the name of a home assistance company. Aviva was
the insurance company responsible for dealing with claims.
Where I refer to Aviva, I include the home assistance company and others insofar as I hold
Aviva responsible for their actions.
In May 2017 the home assistance company installed a replacement central heating boiler for
Mr W. As it came with a free two-year warranty, he cancelled the policy.
Unfortunately the installers caused a leak from an en-suite bathroom into the ceiling and
coving of the lounge below. To trace the leak the en-suite units and floor were removed.
That showed that the installers had drilled a route for the condensate pipe without realising it
was through the side of the waste pipe from the toilet.
When the boiler warranty expired in 2019, Mr W took out a new policy similar to the previous
one. It was subject to an initial boiler health check (BHC). On 27 June 2019, the boiler
failed the BHC because of installation defects.
Mr W complained about all that had happened. And he got a report from the gas safety
body.
On 4 October 2019 the home assistance company completed work to remedy the defects
listed in that report.
A final response letter on 8 October 2019 upheld the complaint and said it was sending
compensation of £500.00 to Mr Ws bank account. Mr W did not accept that. He brought his
complaint to us on 11 October 2019. The company later increased its offer.
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought that
Aviva had offered compensation of £700.00 which was fair and more than shed usually
recommend in complaints of this nature. She said that the home assistance company agreed
to correct the faults and a new boiler was installed on 4 October 2019.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr W 
and to Aviva on 26 June 2020. I summarise my findings:
The final response offer of £500.00 wasnt enough to reflect the inconvenience and 
upset in 2017 and 2019. And Mr W rejected it and says he never received payment.
There were later increased offers of £700.00 and £800.00. I was minded that 
£800.00 was fair.
Subject to any further information from Mr W or from Aviva, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct Aviva Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr W (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £800.00 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr W disagreed with the provisional decision.
Aviva hasnt responded to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what Mr W has said, I think that the boiler was installed in connection with the policy 
that had been in force up to May 2017.
The installers caused damage and disruption. Mr Ws wife had to take time off work to deal
with workmen who did repairs.
I accept that Mr W and his family lived for two years with a defective boiler installation and a
displaced roof tile next to the new flue.
He didnt know about that until he again took out a policy under which Aviva was responsible
for dealing with claims. That policy was subject to the boiler passing its BHC  which it didnt.
I dont doubt Mr W was upset when Aviva told him the boiler was At Risk. Thats the
category which isnt as bad as Immediately Dangerous but is worse than Not to Current
Standards. Mr W was troubled by the thought that his family had been at risk.
Mr W rightly pointed out that the home assistance company had installed the boiler only two
years before. Aviva continued to provide cover.
The gas safety report categorised the installation as Not to Current Standards. Having read
the report carefully, I dont think it bore out fears about carbon monoxide inside the house.
I accept that it took longer than necessary to resolve the installation faults. Mr W had visits
from two inappropriate engineers. He had to chase updates on several occasions.
His wife again had to take time off work. I havent seen enough detail to establish a loss of
earnings.
Theres no doubt that Mr W suffered inconvenience and distress in 2017 and 2019.However, its not the role of the Financial Ombudsman Service to award compensation at a
level to punish or deter bad practice. Rather, we look at the effect on the policyholder
including his upset on behalf of other family members.
In my view the final response offer of £500.00 wasnt enough to reflect the inconvenience
and upset in 2017 and 2019. And Mr W rejected it and says he never received payment.
I see that there were later increased offers of £700.00 and £800.00.
Putting things right
I find £800.00 is fair. So I find it fair and reasonable to direct Aviva to pay Mr W (insofar as it 
hasnt already paid him) £800.00 for distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I
direct Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mr W (insofar as it hasnt already paid him) £800.00 for 
distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 September 2020.
 
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman