DRN-3735234
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund the money he lost when he was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
Mr A came across a company offering investment opportunities on a social media app. He 
spoke to someone from the company who explained how the investments worked and the 
types of returns he could expect. And he then made three payments out of his Barclays 
account  totalling £1,159.98, via a money transfer service, to account details the company 
gave him. Unfortunately, we now know the investment company was a scam.
The scam was uncovered when the company wouldnt let Mr A withdraw any of the profits he 
was told he had made, and instead asked him to pay in more money. Mr A then became 
suspicious, reported the payments to Barclays and asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Barclays investigated but said the payments were in line with Mr As previous spending on 
the account, so it didnt think it had made an error in allowing them to go through. And it said 
the money transfer service had supplied the service it was supposed to. So it didnt agree to 
refund the payments. Mr A wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so referred a complaint 
to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They felt Barclays had acted fairly in not 
refunding the payments, as they werent out of character or unusual and a chargeback 
against the money transfer service wouldnt be successful. Mr A didnt agree with our 
investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Barclays should have to refund the money Mr A lost as a result 
of this scam. Ill explain why below.
Should Barclays have done more to protect Mr A?
Mr A accepts he made the payments himself. So while I recognise that he didnt intend for 
the money to go to scammers, he did authorise the payments. And so, under the Payment 
Service Regulations, the starting position is that he is liable for the payments and Barclays 
doesnt have to refund them.
However, where a customer made a payment as a consequence of the actions of a 
fraudster, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer 
even though they authorised the payment.
Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I think Barclays should fairly 
and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So Ive also considered whether Barclays should have identified that Mr A was potentially at 
risk of fraud as a result of any of the payments he made.
But I dont think any of the payments Mr A made here were for particularly large amounts. 
Having looked at the statements for his account, I dont think the payments were for 
particularly unusual amounts in comparison to the usual activity on his account, or that they 
left the balance of his account in a particularly unusual position. And I dont think the 
payments formed a particularly suspicious pattern that Barclays ought to have identified 
either.
So I think its reasonable that Barclays didnt identify that Mr A was potentially at risk of fraud 
as a result of these payments and didnt ask any further questions before allowing them to 
go through.
Should Barclays have done more to try to recover the money Mr A lost?
We expect banks to take reasonable steps to try to recover the money its customers have 
lost once it is told about a scam. But here the money was sent via a money transfer service, 
and the money transfer service has transferred the money as it was instructed to do. So 
disputing the payments with the money transfer service is unlikely to be successful. And the 
money was collected from the money transfer service before Mr A told Barclays about the 
scam. So it wouldnt have been possible to reverse or recover the payments.
I sympathise with the position Mr A has found himself in. He has been the victim of a cruel 
scam and nothing in my decision should be taken as suggesting he is to blame or did 
anything wrong himself. But I can only look at the actions of Barclays here and whether I 
think it has acted reasonably. And, for the reasons Ive set out above, I think it has. So I dont 
think it would be fair to require it to refund the money Mr A lost.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman