DRN-4282382
The complaint
Mrs T complains about some charges that have been deducted from her pension 
investments. She says that an appointed representative of St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJPWM) failed to provide her with sufficient information about those 
charges, and that she hasnt received the on-going advice services that she paid for. 
What happened
Mrs T was given advice about her pension savings by SJPWM in 2017 and 2018. On both 
occasions she was advised to make a one-off gross pension contribution of £3,600. Those 
contributions were added to a pension plan that Mrs T had opened at the time of the first 
payment in 2017.
SJPWM says that Mrs T was given information about the pension plan in both 2017 
and 2018. It says that information told Mrs T that it would levy an annual charge equal to 
0.5% of the value of her pension savings for its ongoing advice service. It says it has 
collected that charge since its advice was given.
But SJPWM agrees with Mrs T that, since the meeting in 2018, it has failed to provide her 
with any ongoing advice. It says that a change in the firm Mrs T was dealing with meant that 
her relationship was overlooked. So it offered to refund all the advice fees that it had 
collected between 2019 and 2022. SJPWM told Mrs T that it would be pleased to restart 
providing her with advice, although I understand that meeting has been delayed at Mrs Ts 
request. And SJPWM has said that it doesnt think that the lack of any meetings over the 
past four years has caused the investment performance of Mrs Ts pension savings to be 
reduced.
SJPWM offered to refund its ongoing advice charges amounting to £154.29. And it said it 
would add net interest to those charges of £23.52. And SJPWM said it would pay some 
further compensation to Mrs T totalling £250 for the inconvenience shed been caused by not 
having review meetings, and for the delays in dealing with her complaint. Mrs T didnt accept 
that offer and brought her complaint to us.
Mrs Ts complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. He thought it most likely 
that SJPWM had sufficiently explained the charges to Mrs T when it gave her the initial 
advice. And he thought that Mrs T could have got in touch with the firm had she wanted to 
make any additional pension contributions between 2019 and 2022. He thought that the offer 
SJPWM had made to Mrs T, for the refund of the ongoing advice charges and the payment 
for her distress and inconvenience, was fair, So he didnt think SJPWM needed to pay any 
additional compensation to Mrs T.
Mrs T didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs T and by SJPWM. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are 
conflicts, I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words 
I have looked at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me 
decide what I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service. This service isnt intended 
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct 
Authority. Instead this service looks to resolve individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide that something has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is possible, in the position 
they would have been if the problem hadnt occurred.
The initial meeting that Mrs T had with SJPWM took place more than six years ago. There is 
no recording or transcript of what was said in that meeting. And over such an extended 
period of time even the most careful of memories can, and do, fade. In her discussions with 
our investigator Mrs T has said that she cannot recall all the details that were discussed with 
SJPWM at the time. So I dont think it unreasonable that I place greater weight on the 
documentation that SJPWM issued to Mrs T at the time, and that she could consider at her 
leisure.
I have seen that Mrs Ts first contribution was made relatively close to the end of the tax year 
in 2017. So it is likely that there were some time pressures in completing the advice, and 
arranging for the contribution to be paid, to ensure that Mrs T was able to make use of that 
years pension contribution allowances. And that means that some of the necessary 
documentation, and information, might have been provided to Mrs T after she had made her 
decision to proceed. 
But Mrs T made a second contribution to her pension, and received similar advice and 
information from SJPWM, around ten months later  in January 2018. There would have 
been far less time pressure around that contribution so I am satisfied that Mrs T would have 
had an appropriate length of time to consider the information shed been given. Since she 
again accepted SJPWMs advice at that time, Im not persuaded that any time pressures 
around the initial contribution would have caused Mrs T to make a different decision than if 
shed had more time to consider the advice.
The information that SJPWM provided to Mrs T clearly set out that she would need to pay 
charges on her pension investments. It told her that she would need to pay charges for the 
management of the investments both to SJP (although those charges would be effectively 
waived for the first six years) and to the investment managers (that would be reflected in the 
daily prices). And it told Mrs T that she would need to pay SJPWM for its advice. It told her 
she would be charged 4.5% of the value of her pension savings for its initial advice, and then 
0.5% of the value of her pension savings for its ongoing advice. In line with the regulators 
expectations, SJPWM told Mrs T that initially it would expect the ongoing advice charge to 
be around £19 a year.
So I am satisfied that SJPWM did all that it needed to in terms of making Mrs T aware of the 
charges that she was agreeing to pay, both initially and for its ongoing services, in relation to 
her pension savings. Mrs T was given that information on two occasions, and the likely impact of the charges on the value of her future pension investments was set out in both 
percentage and cash terms.
SJPWM has accepted that it failed to provide Mrs T with the ongoing advice service that she 
was paying for. So it is entirely right that it should refund the fees that it has taken. And 
SJPWM has agreed to add interest to those fees at our normal rate of 8% simple. But, as 
Mrs T has said, it is also appropriate that I should consider whether the absence of that 
advice has caused Mrs T to lose out further.
I should firstly say that I have no way of knowing for certain whether ongoing advice 
meetings would have led to any changes in Mrs Ts pension investments. But I havent seen 
anything that would make me think that Mrs Ts objectives, or attitude to risk, altered 
materially over the period. So since I think that the investments SJPWM recommended in 
2017 and 2018 were suitable, it doesnt seem unreasonable to conclude they have remained 
suitable over the intervening years, and that they continue to do so. So Im not persuaded 
that the lack of ongoing advice has caused Mrs T to lose out on improved investment 
returns.
In 2018 I understand that Mrs T got in touch with SJPWM to request that it provide her with 
some advice about making the second pension contribution. So I am satisfied from her 
actions at that time that she was aware she could make additional (annual) pension 
contributions, and that she was able to contact SJPWM to seek assistance. I havent seen 
anything that makes me think Mrs T tried, and failed, to make similar requests in future 
years. And I have seen that in 2019 Mrs Ts husband was made redundant so reducing the 
amount of household income she might have been able to use to make additional pension 
contributions at that time.
I accept that, had the additional advice meetings taken place, it would have been likely that 
SJPWM would have advised Mrs T that she should make further pension contributions. But 
that doesnt mean that Mrs T would have accepted that advice, or had the finances available 
to do so. It is just as likely that she might have chosen to use any spare money in other 
ways. So I dont think it reasonable for me to conclude that the lack of ongoing advice 
meetings was the only reason that Mrs T didnt make any further contributions to her 
pension.
It seems to me that the meeting that took place in January 2018 is likely to have been 
sufficient for SJPWM to fulfil its responsibilities for ongoing advice at that time. And, as 
I mentioned earlier, SJPWM offered to restart its advice process with Mrs T as part of its 
response to her complaint. So I think that the period during which the advice was missing 
was between 2019 and 2022. That is the time period for which SJPWM has offered a refund, 
so I think the offer SJPWM has made is fair.
There is no doubt that SJPWMs failure to provide its advice service to Mrs T has caused her 
some distress and inconvenience. As I said earlier, SJPWM has offered Mrs T £250 in 
respect of those failings, and the way in which it has dealt with her complaint. In the 
circumstances I think that offer is also fair.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs T. But, having considered 
everything she and SJPWM have provided I think that the offer she has been made is a fair 
and reasonable way to resolve her complaint. So, unless it has already done so, SJPWM 
should pay the compensation it has offered (and I set out below for clarity) to Mrs T.Putting things right
I think the offer SJPWM has made to Mrs T is fair and reasonable. So, unless it has already 
done so, SJPWM should;
Refund to Mrs T the fees it has deducted from her pension investments for its 
ongoing advice service between 2019 and 2022.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement. HM Revenue & Customs requires 
SJPWM to take off tax from this interest. SJPWM must give Mrs T a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Pay a further sum of £250 for the distress and inconvenience that has been caused 
to Mrs T.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ts complaint and direct St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2023.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman