DRN-3080818
The complaint
Mr E says Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday Loans) irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
In December 2016 Everyday Loans gave Mr E a loan for £5,000. The loan was to be repaid 
over 48 months at a monthly repayment of £348.50. The interest charged on the loan (if it 
ran to full term) was £11,728, making the total cost £16,728. 
Mr E used the loan to consolidate two existing loans totalling £2,862.39. The remaining 
balance of £2,137.61 was advanced directly to Mr E. Everyday Loans has indicated that 
some of the funds advanced directly to Mr E were also intended for consolidation of other 
existing debts. 
Mr E, together with his representatives, complains Everyday Loans failed to carry out 
effective affordability assessments. They argue that had Everyday Loans completed these 
checks it wouldnt have advanced Mr E any further funds. 
In response to the complaint Everyday Loans disagreed it lent irresponsibly. It says that Mr E 
provided a copy of his latest payslips and bank statements. From this Everyday Loans 
established his income was £1,700 per month, he was also in receipt of a private pension for 
£577.56 per month and received child benefit. It argued that by consolidating existing debts 
Mr Es monthly outgoings were reduced improving his financial circumstances. Everyday 
Loans says it then calculated a percentage of his income for general living expenses leaving 
Mr E with disposable income of over £300. Everyday loans therefore argued that the loan 
was affordable for Mr E. It also argued that Mr E repaid the loan early in 23 months, so it 
feels this demonstrates the loan was affordable for him. 
Unhappy with Everyday Loans response, Mr E referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it. She concluded that from the 
information Everyday Loans held about Mr E it was clear there were signs he was having 
trouble managing his money. In particular, she highlighted that Everyday Loans checks 
showed Mr E had taken out a number of payday loans and other high cost credit in the year 
prior to the loan in question. She felt that this suggested Mr E was in a cycle of lending and 
borrowing to cover his regular expenditure. So she argued that Mr E couldnt have 
sustainably afforded to repay the loan. 
In response to the assessment Everyday Loans disagreed. It argued that Mr E had told 
Everyday Loans he was borrowing to pay for repairs to his car and this had placed him in a 
cycle of payday lending. It argued that by consolidating some of Mr Es existing debits his 
monthly credit repayments had reduced putting him in a much better financial position. Prior 
to this loan, Everyday Loans had calculated that he wouldve had no disposable income and 
this loan enabled him to get out of a payday loan cycle. In response the investigator 
disagreed. She didnt think this loan wouldve taken Mr E out of his pattern of payday 
lending. She also highlighted that the total cost of the loan was £16,728 and so she didnt 
agree that repaying such a substantial sum was going to improve his overall financial 
position. Everyday Loans didnt agree with the investigator and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. This complaint has therefore been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mr E could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure etc.
Ive considered the information that Everyday Loans gathered as a result of the checks it 
completed, and I think that it had sufficient information to demonstrate that Mr E couldnt 
have afforded to sustainably repay this loan. From the results of Mr Es credit searches, its 
clear he had a number of existing credit facilities/loans with balances outstanding. He had 
also been relying on short-term high cost credit for a substantial period of time (in excess of 
a year) which is not the purpose of this type of credit and in and of itself should have 
demonstrated that Mr E was having difficulty managing his finances. 
Ive also noted Everyday Loans has recorded that the purpose the short-term high cost credit 
was for car repairs. However, I dont think this is plausible given in 2016 alone 10 loans are 
detailed on his credit search results. And this pattern of regularly using short-term high cost 
credit was also evident in 2015.  I think its more likely Mr E was reliant on this type of credit 
to meet his regular expenditure and his borrowing was already unsustainable.  
In addition, Mr Es credit results also revealed he had four existing credit cards of which 
three had balances which were around the credit limit. And he had gone slightly over his 
agreed limit on one of these credit cards accounts. Furthermore, looking at the bank 
statement Mr E provided to Everyday Loans I can see that he is almost consistently 
overdrawn, starting and finishing the month overdrawn. And he regularly exceeded his 
agreed overdraft limit of £500 by going into his emergency limit and being subject to 
additional fees. So again I think it shouldve been clear to Everyday Loans based on the 
information it had available, that Mr E was already experiencing problems managing money 
and that it wasnt sustainable to agree this loan.
Ive considered Everyday Loans argument that the loan in question improved Mr Es 
financial circumstances as it consolidated some of his existing debt and reduced his monthly 
expenditure. There was some debate between the investigator and Everyday Loans about 
what existing debt Mr E had that was consolidated into this loan. Everyday Loans argued 
that in addition to the two loans it provided cheques to repay, Mr E also consolidated a 
catalogue shopping account and an existing payday loan from the balance advanced to him. 
Its not clear however, if this was the intention, why Everyday Loans didnt provide cheques 
for the remaining balances in the same way as it did for the two loans. 
But in any event, even if I accept the purpose of the loan in question was to consolidate the 
four accounts detailed, I still dont agree this improved Mr Es overall financial position or that 
it was responsible to lend. It was clear that even without the accounts which were 
consolidated (including the accounts Everyday Loans says was consolidated) Mr E had 
substantial debt outstanding. He was clearly overindebted and struggling to meet his credit 
repayments and monthly expenditure without needing to borrow further and I dont think 
consolidating a small number of debts would have materially changed this. Particularly as, in granting this loan, Everyday Loans charged Mr E over £11,000 in interest. So it seems 
unlikely that this materially improved his overall indebtedness. 
Additionally, consolidating a debt that is due to be repaid in full in the following month (like a 
payday loan) will inevitably decrease someones outstanding payments for the following 
month. But looking at the longer-term impact of this loan, the monthly repayments were 
£348.50 and the combined monthly repayments for the two loans and catalogue accounts 
were £344.65. So I dont agree with Everyday Loans argument that this loan would have 
improved Mr Es regular monthly credit expenditure, as after the first month he would have 
been paying practically the same amount per month. 
Ive noted Everyday Loans argument that Mr E was able to repay the loan and this suggests 
it was affordable. However, repaying a loan doesnt demonstrate that Mr E was able to do so 
sustainably, without further financial difficulties. And for the reasons explained above, I think 
it shouldve been clear to Everyday Loans at the time of agreeing this loan that Mr E couldnt 
have sustainably afforded to repay it. So I dont think Everyday Loans should have agreed 
this loan. 
I have noted that Mr Es representatives have made a number of other arguments which I 
have considered. However, as Im already upholding this complaint and directing Everyday 
Loans to put things right as Ive described below, I dont need to address them further.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct it  as far as its 
reasonably practicable  to put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the 
mistakes it made hadnt happened. 
In this case, that would mean putting Mr E in the position he would now be in if he hadnt 
been given the loan in question.
However, this isnt straightforward when the complaint is about unaffordable lending. Mr E 
was given the loan which have since been used and, in these circumstances, I cant undo 
whats already been done. So, it isnt possible to put Mr E back in the position he would be in 
if he hadnt been given the loan in the first place. But equally I dont think it appropriate for 
Everyday Loans to benefit from an unfair lending decision.
Bearing this in mind, Everyday Loans needs to do the following:
1. Refund all the interest, fees and charges Mr E paid towards the loan.
2. If the borrowing is still in place, reduce any outstanding capital balance by the 
amount calculated at step 1.
3. If, after Step 2, any outstanding capital balance remains, ensure that it isnt subject to 
any historic or future interest and/or charges. And arrange an affordable repayment 
plan with Mr E. But if Step 2 leads to a positive balance, the amount in question 
should be given back to Mr E and 8% simple interest should be added to the 
surplus.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file as a result of the 
interest and charges on this loan. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires the business to take off tax from this interest. The business must give the consumer a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Everyday Lending Limited to put things right as detailed 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
 
Claire Lisle
Ombudsman
