DRN-2199620
The complaint
Mrs J brings her complaint under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA). She 
complains that goods and services she purchased and which were financed through a fixed 
sum loan agreement supplied by Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc werent of satisfactory quality or 
carried out with reasonable care and skill. She wants to end the agreement and receive a 
partial refund of monies paid.
What happened
Mrs J tells us that in March 2018 she agreed to have replacement windows and doors fitted 
in her home. The supplier was a company Ill refer to as A. Mrs J says the work performed 
was substandard with numerous faults including units being damaged. She says that when A 
returned to try to repair some of the faults it served only to make things worse. She said that 
there have been several unsuccessful attempts by A to put things right. But shes now run 
out of patience. She estimates that more than 50% of the installation has noticeable 
damage. And she doesnt think she should have to pay the full price.
Hitachi initially told us that it had been informed by A that Mrs J had refused to have 
replacement items fitted as shed had the property redecorated. It said it had offered £250 in 
compensation but increased this by a further £500 to take into account the decoration costs.
Subsequently, Hitachi agreed to an expert report being prepared. And this was carried out 
by a company Ill call E. Following the findings of the report Hitachi relied on a reply from A 
which disputed a substantial part of the findings made by E. But it agreed to cover the 
unspecified cost of some remedial work and to reconsider the offer of compensation at a 
later date.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 August 2020. I said I was minded to 
uphold Mrs Js complaint and to accept the findings of the report prepared by E. And that I 
felt Hitachi should refund all payments made by Mrs J above £5,952. This being the 
difference between the cash price of the goods and services and the estimated cost of 
repairs.
Since then Mrs J has replied acknowledging receipt of my provisional decision. But shes not 
added any further comment or provided any more information. Hitachi hasnt replied. As 
theres been no new information provided, I see no reason to alter my provisional decision. 
This is largely repeated in my final decision which is set out below.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs J would be so upset and disappointed following the installation of 
these items. These were obviously major home improvements and some measure of 
disruption to domestic routine was inevitable. But I cant imagine that she wouldve 
anticipated  more than two years later - that the issues surrounding the work would still be 
unresolved. I can only empathise with the dissatisfaction shes expressed.
In summary, Mrs Js complaint is that some of the goods supplied by A were damaged and 
not fitted to the requisite standard. And that despite several attempts she states that A has 
failed to rectify the problems. She wants nothing more to do with A and says she will arrange 
for any remedial work herself. But she wants a proportionate refund of the money shes 
already paid and compensation for the stress and inconvenience caused.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome.
Our investigator set out a detailed timeline in his first view which I dont intend to repeat in 
full as both parties are aware of the content. Its enough to say that from the time of 
installation in March 2018 until June 2019 it records Mrs Js expressions of concern and 
numerous attempts by A (largely unsuccessful according to the experts report) to make 
repairs.
I dont apply the law  directly  but I do take it into account. The effect of section 75 is to 
give a consumer - where theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier of the goods (A) - an equal claim against the provider of the credit (Hitachi).
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) requires that goods supplied should be of satisfactory 
quality. And that services should be carried out with reasonable care and skill. If goods 
werent of satisfactory quality or services werent performed with reasonable care and skill it 
would potentially be a breach of contract. 
I think its important to set out my role here. In considering a complaint about a financial 
services provider, Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under 
Section 75. Rather, in deciding whats a fair way to resolve Mrs Js complaint, I have to take 
account of relevant law, amongst other things. Section 75 CCA and the CRA is relevant law. 
Therefore, Ive taken it into account. But that doesnt mean Im obliged to reach the same 
outcome as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs J pursued a claim for breach of contract.
The parties have supplied a substantial amount of information in this case. And although Ive 
read all of this, I make specific reference to photographic evidence supplied by both parties 
as well as a video from Mrs J. Its helpful to see the actual images of the items after 
installation and it clearly assists in identifying the areas of concern.
As Im not an expert in the type of product and installation work to which this complaint 
refers, Ive been greatly assisted by the report prepared by E following its inspection which 
was carried out on 12 September 2019. I note that this date is after several visits by A to the 
property to identify and repair faults.Where information is unclear, or facts are in dispute - as is the case here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its apparent that there continue to be substantial differences in the viewpoints of Mrs J and 
A. One of the purposes of obtaining an expert report is to have an independent appraisal of 
the quality of goods supplied and services carried out.
In summary, Es report found thered been several manufacturing faults and recommended 
that items be replaced. It also pointed to installation faults and stated that some of the work 
had been of poor standard. Whilst the report mentioned minor marks on all the windows it 
said it was unable to determine if these were manufacturing errors or had been caused by 
building works after installation. It estimated the cost of repairs at £9,390.
I fully accept that Hitachi is a financial business and not an expert in the installation of doors 
and windows. And its not unreasonable for Hitachi to initially take account of any advice it 
may receive from A. But having commissioned an expert report to examine As work, I find it 
surprising that Hitachi should then rely on A to guide its subsequent response.
It could hardly expect A to be an independent observer. The result is that A has largely 
sought to undermine Hitachis appointed expert. And it (A) suggested that works carried out 
on behalf of Mrs J after the installation had been the cause of some of the damage identified 
by E.
In one document headed Representations dated 15 October 2019 it stated:
22. To conclude, we shall undertake any remedials deemed necessary following an
inspection by our Senior Installation Manager.
It substantially maintained this position in a later submission although agreeing to some 
additional works. In other words, A is largely suggesting that it should only be liable to put 
right what it deems necessary.
Ive read Es report which - whilst relatively short  I find is concise and clear in its findings 
and recommendations. And where it is unable to identify the party that might have caused an 
issue it has stated it was unable to form any conclusion as to who should bear the 
responsibility. Overall, I found the report to be clear and well balanced and I cant see that it 
would be fair and reasonable to depart from the main findings of that report.
Im aware that its been suggested that some works which were carried out by an 
independent contractor - after A had installed its items - had resulted in damage. Im 
satisfied from the photographs Ive seen that the major shortcomings  such as gaps 
between brickwork and doors/windows are the result of the initial installation by A.
Its also the case that no estimate of any alleged damage caused other than by A has been 
supplied.
Where theres been a breach of contract such as in the case of the supply of unsatisfactory 
goods, the usual remedy would be to try to restore the complainant party to the same 
position as if the breach hadnt occurred. This might typically involve the rejection of the 
goods and a refund of purchase price. Or repairs, so that goods conformed to contract.
Here there are practical difficulties with both of those remedies. If the goods were to be 
rejected as a whole, then it would mean the items installed by A would have to be removed. 
This would involve further serious disruption to Mrs J. And it would damage other works which shes since had undertaken. In my opinion it would also be a disproportionately 
expensive remedy for which Hitachi would bear liability.
Equally, I accept that Mrs J has justifiably lost faith with A and wouldnt be happy to allow it 
to undertake further repairs. Given what I find to be the poor quality of the original work 
performed by A, and the unsuccessful effort at repairs, I dont think it would be fair to expect 
Mrs J to accept any further involvement by A. Its also had more than the one opportunity to 
repair which the CRA requires.
It appears to me that the least disruptive option (I dont consider it to be ideal) is to let Mrs J 
make her own arrangements for such repairs / alterations as she sees fit. That would require 
her to pay for the value of the work which has been carried out. But it would also enable the 
finance agreement to be ended. The parties to this complaint would then be released from 
any further obligations arising from it.
The basic cash price of the goods and services supplied under the contract was £15,342. 
The estimated cost of repairs assessed by E was £9,390. This leaves a balance of £5,952.
I think it would be fair and reasonable for any sums paid by Mrs J above this amount to be 
refunded. At the time of writing I understand Mrs J has continued to make payments. So that 
would indicate shes probably paid in excess of £10,000 to date, including the initial deposit.
Ive used the basic cash price and havent included any interest payments in my 
calculations. Thats because the rate of interest stated on the finance agreement (APR 
7.9%) and the rate this service applies to refunds (8%) is almost identical. And Mrs J 
wouldve needed to borrow only £2,952 taking into account her deposit.
Ive increased the compensation figure recommended by our investigator for distress and 
inconvenience to £400. Mrs J has had to live with the inconvenience of partly completed 
works for several further months. I think Hitachi should have been more proactive when it 
became clear that A was seeking to largely avoid the findings of the experts report. This has 
resulted in further and, to my mind, avoidable delay.
Putting things right
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc should now take the following action:
1. End the agreement with nothing further for Mrs J to pay;
2. Refund all payments made by Mrs J in excess of £5,952;
3.  Pay £400 compensation to Mrs J for distress and inconvenience caused;
4. Arrange for Mrs Js credit file to record the agreement as having been settled. And 
arrange for the removal of any adverse entries (if any) arising from this agreement.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that Im upholding this complaint. 
I now require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to take the action that I stipulated in the immediately 
preceding paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman