DRN-4249824
The complaint
Mrs B has complained that she is unhappy with the quality of a car she acquired in 
September 2021 using a hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services (GB) 
Limited, trading as Alphera Financial Services (BMW).
What happened
Mrs B acquired a used Kia Sportage in September 2021, using a hire-purchase agreement 
with BMW. The car was just over three years old, with a mileage of 37,900. The cost of the 
car was £21,490, and Mrs B borrowed the full amount over a term of 48 months, with a 
monthly repayment of £393.95. There is a final payment of £6,717.80, to be made if Mrs B 
wants to keep the car at the end of the four years.
Mrs B told us that, in February 2022, there was a strong burning smell within the car, and on 
further inspection she found a hole had been burnt through the back of the driver's seat, and 
wires could be seen. She took the car to the nearest Kia garage to be checked. It carried out 
a diagnostic check, and said that someone had removed the drivers seat, and when it was 
put back, wires related to the heated seat mechanism had been trapped under the seat 
which had caused a spark.
I should say here that Mrs B said that she had previously noticed a burning smell when using 
the heated seats, but had thought it emanated from outside the car rather than inside it.
Mrs B complained to BMW about the damage to the seat. It upheld her complaint to the 
extent that it said the necessary repair had been carried out at no cost to Mrs B. It said Kia 
had removed the trapped wires and the vehicle was working and classed as safe and any 
cosmetic damage was underneath and at the bottom of the seat.
Mrs B remained unhappy that the damage to the seat wasnt repaired, in that there remains 
a hole in the seat through which wires are visible. She has safety concerns for her 
grandchildren when travelling in the back of the car and is also worried about charges for 
damage being imposed when she returns the vehicle at the end of the agreement. So she 
brought the complaint to this service as she was unable to resolve it with BMW.
Our investigator looked into this complaint, and concluded that Mrs Bs complaint should be 
upheld. BMW disagreed, and asked that it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision in June 2023, in which I explained that I agreed with our 
investigator that the complaint should be upheld, but that I disagreed on the appropriate 
remedy. Mrs B responded to say that she accepted my provisional decision. BMW did not 
respond, despite two reminders of the deadline for responses. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Because BMW supplied the car under a hire purchase agreement, its responsible for a 
complaint about the quality, and theres an implied term that the car was of satisfactory 
quality. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard that a reasonable person 
would expect, taking into account all of the relevant circumstances such as (amongst other 
things) the age and mileage of the car and the price paid. When considering satisfactory 
quality, I also need to look at whether the car is durable  that is, the components within the 
car must be durable and last a reasonable amount of time.
In this case, the car was just over three years old. And the price was lower than that of a 
new car. So its reasonable to expect that parts of the car would have suffered a degree of 
wear and tear, and that a car of this age would likely need repair and maintenance sooner 
than a newer car.
Ive taken account of the relevant law, in particular the Consumer Rights Act 2015, (CRA). 
There are certain times, set out in the CRA, when a consumer is entitled to reject goods, in 
this case the car, if they dont conform to contract  a short term right to reject within 30 days 
of taking delivery, or a final right to reject if a repair or replacement hasnt resulted in the car 
subsequently conforming  that is, it then being of satisfactory quality.
In my provisional decision I set out my reasoning as follows:
Mrs B sent in photographs of the hole in the seat, with wires visible, along with a description 
of the sequence of events. BMW has provided copies of the hire purchase agreement, 
emails between it and the dealership, and the invoice for the repair carried out in March 
2022.
As I noted above, BMW said that the cause of the problem was determined as being that 
someone had removed the drivers seat, and when it was put back, wires related to the 
heated seat mechanism had been trapped under the seat, which had caused a spark.
BMW said that it checked with the dealership, and that company said that, after checking 
with the relevant parties, it had been told that Kia had not had the vehicle in for any repair 
work on the seat, the dealerships own team had not had the seat removed and the garage 
from which it bought the car denied taking the seat out. There was no reason for anyone 
other than Kia to take out the drivers seat. The dealership also said it had spoken to an auto 
electrician who said that, if the wires had been caught, they would have shorted and then 
tripped the fuse. This would have happened relatively soon after the wires were trapped, 
rather than months later. Mrs B told us that she had not taken the seat out.
Given that all parties deny having removed and replaced the seat, and the dealership said 
theres no reason for anyone other than Kia to take out the drivers seat, its difficult to 
establish exactly what happened here. I note the comments from the auto electrician but I 
cant see that he or she would have had an opportunity to examine the car and so I dont 
think I can place much weight on them in this particular case.
The repair invoice describes the work as follows:
Re-connected seat electrics after inspecting seat with no signs of heat damage coming from 
any internal components - Carried out overnight road test with electrics connected and in 
use  no fault found at time of test and no heat damage found coming from drivers seat  all 
okIve thought carefully about all of the evidence provided. Theres nothing from what Ive seen 
to suggest that Mrs B removed the drivers seat, or had it removed by a third party. There 
are limited reasons to do so - such as replacement, access to the area underneath the seat, 
or replacement of the carpet - and as car seats are unwieldy I dont think it would be 
undertaken lightly. The description of the repairs on the invoice is (unsurprisingly) quite brief, 
so does not mention the exact state of the wiring or explain how the spark arose in this case.
The issue here is whether the car was of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. On 
balance I think it most likely that it wasnt. I say this because there was clearly a fault with 
the wiring, and Mrs B had had the car for less than six months when it occurred (and as I 
explained, said she had noticed a burning smell earlier without realising the source). And as 
Ive said, I have no evidence to suggest it was caused by any action of Mrs Bs during the 
time shed had the car. So I think there was most likely a fault present at the point of supply, 
and my current conclusion is that the complaint should be upheld. In that respect I agree 
with our investigator.
On that basis I need to consider the appropriate remedy. Our investigator first said that BMW 
should take further action to put things right, which might involve, at the very least, replacing 
the appropriate seat components such as the wiring, and parts to rectify the hole in the seat. 
Or, if more economically viable, the other option was to replace the drivers car seat. BMW 
accepted this, but said it couldnt arrange for the car to be taken to the dealership for repair. 
Mrs B has recently had quite serious health problems, and was unable to drive what was 
quite a long distance to the dealership.
After several attempts to resolve the situation, our investigator issued a second view about 
the complaint, saying that she thought it appropriate for Mrs B to be able to reject the car 
and end the agreement. BMW disagreed with this, in summary disputing whether any fault 
was present at the point of supply, and saying that in any case there is no mechanical fault 
remaining, so the only damage is cosmetic.
Ive thought carefully about BMWs comments. Ive explained above why I think its most 
likely that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. But I dont think it would 
be fair and reasonable to require BMW to accept the ending of the agreement and rejection 
of the car. Instead, my current conclusion is that it would be fair for BMW to arrange for the 
drivers seat to be repaired to deal with the hole and exposed wiring (but if it is more cost 
effective to replace the seat, this should be done so as to match the other seats in the car). I 
say this because Mrs B has continued to be able to use the car and Ive no evidence of any 
continuing mechanical fault following the wiring repair. But I dont think its fair to leave Mrs B 
with what is effectively an incomplete repair  and I do understand her concerns about small 
children travelling in the car where there is a hole in the seat and exposed wiring.
I note Mrs B has had quite serious health problems, so if necessary BMW should arrange 
with the dealership for the car to be collected and taken there for repair (or alternatively 
taken to a local Kia outlet for repair there), and then returned to Mrs B, at no cost to her.
As I noted above, Mrs B has accepted my provisional decision, and BMW didnt respond. As 
no new evidence has been provided, I have no reason to change my conclusions, and 
therefore I uphold this complaint. 
Putting things right
BMW should make arrangements for the drivers seat to be repaired to deal with the hole 
and exposed wiring (but if it is more cost effective to replace the seat, this should be done so 
as to match the other seats in the car). If necessary BMW should arrange for collection of 
the car and delivery to the most appropriate repair location, and then return to Mrs B.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint and direct BMW Financial Services 
(GB) Limited to carry out repairs as specified above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman