DRN-2804167
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs M complained about the service they received from Al Rayan Bank PLC when 
they applied for Islamic finance for home purchase.
What happened
Mr A made an appointment to discuss Islamic finance for home purchase with Al Rayan on 2 
October 2020. Among other things, Mr A explained that he had four jobs, and Mrs M had two 
jobs. The same day, Al Rayan issued an Agreement in Principle letter. This said that, subject 
to meeting Al Rayans underwriting requirements, the bank would offer Mr A and Mrs M 
£187,500 over 27 years. The letter said that this was not a formal offer of finance, which was 
subject to Mr A and Mrs M satisfying Al Rayans full underwriting criteria, including a credit 
search.
In the next few weeks, Al Rayan asked Mr A and Mrs M for information about their finances. 
They provided this, and there were several long phone calls between Mr A and Al Rayan.
On 28 October, the adviser rang Mr A and said that Al Rayan couldnt provide the finance 
because Mr As four jobs werent acceptable under the banks policy. Mr A wasnt satisfied 
and asked to speak to the manager.
The manager asked Mr A more details about the situation. Mr A told the manager that two of 
his jobs would end soon. Looking at all the factors, the manager told Mr A said that the 
income wasnt sustainable in the long run, which was against bank policy. And Mrs M had 
been self-employed since the previous year, which also didnt fit the banks policy. Mr A 
wasnt happy, and the manager said hed speak to the senior underwriter.
Having done so, the manager told Mr A on 29 October that Al Rayans decision was that the 
level of income wasnt sustainable, so it refused the application for finance.
Mr A and Mrs M complained about the refusal, the service, and said Al Rayan had breached 
GDPR (data protection) rules by requesting personal information.
In its final response letter on 24 November, Al Rayan said that it has a regulatory obligation 
to ensure all finance agreements are affordable. It had carried out an in-depth review of Mr A 
and Mrs Ms current employment, income and outgoings, and it wasnt satisfied that they 
could maintain repayments throughout the life of the mortgage.
Al Rayan accepted that Mr A and Mrs M had made the bank aware of certain questionable 
elements regarding your application before the Agreement in Principle. It acknowledged 
that Mr A and Mrs M might have been inconvenienced by being asked to submit 
documentation, but it had been done to try and provide the finance. On the complaint about 
GDPR, Al Rayan said that everything it had requested was well within accepted practice, 
and necessary in order to process the application. It also pointed out that it had asked that 
all documents should be sent encrypted.
Mr A and Mrs M werent satisfied and complained to this service. They said the process had 
been very long and had wasted a lot of time and effort, which could have been spent working 
or looking for alternatives. They said Al Rayan had also treated the unprofessionally, 
including left waiting for appointments with no apologies, and had the phone hung up on 
them. Mr A and Mrs M said they expected a formal apology and compensation. They were 
also complaining because personal data had been sent straight to the Al Rayan advisers 
email, not through a secure portal.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr A and Mrs Ms complaint. She explained that Al Rayan was 
entitled to set its own lending criteria, and to decide its attitude to risk in each particular 
assessment. But shed looked at the way in which Al Rayan considered the application, and 
was satisfied that it took all relevant factors into account before declining the application. 
She recognised that Mr A and Mrs M felt theyd wasted time when providing documents. But 
Al Rayan had confirmed it required this in order to consider the application, and the 
investigator didnt think the requirement for income and expenditure information was 
unreasonable or unusual.
Mr A and Mrs M didnt agree. They said that Al Rayan had just told them the loan wasnt 
going through, and theyd never been given a reason for the decision until they complained. 
They said that:
- the reason couldnt be affordability, because Al Rayan had asked for £25,000 annual 
income, and their annual income was more than £42,600;
- theyd been asked about investments, not just about income. Mr A and Mrs M said Al 
Rayan had no right to ask for this information;
- theyd been contacted by three Al Rayan employees, who had all given different 
reasons. They were particularly shocked by one who said she did not feel 
comfortable. Mr A and Mrs M explained that the first employee hadnt turned up for 
an appointment, was very rude and didnt give an answer. Her manager had said that 
the first employee hadnt been comfortable  which Mr A said was really rude as 
shed hung up on him. Shed also asked for paperwork more than twice. And the last 
employee, who handled the complaint, did mention affordability. But the property 
would be let out and the rent more than twice the monthly repayment. Mr A and Mrs 
M also pointed out that theyd been lent the money by another lender.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr A and Mrs M felt frustrated and upset that theyd wasted time providing 
documentation, and felt that Al Rayans employees didnt provide a good service. So Ive 
looked into this in detail.
Its ultimately for a lender to decide whether or not to lend. They must reach their decision 
fairly, taking into account the rules and regulations. Under the Mortgage Conduct of 
Business (MCOB), which would apply to this application, its the lenders responsibility to 
carry out a detailed affordability assessment. Theres a long list of what must be considered, 
and this includes a provision that the lender mustnt enter into the agreement unless it can 
prove that the loan is affordable for the consumer. The lender must also take into account 
future changes to income and expenditure, of which the lender should reasonably be aware 
from information gained at application stage.Ive looked at what Al Rayan asked Mr A and Mrs M to provide, and Ive seen no evidence 
that any of this was unnecessary in order to inform Al Rayans decision, so it could fulfil its 
statutory responsibilities as a lender. Having also looked at what was provided, I havent 
seen anything to indicate that the decision it reached was unfair or unreasonable. I 
recognise that Mr A and Mrs M obtained the lending they wanted elsewhere. But that doesnt 
automatically mean that Al Rayans decision was unfair or unreasonable, because lenders 
can justifiably come to different conclusions, depending on their own policies and attitude to 
risk.
So I find that Al Rayan was entitled to ask for the information it did, and to come to the 
conclusion it did. Ive gone on to consider the service Mr A and Mrs M received.
In terms of timescales, Mr A and Mrs Ms first appointment was on 2 October. The decision 
not to lend was communicated during the managers phone call with Mr A on 28 October and 
confirmed the next day. I consider that this was a reasonable  timescale, especially given the 
complexity of the applicants financial situations, with multiple jobs, including self-
employment, a directors loan, and a potential element of gifted money.  
Mr A and Mrs M believe that data protection was breached because they sent their personal 
information to the advisers email, and not through a secure portal. However, Ive seen Al 
Rayans email to Mr A and Mrs M dated 2 October, after the initial meeting, and this says  
Please encrypt all documentation that you send using [two alternative product names] and 
provide a password on a separate email. So I find that Al Rayan did recommend more 
secure options. Ive also seen nothing to indicate that Mr A or Mrs M expressed any 
concerns about this at the time.
 
In terms of the interaction between Mr A and Mrs M, and Al Rayan, its clear from the 
evidence that both sides were unhappy with some of the calls, especially between Mr A and 
the first adviser:
- Mr As evidence said that the adviser was rude, and Al Rayans evidence said that Mr 
A shouted at the adviser. I dont have a call recording in order to assess this myself, 
but its clear both sides were dissatisfied. 
- One of the various points raised by Mr A was that the adviser said she wasnt 
comfortable with progressing the application. Hes asked whether this related to 
personal feeling. I think that the adviser could helpfully have used a better and 
clearer word than comfortable. But I dont consider that this is sufficient to require 
an apology from Al Rayan, or compensation. 
- I note that the adviser was 20 minutes late when calling Mr A on 23 October. Al 
Rayan apologised for this in the final response letter, explaining that it cant prevent 
some appointments going over time. I find that, although no doubt annoying for the 
customers, the apology was sufficient.
Taking all these factors into account, I do not consider that Al Rayan need do more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 July 2021.
 Belinda Knight
Ombudsman