DRN-3721215
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the investment advice they were given by ReAssure 
Limited (ReAssure) in 2006 to invest into a Portfolio Bond. They say the advice was 
unsuitable for them. 
Mr and Mrs M are represented by a third party but for ease of reference I shall refer to        
Mr and Mrs M in my decision. 
What happened
In November 2006 Mr and Mrs M were advised to invested £25,000 into the L&G Property 
Fund. They sold the investment in 2009 at a loss but later became aware they could make a 
complaint about the suitability of the advice they had received. In May 2021 they complained 
to ReAssure that the investment was too high risk for them and had been advised to invest 
too much of their capital. 
In its response to Mr and Mrs Ms complaint ReAssure didnt think it should be upheld and 
said;
The policy had been surrendered in July 2009 for £14,395 which was 11 years prior 
to Mr and Mrs M making their complaint. 
As a result, ReAssure didnt have any of the records or documents from the time of 
the sale but given the limited information it did hold there was nothing to suggest the 
sale was inappropriate. 
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with the outcome to their complaint so brought it to the 
Financial Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought it should be 
upheld. In brief he said;
The funds had come about because of Mr M retiring and they were both low risk 
investors. 
There was very limited information available from the time of the sale, but the 
investigator thought the investment of £25,000 was affordable.
But the investment was only into one asset class of property and the lack of 
diversification within the fund added extra risk to the investment.
He recommended that the complaint be upheld and as compensation the 
performance of the investment should be compared to the performance of the FTSE 
UK Private Investor Income Total Retail Index on the basis that Mr and Mrs M 
wanted capital growth and were willing to accept some investment risk. 
In response ReAssure didnt agree. It said;
In the absence of any relevant documents from the time of the sale it was unfair to 
rely solely on the customers testimony. 
Notwithstanding the above, ReAssure thought that if Mr and Mrs M were low risk 
investors then when they suffered the loss upon surrender in 2009 it would be 
reasonable for them to have been aware they had cause for complaint. 
Therefore, it questioned whether Mr and Mrs M had brought their complaint to this 
service within the time limits that apply. 
The investigator maintained that investment into one asset class meant their funds were 
exposed to risk solely from property. And ReAssure hadnt previously raised concerns about 
the time limits that apply in bringing a complaint. 
In response Mr and Mrs M said they were aware there were risks in investing and thought 
the loss was as a result of the financial crisis in 2008. They thought they were unlucky at the 
time and it was only when reading a press article, they realised they might have cause for 
complaint about the advice they were given. 
The investigator then issued his opinion that this was a complaint the Financial Ombudsman 
could consider as despite the loss he didnt feel that it was clear to Mr and Mrs M they had 
potentially received unsuitable advice. 
ReAssure didnt agree so the time limit jurisdiction element was considered by one of our 
ombudsmen who decided that it was a complaint that could be considered, after which 
ReAssure responded again to the investigators opinion. It said;
Because of the lack of information from the time of the sale it didnt have sufficient 
information to reach a fair and reasonable outcome about the suitability of the sale. 
It provided the Key Features and Fund Key Features document from a few years 
after the sale which clearly described the fund and the investment risk. Mr and Mrs M 
had signed to say they had received this information. 
Theres no evidence that Mr and Mrs M were confirmed as low risk investors without 
any existing investment. They may have had the appetite for taking some risk for 
potential growth. But the benefit of hindsight couldnt be used when providing a 
determination. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After doing so, Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why. 
When the evidence or testimony surrounding a complaint is incomplete or contradictory, I 
have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  which, in other words, means I 
base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances
As is clear from the above, ReAssure hasnt been able to provide much documentation from 
the time of the sale. But, I dont find this surprising as the sale took place 16 years ago and 
the investment was surrendered 13 years ago.
However, ReAssure has been able to give us some documents including a copy of the 
Portfolio Bond application form dated 25 November 2006. Mr M was aged 61 years and retired and Mrs M aged 54 years and still working. Their total income was recorded as being 
between £15,000 and £29,999. 
And we asked Mr and Mrs M for their recollection of their circumstances at the time of the 
sale as well as their investment objectives. 
Mr M said he had assets of £15,000 and Mrs M had £25,000. They had joint assets of 
around £400,000 and no liabilities. Mr and Mrs M each had a monthly income of around 
£2,000 and their joint expenditure was between £1,500 and £1,700. They felt they were in 
the position to invest some of their savings in what they were told was a relatively safe 
investment. Mr and Mrs M recall being shown the history of the fund as well as an illustration 
of the annual growth. They were told the fund was invested in the rental value of large out of 
town retail properties. To the best of their recollection the adviser didnt enquire about their 
joint assets. They wanted a relatively safe investment with a slightly better return than from 
savings in their bank.
Attitude to risk
Mr and Mrs M were advised to invest in a moderate risk investment  the Property Fund. 
Obviously because of the lack of information from the time of the sale I don t have anything 
to review in order to consider how this came about or how ReAssure made Mr and Mrs M 
aware of the varying level of risk implicit in different investments. And from the information 
available there is nothing to suggest that Mr and Mrs M were anything other than novice 
investors and as a result were seeking advice because they didnt have the knowledge or 
experience to make an investment decision unaided. 
Mr and Mrs M have told us they had joint assets of around £400,000 and no liabilities. They 
didnt tell us of any investments held or any investment experience, only that they were 
looking to invest some of their funds for a slightly better return than from their savings. 
Bearing this in mind and the fact that Mr and Mrs M chose not to take any withdrawals from 
their investment, suggests to me that they were looking for some potential capital growth. 
But without any further information I cant fully assess their attitude to risk but inevitably there 
would be some risk in any type of investment that was looking for the potential of capital 
growth. 
Bearing this in mind it doesnt seem unreasonable that Mr and Mrs M did want to invest 
some of their funds. Even though I cant know for sure what level of risk they were willing to 
take, their comment about a wanting a slightly better return than available from savings 
leads me to think they were towards the lower rather than the higher end of the spectrum of 
risk. 
Of the £25,000 to be invested it records that this came about from accumulated savings from 
salary and it was to be 100% invested into the Property Fund and as Ive mentioned above, 
Mr and Mrs M didnt wish to made any regular withdrawals.
The advice
ReAssure has given us a copy of Portfolio Bond Funds Key Features document which I 
appreciate is dated 2008 but is the nearest available document to the time of the sale. It 
includes a risk meter for all funds from high risk down to minimal risk. 
The L&G Property Fund is classified within the moderate risk level which says; 
What is the moderate risk category?If youve got a moderate attitude to risk, its likely that you already have an interest in 
investing and are comfortable with the ups and downs of the stock market.
Other people with this attitude to risk often share a number of common traits.
- Youre happy to put a significant proportion of your money in shares or other   
unpredictable investment types
- You accept that theres a real risk of losing your money, but this is balanced with 
the prospect of greater growth
- Youre likely not to mind investing outside the UK
- You might have an interest in and knowledge of the stock market
- You understand the general risks involved with investing
Moderate risk funds take risks to provide greater returns. They tend to contain higher 
risk fixed interest investments, shares and commercial property. These may be 
outside the UK.
The aim of the Fund is recorded as being;
To maximise the return from a portfolio of freehold and leasehold interests in UK 
commercial and industrial property. This includes industrial warehouse buildings, 
shopping units, retail warehouses and office blocks. The fund will also invest in 
indirect property vehicles to diversify the portfolio and manage liquidity levels 
effectively.
The fund is given a fund specific risk definition number 14 but those were defined on the 
reverse of the document which hasnt been provided.  However L&Gs current Property Fund 
shows the fund specific risk headlines as being that property can be difficult to buy and sell 
 cash builds up waiting to being invested  or property having to be sold for less than 
expected as well as delayed payment so the fund may be able to delay paying out. 
My opinion is this is a reasonable long held understanding of property funds in that those 
risks are usually implicit in most property funds so I dont think there would have been a 
significant difference in the fund specific risks between the time Mr and Mrs M invested to 
the current day. 
Theres nothing to show me Mr and Mrs M held any other investments or had any other 
investment experience. And ReAssure hasnt told us of any further financial dealings with or 
investments it recommended to Mr and Mrs M so as far as ReAssures relationship with     
Mr and Mrs M went this was a one off and stand-alone investment. 
While Mr and Mrs M may have had joint assets of £400,000 I dont know what these were  
but because of their age and Mr M being retired I dont think its unreasonable to assume this 
amount included the value of Mr and Mrs Ms home. And I note the application says the sum 
came about as a result of accumulated savings from salary. So, on the face of it                 
Mr and Mrs Ms financial circumstances looked stable and the sum of £25,000 invested 
wasnt a large proportion of Mr and Mrs M assets and it looked affordable. 
However, the sum was solely invested into one fund  the Property Fund  which was 
classified as a moderate risk investment. Im not convinced Mr and Mrs M matched 
ReAssures definition of the traits of being a moderate risk investor as defined above or were 
willing to take such a level of risk. While I think it likely they were willing to take some risk for 
the potential of capital growth I dont think they were willing to take the level of risk implicit in 
the Property Fund. And equally, being invested in only one fund, and only one asset class which could be 
illiquid, I think unnecessarily increased the level of risk that Mr and Mrs M were exposed to. 
And for the returns they have said they were looking for; I dont think there was any need to 
take such a level of risk. Mr and Mrs M could have potentially achieved the capital growth 
they were looking for from exposure to a lower level of risk and more diversified investments 
than the Property Fund offered. 
So, for these reasons, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I think              
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint should succeed as the advice was unsuitable for them. To put the 
matter right, I need to put Mr and Mrs M, as far as possible, in the financial position theyd be 
in if they had been suitably advised.
My role isnt to retrospectively say what the suitable advice would have been. There were 
many ways Mr and Mrs M could have invested and its not possible for me to now say 
precisely what they would have done. So, in line with our long-standing approach, I think its 
more appropriate to use a benchmark to assess the type of return Mr and Mrs M would have 
been able to achieve with suitable advice.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put     
Mr and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been 
given unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Mr and Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested.
What must ReAssure do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly, ReAssure must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
ReAssure should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
L&G 
Property 
FundNo longer 
existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs M wanted Capital growth and were willing to accept some investment 
risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and risk attitude.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that ReAssure Limited should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
ReAssure Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs M in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman