DRN-4192701
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) approved a £3,000 overdraft for 
him irresponsibly causing him financial difficulty.  Mr M says the charges Barclays applied to 
his account made his situation worse. Mr M would like a refund of charges and the 
information Barclays reported on his credit file cleared.
What happened
Mr M held an account with a £3,000 overdraft with Barclays. Mr M switched to another 
provider in August 2017. At the time Mr M held a credit balance of £924.29. Barclays 
retained £324.99 to cover payments that had not yet cleared the account and transferred the 
remainder to the new provider.
Following this Mr Ms new account provider rejected a number of transactions which resulted 
in a debit balance of £1,655 with Barclays. Mr M cleared this balance in March 2019. 
Barclays have confirmed that it didnt apply any charges to the account during this period 
and that it reported on Mr Ms credit file that his account was closed in good order on 14 
August 2017 and that it hadnt reported any adverse information.
Mr M complained to Barclays that the overdraft lending was irresponsible and that the 
overdraft and charges applied to his account caused him financial difficulty. Barclays said it 
couldnt look at the initial overdraft lending as it took place more than six years ago. Barclays 
said that it could only investigate Mr Ms complaint from December 2016 until Mr M switched 
accounts in August 2017 and having done so it found that all the charges had been applied 
correctly in line with the terms and conditions of the account. 
Mr M was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think there were any signs of financial 
difficulty that shouldve prompted Barclays to treat Mr M differently.
Mr M disagreed. So the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a decision.
A jurisdiction decision was issued on 24 April 2023 saying that we could only look at Mr Ms 
complaint about the overdraft lending post December 2016. So the focus of the following 
decision is on the affordability of Mr Ms overdraft with Barclays from December 2016 until 
he switched banks in August 2017.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  
Mr M says that his overdraft was unaffordable and the charges Barclays applied to his 
account made his financial situation worse.
Barclays wouldnt have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr M if it applied any interest, 
fees and charges to Mr Ms account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly 
and reasonably to have been aware Mr M was experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where Barclays didnt treat Mr M fairly and 
reasonably. I dont think that Barclays did treat Mr M unfairly or unreasonably here though. I 
say this because Barclays has no record of Mr M contacting it about having financial 
difficulties and having looked at Mr Ms statements, I cant see anything to suggest for the 
period being looked at that Barclays ought to have realised he might have been experiencing 
financial difficulty prior to Mr M raising his complaint. 
Mr M may argue his regular use of his overdraft was in itself an indication that he was 
struggling. But although I can see Mr M used his account to make credit card payments, I 
can also see that there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions  in particular on takeout and other retail spending.
There were regular credits and cash transfers into the account and Mr M was able to bring 
the overdraft down and often pay it off before once again going on to use his overdraft to 
make debit card transactions, at times large money transfers and cash withdrawals. I accept 
this doesnt necessarily mean that Mr M wasnt experiencing financial difficulty. But there 
isnt anything in these transactions in themselves which ought to have alerted Barclays to 
any potential financial difficulty. And although there were short periods of time where Mr M 
didnt see a credit balance Mr M kept within his limit and was often at the lower end of it. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for Barclays to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr Ms account was being 
used. 
Mr M is also unhappy about the reporting on adverse information on his credit file. But 
Barclays has confirmed that the information reported was that his account was closed in 
good order. So without seeing anything to show me that Barclays has reported otherwise, I 
cant say it has done anything wrong here.
So taking everything into consideration I dont think Barclays treated Mr M unfairly or 
unreasonably which means that I do not uphold this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint against Barclays Bank UK 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman