DRN-4239389
The complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank Plc wont reimburse the money he lost in a scam.
What happened
Mr A is represented by a claims management company, for simplicity I will refer to Mr A 
throughout this decision, even when referencing what his representatives have said on his 
behalf.
Mr A saw an advertisement for the sale of a vehicle on a social media sales website. He 
messaged the seller, who told him the vehicle was in Spain, but who sent Mr A photos and 
videos of the vehicle. Mr A agreed a price for the vehicle and that it would be delivered to an 
acquaintance of Mr As in another country (not the UK). 
Over a ten-day period Mr A then made four transfers out of his Metro account to pay for the 
vehicle, these payments were to accounts with third parties Ill call R and X, both of which 
facilitated foreign currency transfers to the individual who claimed to be selling the vehicle. 
When the vehicle was not delivered as promised, and the seller failed to respond to Mr As 
attempts at contact, he realised he had been scammed and contacted Metro.
Mr A has said Metro shouldve questioned the payments and that if it had then it would have 
been able to prevent him from being scammed. He says that these were unusual 
transactions for him to make  as they were for large amounts and to payees he had not 
paid before. Mr A says Metro should refund the payments, along with 8% interest from when 
the payments were made.
Metro has said the payments were not suspicious. It also says they were to third party 
payment platforms, and not direct to the scammer, so it has been unable to retrieve the 
money and the payments are not eligible for refund under the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM). 
Mr A brought his complaint to us. Our Investigator said Metro didnt need to refund the
payments as she did not consider they were suspicious enough to have flagged to Metro as 
unusual. She therefore didnt consider Metro could have prevented this scam from taking 
place. She also explained that Metro had done all we would expect it to in terms of its 
obligations regarding recovery of the funds.
Mr A didnt agree. He said the payments were unusual  and that if Metro had intervened it 
would have been able to identify that this was a scam and therefore stop Mr A from making 
the payments.
As no agreement could be reached, this case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator and for the same 
reasons. 
In broad terms, the starting position is that a bank is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. Its not in question that 
Mr A authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr A didnt intend 
for the money to go to the scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first 
instance.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Metro should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Bearing in mind the above, I need to decide whether Metro acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr A when he made the payments, or whether it should have done more than 
it did. 
Mr A made four payments for the vehicle, on 12 August 2022 he made a card payment for 
just over £2,300 to X, and a faster payment for £2,500 to R. Then on 18 August 2022 he 
made a further faster payment to R for £4,000. He then made one final card purchase to X 
for just over £2,300 on 22 August 2022.  I have considered whether any or all of these 
payments were ones that Metro might reasonably have considered unusual  and therefore 
whether they shouldve held or stopped the payments and contacted Mr A.
Ive looked at Mr As bank statements for the months prior to these payments, and I dont 
consider that the payments were unusual enough to have flagged to Metro that something 
might be wrong. I acknowledge that the overall amount spent was large, but the individual 
payments were not that out of line with Mr As usual account activity. Mr A appears to have 
regularly transferred relatively large sums into and out of his account, often to other accounts 
in his name but also to third parties. He also had made several large card payments in the 
preceding months, including payments to business similar to R and X which facilitated 
international money transfers. So looking at the overall picture of how Mr A used his 
account, I dont consider that these payments were unusual enough to have been a concern 
to Metro. So, in this case, I think Metro acted reasonably in processing the payments  I 
dont think that I could reasonably say that Metro should have stopped the payment for 
further checks.Ive then gone on to consider whether Metro could have done more to recover the funds. But 
the nature of the payments, and the time it took for Mr A to discover he had been the victim 
of a scam after making the payments, mean that it appears the money is not recoverable. 
Specifically, the evidence Ive seen suggests that Mr A was transferring funds from his Metro 
account to accounts in his own name. So while Metro had an obligation to notify R and X of 
what had happened, it wouldnt have the same obligations as the bank responsible for the 
eventual transfer to the scammers account. I also know, from experience of these kinds of 
cases, that scammers invariably will move the proceeds of their scams on very quickly, to 
avoid them being recalled. So any delay in a scam being reported, as there was here, 
means that the prospect of recovery is very slim. With all of this in mind, I dont consider that 
Metro could have done more to recover the money that Mr A has lost.
Mr A has lost a lot of money and I dont doubt the stress and upset that will have caused to 
him. But Im satisfied that Metro acted reasonably, so while I understand Mr A will be 
disappointed by my decision, Im not going to ask Metro to do anything here.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman