DRN-2021133
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has unfairly refused cover for a 
claim under their legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to UKI, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
In 2017, Mrs R had a fall in a car park suffering injuries. She made a claim to UKI to cover 
her costs of taking legal action against the owner of the car park for the personal injury shed 
sustained. 
When making the claim, Mrs and Mr R informed UKI that theyd already spoken to two firms 
of solicitors. And the advice received was that their claim didnt enjoy reasonable prospects 
of being successful. They didnt agree with the advice and wanted UKI to pay for another 
firm of lawyers to consider the merits of their legal action. 
UKI declined the claim. It said as its a requirement of the policy that a claim must enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success - and two firms of solicitors had already said there arent 
reasonable prospects  it was satisfied there wasnt cover under the policy for this claim.
Mrs and Mr R were unhappy with this decision and brought a complaint to our service, which 
also included a wish to have the insurance premiums refunded. One of our investigators 
didnt uphold it, concluding it was fair for UKI to rely on the legal advice already available. 
She explained that UKI arent legally qualified so it wouldnt assess the merits of the claim 
itself. This would be outsourced to an independent firm of solicitors. And as Mrs and Mr R 
had already obtained two legal opinions of their claim, she didnt think it was necessary for 
UKI to obtain a third. 
Mrs and Mr R didnt agree saying UKI should pay for them to use another firm of solicitors, 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its a requirement of Mrs and Mr Rs policy that any intended claim has a reasonable 
prospect of succeeding. For civil cases this means that it is more likely than not the 
policyholder will recover losses or damages or obtain any other legal remedy UKI has 
agreed to, as assessed by a law firm. The policy doesnt give an unconditional right to have 
any and every legal expense covered no matter how poor the chances of winning a legal 
case.
These terms are common in legal expenses policies. They mean insurers dont have to meet 
costs for claims that are unlikely to be successful or where the costs are too high compared 
to the value of the claim. I dont think this is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A 
privately paying customer wouldnt want to pay the costs of a court case if advised its 
unlikely to succeed and it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer to.
I would usually expect an insurer to get legal advice before deciding whether a claim has 
reasonable prospects. And where an insurer has declined funding in such a case, it isnt for 
us to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has 
acted fairly. So long as they have advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong. 
In this case, UKI didnt seek a legal opinion as Mrs and Mr R had already obtained two such 
opinions that werent supportive of their claim. Both opinions state clearly that having 
considered the details of the accident, the claim doesnt have a reasonable chance of 
succeeding at court. One also explains that a judge is likely to dismiss the claim on the 
basis that the defect does not constitute a hazard and the Defendants premises had a safe 
access nearby. Im satisfied UKI has acted fairly in not obtaining a third legal opinion, and Ill 
explain why.  
When a customer makes a claim on an insurance policy, its for them to demonstrate in the 
first instance that they have a valid claim that meets the policy terms and conditions. Mrs 
and Mr R submitted their claim with two legal opinions that showed their claim didnt enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success, and therefore their claim did not satisfy the policy terms. 
As they havent shown they have a valid claim, UKI is entitled to decline it. There is no 
obligation on UKI to try to prove the validity of Mrs and Mr Rs claim for them. So, I dont 
think its fair to require UKI to fund the costs of another legal assessment of Mrs and Mr Rs 
claim. 
In the absence of a supportive legal assessment, Im satisfied UKIs decision to decline the 
claim was fair and Im not asking it to do anything further. If Mrs and Mr R obtain a legal 
opinion that supports there being reasonable prospects of success, they can of course ask 
UKI to reconsider its decision. 
Finally, just because UKI declined this claim doesnt mean it should refund the premiums 
paid. UKI has fairly assessed the claim for legal expenses cover and it clearly doesnt fall 
within the terms of the policy. And UKI clearly explained to Mrs and Mr R that this was 
because two independent law firms had said there were no reasonable prospects of 
success. Im satisfied UKI has explained why it wont cover the claim and I dont see any 
reason for UKI to refund any premium.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 September 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman