DRN-2755403
The complaint
Mr L is complaining about Halifax Share Dealing Limited (Halifax). Hes upset that he has no 
online access to his Individual Savings Account (ISA).  
What happened
Mr L has a Halifax account named ISA Online Investment Account. In early February 2020, 
Mr L asked Halifax to investigate why he couldnt access the account online. By late March, 
he still didnt have online visibility of the account, so he decided to sell his holdings and 
transfer the funds. 
When Mr L called Halifax to make the transactions, he asked them to leave £100 cash in his 
ISA. Halifax then reinvested the £100. Mr L wasnt expecting this and complained to Halifax. 
Mr L acknowledges that it was his decision to sell his holdings  he was trying to speak to 
Halifax on the phone but wait times were over an hour. But he says if hed had access to the 
account online he wouldnt have needed to do this. Mr L says his loss on the sale of the 
holdings was around £7,000. And because he transferred the proceeds into a bank account, 
he lost the tax benefit of £50,000 worth of ISA contributions.
In response to Mr Ls complaint, Halifax apologised for not advising him that cash couldnt be 
held in the account. They paid £50 to Mr L as compensation. But in relation to the online 
access, they said their terms and conditions allow for the online service to be unavailable on 
occasion. So they didnt uphold that aspect of Mr Ls complaint.
Mr L brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into it. She 
concluded that Halifax couldnt be held responsible for Mr Ls losses  Mr L had accepted 
that hed made the decision to sell his holdings himself. And she said the account was an 
execution-only account so it wasnt reasonable to expect Halifax to advise him to transfer 
his ISA instead of moving the funds into his bank account. 
But our investigator felt that Halifax hadnt done enough to help Mr L when he couldnt 
access his account online. She said this had led to a significant amount of frustration for 
Mr L and so suggested Halifax should pay £100 to Mr L to compensate him for the 
inconvenience of not being able to manage his account online. Mr L was disappointed with 
the outcome but accepted our investigators view.
However, Halifax disagreed with our investigator. They said their terms and conditions allow 
for unavailability of the online service so they shouldnt be penalised for Mr Ls experience. 
They said their investigation had been inconclusive and they hadnt been able to determine 
whether there was an issue at the customer end or whether it was an issue with the online 
service itself. Halifax added that they felt a decision to penalise them for this when theyd 
clearly limited their liability in the customer agreement would mean undermining the entire 
customer agreement.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to partially uphold this complaint  for the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why. 
Halifaxs main argument against the uphold is that their terms and conditions specifically limit 
their liability in relation to online services. I can see that this is the case  the terms say: We 
will not be liable for any losses that you suffer due to any failure of the online service to the 
extent that the failure is beyond our reasonable control. However, the terms also say that 
Halifax will take reasonable efforts to provide the online service  and I cant see theyve 
done this.
Mr L couldnt use the online service at all for around two months. And he still doesnt have 
access  although he acknowledges this has limited impact given he no longer has any 
money in the account. 
In my view, this lack of access is significantly more than is foreseen by the terms and 
conditions, which imply a temporary lack of access. And although Halifax say they havent 
been able to conclude whats caused Mr Ls lack of access, I havent seen any evidence of 
their investigations, or that theyve discussed it with Mr L at all.
I can understand how frustrating the lack of access has been for Mr L. He was 
understandably keen to understand what was happening with his investments in early 2020 
when the financial markets were very volatile. And, for the same reason, it was taking a very 
long time to get through to Halifax on the phone. 
Mr Ls frustration arose largely because Halifax hadnt made reasonable efforts to provide 
the online access to Mr L  or if they tried but couldnt, they didnt explain to him what was 
happening. 
I appreciate Halifaxs terms expressly limit their liability in relation to online services. 
However, my role is to consider whats fair and reasonable. Sometimes that goes beyond 
the exact wording of contracts. In this case, I cant see that Halifax explained to Mr L why he 
couldnt access the online services. And I dont think they helped him try to access the site. 
So, I dont think Halifax have acted fairly and reasonably  and Halifax should compensate 
Mr L for the frustration and inconvenience their actions caused. Im satisfied that £100 is a 
fair amount.
I know Mr L hoped that Halifax would reinstate his ISA so that he didnt lose the tax benefits. 
And he hoped that he might be compensated for the financial losses hed seen in his 
investments. But Ill explain why I dont think its fair to ask Halifax to do either of these 
things. 
I appreciate Mr L might not have sold his investments or transferred his funds out of the ISA 
if hed had access to his online account. But he was told the value of the holdings over the 
telephone when he went to sell them  and accepted this. So, as Mr L has already accepted, 
Im satisfied it was his decision to sell the holdings and it wouldnt be fair to hold Halifax 
responsible for this simply because he couldnt see the value of the holdings online.
In relation to the transfer of funds from his ISA to his bank account, Mr L says he wasnt 
given any other option on the phone. He said that if hed had access to his online account he 
could have moved the funds to another ISA. However, the terms and conditions of the 
account make it clear that any withdrawals will normally be paid to a nominated bank 
account. And they say that if a customer wants to transfer their funds into another ISA theyd 
have to ask the provider of the new ISA to do the transfer. 
Im satisfied Halifax gave Mr L enough information to be aware that the funds would be paid 
into his bank account. As this was a non-advised service, I wouldnt expect them to have 
asked any questions or provided any suggestions as to what else he might do with the 
funds.From what Mr Ls told us, it seems he was aware that he could transfer the money to 
another ISA, but that he didnt want to spend too long on the phone to arrange this, or to wait 
for a transfer to be arranged. I dont think its fair to hold Halifax responsible for this  their 
telephone service was available and Mr L could have used this in the absence of online 
access.
Mr Ls final complaint point is that the £100 cash he left in his account was reinvested 
without his consent or instruction. Halifax have said the account is not designed to hold cash 
and have shown that its never held cash for more than a few days before. When Mr L 
complained about this, they sold the investments straight away and paid Mr L the proceeds. 
Mr L made a small profit on this, and Halifax also gave Mr L £50 to apologise for not telling 
Mr L the £100 would be reinvested. Im satisfied the compensation Halifax offered for this is 
fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im partially upholding Mr Ls complaint. Halifax Share Dealing 
Limited need to pay Mr L £100.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman