DRN-2412068
The complaint
Mr W complains about delays when he tried to make an international payment from his 
account with Santander UK Plc.
What happened
Mr W instructed Santander to make the international payment on 6 February 2020. An 
automated system flagged it for a check, to make sure it wasnt some sort of scam. After 
speaking to Mr W on 7 February, Santander approved the payment. But the money didnt 
then move from his account until after he complained. 
In their response to Mr Ws first complaint, Santander accepted thered been a delay. They 
got the matter moving again, with the money leaving Mr Ws account on 12 February. 
Santander also paid Mr W £75 to try to restore his goodwill.
But Santander then flagged the international payment for a further check. Mr W didnt know 
about this, and when the payment didnt arrive where hed sent it, he worried his money had 
been lost. He eventually contacted his bank, and the further checks were completed. The 
payment was received on 27 February. Santander paid Mr W a further £100 for the trouble 
and upset hed been caused by this further delay. 
Mr W brought the matter to us, feeling Santander needed to pay more compensation to put 
this matter right. Our investigator looked at the case and agreed. She felt Mr Ws anxiety 
over the incident hadnt been factored in to Santanders remedies. She said an extra £100 
should be paid to put things right. 
Mr W still feels that isnt enough compensation, so the matters come to me for a formal 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above, Santanders responses to Mr Ws complaints have taken responsibility for 
the failings in their service. I dont see an issue with their needing to carry out checks on 
unusual transactions  it helps keep their customers safe, and there are regulatory and legal 
requirements saying they should. But those checks should be handled efficiently, without 
causing undue delay to a customer wanting to use their money.
With the service failing agreed, my role is to say what should be done to put things right for 
Mr W. 
Putting things right
Mr aim is to put Mr W in the position he would have been in, if Santanders service had been 
reasonable. 
A reasonable service here would have still done the checks that Santander did. Its just that 
the payment would probably have gone ahead sooner than it did  taking about one week 
rather than three. 
Mr W hasnt shown us any financial loss due to this delay. But I appreciate there may have 
been a slight one due to changes in international exchange rates. I feel that loss will be 
modest though, and already covered in the £175 Santander have paid Mr W. 
The other impact here is the trouble and upset caused for Mr W. Putting a financial amount 
on that sort of impact is a matter of opinion. To form my opinion, Ive thought about how long 
the extra delay here lasted. And Ive thought about the anxiety Mr Ws mentioned. And how 
much trouble hed have had sending the emails and making the phone calls needed to sort 
the issue out. 
The unreasonable service added a couple of weeks to the time the payment should have 
taken. I can appreciate it would have been upsetting for Mr W to think hed lost a relatively 
large amount of money. But equally, I cant see he was caused financial hardship because 
the payment was delayed. The emails and phone calls took a little time, but there werent a 
huge number, and they werent too complicated to do. 
Ordinarily, I find the £175 Santander paid, together with their swift action to correct the 
mistakes made, would be enough to put right the impact in this case. But Mr Ws 
circumstances  particularly the anxiety hes mentioned  have added to the distress hes 
suffered while he thought his money was lost. In my opinion, and in keeping with the scale of 
award Id ordinarily make, that justifies an increase to the compensation of £100.  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint about Santander UK Plc. To put this matter right, they should pay 
a further £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused, on top of the £175 already 
paid.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman