DRN-2724391
The complaint and what happened
Miss F says Hartwell Finance Limited mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. Miss F took out the policy with a hire purchase agreement for a car in 2009. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Hartwell disagreed so the complaint 
was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in March 2021, explaining why I didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. Heres what I said:
Hartwell should have ensured that Miss F was made aware she had a choice in buying the 
PPI. Miss F says Hartwells representative advised her it was a good thing to have. Hartwell 
hasnt been able to provide any of the paperwork Miss F completed at the time  which isnt 
surprising given how long ago the sale took place, but it has been able to provide sample 
documents of what it says Miss F was likely to have seen. 
So, Ive considered Miss F comments along with what we know about how Hartwell sold this 
type of PPI and the sample documents to decide whats most likely to have happened. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Hartwell had shown that it had made Miss F aware the policy 
was optional  which it should have done  so upheld on this point. But I disagree. 
From what we know, I think Hartwell normally made it clear to customers they had a choice 
about the PPI and got their agreement to it. What Miss F has told us in itself isnt enough to 
make me think Hartwell didnt follow its normal procedures here. 
Looking at the sample documents Hartwell has provided, I can see that Miss F would have 
been provided with a purchase decisions and statement of price document which would 
have listed out what vehicle she had bought and what other purchases she had made. On 
here is where any purchase of PPI would have been listed. As Miss F ended up with PPI, 
her copy of this document would have also included a line which said, The insurance is 
optional and not a requirement of your vehicle purchase. So, I think if Miss F had been told 
something different, this statement is likely to have prompted her to question what she was 
agreeing to buy. 
So overall, I think its more likely Hartwell made Miss F aware she had a choice about buying 
the policy. And she chose to take it. 
Miss F says she felt pressured by Hartwell to take out the PPI, but she hasnt said what 
Hartwell did or said to make her feel this way. The representative may have told Miss F it 
was a good idea to take out the PPI. But this isnt the same as pressure. And looking at 
everything, I havent seen anything to suggest Miss F was unfairly pressured into taking out 
the PPI. 
Hartwell says it recommend the policy to Miss F, so it had to make sure it was suitable for 
her. Based on Miss Fs circumstances at the time, I think it was. I say this because:
Miss F was eligible for the policy.
There was nothing to stop Miss F claiming the full benefit of the policy if she needed to - 
such as any known health issues or unusual employment arrangements. 
Miss F says she isnt sure if she had any sick pay benefits from her employer at the 
time. The PPI would have covered her repayments for up to 12 months if she was made 
redundant or if she was too unwell to work. This would have allowed her to use any 
employer benefits and her savings to cover other everyday living expenses. 
Alternatively, if she didnt have any sick pay benefits it would have been a useful cover 
to have to ensure her car repayments were kept up when she wasnt able to work. 
Ive noted Miss Fs comments about the fact her parents wouldve helped out if she was 
unable to make her repayments. I dont doubt her parents would have wanted to help, 
but peoples circumstances change. So, this help cant be guaranteed. 
As we dont have any documents from the time of sale, I dont know if Hartwell made the 
cost of the policy clear to Miss F. But looking at the information I have about her 
circumstances, I havent seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for her. And 
she couldve cancelled it at any time, without further cost, if her situation changed or she 
no longer wanted to pay for it. 
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Miss F, Hartwell should have also taken steps to 
give her clear information about the policy so she could decide if she wanted it. I dont know 
what steps Hartwell took to do this and its possible some things werent explained as clearly as 
they shouldve been. But I dont think clearer information would have changed Miss Fs decision. 
I think shed still have bought it. I say this for the same reasons I think the PPI was suitable for 
her.  
So, I dont think Miss F has lost out from anything Hartwell mightve done wrong. 
Hartwell responded to say it had received my findings but had nothing further to add. Miss F 
didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Fs case. 
As neither party had anything further for me to consider, my decision remains the same  I 
dont uphold this complaint. Overall, I dont think Miss F has lost out from anything Hartwell 
mightve done wrong. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2021.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman