DRN-2024896
The complaint
Mr G and Miss H are unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) charged them 
an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) when they redeemed their mortgage and took a new 
one with Nationwide.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat all of them 
again here. Instead Ill give a summary of whats happened so far, and then Ill focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr G and Miss H held a mortgage with Nationwide and they intended to move home. Mr G 
used Nationwides website to apply for a mortgage to do so. Mr G and Miss H say that they 
intended to port their existing mortgage deal to their new property  to avoid the need to 
pay an Early Repayment Charge. 
The new mortgage application was submitted online and approved. After completion, Mr G 
and Miss Hs solicitor let them know that Nationwide had requested the outstanding balance 
was paid off before release the charge on Mr G and Miss Hs previous property. Nationwide 
explained that the remaining balance was the ERC following the redemption of the previous 
mortgage. Mr G and Miss H disputed this charge, as they believed it wasnt payable as 
theyd ported their previous mortgage by staying with Nationwide as their lender. 
Nationwide explained that Mr G and Miss H had applied for the new mortgage online  and 
applications to port existing mortgage products cant be made online. It explained that there 
are warnings on its website directing customers wishing to port their existing product to 
either apply by phone or in one of its branches. So it maintained that the charge was valid, 
and Mr G and Miss H have now paid it.
Mr G and Miss H complained about this charge to Nationwide. They also complained that 
Nationwide had opportunities to let them know about this restriction in several telephone 
calls that happened during the application process and before redemption of the previous 
mortgage. Nationwide didnt uphold Mr G and Miss Hs complaint as it said that there are 
warnings on its website about the ERC. It also didnt think it should have told Mr G and Miss 
H about the charge during any of the phone calls that had taken place.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said that Nationwide had provided enough information to Mr G and Miss H for 
them to know that they werent porting their existing mortgage, but instead making a new 
application. And he said that he didnt think it was unreasonable that Nationwide hadnt told 
Mr G and Miss H about the porting restriction during the phone calls with them, because the 
subject hadnt been discussed.
Mr G and Miss H didnt agree with the investigators opinion, so the case has been passed to 
me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that the screens Mr G and Miss H wouldve seen on the Nationwide 
website make it sufficiently clear that they werent able to port their mortgage online. 
Before the application there are two warning messages  these say We offer porting 
as an advice service. This means that you will need to apply with one of our 
mortgage consultants over the phone or in branch. It is not currently possible to port 
your mortgage online. And You can apply online as long as youre not planning to 
transfer or port your existing mortgage deal to the new property. This may mean 
youll have to pay an Early Repayment Charge. Whilst I dont know how closely Mr 
G and Miss H read these messages, having looked at the screenshots of 
Nationwides website, Im satisfied that theyre sufficiently clear. Its unfortunate, but I 
think its more likely than not that Mr G and Miss H inadvertently didnt pay too much 
attention to them.
Mr G and Miss H say they believed they were porting their mortgage as they were 
staying with Nationwide  albeit taking out a new mortgage on a different property. I 
do understand this explanation. But porting a mortgage means transferring an 
existing mortgage deal to a new property. The mortgage Mr G and Miss H applied for 
was at a different rate, and for a different term to their existing mortgage, and on a 
different property. Im also mindful that Mr G and Miss H say they thought they were 
porting their mortgage as theyd done it previously. But from what Ive seen, I dont 
think thats the case. Mr G and Miss H appear to have initially applied for their first 
mortgage online, as well as selecting a new fixed rate online when their fixed deal 
ended after the initial term. I understand Mr G and Miss H mayve ported a mortgage 
deal with a different lender before, but from what Ive seen theres nothing to suggest 
theyd ported a mortgage with Nationwide before.  
Whilst theres evidence in one of the calls between Mr G and Nationwide that the 
ERC was discussed, this was in relation to Mr G and Miss H moving their mortgage 
to a different lender  and not staying with Nationwide. I know Mr G and Miss H say 
that during that call Nationwide shouldve told them about the restrictions in relation 
to them staying with Nationwide, and I can understand why they wouldve found that 
helpful. But I dont think its unreasonable that Nationwide didnt proactively give Mr G 
and Miss H information on this during that call. To my mind that couldve been 
deemed irrelevant to what was being talked about  as there had been no mention of 
them keeping their mortgage with Nationwide. 
The ERC of just over £3000 was clearly shown on Mr G and Miss Hs mortgage 
redemption statement, albeit they or their solicitor didnt think it was relevant. But I 
think its reasonable to expect that Mr G and Miss H wouldve queried this before the 
new mortgage completed, especially as they didnt expect to pay it. Had they done 
so, its possible they mightve avoided paying the ERC by applying to port their 
mortgage using one of the methods that Nationwide accepts. 
I realise that this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr G and Miss H, but for the 
reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr G and Miss Hs complaint against Nationwide 
Building Society.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman