DRN-4108587
The complaint
Miss T complains that Shelby Finance Limited, trading as Dot Dot loans, lent to her when 
she could not afford it.
What happened
Using records provided by Shelby, here is a loan table:
Loan Approved Amount Term and repay closed Credit file 
1 17 Oct 2020 £200 3 x £110.29 11 Nov 
20201 default and 
total debt £351
2 17 Nov 2020 £200 6 x £63.59 18 Nov 
2020Total debt £804
1 default
gap
3 21 May 2021 £200 9 x £43.22 open Total debt 
£2,800
1 default
Miss T had told Shelby that for loans 1 and 2 she was living at home with her parents and for
loan 3  her living arrangements have been noted as other.
Miss T had told Shelby that she was employed full time, and earned £1,397 per month and
her declared income did not alter much between the loan applications.
In the final response letter (FRL) from Shelby, it went through each application in detail. It
appears that as part of the investigation into the complaint Shelby had asked for and had
received copies of Miss Ts bank statements. Shelby commented in the FRL that it could see
some gambling transactions but it would not have known of these at the time she had
applied to it for the credit.
Shelby did not uphold her complaint and in September 2022 Miss T referred it to the
Financial Ombudsman Service. The core of Miss Ts complaint is that her gambling meant
that she only repaid the loans due to her gambling winnings and she ought never to have
been given the loans due to the gambling she was doing at the time.
Our adjudicator originally did not think that Shelby had done anything wrong with the lending
decisions save for loan 3 where she thought that Shelby ought to have checked things out
more. But later our adjudicator altered her view. Miss T had sent to our adjudicator bank
account statements. And her view was altered to an uphold of the complaint for loan 3. The
basis for the uphold was as follows (you refers to Shelby):
Your credit checks at the time of loan 3 show that Miss T had a default recorded in
June 2020 and also had an account in arrears for 2 months in May 2021 which was
around the same time that Miss T applied for loan 3. Based on what you saw, I think
you shouldve made further enquiries to build a more detailed picture
Shelby disagreed and sent to us several submissions as to why, all of which I have
reviewed. One in particular was that Miss T had declared a monthly income of £1,400.00,
which was successfully verified with the credit reference agencies. Shelby also explained
that it had verified the stated expenses based on current information from the Office of
National Statistics (ONS) and information provided by the credit reference agency. Shelby
had concluded for loan 3 that:
After taking into account all of [Miss Ts] expenditure, the affordability assessment
showed she had ample disposable income of £576.00 to be able to meet the
repayments of £43.22, we utilised a total of 7.5% of [Miss Ts] uncommitted and
available income for the repayments to her loan.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. On 23 June 2023 I issued a 
provisional decision giving reasons why I considered that Shelby would not have had cause 
to review Miss Ts bank account statements and so would not have seen or been aware of 
any gambling activity. So, my provisional decision was that I planned not to uphold the 
complaint.
That provisional decision is duplicated here for ease of reading and it is in smaller type to 
differentiate it. 
What I provisionally decided  and why  on 23 June 2023
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Miss T could afford to pay back the amounts
shed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was
proportionate to the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve taken into account a number of
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Miss Ts
income and expenditure.
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Miss T. These factors include:
Miss T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Miss T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long period
of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing
had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Miss T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Miss T. But as there was a six month
gap between loans 2 and 3, and the first loan chain was only two loans then the pattern did
not materialise.
Shelby was required to establish whether Miss T could sustainably repay the loans  not justwhether she technically had enough money to make her repayments. Having enough money
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Miss T was able to repay her
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised,
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Miss Ts complaint.
I am issuing a provisional decision to give reasons why I do not think that the credit search
results in May 2021 would have, or ought to have, prompted Shelby to have delved deeper
into Miss Ts financial situation. And I do not think that the gap in the lending between
loans 2 and 3 has been accounted for.
Miss T repaid loans 1 and 2 quickly. Her credit search results for those two loans showed a
very low overall debt and one default recorded within 12 months of the loans being applied
for. These would have caused Shelby no issues and as Miss T was a new customer and
only applying for £200 on each occasion then the decision to lend was a reasonable one
based on checks Id have considered proportionate at the time.
Then there was a gap in lending from the closure of loan 2 on 18 November 2020 to the
application for loan 3 on 21 May 2021  six months later. My view is that a six month gap
between Miss T paying off loan 2 and applying for loan 3 demonstrated to Shelby that she
was not dependent on credit, that her finances were likely to have been under control and so
it was entitled to approach the loan application for loan 3 as if Miss T was applying to it for
the first time. Id consider that to have been the commencement of a new loan chain.
Shelby did carry out a new credit search and having reviewed that set of results then it does
seem that her indebtedness had increased. But the adverse record  one default  had not
altered. So, nothing untoward appeared to have happened in the intervening months. There
was one set of arrears on a loan in May 2021 but a lender such as Shelby is used to lending
to customers with some adverse entries on their credit files. So, I do not consider that to have
been severe enough either for Shelby to have refused the loan or felt it needed to delve
deeper into Miss Ts financial situation at that point.
In the end, the starting point is that Miss T applied to Shelby for the loan and therefore a
positive assumption can be made that Miss T wanted the money.
None of this would  in my view  for a £200 loan applied for at the start of a new loan chain
 have prompted Shelby to have asked for further and more detailed information into
Miss Ts financial situation. There was nothing that would have prompted it to have felt that
was required before approving the £200 loan in 2021. And Id consider that for Shelby to
have asked for and reviewed Miss Ts bank account statements would have been
disproportionate.
And so, its highly likely that unless Miss T told Shelby of her gambling spending, of which
there is no evidence, then Id have not expected it to have known of it. I plan not to uphold the 
complaint.
This is the end of the duplicated provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As it was a provisional decision non-uphold Id not expect to hear from Shelby. 
Miss T has responded. 
Ive chosen to address Miss Ts last point first which was that she has said she has a 
reduced income now due to receiving maternity pay.  From reading her email to us it seems 
that the birth date is imminent and I wish her well. 
So, as this event post-dates the loan applications this is not relevant to what I am being 
asked to consider which are the lending decisions made by Shelby in 2020 and 2021. 
As for the future, if Miss T still owes money to Shelby (which I think she does) then her 
reduced income is highly relevant to the debt collection activities surrounding the 
outstanding loan and so I ask Shelby to take note of this through this decision. And 
I recommend that Miss T contacts Shelby to discuss the repayment and that she raises 
these points with it. 
As for the response to the merits , the core of what Miss T is saying is that Shelby ought not 
to have lent to her because she was a person stuck in the throes of a gambling addiction 
and had applied and been given credit from several sources to fund it - none of which was 
affordable for her. Miss T said: 
The only reason the first 2 loans were repaid quickly was due to gambling wins, not 
because of being financially viable.
So, it comes down to whether Shelby knew, or was likely to have known, of Miss Ts 
gambling. My view has not changed for any of the loan applications. The credit file history 
was not such that it would necessarily have alerted Shelby to consider it had to do a deeper 
investigation into Miss Ts financial situation for any of these loans. All were of modest value. 
Loan 3 was applied for after a gap of six months and the repayments were for £43 a month 
which is not a high figure. 
The adverse record  one default  on the credit search for loan 3 had not altered from the 
previous searches for loans 1 and 2. So, nothing untoward appeared to have happened in 
the intervening months. 
There was one set of arrears on a loan in May 2021 but a lender such as Shelby is used to 
lending to customers with some adverse entries on their credit files. So, I do not consider 
that to have been severe enough either for Shelby to have refused the loan or felt it needed 
to delve deeper into Miss Ts financial situation at that point.
In the end, the starting point is that Miss T applied to Shelby for the loan and therefore a
positive assumption can be made that Miss T wanted the money.
The checks Shelby did carry out were proportionate and within the scope of the regulations 
with which Shelby had to comply. It would not have known of, nor would I expect it to have 
known of, Miss Ts gambling. Its not likely that Miss T would have told Shelby about it. And 
I consider it to have been a disproportionate check for Shelby to have asked to review 
Miss Ts bank account statements for any of these £200 loans. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman