DRN-3719444
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal Finance 
failed to prevent an unidentified third party from impersonating her and allowed them to 
apply for a loan in her name.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
In February 2022 Mrs P was called from a merchant, Ill refer to here as C, saying that it 
could recover stolen cryptocurrency funds on her behalf. C told Mrs P it was taking over 
some accounts that she had previously lost £30,000. 
After having various conversations with C, Mrs P allowed C access to her computer and she 
was told that funds needed to be moved through her account (which included a loan from 
Novuna), as well as taking any money from Mrs Ps bank accounts. Mrs P became 
suspicious at the repeated requests from C for more money before her funds could be 
returned so she raised a claim with Novuna. 
Novuna considered the clam but said it wasnt willing to write off the loan. It said the details it 
was provided about Mrs P during the application were all correct. And that Mrs P was sent 
an electronic copy of the loan application to sign  which she did. It also said that a 
conversation took place in March 2022 with Mrs P and she confirmed she received the email 
confirmation about the loan and that she signed it. Mrs P then decided to repay the loan in 
full in May 2022. But she brought a complaint to this service asking for her money back. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said Novuna hadnt treated 
Mrs P unfairly by holding her liable for the loan. He said Mrs P was sent a copy of a loan 
application which was signed and that Mrs P gave the scammer her personal details 
enabling the scammer to apply for it. So, the investigator didnt think the loan had been 
applied for fraudulently. 
Mrs P disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said that she was told the 
money was being provided by another company and that she was the victim of a 
sophisticated and multi-layered scam that had affected her health. So, she didnt think it was 
reasonable for Novuna to ask her for repayment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not asking Novuna to do anything further, and Ill explain why.
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is a 
fair and reasonable outcome.
Ive considered whether Novuna reasonably accepted the application. From the application, 
its clear the scammer was able to apply for the loans with the information he had gathered 
from Mrs P. So, Im satisfied Novuna didnt do anything wrong when it accepted the 
application.  
Ive gone on to review whether it was reasonable for Novuna to expect Mrs P to pay back 
the loan. And if it wasnt then should Mrs P get her money back. 
Having done so, Im not going to ask Novuna to return the loan amount to Mrs P here. Ive 
read and carefully considered the evidence from Mrs P about the conversations she had with 
the scammer. Mrs P has said she didnt know a loan was being applied for at the time. She 
was under the impression at the time that a credit was being applied to her account and 
then moved to a cryptocurrency exchange. And that this was all a part of the process for her 
to retrieve the money she had previously lost. 
Mrs P has told this service and Novuna when it investigated her fraud allegation that she 
received the loan documents and signed them. Ive looked at the documents and Im 
satisfied they clearly state the loan is in her name and there would be a monthly repayment. 
And when Mrs P signed the documents she agreed to be bound by the terms and conditions 
of the loan. As a result, Im satisfied she was more likely than not aware it was a loan she 
was agreeing to. So, Im satisfied that Novuna hasnt done anything wrong here when it 
asked for Mrs P to repay the loan. 
Ive carefully considered what Mrs P has said about how she was under the influence of the 
scammer who manipulated here into agreeing to take out the money and how it was then 
passed to the cryptocurrency exchange. I note that Mrs P was wary enough to record the 
telephone conversations she had with the scammer quite early on in this scam which 
suggests she didnt completely trust the scammer here. So, Mrs P does have my sympathy 
for what shes been through, but Im not satisfied that the techniques used by the scammer 
here mean that Novuna should take some responsibility for what happened.
I know this will not be the outcome Mrs P was hoping for and she will be disappointed with 
the decision Ive reached. I understand this has been a very difficult experience for her. But 
this final decision ends what our service can do for her. However, she can reject my decision 
and pursue the matter elsewhere if he wishes to do so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman