DRN-3637904
The complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited failed to process his instruction to 
take monies from his pension savings in a timely manner.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. In that decision I explained 
why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Both parties have received a copy of the 
provisional decision but, for completeness and so those findings form part of this decision, 
I include some extracts from it below. In my decision I said;
Mr S holds pension savings with Aviva. On 26 February 2020 Mr S telephoned Aviva 
to discuss taking some of his pension benefits. He told Aviva that he wanted to take 
his full pension commencement lump sum (PCLS  generally known as tax free 
cash) and leave the remainder of his pension savings in a flexible access drawdown 
arrangement. Aviva confirmed that it would be able to implement Mr Ss request and 
agreed to send him the relevant paperwork to complete. But it noted that part of 
Mr Ss pension savings were invested in its with-profits fund. It told Mr S that fund 
could not be held in its drawdown account, so he would also need to instruct a 
change of investment before his PCLS could be paid.
During that initial call Aviva took steps to attempt to perform the necessary 
identification checks on Mr S using its automated system. Those results werent 
available before the end of the call, so Aviva told Mr S that it would let him know, 
when it sent him the instruction forms for completion, whether he would need to 
provide any further documents to verify his identity, or banking details.
Aviva sent two letters to Mr S on 2 March. The first letter provided him with a current 
valuation of his pension savings and information about how to make the necessary 
changes to his investments. The second letter provided the information Mr S needed 
to request his PCLS and place his remaining pension savings into drawdown. Aviva 
had previously agreed that Mr S could complete that instruction by using the 
electronic DocuSign service. And that letter asked Mr S to provide a bank statement 
with his application form.
 
Mr S spoke with Aviva by telephone on 4 March when he gave his instructions for the 
investment switch to be made. And during that call he asked for more information 
about whether he would need to send any additional documents to support his 
drawdown application. On that call the representative of Aviva advised Mr S that it 
didnt appear anything further was required.
Mr S says that he then completed his drawdown application using the DocuSign 
system. But Aviva says that it didnt receive the completed form  and it appears that 
Mr S didnt receive the normal acknowledgement email from the system either. Mr S 
got back in touch with Aviva on 23 March to enquire about the progress of his 
application. At that time Aviva told him that it hadnt received his application and 
resent the DocuSign link for Mr S to complete. Mr S added a copy of his passport to 
that application.
On 30 March Aviva got back in touch with Mr S to ask for a copy of a recent bank 
statement. When Mr S provided this to Aviva it completed his application and paid 
the PCLS to him on 1 April. But the delay caused by the non-receipt of Mr Ss original 
application meant that the value of his pension savings had fallen. Aviva did confirm 
this reduced value with Mr S and he agreed for the payment of his PCLS to proceed. 
But he complained about the loss he had been caused by the delay.
Aviva provided its final response to Mr Ss complaint on 6 May. But Mr S then raised 
some additional questions that Aviva failed to address. So he brought his complaint 
to this Service. As part of its submission to us, Aviva noted that it had failed to deal 
with Mr Ss correspondence after it had issued its final response on his complaint. So 
it offered to pay Mr S £350 for the inconvenience hed been caused.
I will first touch on what happened after Mr S had made his complaint. Before the 
complaint was dealt with, Aviva had already processed Mr Ss instruction to enter 
drawdown. So by that time, the matters that form the substantive part of the 
complaint had been completed. So any delays in Aviva dealing with Mr Ss complaint, 
and his subsequent questions, did not cause any additional delays to the payment of 
his PCLS. Therefore the way Aviva dealt with Mr Ss complaint isnt something that 
I will make any findings on in this decision. I note that Aviva has said that it is willing 
to pay Mr S £350 for the problems in how it handled his complaint. I understand that 
offer remains open to Mr S and he should contact Aviva if he wishes to accept it.
I think there are three aspects to Mr Ss complaint that I should deal with in this 
decision. First I will look at whether Aviva gave sufficient instructions to Mr S about 
the supporting documents he needed to submit with his original instruction. I will then 
consider what happened with the first instruction that Mr S says he sent in early 
March. And then I will go on to look at what happened towards the end of March 
when Mr Ss instruction was processed by Aviva.
As I said earlier I have listened carefully to the calls that took place between Mr S 
and Aviva. Although those calls were relatively lengthy, and covered many areas, 
here I will only make reference to the parts that I think are relevant to each aspect of 
Mr Ss complaint.
Following a request from Mr S, Aviva sent him details of his retirement benefits on 
10 February 2020. Mr S then spoke with Aviva about taking his pension benefits 
around two weeks later on 26 February. During that call Aviva attempted to use its 
automated procedures to complete an identity check on Mr S. But that process didnt 
complete during the call so Aviva told Mr S that it would set out, on the covering 
email it would be sending to him with the DocuSign link, whether any further 
documents would be needed to support his application.
On 2 March Aviva wrote to Mr S about taking his retirement benefits and provided the 
DocuSign link he would need in order to complete the relevant application. The 
covering email containing that link simply said;
We may have requested additional documents from you when you called us 
(for example a bank statement or photo ID) please ensure you include these 
documents when returning your application form to us. Failure to submit these 
will result in your payment being delayed.As Ive said earlier, on the original call Mr S wasnt asked for any additional 
documents  he was just told he might need to provide them following a later 
request. So I dont think the information on the covering email was sufficient for Mr S 
to understand a copy of his bank statement, or some photo ID, was required.
But Mr S was also sent a letter about taking his retirement benefits. That letter did 
ask Mr S to provide a copy of his bank statement. But the request was amongst a 
paragraph of eight lines in length. I could see that this request could easily be missed 
by Mr S, particularly given that he had been led to understand that the need for any 
additional documents would be clearly set out on the covering email to the DocuSign 
request.
And in fact that requirement was also missed by Avivas staff. Mr S had a call about 
the switching of his investment choices on 4 March. And during that call he asked for 
clarification about any other documents that might need to be sent to support his 
drawdown application. The member of staff spent some time reviewing the 
information that Aviva had previously sent to Mr S before confirming to him that it 
didnt appear anything additional was needed.
 
So on balance I do have some concerns about whether Aviva provided Mr S with 
sufficient notice that he was required to provide a bank statement and/or photo ID to 
support his drawdown application. But, as Ill now go on to explain, I dont think any 
failings in this regard mean that the processing of Mr Ss instruction was delayed.
When Mr S first made his complaint he said that he signed and returned his 
DocuSign instruction to enter drawdown on 3 March 2020. But having listened to the 
call that took place on 4 March it seems clear that he hadnt completed his 
submission before then. On the call the advisor asked him to return the form as soon 
as he could, and Mr S didnt give any indication that this was something he had 
already done.
Aviva says that it has no record of Mr Ss DocuSign instruction being received at the 
start of March. And it says that it received other completed documents from other 
customers around that time, so it would seem that the process was working correctly. 
And Mr S doesnt appear to have received any acknowledgement of his form 
submission either from Aviva, or the DocuSign system. So it seems to me that there 
is a strong likelihood that Mr S failed to complete all the necessary steps for his form 
to be submitted.
When the problems came to light, around three weeks later, Aviva resent the 
DocuSign link to Mr S. He says that when he opened the document it contained all 
the details he had previously completed, including his electronic signature. So he 
thinks that clearly shows that Aviva did receive his original form, but just failed to 
process it.
But Im sorry to tell Mr S that I dont agree with that conclusion. In my experience, 
changes made to a DocuSign form are saved as you progress with its completion. 
The link that Aviva resent to Mr S would have taken him back to the form that he 
originally completed. So I dont think that means Aviva was in possession of the 
original form. I think it more likely that his unsubmitted instruction remained in draft 
form on the DocuSign systems awaiting its submission.
So my conclusion is that the reason Aviva didnt process Mr Ss drawdown instruction 
in early March was simply because it hadnt received it. And the reason it hadnt been 
received was most likely because Mr S had failed to correctly submit it using the DocuSign system. Aviva wouldnt have known, until Mr S chased matters three 
weeks later, that he thought the form had been sent. So I dont think there was any 
onus on Aviva to proactively get in touch with Mr S to ask why he hadnt returned the 
form  I think it would have been entirely reasonable for Aviva to conclude that Mr S 
was simply taking his time to fully consider his options before making his final 
decision.
So I think it was the failure of the form submission that meant the drawdown 
instruction wasnt actioned in early March 2020. Whilst the need for additional 
supporting documents would ultimately have delayed that implementation, had the 
form been submitted correctly, it was the missing instruction that meant Mr Ss 
drawdown didnt commence.
So I dont think that Aviva was responsible for any delays to the start of the 
drawdown process, and the corresponding reduction in the value of Mr Ss pension 
savings. And I dont think that any problems with informing Mr S of the need for 
supporting documents caused a delay at that time either.
When Mr S got in touch with Aviva on 23 March it quickly identified that it hadnt 
received his drawdown instruction. So it immediately resent the DocuSign link to 
Mr S that he completed that day. Aviva accepts that it might have been more 
proactive in those discussions in helping to identify why the form submission had 
been unsuccessful. But, as Ive said above, since I dont think the failure was due to 
something Aviva had done wrong, those investigations would have been unlikely to 
mean that the processing of Mr Ss instruction took place any sooner.
Aviva asked Mr S to send in his supporting documents with his new instruction. But it 
seems the DocuSign system didnt allow the attachment of two files. So Mr S didnt 
submit his bank statements. Aviva didnt notice that missing information for around a 
week and accepts that time was too long. So Aviva looked at what would have 
happened if it had been able to pay the PCLS to Mr S when he made his application 
on 23 March, rather than a week later when he sent in his bank statements.
In that week, the value of Mr Ss pension investments rose. So that means the delay 
in sending in the bank statements meant that the value of his PCLS was higher when 
it was paid on 1 April, than it would have been if it had been paid a week earlier when 
the application was first received by Aviva. So, although Aviva accepts it caused a 
delay to Mr Ss payment, he hasnt lost out as a result.
I appreciate that this decision will be disappointing for Mr S. But I dont currently think 
that Aviva was responsible for his original drawdown instruction not being received. 
And I dont think any delays caused to the processing of his later application meant 
that he lost out. So I dont currently think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited both parties to provide us with any further comments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision. Aviva hasnt provided us with any comments on my provisional 
decision. Mr S raised some further questions. Although I am only summarising here what 
Mr S has said, I want to assure him that I have read, and carefully considered, his entire 
response.
Mr S says that he remains of the opinion that he correctly submitted the DocuSign 
application. He says that once it had been submitted he was unable to access the file until 
he was sent a new link three weeks later. Mr S has asked that I review the electronic log that 
would have been recorded by the DocuSign system for his document. And Mr S asked for additional information about why the letter he received on 2 March 2020 was different from 
the letter we have used as part of our investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to the questions raised by Mr S I have asked Aviva to provide me with the audit 
trail in relation to his DocuSign application. I have looked carefully at the information that 
audit trail contains.
The audit trail shows that on 3 March Mr S was sent the application form for his drawdown 
application. And attached to that application form were three additional documents  a letter 
about pension wise, some further information about the general terms and conditions, and a 
key facts document. The DocuSign records show that Mr S viewed all four documents on 
3 March, and accepted the three attachments. And it shows that Mr S then looked again at 
the documents the following morning.
But the audit trail doesnt show any evidence that Mr S accepted, and returned, the main 
application form for the drawdown request at that time. And it was that document that Aviva 
needed before it could start the process. The audit trail then recommences on 23 March, 
showing that the documents were resent to Mr S and that he uploaded a copy of his ID and 
approved the application document. Shortly afterwards the audit trail shows that a completed 
copy of the application was emailed back to Mr S.
So I think the audit trail supports the findings I made in my provisional decision. It seems that 
Mr S inadvertently failed to complete his application form when he first received it. So my 
conclusion remains that Aviva wasnt responsible for the initial delays in his pension being 
put into drawdown.
On 2 March 2020 Aviva sent two letters to Mr S. The first, that Mr S has provided to us, was 
titled Plan Information. That letter invited Mr S to make the necessary changes to his 
pension investments before his plan entered drawdown. But on the same day Aviva sent 
another letter to Mr S. That letter, headed Request for Income Drawdown was the one that 
asked Mr S to provide a copy of his bank statement.
So, although I have found that the way in which Aviva asked for this information might not 
have been representative of best practice, I hope that this additional explanation allows Mr S 
to understand that Aviva did make that request.
Im not persuaded that the additional information provided by Aviva, and the questions raised 
by Mr S, should lead me to change my provisional findings. Whilst I appreciate that my 
decision is disappointing for Mr S I dont think that Aviva was responsible for his original 
drawdown instruction not being received. And I dont think any delays caused to the 
processing of his later application meant that he lost out. So I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.My final decision
For the reasons given above, and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold the complaint or 
make any award against Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman