DRN-3786685
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the delays he experienced when trying to transfer his cash ISA 
away from Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) to a stocks and shares ISA with another 
platform provider.
What happened
Mr M wanted to transfer £45,080 from his cash held with Barclays to a stocks and shares 
ISA provider that I shall refer to as Company A in this decision. 
The ISA Manager Transfer Form of Company A was signed by Mr M on 19 July 2021 and 
sent to Barclays by Company A on 21 July, but the transfer didnt complete until the end of 
September.
During this time Mr M visited his Barclays branch three times and was told the matter would 
be chased but heard nothing more. He complained to Barclays about the delays he had 
experienced. 
In its response to his complaint Barclays confirmed that the ISA was completed and £45,080 
had been transferred on 28 September 2021. It said the first note it had received about the 
transfer request had been in September and the delay was due to further checks being 
needed before the transfer could be completed. 
But overall, it upheld Mr Ms complaint and offered him £150 for the distress and 
inconvenience he had been caused because of poor service and the need for his visits to the 
bank branch. But it wouldnt pay for any investment opportunity losses he may have had. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the outcome so brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. Our investigator who considered the complaint thought that the offer made by 
Barclays was fair and he didnt think it needed to take any further action. Barclays hadnt 
received any instruction from Company A until 8 September 2021 and the transfer was 
completed on 30 September. He couldnt see that Mr M had suffered a financial loss that 
would need to be put right. 
Mr M didnt agree and said;
He referred to HMRC guidelines for the transfer of cash ISAs being 15 working days 
and 30 calendar days for other types of transfer. 
The funds were held by Barclays for over 30 calendar days so was a breach of 
contract. 
He had carried out a similar transaction between the same parties in June, so all the 
information needed was available to Barclays.
He couldnt prove he had suffered a loss by being unable to invest his funds but said 
the time value of money could be easily calculated. 
If Barclays was entitled to compensation when he used an overdraft, he should also 
be compensated which he didnt have access to his money, regardless of the usage 
of it.
Despite Barclays upholding his complaint there was no clear justification for the 
delays. 
The £150 being offered was Barclays standard compensation for distress and 
inconvenience caused by him having to visit the branch. It didnt take account of the 
amount of the money or the time value of money.
Our investigator responded;
He accepted that Mr M must have been frustrated by the lack of communication. 
And while Barclays may have completed a similar transfer previously, this transfer 
would have required all the information to have been reconfirmed. 
He thought the offer was broadly fair and reasonable and in line with what the 
Financial Ombudsman would recommend. 
There wasnt anything to show that Mr M had suffered a financial loss so wouldnt be 
looking at the time value of money point. 
Mr M didnt agree and made some further points. As the complaint remains unresolved, it 
has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Company A told us it initially posted the paper-based ISA transfer request for Mr M on 21 
July with further requests sent on 8 August, 8 and 23 September 2021. The earliest 
evidence Ive been given of Barclays receiving the request was the correspondence dated 8 
September. And I note this was not received by Barclays until 20 September as evidenced 
by a date stamp on that letter which Barclays has told us happens to all incoming mail. Its 
also clear that Barclays also received the 23 September transfer request which was date 
stamped on 30 September.
Clearly, I cant know what happened to the two earlier requests sent by Company A  who 
has told us it chased Barclays but I note there was a problem with the recipient email 
address being used so there was nothing to have prompted Barclays to make it aware that it 
hadnt received the earlier transfer requests. But if anything had been received earlier than 
20 September, I would have expected Barclays to have a record of that  similar to the date 
stamped letters of 8 and 23 September. And I have no reason to doubt that Barclays hasnt 
provided its full business file in order for me to assess the complaint. So, I am satisfied that 
its most likely that the first record Barclays had of the transfer request was on 20 September.  
Mr M has referred to HMRC guidelines for ISA transfers which are 15 working days between 
cash ISAs. In its response to Mr M, Barclays said that there was a delay due to further 
checks being needed but the cash was transferred on 28 September and ISA transfer 
completed on 30 September, so 16 days later which I accept is one day outside of HMRC 
guidelines but which I dont consider as having had a significant impact on the outcome. 
Mr M has said that Barclays breached its own conditions for the transfer to complete as well 
as being outside of HMRC guidelines. But as referred to above, from the evidence I have 
been provided, the earliest request received by Barclays was on 20 September so I cant 
agree with Mr M on this point. As I have reached that conclusion, I wont go onto consider Mr Ms request that he wants 
Barclays to revert any loss caused by its mistake  opportunity cost and time value of 
money plus the time, distress and emotional impact that caused. He told us that at the time 
the funds he already held within his stocks and shares ISA he held with Company A were 
invested and once the transfer from Barclays was competed, further trades were undertaken 
which Mr M thinks is proof that there was trading activity on his account. 
I dont doubt what Mr M has said about the trading activity, but I havent been given any 
evidence to suggest that it was Barclays that was responsible for the delays Mr M 
experienced. After it received the ISA transfer request it completed that task in 16 days so I 
dont find that any of Barclays actions  or inaction  to be responsible for any financial 
losses Mr M thinks he might have incurred because of the delays he suffered. 
Mr M referred to another decision that had been issued by the Financial Ombudsman and 
the compensation that had been awarded in that case which he thinks are in similar 
circumstances to his. However, every case is different, and each case is considered on its 
own particular merits and the individual circumstances of that complaint. 
But I agree that Mr M should receive a payment for the considerable frustration he was 
caused to the extent that he felt it necessary for him to visit the branch three times but didnt 
receive a satisfactory outcome. Ive carefully considered the points Mr M has made and 
appreciate that he feels strongly about this. But I have also borne in mind our long-standing 
approach to awards for distress caused. And taking all of the above into account, I think the 
£150 already offered by Barclays and endorsed by the investigator is a fair reflection of the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. It is for him to now decide whether to accept the offer 
already made by  Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman