DRN-2832973
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive application for a further advance on a mortgage Ms A 
and Mr A hold with Nationwide Building Society. Theyre unhappy that Nationwide doesnt 
publish its lending criteria; in particular, the income sources it takes in to account when 
making lending decisions. They say this caused them to make the application unnecessarily, 
which resulted in a hard credit search being placed on each of their respective credit files. 
The complaint has been brought by Ms A and Mr A jointly, but all of our dealings have been 
with Mr A.
What happened
  The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill give a brief summary of the current position and then focus on giving the 
reasons for my decision. 
The application was made in February 2020, during which the mortgage advisor recorded 
details of Ms A and Mr As various income sources. The application was submitted to 
underwriters, and a hard credit search (that is, one that is visible on a persons credit file 
when a further search is conducted) was carried out. However, the application failed when 
underwriters pointed out that some of Mr As income could not be considered. 
Nationwide apologised, agreed to remove the hard credit search, and offered £250 
compensation. Ms A and Mr A referred their complaint here. At first, it looked as though 
Nationwide hadnt removed the hard search as agreed; in fact it had removed it, but had 
carried out a second search in March 2020, albeit it could not tell us why. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint be upheld in part; she explained that a 
business lending criteria is sensitive and confidential and not for publication. She thought 
Nationwide should remove the March 2020 search, but she also thought the offer of £250 
compensation was fair.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I understand Mr A feels very strongly that lenders should publish their lending policy, so that 
potential consumers dont make applications unnecessarily. I take his point, but I dont share 
it. Nor, it seems, does the Financial Conduct Authority.
There are many good reasons why lenders dont publish their lending policies; chief amongst 
them is the risk that applicants might attempt to manipulate their circumstances to enhance 
their chances of an application being accepted. To be clear, I do not imply, and it should not 
be inferred, that Ms A and Mr A would seek to do this; I make the observation in general 
terms. 
On the specifics of the case, I dont have to decide fault; Nationwide admits it mis-handled 
the application and conducted an unnecessary search. It did the right thing when it acted as 
promptly as it could to remove the February 2020 search. Insofar as its since been 
established a second search was carried out the following month, its right also that 
Nationwide should remove that too.
That leaves redress. Again, Nationwide did what Id expect it to do when it realised it had 
made a mistake; that is, it apologised and offered compensation for Ms A and Mr As time 
trouble and upset. In my view, £250 is fair. 
Mr A says the search prevented them from applying elsewhere for the funds they wanted. 
Im not sure thats true; they may have been reluctant to apply elsewhere, but that was their 
judgement. And insofar as they did not make any attempt to borrow elsewhere, Ive no way 
of assessing whether and to what extent the presence of a single hard search (be it the 
February one which was removed or the March one which wasnt) on their credit files would 
have impacted on Ms A and Mr As ability to borrow.
My final decision
  I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement, I direct Nationwide Building 
Society, if it has not already done so, to remove the March 2020 search from Ms A and Mr 
As respective credit files. I also order it to pay Mr and Mrs £250. I make no other order or 
award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman