DRN-2390539
The complaint
 Mrs A complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (BoI) rejected her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 in respect of faulty furniture.
What happened
 The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 
1974. Section 75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to make 
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer providing the goods or services, if there has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply, the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The issue at the heart of this complaint is one on misrepresentation. Was Mrs A led to 
believe the sofa she acquired to replace the faulty one which had to be returned was made 
with premium leather? It was, in fact, made of what is known as split leather. That means the 
parts normally visible were made of premium leather and those hidden away were made of a 
lower quality leather.
I have noted the description on the documentation which read NC SPLIT, NC 532D Rich 
Brown and I must say I was unaware of what that meant. I could only assume that the 
colour was rich brown and the other wording carried no meaning to a lay person. As such I 
do not believe that the documentation can be said to show what Mrs A was told when she 
bought the replacement sofa. 
I acknowledge that Mrs A has made a number of complaints about the sofa, not all of which 
have been upheld. However, that does not undermine her current complaint. I have noted 
that she brought up the issue of the two leathers after one technician told her part of the sofa 
was made of vinyl. This was wrong and another technician confirmed it was made of leather 
throughout. However, he explained that two different types of leather were used. From the 
evidence and Mrs As testimony I can see this came as a surprise to her.
I am persuaded that she believed that she was buying a sofa with premium leather and its 
true nature only came to light much later. That delay does not undermine her claim. It is 
reasonable to conclude that her belief came from what she was told when making the 
purchase. BoI has said that a quality leather sofa would have cost her more and that may 
well be the case, but what matters is what Mrs A was led to believe at the time of the sale. I 
have seen nothing to indicate she was sufficiently knowledgeable about the relative prices of 
the two types.
I am persuadedsatisfied that she was given to understand that it was all made of one leather 
and in fact she took a sample of the leather home at the time of the sale and it is a 
reasonable conclusion that was what she thought she was buying.
I gather the sofa is satisfactory and Mrs A continues to use it so I dont consider rejection is 
an option, but I agree with our investigator that some compensation is due and 10% of the 
price seems only fair.
Putting things right
 Mrs A should receive some compensation.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc to pay 
Mrs A £224 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman