DRN-1984433
The complaint
Mr I complains that a car he has been financing through an agreement with Advantage 
Finance Ltd (Advantage was misrepresented to him as the mileage was wrong.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr I, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me explain 
why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr I acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr I. If it was and, if that misrepresentation led Mr I to enter a finance 
agreement he would not otherwise have entered into, then I would ask Advantage to take 
some action.
I think there was a misrepresentation here as I think Mr I was entitled to be told about any 
inconsistencies in the HPI report. The HPI report showed a mileage of 126,824 in August 
2016 but that cant have been correct as when the car was given to Mr I in October 2016 it 
had a much lower mileage of 103,550 and the MOT test certificate from August 2016 
corroborates that. It shows a mileage of just over 101,000.
But, regardless of that misrepresentation I would need to be persuaded that Mr I would not 
have entered into the finance agreement had he been told about the HPI discrepancy. Im 
not persuaded that would have been the case as I think the mileage the dealership told him 
the car had completed (103,550 miles) was likely to have been correct. I say that because 
its a little more than the mileage in the MOT that was completed a couple of months earlier 
and because its about 13,000 miles less than the MOT tells us the car had completed in 
September 2017. That seems consistent with the mileage Id expect.
So, whilst Mr I may have sought to rectify the HPI data I dont think he would have found the 
price of the car to be too much as it seems the price was likely to have been based on the 
correct mileage. It follows that I dont think theres evidence to suggest the mechanical 
failures Mr I experienced with the car had happened prematurely because of an incorrect 
mileage. I think its likely that at the time the finance deal was set up the mileage was being 
recorded correctly.
So, I dont think it would be fair to ask Advantage to take any action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 November 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman