DRN-4258586
The complaint
Mr S complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus mis-sold him 
a Cashplus Bank account and its Creditbuilder add-on. Mr S is also unhappy with how 
Cashplus engaged with him when raising concerns about his account
What happened
Cashplus have advised that Mr S successfully applied for one of its ActivePlus Cashplus 
Bank accounts in February 2022. Mr S also applied for Cashplus Creditbuilder add-on on 9 
March 2022. 
The Creditbuilder add-on is essentially a fixed sum loan that requires 12 monthly payments 
of £5.95 to repay it. Repayments to the Creditbuilder loan are made instead of the Cashplus 
Bank accounts £5.95 monthly fee. 
After successfully applying for the Creditbuilder add-on, Mr S credited his account with 
£5.95, so that he had sufficient funds available to make the first monthly repayment to the 
Credit builder loan. However, the £5.95 was debited as the monthly fee, rather than as the 
first repayment towards the Creditbuilder loan. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S contacted Cashplus on 1 April 2022. A complaint was finally raised 
and Cashplus issued its final response on 26 April 2022. In this Cashplus said it hasnt made 
an error in debiting the £5.95 monthly fee, as in doing so it had acted in line with the terms 
and conditions that govern Mr S account. Cashplus did confirm the advisor Mr S spoke to 
wasnt able to provide a clear explanation as to why he had been debited a monthly fee and 
the advisor also ignored repeated requests from Mr S to raise a complaint. Mr S was instead 
directed to Cashplus complaints email address. For the service Mr S received, Cashplus 
offered him £25. 
Unhappy with Cashplus offer of compensation, Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. They agreed that Cashplus hadnt mis-
sold the account and had acted correctly when debiting the £5.95 as the monthly fee. But 
said the £25 wasnt sufficient for the distress Mr S had been caused when trying to get 
answers to why he had been charged. The investigator recommended Cashplus increase its 
offer of compensation from £25 to £150.
Mr S provisionally agreed with this, on the condition the £150 was paid without delays. He 
said any delays in either acceptance or the funds being paid will mean he requires more. 
Cashplus responded and said it didnt agree and wanted an ombudsmans decision. 
Cashplus didnt provide any further reasons for why it didnt agree. 
Given the above, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would also like to point out Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
It appears Mr S received a text message to say the first payment of £5.95 for his 
Creditbuilder loan was due on 4 April 2022. I can fully appreciate why Mr S wanted to make 
sure he had sufficient funds in his account to make the first repayment and therefore 
credited his account with £5.95 on 24 March 2022. However, on 24 March 2022, the 
Creditbuilder hadnt started. According to Cashplus the start date was 1 April 2022. 
As the investigator explained in their view, the ActivePlus Cashplus Bank account terms and 
conditions state that unless the balance is zero, the £5.95 monthly fee will apply. When Mr S 
credited his account, he no longer had a zero balance and according to Cashplus, the credit 
was made before the Creditbuilder had started. Given these circumstances, the monthly fee 
wouldve be applicable. I do note that in any event the £5.95 fee was refunded on 1 April 
2022.
I can understand why Mr S felt the monthly fee charge was wrong. He had received a 
message saying a payment was due on 4 April 2022 to his Creditbuilder and paid money 
into his account to ensure he had funds available to make that first payment. When he was 
debited prior to this, he called Cashplus. 
Cashplus hasnt disputed that on Mr S calls to it, he shouldve been given a clear 
explanation for why he had been charged a monthly account fee. This didnt happen and the 
advisor also initially ignored Mr S repeated requested for a complaint to be logged. He was 
eventually referred to Cashplus complaints email address, rather than the complaint being 
processed on the call. Cashplus offered Mr S £25 for the distress this caused. 
Having listened to the phone calls myself, I believe the advisor shouldve been able to clearly 
explain why the charge had been applied, theyre meant to be the expert in this situation. Its 
clear the advisor being unable to provide an explanation, over two calls, caused him to 
become distressed. His distress becomes audibly more during the calls and the advisors 
failure to acknowledge Mr S request for a complaint to be logged just compounded his 
distress. 
Given this, I agree with the investigator that Cashplus should pay Mr S a total of £150.
I acknowledge that Mr S said he would only accept the £150 if paid without delay and 
otherwise would require more. I understand why he feels that way, but looking at the 
complaint overall, I am satisfied that the £150 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Cashplus should pay Mr S a total of £150 in compensation for the distress this matter 
has caused.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr S complaint. Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Paul Blower
Ombudsman