DRN-2644750
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy Great Lakes Insurance SE turned down a claim he made on his wedding 
insurance policy. 
What happened
In June 2017 Mr and Mrs S were legally married in the United States. Mr S says that was so 
his wife (who was a US citizen) could obtain a visa to join him in the UK. In September they 
both returned to the UK and began planning a wedding and reception to take place in a 
different country in September 2018. In August 2018 Mr S took out wedding insurance with 
Great Lake to cover a ceremony and reception scheduled for 1 September 2018.
Unfortunately, just before the open-air event was due to take place torrential rain and 
thunderstorms began which prevented it from going ahead. Mr S claimed on his wedding 
insurance for the costs hed incurred. It took Mr S time to provide information in support of 
his claim and Great Lakes accepts there was then some delay in it progressing matters. 
However, in January 2020 it turned down the claim. Great Lakes said that was because the 
event Mr S was claiming for didnt meet the definition of a wedding set out in the policy 
(because Mr and Mrs S were already legally married when it took place). It thought what 
they were claiming for was a celebration rather than a wedding. But it accepted there had 
been some delay in it progressing the claim and offered to pay £100 in recognition of the 
impact of this on Mr S. 
Our investigator accepted what Mr S was claiming for didnt meet the definition of a wedding 
set out in the policy. However, he said the event was planned with the typical features of a 
wedding including a ceremony and had been organised by a wedding planner. Taking into 
account our fair and reasonable remit he didnt think Great Lakes was right to turn down the 
claim. But he did accept £100 was the right amount for the delay in dealing with it. 
Mr S agreed with his outcome. Great Lakes didnt. It reiterated that the circumstances of this 
claim didnt meet the definition of a wedding as set out in the policy terms. And it said when 
investigating the claim Mr S had told it that as well as getting married in the US hed had a 
separate ceremony following his return to the UK (prior to the event he was claiming for). So 
I need to reach a final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say Great Lakes has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.]
Ive looked first and the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy. I understand the claim has 
been considered under the cancellation section which provides cover for the inability of the 
wedding party and guests to reach the wedding or wedding reception venue due to adverse 
weather conditions. 
The policy defines wedding as a ceremony which creates a contract of marriage which is 
legally enforceable within the United Kingdom, occurring on the wedding date. It defines 
wedding reception as The social gathering including, but not limited to, room hire and 
catering, at which the wedding will be celebrated. The last Wedding Reception must 
conclude within 21 days of the Wedding, or 56 days if you have paid the appropriate 
additional premium and it is stated on your policy schedule.
And it defines wedding date as The day specified to [brand name] Wedding Insurance and 
shown in the schedule for the wedding to take place.
In this case I dont think its in dispute the event Mr S had scheduled for September 2018 
didnt meet those terms. Although that was the date specified in the wedding schedule for 
the wedding to take place Mr and Mrs S were already legally married by then. Its that event 
(which happened in the US) which created the marriage contract enforceable in the United 
Kingdom.  And as that took place in June 2017 clearly the event scheduled for September 
2018 was more than 21 days (or 56 days) after that. 
But the policy terms arent the end of the story. Under our rules I also need to consider 
whats fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. I think its clear 
Mr and Mrs S regarded the September event as their wedding. They took out insurance to 
cover that and the policy schedule specifies that date for their ceremony and reception. And 
the plans for that event contain the elements that would generally form part of a wedding or 
wedding reception. That includes: 
The services of a wedding planner;
Wedding flowers and wedding suits;
A wedding photographer;
A wedding dinner (including a wedding cake);
Importantly it also included a wedding ceremony. Mr S has provided further details of that 
ceremony and I note it was officiated by a practising Christian and included an exchange of 
vows (including traditional wording based on the Church of England order of service) 
followed by an exchange of rings in front of friends and family and the pronouncement of 
marriage by the celebrant. 
Given the above I dont think its right of Great Lakes to say this was simply a party. And 
while I accept it doesnt meet the definition of a wedding set out in the policy terms it does 
appear to have contained all of the elements that would generally be found at a wedding and 
wedding reception. So in the particular circumstances of this case, I dont think its fair of 
Great Lakes to turn down the claim on that basis. 
Great Lakes has also suggested Mr and Mrs S had a second ceremony in the UK prior to the 
overseas wedding theyre claiming for. The position on this isnt entirely clear. Ive listened to 
a recording where Mr S does reference that but he subsequently told Great Lakes there had 
only been the ceremony in the US. And hes provided evidence which suggests Great Lakes 
accepted that because it amended its response to him to remove the reference to a second 
ceremony.  
In any case I dont think that makes a difference to the outcome of this complaint. Even if there was a further ceremony in the UK I think Mr and Mrs Ss reasonably regarded their 
wedding as the event they had scheduled for September 2018. I appreciate that event 
doesnt meet the definition set out in the policy terms but for the reasons Ive explained I 
dont think its fair to apply those terms in this case. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes will need to reconsider the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy. If the claim is accepted then it will need to pay 8% simple interest on the 
amount payable from 6 January 2020 (which is when all claim documentation had been 
received) until the date of settlement. 
I appreciate there was also some delay by Great Lakes in reaching its decision on this claim. 
Its offered to pay £100 and I agree thats a fair way of recognising the impact on Mr S of 
this. So Great Lakes will also need to pay that amount to him if it hasnt already done so. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by doing what Ive said in this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
James Park
Ombudsman