DRN-3537137
The complaint
Mr B and Miss P complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) unfairly closed their joint 
account and failed to give a reason for doing so.
As Mr B has led this complaint, Ill largely refer to him throughout.
What happened
The background of these complaints has been detailed by our Investigator previously. For 
this reason, Im going to summarise matters within this decision.
Mr B and Miss P have raised various complaints about HSBCs actions. 
This Service has considered the jurisdiction of some of these complaints under a 
separate reference. That complaint concerns whether HSBC gave contradictory 
information about whether the account was closing, a Subject Access Request 
(SAR) and whether it provided sufficient notice to Miss P. I will address these points 
separately within the respective decision.
This complaint concerns whether HSBC fairly closed Mr Bs joint account held with 
Miss P, and whether it shouldve provided reasons for doing so. 
In July 2020 HSBC wrote to Mr B to tell him it would be closing his accounts. The 
accounts were then closed in September 2020. 
Mr B complained about this  saying HSBC had acted unfairly in closing the 
accounts. HSBC disagreed and said it had given Mr B sufficient notice.
Our Investigator considered this and didnt uphold the complaint. He said HSBC was 
able to close Mr Bs joint account without providing a reason as long as it gave 
appropriate notice to do so and didnt do so unfairly  which it had done. And he was 
satisfied its reasons for doing so were fair. So, he didnt ask it to do anything further.
Mr B disagreed. So, the complaint has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr B and Miss Ps HSBC accounts allow it to end agreements and 
close accounts in certain situations with no notice. And it says HSBC can close 
accounts providing it gives at least two months notice  and for this it doesnt need to 
provide a reason.
Ive read all of the correspondence between parties. And Im satisfied HSBCs letters 
of July 2020 and September 2020 were clear that it would be closing all accounts 
with the exception of any fixed term accounts, loans or mortgages until current 
arrangements expire. This gave Mr B notice of the intention to close and allowed him 
a reasonable period to manage his money and make alternative arrangements. 
HSBC isnt required to share its reasons for closing the accounts given it provided Mr 
B two months notice. And Im satisfied its reasons for doing so were valid and 
treated him as any other customer in the same circumstances. 
Mr B has referenced HSBC discriminating against him under the relevant legislation. 
Ive taken into account all the relevant law when deciding on this complaint and Ive 
considered the impact of any of HSBCs mistakes on Mr B directly based on what I 
consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances. However, if Mr B wants 
a specific decision on whether HSBC has breached any Equality legislation, he will 
need to take this matter to court as it will be best placed to consider this.
So, Im satisfied HSBCs actions were in line with the terms of this account and fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Our Investigator has touched on Mr Bs inappropriate behaviour to HSBC staff after 
the accounts were closed. But given Im satisfied its actions were fair, I see no 
reason to discuss this matter further.
My final decision
For all of the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Miss P to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman