DRN-4378714
The complaint
Mr H complains that Zopa Bank Limited trading as Zopa was irresponsible to offer him a
credit card and increase his limit later on.
What happened
Zopa opened a credit card account for Mr H in August 2021. This type of credit was an open-
ended or running account facility and the credit limit was £300. Zopa increased Mr Hs limit 
to £600 in April 2022.
Mr H said that Zopa was irresponsible to lend to him because he was having difficulty with
his finances and it should have seen this from its checks. He missed repayments in 2022
and the account is now in default.
Zopa didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. It said it used information from Mr Hs application and
information from his credit file to check that the credit would be affordable for him before
entering into the agreement. Zopa said Mr H had some historical negative markers on his
credit file but his current debts were being well managed. Zopa also said that Mr H had met 
his repayments making more than the minimum required and had only taken out one cash
advance before it increased his credit limit in April 2022.
Mr H referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be
upheld. They found that Zopa didnt act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the credit
agreement or increasing the limit. Mr H didnt agree with this recommendation and asked for
his complaint to come to an ombudsman for review and it came to me. 
I issued a provisional decision on 14 September 2023 explaining why I wasnt planning to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint. I allowed some time for comments or new information from either 
party. Neither Zopa nor Mr H have provided any comments on my provisional conclusions or 
new information for me to consider.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reconsidered everything and having no new information to review, I see no reason to 
depart from my provisional conclusions. Ill set out my reasons again for not upholding 
Mr Hs complaint in this final decision.
As before, Ive had regard to the regulators rules and guidance on responsible lending (set 
out in its consumer credit handbook  CONC) which lenders, such as Zopa, need to abide 
by. Zopa will be aware of these, and our approach to this type of lending is set out on our
website, so I wont refer to the regulations in detail here but will summarise and refer to them
where appropriate.
Before entering into the credit agreement, Zopa needed to check that Mr H could afford to
meet his repayments out of his usual means, without having to borrow further and without 
experiencing financial difficulty or other adverse consequences. The checks needed to be 
proportionate to the nature of the credit (the amount borrowed, for example) and to Mr Hs 
circumstances. The regulations stated that a lender should not use the assumption of the 
amount necessary to make only the minimum payment each month and should consider the 
customers ability to repay the maximum amount of credit available under the agreement 
within a reasonable period of time. 
Ive considered whether Zopa carried out proportionate checks before opening the account
for Mr H in 2021. Zopa said it used information from Mr Hs application and information from 
his credit file to check that the credit would be affordable for him before entering into the 
agreement.
Mr H told Zopa when he applied for the credit card that he was employed full-time with a
salary of £22,000 and his housing costs came to £400. Zopa said it verified Mr Hs income
and I can see from the bank statements he provided to us that he was paid about £1,500 a
month at that time. The credit file information Zopa saw showed that Mr H had several credit 
accounts. These were an overdraft of £118, another credit card with a balance of £419 and 
two mail order accounts. There was no adverse information recorded about these accounts. 
Mr H had defaulted on several accounts in 2019 but all except two had been settled. One of 
the two showed a balance of £709 and regular monthly payments of £50 and the other had a 
balance of £81.
I think it was reasonable of Zopa to consider that Mr H would be able to repay this £300
credit without difficulty within a reasonable period of time, given the likely repayments and
what Zopa knew about his means and his existing debts. I havent seen anything in the
information it relied on that should have prompted Zopa to carry out further checks before
lending to him.
Mr H said that hed opened several accounts within the three months prior to applying to
Zopa for credit. The information Zopa had didnt show the last one of these, which is
unsurprising given that there can be a lag between opening a line of credit and it being
reported on a credit file. But, as mentioned, there was no adverse information recorded on
his credit file about these accounts. The amount Mr H owed altogether wasnt so large 
relative to his means that it was unlikely hed be able to repay this within a reasonable period 
of time, even including this new account. So I dont think the fact that Mr H had recently 
opened these other accounts should have led to Zopa declining his application.
Mr H said hed recently missed several payments on a home credit account and had
defaulted on accounts which had outstanding balances. The information Zopa saw showed
Mr H had settled all his home credit accounts without missing any payments. While Mr H had
some defaulted accounts, as mentioned, most had been settled by the time he took out his 
Zopa credit card and one was being repaid. I think the adverse information about Mr Hs 
other accounts wasnt so recent or of such an amount that it should have prompted Zopa to 
consider that he wasnt likely to be able to repay more credit without difficulty.
Altogether, I dont think Zopa was irresponsible when it opened the account for Mr H. 
I have thought about whether Zopa treated Mr H fairly when it doubled his limit in April 2022.
Zopa said that Mr H had shown no issues with his payments up to that point and had been
making more than the minimum payment. I dont know what other information Zopa relied on
to check that this increase would be affordable for Mr H.
I can see from Mr Hs credit file that hed taken on another credit card and three loans since
opening the account in August 2021. Zopa provided us with up-to-date information aboutMr Hs credit file which shows the increase in his overall balance on other accounts from
£1,092 in September 2021 to £4,634 in April 2022, so I think Zopa would have been aware
of this increased borrowing before it increased his credit limit. Mr H had also made some
cash withdrawals on his other credit cards, for example £80 in November 2021. Hed
withdrawn £40 in October 2021 on his Zopa card and £40 again in November, and Zopa
would have been aware of these at least.
I think all of this should have prompted Zopa to look into Mr Hs circumstances in more detail
before increasing his limit in 2022 to check he would be able to repay further borrowing out
of his usual means. So I dont think its checks were proportionate on this occasion.
Mr H has provided us with his bank statements and Ive looked at these to understand what 
Zopa might have found out, had it carried out an appropriate check before the limit increase. 
Im not suggesting this is the information it should have sought but I think its reasonable to 
rely on this to understand what Mr Hs means were at the time.
Mr H was paid weekly and the amounts varied but were on average around £1,800 a month
for January to March 2022. As mentioned, Mr Hs borrowing had increased and he was
spending about £530 a month repaying his debts, which was a sizeable proportion of his
income. He was spending about £400 on bills such as utilities and a mobile phone contract
and paying £75 to buy-now-pay-later companies. Mr H had told Zopa his monthly housing
costs came to £400 - I dont have any other information about these and these costs arent
identifiable on his bank statements. Altogether, Ive estimated that Mr Hs outgoings at the
time were around £1,400. So it seems that Mr H would be able to afford to repay the
increased amount of credit, even considering that he would have other costs such as food,
transport and clothing.
I think Zopa would have learnt this through a proportionate check and would still have
offered Mr H an increased credit limit. So I cant say that it was irresponsible to have offered
this on the basis of the information it had at the time. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr H but having carefully considered the matter I am not upholding his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Zopa Bank Limited 
trading as Zopa and dont require it to take any action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman