DRN-4454581
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a medical 
expenses claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so Ive simply set out a 
summary of what I think are the key events.
Mr and Mrs W hold travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged account with their building 
society.
Mr and Mrs W were abroad on a cruise holiday. Unfortunately, on 13 June 2022, Mr W 
became unwell and needed hospital treatment. He and Mrs W were disembarked from the 
ship in a country Ill call F and Mr W was admitted to hospital. The cruise operator found 
hotel accommodation for Mrs W for three nights.
On the same day, UKIs medical assistance team was told about Mr and Mrs Ws 
disembarkation. The cruise operator let UKI know that it had arranged hotel accommodation 
for Mrs W.
The following morning, on 14 June 2022, Mr and Mrs Ws son, Mr W1, booked a flight to F to 
join Mrs W. He travelled later that day. Other members of Mr and Mrs Ws family were in 
contact with the assistance company that day and while Mr W remained in hospital.
Due to a number of events taking place in the city Mrs W was staying in, it was difficult for 
her to find accommodation. The assistance company had suggested that Mrs W should 
arrange her own accommodation and claim it back from UKI at a later date. Mr W1 helped 
Mrs W to find accommodation and remained abroad with her. The night before Mr W was 
discharged from hospital, the assistance company found accommodation for Mrs W.
Mr and Mrs W made a claim for Mrs Ws hotel and food costs, but also for Mr W1s costs. 
They said that Mrs W had been distressed abroad and had needed Mr W1s help, especially 
given the lack of support UKI had offered Mrs W in terms of arranging accommodation in a 
busy city.
UKI paid Mrs Ws accommodation and food costs, in line with the policy terms and 
applicable limits. However, it didnt agree to cover Mr W1s costs, as it said the policy only 
covered the costs of one person remaining abroad with a policyholder who was ill or injured. 
In this case, that had been Mrs W. It considered a separate complaint from another member 
of Mr and Mrs Ws family about the overall handling of the claim by the assistance company. 
It paid £250 compensation for that complaint  to recognise the lack of support Mrs W had 
been given while Mr W was in hospital.
Mr and Mrs W were unhappy with UKIs decision not to pay Mr W1s expenses and so they 
asked us to look into a complaint about that specific issue.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Briefly, she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for Mr W1s expenses. And she felt that UKI had provided 
evidence to show thered been regular contact between its assistance team and Mr and Mrs 
Ws family while Mr W had been in hospital. So she thought that if thered been issues with 
the way UKI was handling the claim, they could have been raised at the time.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 October 2023, which explained the reasons why I didnt 
think it had been unfair for UKI to turn down the claim for Mr W1s costs. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, 
the terms of Mr and Mrs Ws policy and the circumstances of this claim, to decide whether I 
think UKI treated them fairly.
Ive first considered the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of the contract 
between Mr and Mrs W and UKI. Mr and Mrs W made a medical expenses claim on the 
policy. So I think it was reasonable and appropriate for UKI to assess the claim in line with 
the Emergency Medical and Travel Costs section of the contract. A subsection named 
Additional travel and accommodation costs provides cover for the following (amongst other 
things):
Up to £2,500 to allow one person from your home area to stay with you or help you to 
return home where this is medically necessary, including economy class travel and up to 
£25 a day for meals and phone calls. (My emphasis added).
In my view, the policy terms make it clear that UKI will only cover the costs of one person 
staying with a policyholder and helping them to return home. In this case, Mr W was 
admitted to hospital and therefore, the cost of one other person remaining with him was 
covered by the policy. That person was Mrs W. I can entirely understand why Mrs W wanted 
to have Mr W1s support, as she was staying in a busy city and didnt speak the language. I 
dont doubt this was a very worrying time for her, given Mr Ws illness and the situation in 
which she found herself. But I dont think theres any clear medical evidence that it was 
medically necessary for Mr W1 to travel to F, or to remain with Mrs W. And so it follows that I 
dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for UKI to conclude that Mr W1s costs werent 
covered by the policy terms.
I can depart from a strict interpretation of the policy terms if I feel their application produces 
an unfair result. So Ive thought very carefully about whether or not I think it would be fair to 
direct UKI to pay the claim outside of the contract terms. But I dont currently think it would, 
as Ill go on to explain.
UKI has provided me with its assistance teams notes from 13 and 14 June 2022, along with 
an overview of its subsequent contact with Mr and Mrs Ws family. It seems that on 13 June 
2022, UKI was in communication with the cruise operator. It appears that the cruise operator 
told UKI it would provide an update as to the hotel it had arranged for Mrs W and provide it 
with details of the hospital which was treating Mr W. And it seems that one of Mr and Mrs 
Ws relatives called UKI at 13.53 on 14 June 2022 for an update. At that point, Mrs W was in 
the hotel arranged by the cruise operator.
Ive seen a copy of Mr W1s flight booking confirmation. I can see that the flight to F was 
booked at 09.46 on 14 June 2022. This was some time before Mr and Mrs Ws relative got in 
touch with UKI and before I think its assistance team had been in a position to provide 
effective help to Mrs W. I say that because, at this point, UKI hadnt been told which hospital 
Mr W was in and neither was it aware of the care hed need  meaning it didnt know how 
long Mrs W would likely need accommodation for or what the next steps would be. It had been informed by the cruise operator that Mrs W was in a hotel  but it wasnt aware of 
where she was. It seems Mrs W already had hotel accommodation arranged for a further two 
nights when Mr W1 decided to book his flight and travel. So I dont think I could fairly or 
reasonably find that the reason he travelled was because UKI had failed to provide Mrs W 
with appropriate assistance or because of any error it had made. Instead, I think it was more 
likely that he understandably wanted to support Mr and Mrs W during a very upsetting time. 
And it appears that Mr W1 was made aware that his costs wouldnt be covered in a timely 
way.
It's clear how strongly Mr and Mrs W believe that Mr W1s costs should be met. However, as 
Ive explained, while I can understand why Mr W1 chose to travel abroad, I dont think I could 
fairly conclude that this was down to any failing on UKIs part. And therefore, despite my 
natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ws position, I dont find there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could direct UKI to pay this claim.
I asked both parties to provide me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to 
consider.
UKI had nothing further to add. Mr and Mrs W didnt respond by either of the deadlines we 
gave.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, as neither party has provided me with any additional evidence or 
comments, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, my final decision is the same as my 
provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 December 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman