DRN-3880602
The complaint
Mr D has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wrongly permitted his wife to use an 
invalid Power of Attorney (POA) to transfer £100,000 from his sole account into their joint 
account and then onwards to an account in her name. 
What happened
Mr D said that on 15 May 2022 a sum of £200,000 was taken from his joint account with his 
wife by an alleged hacker. So, he called Barclays and moved funds into a sole account to 
keep the funds safe. Then he noticed this £100,000 was taken from his sole account. In 
contacting Barclays, he learnt that his wife had transferred this £100,000 from his sole 
account back into their joint account and then out to another account to which Mr D was not 
a party. Mr D also said he had been in touch with the police.
Mr D said Barclays permitted this transfer of this £100,000 by his wife, due to the fact that 
Barclays said a POA was registered against his account so permitting her to do this.  
Mr D denies registering any POA on his sole account but did know the existence of one for 
their joint account. However, he believes this POA was deemed invalid some years 
previously. So, he believes that Barclays should now refund this £100,000 with interest plus 
the costs incurred. 
Barclays said his wife was able to transfer £100,000 from his sole account due to the POA 
which had been placed on his records since 2010. This wasnt removed until Mr D attended 
the branch on 17 May 2022. Given the POA, Barclays said no bank error occurred. Barclays 
also said this was a civil matter between Mr D and his wife. 
 
Mr D remained dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The investigator said there was 
no evidence of a scam or fraud, so he was of the view Barclays was right to conclude this 
was a civil matter between Mr D and his wife.
 
Mr D remained dissatisfied, so his complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Under the Payment Service Regulations (PSRs) which govern the duties of the bank and 
consumers using banking services, it says the following:
A payment transaction is to be regarded as having been authorised by the payer for 
the purposes of this part only if the payer has given its consent to the execution of 
the payment transaction; or the execution of a series of payment transactions of 
which that payment transaction forms part.
Furthermore, the PSRs permit the following: 
A payer can have someone else initiate a payment transaction on their behalf. In 
other words, the payer can give their consent to the execution of a payment 
transaction by having an someone else (an agent) complete the form and procedure 
for giving consent.
Lastly the PSRs state a consumer is liable for all authorised transactions and the bank is 
liable for all unauthorised transactions. 
Barclays are adamant a POA was registered to Mr Ds details which means the designated 
attorney would have powers to manage Mr Ds funds and therefore the movement of funds 
in Mr Ds accounts were authorised. Ive asked Barclays for a copy of this POA but its sadly 
not available anymore. Mr D no longer has a copy either. But he does recall making a POA 
in favour of his wife. So, although Ive not had any opportunity to examine the terms of the 
POA, its clear to me that one existed.  Its also clear from Barclays file a POA did exist and 
was registered to Mr Ds details, most likely from 2010.  And its also clear Mr D removed the 
POA from his records, according to Barclays file on 17 May 2022, when he attended the 
branch. 
Mr D maintains this POA was invalid and was deemed invalid by another bank and possibly 
lawyers acting on behalf of Mr D since around 2002.  However, Ive received no evidence of 
this from Mr D, despite requests. 
I consider thats a key point. So, as Ive seen no evidence that this POA was invalid from Mr 
D, Im not persuaded that it was invalid. Certainly, Barclays didnt consider it invalid as it was 
registered to Mr Ds details. And furthermore, as against what Mr D believes, Barclays said 
in its final response letter, a POA isnt registered to specific accounts, merely to Mr Ds name 
and details. So, that means if the terms of the POA permit the attorney access to Mr Ds 
accounts, its more than likely to permit access to existing accounts to include those set up 
after the POA was registered. So, I consider its likely the transactions were authorised as 
required under the PSRs. However, given the lack of cogent evidence either way, plus the 
fact Mr D attended the branch on 17 May 2022 to remove any POA from his records, Im 
more persuaded this is the case on the balance of probability. 
Since the investigators view, Mr D said there has been a reconciliation between him and his 
wife. Therefore, there is an assumption that theres likely to be no loss here, since if there is 
a reconciliation, Mr Ds wife can return the £100,000 back into joint funds. 
On this basis and the lack of evidence from Mr D in particular that the POA was invalid, 
which was clearly registered, given Barclays evidence on his details, Im not persuaded 
Barclays has done anything wrong here. The issue clearly did arise from a civil matter 
between Mr D and his wife. And now that Mr D and his wife are reconciled theres little 
evidence any loss occurred either. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman