The complaint
Mr S says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny), irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr S says Sunny didnt carry out sufficient checks because if it had it would have 
seen the lending was unaffordable for him. He got into a spiral of debt and a worsening 
financial situation.    
What happened
This complaint is about 22 short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr S between February 2017 
and July 2019. Mr Ss borrowing history for the first ten loans is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 17/02/2017 25/08/2017 6 £250.00 £83.35
2 03/04/2017 25/08/2017 6 £650.00 £292.15
3 25/06/2017 14/09/2017 6 £250.00 £375.48
4 04/08/2017 27/10/2017 6 £200.00 £438.93
5 25/08/2017 14/09/2017 6 £550.00 £330.13
6 24/11/2017 09/05/2018 6 £350.00 £116.67
7 03/03/2018 09/05/2018 6 £550.00 £293.99
8 15/04/2018 11/09/2018 6 £100.00
9 27/04/2018 09/05/2018 6 £200.00
10 03/06/2018 14/09/2018 6 £300.00
Mr S took a further 12 loans between June 2018 and July 2019. The amounts borrowed 
ranged between £150 to £550. I understand there is still an outstanding balance on loan 22.
DRN-1428266Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ss complaint and thought the loans from loan two 
onwards shouldnt have been given as the repayments were a significant portion of Mr Ss 
income. 
Sunny disagreed with the adjudicator but did offer to uphold the complaint from loan 14 
onwards. We put the offer to Mr S, but he didnt accept it. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr S didnt comment on the adjudicators opinion that loan one shouldnt be upheld. 
Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont 
be making a decision about this lending. But the loan was part of the borrowing relationship 
Mr S had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when considering the other 
loans he took. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ss complaint. After doing so, Ive decided to uphold 
the complaint in part. Ill explain why.
When Mr S took loan two, loan one was still running and still had four more repayments due 
if it ran to term. And when loan two was taken, the combined monthly repayments increased 
from £83 for loan one to a total of £292. 
Sunny has told us its product allows its customers the flexibility of taking more than one loan 
at a time subject to its affordability and creditworthiness checks. But I think it can equally be 
the case that by taking more than one loan at the same time could be an indication a 
customer was have problems managing their money. Loan two was nearly three times the 
amount of loan  £650 compared to £250. 
Sunny disagreed that the lending was unaffordable when compared to Mr Ss disposable 
income. But according to its checks and information its given us for loan two, Mr S earned 
£1,164 per month, his expenditure is recorded as £422 per month and the combined monthly 
repayments at loan four total £292. 
I note that Mr Ss expenditure had decreased by £200 from when he took loan one. This is 
because of a reduction in Mr Ss recorded monthly credit expenditure since loan one. Sunny 
has told us that its expenditure record took into account the loan one repayment, but this 
isnt clear  because of the reduction in the recorded credit expenditure  but it may have 
been the case that Mr S was borrowing from elsewhere as well as from Sunny. 
But overall, I think the amount being repaid each month for loans one and two was a large 
enough proportion of his disposable income  and particularly taking into consideration there 
were four months still to run on loan one  for Sunny to have questioned whether they were 
affordable for him and whether the lending should have been given. So, I dont think any 
further lending should have been given at loan two. And I note that the monthly repayments 
only increased further when he returned for more borrowing at loans three and four, reaching 
£438 at loan four. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ss case, and like the adjudicator, I think that this 
point was reached by loan seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr S was not managing to repay his loans 
sustainably. Mr S had taken out seven loans and had been indebted to Sunny for 11 
months. So Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr S was having 
to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably. 
Mr Ss first loan was for £250 and loan seven was for £550.  At this point Sunny 
ought to have known that Mr S was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
 
From loan seven onwards Mr S was provided with a new loan within days or weeks 
of settling a previous one. 
 
Mr S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 22 was 
taken out 29 months after Mr Ss first. Mr S had paid large amounts of interest to, in 
effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr S lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan seven 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
 
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mr Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So, Im upholding the complaint about loans two to 22 and Sunny should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
If the outstanding balance due on Mr Ss loan 22 has been transferred to a third party Sunny 
should buy the loan back if it can. If Sunny cant buy the loan back, then it needs to work 
with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance.
B) Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the payments, to the 
date the complaint is settled.
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on the upheld outstanding loan, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on the outstanding loan. 
If this results in Mr S having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loan. If this results in a surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. 
E) Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ss credit file in relation to loans two to
six.
The number of loans taken from loan seven onwards means any information recorded about 
them is adverse. So, all entries about loans seven to 22 should be removed from Mr Ss 
credit file. Sunny does not have to remove loan 22 from Mr Ss credit file until this has been 
repaid, but any adverse information recorded about this loan should still be removed.      
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr S still has an outstanding balance due, then Sunny should try and 
work together to come to a mutually agreeable repayment plan with Mr S in order to repay 
what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partially upholding Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman