DRN-2050188
The complaint
Mr D complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) was irresponsible to lend to 
him.
What happened
Mr D borrowed £500 from Cashfloat on 29 September 2019. He needed to make 
repayments of £252.33 for three months.
Mrs D (Mr Ds mother) says, on her sons behalf, that Mr D had numerous other financial 
commitments at the time and hed overstated his income. She says her son is vulnerable 
and that level of borrowing was unsustainable. Mrs D adds that her sons credit report would 
have shown he was in arrears on his mortgage and that shed had to repay the loan on his 
behalf.
Cashfloat says it asked Mr D for information about his income and outgoings and checked 
his credit file and other data sources. It says it verified his declared income and there was 
nothing in Mr Ds credit file to indicate he was struggling financially. Cashfloat adds that Mr D 
has continued to apply for loans but has been declined.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said there was 
nothing in the available information that should have indicated the loan was unaffordable to 
Mr D.
Mrs D responded to say, in summary, that her son would like the complaint reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make sure Mr D 
could afford to repay the loans before it lent to him. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr D was borrowing, and his lending history. But 
there was no set list of checks Cashfloat had to do.
Im satisfied Cashfloat carried out proportionate checks for the loan. I say that because this 
was the first loan Mr D had applied for and the repayments were a small proportion of his 
declared income. I accept that Mrs D says her sons net income was actually £2,080, rather 
than the £2,850 that hed declared, but Cashfloat was entitled to rely on the information 
provided by Mr D at this stage of the lending. That said, it did carry out a verification check 
which indicated the declared figure was not unreasonable.
Mr D also provided expenditure figures that showed the monthly repayments of £252.33 
were affordable, given his disposable income.
I acknowledge Mr Ds credit check showed his mortgage was slightly in arrears and he had 
other financial commitments, including two short-term loans that were taken out shortly 
before his Cashfloat loan, but there was nothing to show the repayments were unaffordable. 
So I cant conclude there was anything that should have led Cashfloat to carry out further 
checks or to decline the loan. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2020. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman