DRN-4397610
The complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about a claim she made on her DAS Legal Expenses Insurance 
Company Limited (DAS) legal expenses insurance policy.
Mrs M says DAS treated her unfairly. 
Mrs Ms complaint is brought by her representative in this complaint, but I shall refer to all 
submissions as being her own for ease of reference. 
What happened
Mrs M made a claim on her DAS legal expenses insurance policy to pursue a matter relating 
to damage to her property.
DAS initially said theyd need to wait for the outcome of her liability insurers review of the 
damage complained of before they could decide whether her policy would engage. The 
liability insurer concluded that they couldnt assist because the damage was less than the 
policy excess.
Following this DAS took on the claim. They appointed their panel firm to consider it 
accordingly. Mrs M made a complaint about the level of service shed been offered by DAS 
up to that point, but DAS denied theyd done anything wrong. 
Seven months after the panel firm were appointed, Mrs M asked DAS if she could appoint 
her own choice of Solicitors because the panel firm told her they didnt have capacity to deal 
with her claim.  
DAS contacted the panel firm to clarify the position with Mrs Ms claim. They told DAS it had 
reasonable prospects of success, as required by the policy, but the matter wasnt at the point 
of proceedings being necessary. As such DAS took the view that Mrs M wasnt entitled to 
her own choice of Solicitor at this stage.
There was then a delay in anything progressing after a second panel firm was appointed. 
Some of the delay was down to Mrs M refusing to provide her consent for the first panel firm 
to transfer her file of papers. The matter was later resolved, and the file was transferred to 
the second panel firm two weeks after Mrs Ms in initial request to instruct her own Solicitors.
Mrs M then contacted DAS and raised a complaint about their decision not to allow her to 
choose her own Solicitor. She also said shed not heard from the second panel firm and said 
shed been asked to pay £630 for an expert report requested by the first panel firm, which 
she was seeking reimbursement for.
In reply DAS said they werent able to progress things with the second panel firm, so at that 
point offered Mrs M her own choice of Solicitor. The Solicitor that Mrs M wanted to appoint 
offered a fee estimate of between £7,500 and £10,000 to review her papers and complete a 
claims management report for DAS which didnt accord with their standard terms of 
appointment. Nevertheless, DAS tried to agree terms with them.
In the meantime, the second panel firm came back with a review of Mrs Ms claim. They said 
the damage exceeded Mrs Ms liability insurance excess based on expert evidence. DAS 
asked them to obtain quotations for repair so they could refer the matter back to Mrs Ms 
buildings insurers. DAS also authorised the fees of the expert providing a full survey of the 
damage. Mrs M then consented to the second panel firm acting for her and says shes happy 
with the progress that Solicitor has made on her claim.
But Mrs M remained unhappy with the handling of her claim overall by DAS. She felt there 
were unreasonable delays in her matter, that DAS hadnt returned her calls and that shed 
paid for the cost of an experts report which she said DAS had yet to reimburse her for. DAS 
accepted that there had been delays and that theyd failed to call Mrs M back. As such they 
offered her £400 for this. They didnt however offer to reimburse her for the expert report 
shed paid for because this wasnt something theyd agreed to, and it didnt in any even take 
Mrs M any further forward in resolving her claim. 
Our investigator considered Mrs Ms complaint and concluded it should be upheld. He 
thought that the compensation DAS had offered should be increased to £750 for the delays 
and failures to call Mrs M back when they said they would. But he didnt uphold the 
remaining aspects of Mrs Ms complaint. DAS have agreed to this, but Mrs M hasnt. As such 
the matter has been referred to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint in part for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. This is why.
Mrs M has made a number of detailed submissions in respect of her complaints about DAS. 
I wont be citing these individually. Rather Ill stick to the main points shes unhappy with, 
which is reflective of the informal nature of the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
DAS have accepted that they caused unnecessary delays and failed to return Mrs Ms calls 
when handling her claim. So, I dont need to determine whether DAS did anything wrong in 
respect of these issues. Rather, Im considering the impact of their actions on Mrs M. Like 
the investigator, I agree that this payment doesnt go far enough. Given Mrs Ms age, and 
the level of stress and inconvenience the underlying dispute was causing her, Id have 
expected DAS to keep a closer eye on her matter to ensure everything was progressing as it 
should have. 
I understand that Mrs Ms health has deteriorated since she made her claim to DAS. Whilst I 
cant say this was due to DAS actions- there was after all an underlying dispute she was 
dealing with, and I havent seen anything that explains her medical condition and whether it 
was likely to worsen anyway- I think things wouldve been difficult for her. As such DAS 
shouldve been sensitive to this and done as much as possible to ensure their actions didnt 
cause her any unnecessary distress. Because of this, I think an award of £750 is appropriate 
to compensate her for the delays DAS caused and their failure to return her calls as 
requested. I know Mrs M doesnt feel this is enough, but my role isnt to punish DAS for their 
actions, but rather to compensate her for the impact they had on her in accordance with our 
award and the scales we apply to them. Im satisfied this amount accords with that. Since 
the investigator issued his view, I understand DAS have agreed to pay this amount. I will be 
making a direction for them to pay this in this decision in any event. 
Mrs M is unhappy with the actions of both panel firms. She feels DAS should be responsible for those and that their fees shouldnt eat into her indemnity limit. I appreciate what she says 
but DAS arent responsible for the actions of the Solicitors. They are independent 
professionals with their own codes of conduct and their own regulator. So, whilst they were 
instructed by DAS to consider her claim, they are separate entities, and it wouldnt be fair for 
DAS to be responsible for their fees outside of the indemnity limit applicable to the policy.  
Mrs M can refer her complaints to those firms directly, or the Legal Ombudsman (as I 
understand she has) if she remains dissatisfied.  
I can however hold DAS responsible for the actions they took once she made them aware of 
her dissatisfaction with both panel firms. Other than the actions Ive noted above (delays and 
failing to call her back) Im satisfied that DAS did follow up with the panel firms when Mrs M 
complained to them. In the case of the second panel firms appointment, DAS even offered 
to fund Mrs Ms own choice of Solicitors to help move things along, when they werent 
obliged to do so. 
I appreciate that Mrs M isnt happy with the fact that DAS didnt appoint her own choice of 
Solicitor when she initially asked them to, but they didnt have to. Ive been provided with a 
copy of Mrs Ws policy. It says:
Your legal representation
On receiving a claim, if legal representation is necessary, we will appoint a preferred law 
firm as your appointed representative to deal with your claim. They will try to settle your 
claim by negotiation without having to go to court.
If the appointed preferred law firm cannot negotiate settlement of your claim and it is 
necessary to go to court and legal proceedings are issued or there is a conflict of 
interest, then you may choose a law firm to act as the appointed representative. If we 
accept your claim, we will choose a preferred law rm to try to settle the matter without
having to go to court.
Its common for legal expenses insurance policies to contain such a term and its consistent
with the relevant laws applicable to freedom of choice. Regulation 6 of the Insurance
Companies (Legal Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990 says:
where under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer (or other
person having such qualifications as may be necessary) to defend, represent or serve the
interests of the insured in any inquiry or proceedings, the insured shall be free to choose that
lawyer (or other person)
The phrase any inquiry or proceedings means when it becomes necessary to issue court
proceedings, or proceedings in another formal place of inquiry, such as a tribunal. Mrs Ms 
claim wasnt litigated. That means proceedings were never issued. And there isnt a conflict 
of interest that we would consider applies here. For the avoidance of doubt, Mrs M being 
unhappy with either of the panel firms wouldnt amount to a conflict of interest. Because of 
this, the freedom to choose her own Solicitor doesnt apply. So, I dont think DAS needed to 
appoint them when she asked for this. 
Mrs M is unhappy that DAS havent reimbursed her for the cost of the report she funded 
from the outset. She said the report was obtained whilst the first panel firm was instructed. 
From what Ive seen, the report was dated 15 March 2022, but the panel firm were only 
appointed 11 days before that. The instruction of an expert and delivery of a report usually 
take more than 11 days, which suggests the expert was appointed by Mrs M before the 
panel firm were appointed. That might not be correct, but I simply dont have enough 
evidence before me to decide why the report was commissioned and whether this was on 
the first panel firms direction or not. What I can tell however is that DAS didnt authorise 
these costs and as such theyve said they cant agree to them. That accords with their policy terms which require them to have agreed to costs before theyre incurred. Because of this, I 
dont think DAS are obliged to reimburse Mrs M for this amount. As I understand it, Mrs M is 
pursuing a complaint against the first panel firm in respect of this issue. From what shes 
said, she feels there was some indication the cost of this report could be reimbursed by 
DAS. Whether or not thats the case, I cant say that DAS were obliged to fund these costs 
given they didnt agree to them in the first instance.
Putting things right
DAS should pay Mrs M £750 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to 
her as a result of delays and failing to return her calls. This amount is inclusive of the offer 
made by DAS to pay Mrs M £400 in compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against DAS Legal Expenses 
Insurance Company Limited and direct them to put things right as Ive directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman