DRN-4235748
The complaint
Ms P complains about Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) and the service both 
they and their appointed surveyor provided, which she feels led her to incur unnecessary 
costs repairing a roof at her home.
What happened
Ms P held a home insurance policy, underwritten by RSA. On 14 July 2020, Ms P contacted 
RSA to make a claim on this policy after she noticed damage to her hallway wall, which she 
felt was likely caused due to a leak coming from her flat roof.  So, RSA arranged for a 
surveyor, who Ill refer to as B, to attend Ms Ps home and inspect the damage.
B attended on 16 July. And they found the flat roof had deteriorated due to wear and tear, 
which was likely the cause of any leak coming through that area. So, they declined the claim 
in full, as this wasnt something covered under the terms of the policy Ms P held.
Following this claim decline, Ms P arranged for the roof, and surrounding areas, to be 
repaired herself. But the water ingress remained, and Ms P made RSA aware of this in 
January 2021, explaining she was going to arrange for her own plumber to attend. In April 
2021, following excavation work through her concrete floor, a leak was detected underneath 
Ms Ps kitchen. And it was this leak that was causing the damp in her hallway. Ms P was 
unhappy that B hadnt identified this leak in July 2020, and that shed incurred unnecessary 
costs repairing her roof when the roof wasnt the cause of the leak. So, she raised a 
complaint with RSA.
Ms P wasnt happy with the service RSA and B provided. And she felt Bs failure to identify 
the correct source of the leak led to her incurring costs unnecessarily, which impacted her 
both financially and emotionally. So, she wanted to be compensated for this.
RSA responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought B had acted fairly in July 
2020 when inspecting Ms Ps home, based on the information Ms P provided during the 
claim notification. And they didnt agree that Ms P had incurred unnecessary costs when 
repairing the roof, as the roof was found to have deteriorated by B. So, RSA didnt think they 
needed to do anything more. Ms P remained unhappy with this response, so she referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought both B and RSA 
had acted fairly when declining the initial claim Ms P made, based on the information they 
had available to them at the time. And they didnt think it was likely B wouldve been able to 
identify the leak under the kitchen floor at that time, considering excavation work was 
needed in 2021. Our investigator also didnt think they had any information to show B, or 
RSA, forced Ms P into incurring costs to repair the roof. So, because of the above, our 
investigator didnt think RSA needed to do anything more.
Ms P didnt agree. And she provided extensive comments surrounding the way RSA handled 
her complaint and the delays she experienced surrounding this. Ms P maintained she 
incurred costs repairing the roof unnecessarily, based on the findings of B, and so, she 
maintained her view that she should be compensated for this and the upset it caused. As Ms 
P didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms P. I appreciate the 
damage to her hallway wouldve been worrying for her. And I recognise Ms P took out a 
home insurance policy with RSA to help assist her both practically and financially in 
situations such as the one she found herself in. So, when RSA, based on the opinion of B, 
declined her claim citing the condition of the roof and it later transpired that the roof wasnt 
the cause of the damage to her hallway, I can understand why Ms P would look at this 
decision retrospectively and feel it was unfair. And I can appreciate why Ms P would argue 
that the costs she incurred repairing her roof herself were unnecessary, as the roof wasnt 
the cause of the damage she made the claim for.
But for me to say RSA should do something more, such as cover the costs Ms P incurred 
repairing the roof or compensate her for any upset shes been caused, I first need to be 
satisfied RSA have done something wrong. So, in this situation, Id need to be satisfied that 
an error RSA made directly led to Ms P incurring unnecessary costs. Or, that RSA shouldve 
done more to locate the actual source of the leak in July 2020. And in this situation, I dont 
think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Ive been able to consider. I note Ms P has provided extensive comments 
describing her unhappiness at how RSA handled her complaint and the inconvenience and 
upset this caused her. But complaints handling is an unregulated activity as set out by the 
industry regulator and so, any complaint and concerns about the way a business handled a 
complaint falls outside of our services jurisdiction to consider. So, I wont be discussing this 
issue any further, nor has it impacted the decision Ive reached.
Instead, Ive focused on the main area of dispute, which centres around Bs inspection in 
July 2020, and the actions that were taken directly after this. Ms P feels B failed to inspect 
her home reasonably and so, failed to locate the actual source of the leak. And Ms P feels 
that if had B had completed a reasonable inspection, she wouldnt have needed to repair the 
flat roof as the flat roof wasnt the cause of the leak itself. So, Ive thought at length about the 
inspection B completed, and the information B had available to them at the time.
Ive seen from RSAs system notes that in Ms Ps initial claim notification to RSA, she stated 
her belief that the leak was likely coming from the roof. And, that the leak itself had been an 
issue for some time previous to her notification. 
I would expect RSA to use the information Ms P provided to provide some direction to B on 
exactly what B needed to inspect. And as Ms P referred to the roof, I think B were 
reasonable to consider the condition of the roof and then consider the terms of the policy Ms 
P held.
In this situation, B found that Ms Ps roof had deteriorated and needing replacing. And this roof was found directly above the damage Ms P was claiming for in her home. So, based on 
the fact Ms P felt there was water ingress into her home, and B found the roof to no longer 
be fit for purpose, I dont think I can say B were unreasonable to link the condition of the roof 
to the damage in Ms Ps home. And, as Ms Ps policy excluded a claim for damage caused 
by wear and tear, I dont think I can say B, or RSA, were unfair to decide the claim should be 
declined at this point.
But I do recognise it transpired that the damage was caused by a leak found underneath Ms 
Ps kitchen. I note this leak was found after the concrete of the floor had been excavated and 
so, I dont think this wouldve been noticeable to B when they attended in July 2020. Nor do I 
think B shouldve explored this, considering the condition of the roof and the fact the damage 
was found in the wall attached to it. So, I dont think I can say B, and so RSA, acted unfairly 
when not completing further inspection work. I also think its worth noting that RSA have 
covered the costs required to repair the leak under the kitchen as part of a separate claim.
I also dont think I can say the work Ms P paid for to repair her roof was unnecessary, or that 
the costs were incurred due to something RSA did wrong. B were the expert appointed to 
inspect the roof. And so, I think RSA were fair to rely on Bs opinion that the roof was 
damaged due to wear and tear. And as the roof was damaged due to wear and tear, I think 
its likely that Ms P would always have needed to repair the roof at some point in time, to 
ensure water ingress was prevented. And she had an obligation to do so, to ensure she met 
the conditions of the policy she held. So, I dont think I can say the repair work itself was 
unnecessary.
And even if it thought it was, Ive seen no evidence to show that either B, or RSA, forced Ms 
P into paying for this work to be completed. While I note B stated this was likely the cause of 
the leak, it was then Ms Ps own decision to instruct a builder to repair the roof. So, it was Ms 
Ps own decision to incur these costs.
So, because of all the above, I dont think I can say RSA have made an error here that 
means they should compensate Ms P or cover the costs of the repairs to her roof. And so, I 
dont think they need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ps complaint about Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman