DRN-3975355
The complaint
Ms L complains about BUPA Insurance Limiteds assessment of her dental insurance claim.
What happened
Ms L is covered by her employers dental insurance policy. She made a claim after having
composite bonds.
Bupa limited the payment to £350 as this was the maximum cover for fillings. Unhappy with
this, Ms L brought a complaint to this service. She said she hadnt had fillings.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Bupas decision to
categorise the treatment as fillings was reasonable.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 February 2023. Heres what I said:
The crux of the issue is whether it was reasonable for Bupa to categorise the treatment as
fillings, and deal with the claim on that basis.
The policy explains that fillings are covered, which includes amalgam or composite fillings.
The policys benefit table shows that Bupa will pay £350 per policy year towards fillings.
The NHS says that fillings are used to repair a cavity in a tooth caused by decay. And that
fillings can be amalgam, composite or glass ionomer. Its therefore clear that someone can
have fillings that are composite.
The dental invoice refers to Ms L as having several composite fillings. However, Bupa
contacted the dentist, and it was confirmed that Ms L had had composite bonds.
Also, the dental invoice makes it clear that Ms L had the treatment to 13 of her teeth. Given
the significant number of teeth requiring treatment, this would appear to support Ms Ls
assertion that she needed the composite bonds as her teeth were worn down and sensitive
(as opposed to having 13 cavities that needed filling).
The information provided by Bupa to this service says that composite bonding uses a type of
tooth filling resin material. Though it also says that composite bonding and composite
veneers are often used interchangeably and there is a subtle difference, but they are very
similar.
I note that Bupas own website has separate pages for composite bonding and fillings, and 
so it does seem that Bupa itself views them differently.
In all the circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable to categorise Ms Ls
treatment as being more similar to veneers than to fillings. I therefore intend to require Bupa
to deal with the claim on that basis. I understand this would be assessed under the
restorative dental treatment cover, which covers 80% of the cost of treatment (up to £2,000
per policy year).
Ms L says she thought she had a full refund policy. Though as Bupa has explained, Ms L
holds two policies with it through her employer  one is a private medical insurance policy
which is a full refund policy, and the other is this dental plan. The policy terms sent to Ms L
at renewal made clear that the dental policy was subject to benefit limits.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I reached a final 
decision.
Ms L responded and accepted my provisional findings.
Bupa responded with the following main points:
It agrees that composite fillings and composite bonding are two different treatments, 
and in principle, it agrees that composite bonding can be paid from the major 
restorative treatment benefit of 80% up to £2,000.
It processed the claim under the benefit for fillings, as the claim made was for 
composite fillings not composite bonding. It paid £350 as it had no concerns about 
the eligibility of the treatment, based on it being composite fillings. 
However, if it is to accept that the treatment was more similar to veneers, then it 
would like to establish that this was clinically necessary due to the teeth being worn 
down and sensitive, rather than for cosmetic reasons.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bupa appears to accept that composite bonding is more akin to veneers than to fillings, and 
can therefore be paid from the major restorative treatment benefit. However, if it were to 
accept this is what Ms L had, then it would like to establish that her treatment was clinically 
necessary, and not needed for cosmetic reasons. 
The policy excludes cosmetic treatment, and so I see nothing wrong with Bupa establishing 
that the treatment was needed because Ms Ls teeth were worn down and sensitive, as she 
has said. Although Id usually expect an insurer to consider all exclusions when assessing a 
claim, I appreciate that Bupa had no reason to consider this exclusion when initially dealing 
with Ms Ls claim for fillings. It is entitled to apply the remaining policy terms to the claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require BUPA Insurance Limited to deal with the claim under the major restorative dental 
treatment cover (80% up to £2,000) rather than fillings, subject to the remaining policy terms. 
It can deduct the £350 already paid from the settlement. 
Interest* should be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date Ms L paid the
invoice to the date of settlement.
If Bupa considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Ms L how much its taken off. It should also give Ms L a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman