DRN-1724084
 
The complaint
Miss A complains that Santander UK Plc won't refund a payment of £4,595 she made to a 
car dealer. She says she was the victim of a scam.  
What happened
In October 2018 Miss A wanted to buy a used car from a dealership. She says she tried to 
pay by card, but the dealer said that the card reader wasn't working. Instead, Miss A made a 
transfer from her Santander account. 
Very soon, however, Miss A found out that the car was faulty and needed repairs. She says 
she also found out that a number of other customers had had similar problems, and she 
believes the dealership was deliberately misleading customers. She says it's been 
investigated by consumer groups and the media. She and a number of other customers took 
the dealership to court and, whilst they were successful in obtaining judgment against it, that 
judgment hasn't been satisfied. 
Miss A thought that Santander, having paid her money to the dealership, should bear some 
responsibility for what had happened. Santander says it contacted the dealership's bank as 
soon as Miss A contacted it, but it had no suspicions about its customer. Santander said it 
couldn't help Miss A any further. 
Miss A referred the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. She 
explained that, since Miss A had made the payment by bank transfer, Santander had no 
further responsibility for the dealership's actions. Miss A didn't agree and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I have however reached the same overall 
conclusion as the investigator did, and for similar reasons. 
Miss A hasn't suggested here that she didn't make the payment; that is, she authorised 
Santander to make a transfer from her account to the dealership's bank, which then applied 
it to its customer's account. That was her instruction, and Santander followed it. There was 
nothing suspicious or unusual about the payment; had Santander queried it with Miss A at 
the time, she would no doubt have confirmed it as genuine - which of course it was.
As the investigator explained, customers generally have additional protections if they pay by 
credit or debit card, but that doesn't assist Miss A because she paid by direct transfer. 
Santander wasn't responsible for that and can't properly be held responsible for any faults 
Miss A may have found with the car. 
My final decisionFor these reasons, my final decision is that I don't require Santander UK Plc to take any 
further steps to resolve Miss A's complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept or reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman