DRN-3883177
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank lent to him 
irresponsibly. 
What happened
In March 2017 Mr S applied for a credit card account with Tesco. Tesco approved the 
application and gave Mr S an initial credit limit of £250. The credit limit was increased to 
£600 in December 2017.
Mr S complained that Tesco had lent to him irresponsibly. Tesco didnt uphold the complaint, 
so Mr S complained to this service.
Our investigator reviewed everything. He thought that the decision to approve the application 
and give Mr S an account with a credit limit of £250 was fair but said that Tesco hadnt 
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before approving the credit limit increase.
Tesco didnt respond to the investigators view so the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable 
lending, including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice, on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mr Ss complaint.
Tesco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this meant it shouldve carried out reasonable and proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could afford to repay what was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of things such as how much was being lent, the repayment amount, 
Mr Ss borrowing history and his income and expenditure.
Account opening
I think Tesco carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before opening the account. It 
reviewed Mr Ss credit file and gathered information about his income and existing credit 
commitments. I dont think the information gathered would have given cause for concern. 
The credit checks showed that Mr S had two CCJs and 4 historic defaults, the last one 
being over 45 months prior to the application. The checks also showed that Mr S had 7 
active credit accounts, none of which were in arrears. The other checks carried out by Tesco 
showed that Mr S had gross annual income of around £19,000. 
I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Tesco to complete any further checks before 
opening the account. The information gathered showed that a credit limit of £250 was likely 
to be affordable for Mr S. This is because the credit checks showed no evidence of financial 
difficulties.
Credit limit increase
Tesco has explained that it checked Mr Ss credit file and considered the information it 
already held about his income before it approved the credit limit increase.
Because the credit limit increase was increased by £350 to £600, which is significant in 
proportion to Mr Ss income, I think it wouldve been proportionate if, in addition to the 
checks already carried out, Tesco had carried out further checks to find out more about Mr 
Ss income and expenditure, including other credit commitments at the time.
Because of this, Ive looked at Mr Ss bank statements for the 3 months preceding the credit 
limit increase. The statements show that Mr Ss monthly income was around £1699 with 
essential expenditure of around £2063. I can see that he was making monthly repayments to 
several other credit providers. The statements show that Mr S had borrowed money from 
high cost lenders. Had Tesco looked at this information, it wouldve seen that Mr S was 
reliant on borrowing  including high cost borrowing  and that further borrowing was unlikely 
to be sustainable. Tesco would also have seen that Mr Ss expenditure exceeded this 
income and that the additional credit was unlikely to be affordable.
I think that reasonable and proportionate checks wouldve shown that Mr S was struggling 
financially and would be able to make repayments sustainably Im therefore of the view that 
the credit limit increase was lent irresponsibly.
Putting things right
Because I dont think Tesco shouldve increased the credit limit above £250, I dont think its 
fair for Mr S to pay any interest or charges on balances exceeding that limit.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank must:
Rework the account removing all interest fees and charges applied to balances over £250
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr S plus 8% simple 
interest per year calculated from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement.* In 
addition, any adverse information relating to the agreement must be removed from Mr Ss 
credit file.
If after the rework there is an outstanding balance, Tesco must arrange an affordable 
repayment plan with Mr S. Once Mr S has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse 
information relating to the agreement must be removed from Mr Ss credit file.
*HMRC requires Tesco to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much tax has been deducted if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 February 2023.
 Emma Davy
Ombudsman