DRN-4274567
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Domestic & General Insurance Plc (D&G) didnt agree to 
replace a TV it had arranged as a replacement for a damaged one under her Appliance 
Insurance policy. 
What happened
Miss W had extended warranty cover under an appliance insurance policy with D&G. 
In August 2022 she made a claim for a damaged TV that was out of warranty. D&G arranged 
for the TV to be replaced with a new one. 
Miss W contacted D&G in September 2022 to say that the new TV was faulty. D&G told Miss 
W she would need to contact the manufacturer. 
Miss W came back to D&G about a month later as she hadnt been able to make any 
progress with the manufacturer. She contacted D&G again to ask for proof of purchase, 
which D&G provided. 
D&G explained that as the new TV was within the manufacturers warranty, any fault with the 
TV wouldnt be covered under the policy. 
Miss W raised a complaint with D&G but it didnt uphold it. So she asked us to look at her 
complaint. 
Our Investigator thought D&G was responsible for ensuring the replacement product 
provided was fit for purpose. He recommended D&G pay Miss W £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused in having to go back and forth to D&G and the 
manufacturer. He recommended D&G deal with the supplier to arrange for Miss W to have a 
working replacement TV. 
D&G didnt agree. It says Miss W didnt purchase the product from D&G, but from the 
manufacturer. D&G isnt a retailer and therefore any issues Miss W has with the product 
being faulty should be referred to the manufacturer and or retailer for the product. 
D&G says it has acted correctly and in line with the policy. From the outset it has assisted 
Miss W, it has liaised with the manufacturer and provided proof of purchase so that Miss W 
can contact the manufacturer about a fault. 
So as D&G disagree, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute that Miss W made a valid claim in August 2022 and this is accepted by 
D&G. 
D&G provided a replacement product in line with the terms of the policy, but this product was 
faulty. And so I think it is for D&G to have liaised with the manufacturer of the product to 
ensure it fulfilled its duty in providing a working replacement for Miss W. 
This means Im upholding Miss Ws complaint in line with the Investigators view. For the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Miss W in having to contact both the manufacturer 
and D&G- while living with an ongoing faulty product - I think D&G should pay £250 
compensation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require D&G to do the following:
ensure Miss W is provided with a working replacement TV in line with the policy. It 
needs to liaise with the manufacturer. 
Pay Miss W £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Domestic & General Insurance Plc must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Miss W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a 
simple rate of 8% a year
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman