DRN-3029489
The complaint
Mr S complains about the service he received from Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money.
What happened
Mr S has a Virgin Money credit card account. He noticed a transaction on his statements he 
didnt recognise and notified Virgin Money. Mr S was unhappy a fraud claim wasnt raised so 
he asked our service for an independent review.  
The investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She recommended Virgin Money 
raise a fraud claim and pay Mr S compensation. Both parties accepted this, but as it was 
now too late for a fraud claim Virgin Money agreed to refund the disputed transaction. 
A couple of weeks later Mr S called Virgin Money to make a fraud claim. This didnt go well, 
so Mr S complained to Virgin Money. It recognised the call could have gone better so it paid 
Mr S £50 compensation. Virgin Money had by this point refunded the disputed transaction 
but had accidentally re-debited it. Our service was asked to conduct a further review.
The investigator concluded, in summary, that:
- There had been no need for Mr S to call Virgin Money to make a fraud claim;
- Nonetheless, the call didnt go well and lasted longer than it needed to;
- The refund re-debiting issue was later rectified, but would have been an added 
frustration for Mr S. 
In her view a fair resolution to the complaint was for Virgin Money to pay Mr S £100 
compensation, rather than the £50 he had already been paid.
Mr S didnt agree as he felt more compensation was appropriate. Virgin Money didnt agree 
as it felt £50 was enough. As an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of the previous complaint it was agreed Virgin Money would refund the disputed 
transaction rather than raise a fraud claim. There appears to have been some confusion on 
Mr S part regarding this which led to him calling Virgin Money. I accept the call didnt go 
well. But Virgin Money has recognised this, apologised, and provided compensation. 
Virgin Money refunded the disputed transaction as it agreed to. Unfortunately, the refund 
was re-debited in error. This was later rectified. However, given what had gone before, I can 
understand how this would have been a further source of frustration for Mr S.
 
Looking at everything in the round, I consider the investigators recommendation for 
Virgin Money to pay Mr S a further £50 compensation to be a fair and reasonable resolution 
to this complaint.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money should pay Mr S a further £50 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money to pay Mr S 
a further £50 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 March 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman