DRN-3471949
The complaint
Miss B complains that Contis Financial Services Limited failed to refund transactions she 
didnt recognise and misspelled contact details.
What happened
 Miss B noticed that her card was missing and informed Contis about it. Miss B believed it 
was taken by a person (who Ill refer to as G) who was a close family member and had 
access to her house and knew the Personal Identification Number (PIN) of her card.
Miss B also reported the theft to the police resulting in an arrest of the individual. Miss B 
explained to Contis that G could have obtained the card and PIN because he used to 
accompany her when she used the card and observed her using the PIN. Miss B explained 
that a set of her house keys were missing, and she believed this was how G had obtained 
her card.
Contis looked into the transactions and declined to refund Miss B because the majority of the 
transactions were made using the genuine card and PIN. Miss B made a complaint to Contis 
about their handling of the situation who again looked into the matter but didnt change their 
position. Contis told Miss B that shed breached the terms and conditions of her agreement 
because she hadnt kept her card and PIN secure. 
Miss B remained unhappy with Contis and brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for an independent review. It was looked into by one of our 
investigators who asked both parties for information about the complaint. Miss B repeated 
what she believed had happened and provided details of the police officers involved in the 
loss of her card. Miss B also explained that G had texted her on the day she noticed the card 
was missing. G said he had it and was bringing it back to her. Miss B also believed Contis 
hadnt updated her account with the correct contact details.
Contis provided information about their communications with Miss B. They continued to 
believe that Miss B had breached her agreement.
Our investigator didnt think that Miss B had authorised the payments or that she was in 
breach of her terms (grossly negligent) and upheld her complaint. He recommended that 
Contis repay the disputed transactions, including a payment for interest and £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused to Miss B.
Contis disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review the complaint and stated they 
would provide further commentary about their position. Contis accepted that theyd 
misspelled Miss Bs email address.
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision. I asked both parties for further 
information about the complaint. Miss B was unable to provide details of the texts she 
mentioned because shed since changed her phone and they were no longer available. I 
asked Contis to provide details of the authentication data related to the disputed transactions 
which theyve now provided. Contis didnt provide any further information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) require an account holder to follow the 
terms of their account so long as theyre reasonable. Here, Contis have relied on the section 
of the PSRs that allow them to deny Miss B a refund because she was grossly negligent 
when her card was taken. They believe that she was in breach of the agreement she signed 
regarding the following para (16) of the terms and conditions:
You must keep your card and security credentials safe and not let anyone else know or use 
them. Therefore, you must keep your card safe and not let anyone else use it. You must keep 
your PIN secret at all times; never disclose your PIN or security information to anyone.
Contis believe that because Miss Bs card was taken by another person (G) who also 
obtained the PIN from their previous relationship  this meets the criteria of their agreement.
Gross negligence is a high bar and would require Miss B to have done something that fell far 
below the standard expected of a reasonable person. Miss B explained that G gained 
access to her home without permission, took the card without her authorisation and had 
opportunity to acquire the PIN because theyd accompanied Miss B on numerous trips when 
shed used her card and PIN. 
As far as I can see here, Miss B was the victim of a theft of her card by someone she 
previously trusted. Theres no evidence that Miss B gave this person either the card or the 
PIN and Contis havent been able to show Miss B acted in any way that can be considered 
grossly negligent. I dont think the approach theyve taken here is either fair or reasonable. 
Just because Miss B had her card stolen by someone who was able to acquire the PIN 
through an earlier relationship - doesnt mean that Contis are entitled to deny her a refund 
based on section 16 of their agreement. Im satisfied this doesnt meet the criteria for gross 
negligence.
The PSRs define how a payment can be authorised and Contis can only hold Miss B liable if 
they have sufficient evidence to believe she gave her consent to the payments. As Contis 
believed Miss B was grossly negligent, it follows that they thought Miss B wasnt responsible 
for the transactions herself. I agree that the evidence shows Miss B wasnt responsible for 
giving her consent to the disputed transactions, so theyre considered unauthorised. And 
because I dont think she was grossly negligent either  Miss B is due a refund.
There were a number of transactions that are classed as distance contracts and the PSRs 
specifically exclude the payment service provider  here Contis, from declining a refund 
unless they believe the account user was fraudulently involved in them. Theres no 
suggestion that Contis thought Miss B was involved, so they should have refunded those 
distance contracts at the time Miss B made her claim to them.
Overall, Im satisfied that Miss B wasnt grossly negligent, nor do I think she authorised these 
transactions, so Contis are required to refund her the disputed transactions. Contis accepted 
that there was an administrative error when they misspelt Miss Bs email address and this 
prevented her from receiving communications by email from Contis. I havent seen any 
evidence that this error led to further losses for Miss B.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, Contis are required to refund the disputed transactions to Miss B, 
which were set out in the investigators outcome totalling £959.26, pay 8% simple interest 
from the date of the transactions until the date theyre repaid. Also to pay Miss B £100 for 
the additional stress and inconvenience of their handling of the complaint and the impact it 
had on her.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Contis Financial Services Limited are 
instructed to settle it as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman