DRN-3152160
The complaint
  This complaint is about an application made by P  a limited company  to re-mortgage a 
commercial property on new terms with Shawbrook Bank Limited. Ps director, Ms H, is 
unhappy at the time it took, plus the fact that Shawbrook wouldnt use a recent valuation she 
had obtained from a business Ill call A. Instead it commissioned its own valuation, which 
was lower, and resulted in Ps new mortgage being set at a higher interest rate than would 
have applied if As valuation had been accepted.
What Ive decided  and why
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the following conclusions.
Im satisfied Shawbrook could have used Ps existing valuation; the valuer, A, had been on 
temporary suspension from Shawbrooks panel, but that ended in time for As valuation to be 
accepted for underwriting Ps new mortgage. Shawbrook had separately agreed to lend on 
market value rather than its usual vacant possession basis. Had it used As valuation, the 
figure would have been £700,000 rather than £655,000, meaning P would have qualified for 
a rate of 5.0%, rather than 5.1%.
Im also satisfied, from looking at everything that happened, that this application took longer 
than it needed to. Mortgage underwriting may not be an exact science, but here, the case 
took four months to complete, when in my view two months would have been reasonable. 
That delay, which is attributable to Shawbrook, meant P paid interest on its old mortgage 
rate at 6.75% when it could have been paying the new rate of 5.0% (not 5.1%) on the new 
mortgage two months sooner.
The delay also caused inconvenience and disruption to P, as has the delay in Shawbrooks 
responding to our investigators enquiries. Not only did the re-mortgage take longer than 
necessary; our complaint investigation has too. My award of compensation reflects both of 
those factors.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part by ordering Shawbrook Limited to:
re-work the new mortgage from inception on the basis that it was lent at 5.0% rather than 
5.1%, amend the mortgage payments going forward and refund to P the overpayments 
made from inception up to the settlement date;
pay to P interest on the refunded overpayments at 8% simple per annum, from the date 
each individual overpayment was made up to the settlement date; 
calculate and refund to P two months interest on the closing mortgage balance at 2.75% 
(the difference between the old rate and the revised new rate);
pay P interest on the refunded interest at 8% simple per annum from the respective 
dates of the final two payments on the old mortgage up to the settlement date; and
pay P £200 total compensation.
I make no other order or award. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman