DRN-3922790
The complaint
Miss S complains that Phoenix Life Limited caused delays in the transfer of her personal 
pension to another pension provider.
What happened
Miss S complaint was considered by one of our investigators. He sent his assessment of it 
to both parties in November 2022. The background and circumstances to the complaint were 
set out in that assessment. But to recap, Phoenix Life received letters requesting transfer 
and policy information from the potential new pension provider on 12 January 2022 (I will 
refer to it as Provider A). The letter was passed on to one of Phoenix Lifes other offices on 2 
February 2022, where it was noted that Miss S signature on the letter of authority didnt 
match the signature it had on file. It therefore sent a letter back to Provider A asking for 
further identification on 7 February 2022.
Miss S called Phoenix Life on 22 February 2022 to complain about the time it was taking to 
complete the transfer. She e-mailed Phoenix Life the identification it required on the same 
day. Phoenix Life sent the transfer quote and policy information to Provider A (again on the 
same day), and sent a copy to Miss S.
Provider A received this information on 28 February 2022. And it sent a transfer pack to Miss 
S on 9 March 2022. 
Phoenix Life responded to Miss S complaint on 3 March 2022. It acknowledged it had 
caused unnecessary delays in passing on Provider As letter between its offices. And it 
offered Miss S £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Miss S made a further complaint to Phoenix Life in April 2022. She was unhappy that a 
market value reduction (MVR) would apply to the transfer value. 
Phoenix Life processed the transfer request paperwork in June 2022 on the day it was 
received. £43,425 was transferred to Provider A. A letter was sent to Miss S in July 2022 
saying that an MVR of £2,382 had been applied to the transfer value. 
Phoenix Life subsequently responded to Miss S complaint saying it thought the MVR had 
been applied correctly. Miss S referred the matter to us. 
Our investigator explained that our role, where it was identified that a firm had made an 
error, was to try and put the complainant, as far as possible, back into the position that they 
would have been in had the error not occurred. 
The investigator said he thought there had been a seven working day delay for Phoenix Life 
to pass on the letter it had received from Provider A on 12 January 2022. However he didnt 
identify any further delays caused by Phoenix Life. So he thought Phoenix Life should 
calculate whether Miss S had lost out by comparing the relative positions assuming the 
transfer had taken place seven working days earlier.
Miss S didnt agree with the investigators findings. She said, in summary, that she couldnt 
understand why it would take so long to transfer a straightforward policy. She said her 
original instruction had been made in December 2021. And as the industry standard was 30-
40 days for a pension transfer, it should have been done by the end of January (2021). 
Miss S said when she asked to transfer the funds she was told no MVR would be applied to 
the plan. And it was due to the delays and mismanagement of both pension providers that 
she was subject to the MVR  nearly 5% of the value of the plan. Miss S said the providers 
used the Origo transfer system which was supposed to be more efficient. She was told by 
Phoenix Life it would be possible to complete the transfer in 10 days  and a friend had 
transferred her funds within seven days. Miss S didnt think the £50 compensation was 
enough given her loss was over £2,000.
The investigator responded to the points made by Miss S. He said, in summary, that 
although the transfer took longer than it should have done he thought Phoenix Life were only 
responsible for delaying the transfer by seven days, and therefore thought the £50 
compensation reflected that. 
The investigator said some of the reasons for the time taken to transfer werent the 
responsibility of either provider. For example Miss S had been sent a transfer pack by e-mail 
on 9 March and 12 April 2022. And by letter on 9 May 2022. However Provider A hadnt 
received the completed transfer application form back until 27 May 2022. 
The investigator also noted Miss S signature on the letter of authority hadnt matched the 
signature on Phoenix Lifes records. So Phoenix Life had caried out further checks as a 
result. The investigator said the Origo system had only started once the completed transfer 
forms had been received - the request had been placed on 10 June 2022.
The investigator contacted Miss S again to say that Phoenix Life had agreed to 
compensate her for any financial loss she had suffered as a result of its seven-day delay. It 
said it would pay the difference in the transfer values had the transfer taken place on 1 June 
2022. The transfer value at that date was £43,550.11, compared to the value transferred 
which was £43,425.87. And that it would pay 8 percent interest per annum on the difference 
in line with what our service would recommend. The investigator said he thought that was a 
fair offer. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators findings. She said it seemed three fundamental issues 
had been ignored:
She had instructed the transfer in December 2021  not June 2022
She had been advised there would be no MVR  but now there was a huge bill
She was over £2,000 out of pocket due to the negligence of the two pension 
providers involved in the transfer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for the same 
reasons.
Section 228 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 requires that the ombudsman determines a complaint by what is, in the opinion of the ombudsman, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the case.
I understand Miss S position on the transfer as it took a lot longer than it can ordinarily take. 
However the time taken for every transfer will depend on the particular circumstances 
surrounding it. And as Ive said, Im required to consider all the circumstances to decide 
whats fair and reasonable.
Pension providers are expected to process requests to transfer in a timely manner. But it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable to hold pension providers responsible for delays that are 
outside of their own control, and where they have acted reasonably but a particular set of 
circumstances has resulted in delays.
The investigator set out the circumstances of the transfer in his assessment of the complaint 
as Ive summarised above. Like the investigator, I think Phoenix Lifes failure was its delay in 
passing on the letter it had received from Provider A on 12 January 2022 to its other office 
and requesting further identification documentation. I dont think it was unreasonable for it to 
require further identification - only the time it took to request it. And it has offered appropriate 
compensation to reflect that delay. 
I recognise that Miss S first started the process to transfer in December 2021 and may have 
been told that there was no MVR at that time or shortly after. The transfer did take longer 
than would ordinarily be expected. But I think this was a result of the particular 
circumstances surrounding the transfer and as the investigator explained, some of the 
reasons for the time taken were outside of Phoenix Lifes control  Phoenix Life wasnt 
responsible for them. So although the transfer value was over £2,000 lower, I dont think 
Miss S losses flow from errors made by Phoenix Life. 
So taking all the above into account, I think its reasonable for Phoenix Life to compare the 
transfer values at the dates suggested and pay Miss S the difference.  I appreciate this will 
be very disappointing to Miss S as its only a fraction of what the transfer value has fallen by 
since she started the process to transfer. However for the reasons Ive explained above, Im 
required to consider all the circumstances of a case. And in my opinion although Phoenix 
Life did cause a delay it was only responsible for a limited period.
My final decision
My final decision is that Phoenix Life Limited should pay Miss S the difference between the 
two transfer values (as at 1 June 2022 and the value transferred) plus add 8% simple 
interest per annum to the difference where the 1 June 2022 is higher from 1 June 2022 to 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman