DRN-4131400
The complaint
X complains about how Nelson Insurance Company Limited (Nelson) has handled a claim 
under his motor insurance policy. When I refer to Nelson I also mean its suppliers and claims 
investigators.
What happened
X had a motor insurance policy with Nelson covering his car, which was used for his private 
hire business.
On 29 March 2022 X says he used his car several times during the day and parked it at his 
home at 10pm.
About an hour later, the car was taken from his drive and the loss was discovered by X the 
following morning.
He made a claim from Nelson. It asked for evidence of Xs loss, which included two sets of 
keys for the car. One set of keys was in a good condition, the second set were very badly 
damaged. X told Nelson hed driven over the second set of keys some time ago.
Nelson used a specialist forensic company to analyse the keys. It reported that it thought the 
key had been destroyed by hitting it with a hammer or screwdriver. It provided evidence that 
a car could not have caused the damage by driving over it. It also extracted data from the 
first key and said it showed the car had been driven, using this first key, at about 2.38pm but 
not later.
Nelson asked X about this. X maintained that hed driven the car during the day, with his last 
journey ending at about 10pm. Nelson said Xs evidence would mean the key would report a 
last journey of 10pm, and another record would also be on the key of his previous journey at 
about 8pm.
Nelson said it wanted X to explain the events thatd happened, and the discrepancy with the 
key times, before it would continue with the claim.
X was unhappy about Nelsons handling of his claim and he brought his complaint to this 
service. He wants Nelson to settle his claim by paying for the loss of his car.
Our investigator looked into his complaint and said she didnt think Nelson had acted fairly. 
She referred to ICOBS 8.1.1 which says that Nelson should handle claims promptly and 
fairly and she didnt think it had acted fairly. She thought Nelson should pay X £300 for the 
delays it had caused, and said that Nelson should assess Xs claim on the information it had 
and provide X with a decision about it.
Nelson didnt respond to the view, so Xs complaint has been passed to me to make a final 
decision.
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
I asked Nelson to make a decision about whether it would cover Xs claim, or not, which was 
the central part of Xs complaint to this service.
Nelson then said that it wouldnt pay Xs claim without him supplying further information 
about how the key was damaged or if he had another explanation about the way his key or 
keys had been used. 
From the evidence I have, X hasnt altered or added to his version of events.
Ive read the file of evidence carefully and having done so Im intending to uphold Xs claim 
in part. But its important that I say that Im not upholding the main part of his complaint, his 
claim for the theft of his car. I know this will be a significant disappointment to X and Ill 
explain why Im making this decision.
I also need to say that Im issuing this as a provisional decision. This is because my findings 
are different from our investigators in that Ive gone further and included the decision about 
the theft of the car rather than the distress and inconvenience caused to X by Nelsons 
service. 
By issuing this provisional decision Im asking both parties to present further information for 
consideration, should they wish, so I can write a final decision in due course.
Nelson has said in its evidence to this service that it doesnt dispute that a theft occurred, but 
it thinks that Xs version of events doesnt match with the evidence from its forensic key 
experts. 
Ive read the forensic key report carefully. The working key, which X says is the only working 
one, contains memory showing that it was last used during the day at 2.38pm, which is 
consistent with the timings given by X. But he maintains that he used the car a few times 
later on  and the key does not contain records of those journeys. The report says the keys 
are very reliable and its very unlikely that it failed to record all of those later journeys. 
The report also examines the second key and says that it could not have been destroyed as 
X said. Instead, the key showed evidence that itd been destroyed by being hit with a tool.
Its these inconsistencies that Nelson has used to repudiate Xs claim. 
By using an expert like a forensic key company to examine the circumstances around this 
claim I think Nelson has acted reasonably. I must give due weight to the expert report, so I 
think Nelson has acted fairly in rejecting Xs claim, unless hes able to provide more 
information about the key damage and use of the car.
I can see from the file that Nelsons expert recommended that it decline Xs claim in July 
2022. Xs loss was significant as the car was his business, but Nelson didnt engage with X 
well over a significant period of time. Nelson said to X that it needed more information about 
what had happened, given the contents of its key forensic report, but it didnt reject his claim 
or help him understand what it actually needed. 
So I think its fair to say that Nelsons claims service wasnt as good as it could have been 
and X has been left waiting for a long period of time for it to make a decision. Ive thought 
about his distress and inconvenience and I think £300 is appropriate and in line with this 
services recommendations.
Responses to my provisional decisionNelson agreed with my provisional decision. X responded and said he was having an expert 
look at the forensic report. He hasnt sent any further information to this service.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As X didnt respond further and because Nelson agreed with my provisional decision, my 
final decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Nelson Insurance Company 
Limited to pay X £300 for his distress and inconvenience from its poor handling of his claim. 
But I dont require it to do anything more.
Nelson Insurance Company Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it X accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest 
on the amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 June 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman