DRN-3227603
The complaint
A company that Ill refer to as S has complained that Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly turned 
down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by the Covid-19 
pandemic. 
Mrs D, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf. 
What happened
S held a business protection insurance policy with Aviva. S claimed on its policy after its 
business was forced to close by the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Aviva turned down Ss claim as they didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to property. 
They added, that while Ss policy covers a list of specified diseases, Covid-19 isnt one of the 
diseases covered. 
Unhappy with Avivas response, S brought its complaint to our service. It said Covid-19 was 
a notifiable disease and so should be covered under a number of sections of the policy. 
Our investigator looked into Ss complaint but didnt think it should be upheld as she didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
S disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In particular it thought there was cover 
under the core business interruption section as well as the extensions for prevention of 
access, loss off attraction and disease, infestation and defective sanitation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an
impact on Ss business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but
different policies provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in the 
policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see if 
Aviva have acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Ss claim. 
Business interruption
The core business interruption section of the policy says:
We will indemnify You in respect of loss of Income resulting from Damage to 
Property Insured Used by You at The Premises for the purpose of The Business to 
the extent of Cover under the Property Damage Section and where liability is 
admitted under a policy of insurance covering Your interest in such Property 
Insured.
The policy defines damage as:
Loss, destruction or damage
For this section to provide cover Ss loss of income would need to result from loss, 
destruction or damage to property used by S at its premises. I havent seen anything to 
indicate that Covid-19 damaged property at Ss premises, so this doesnt provide cover for 
its claim.
Prevention of access and loss of attraction
Cover under the policy is extended through various extensions. Both the extensions for 
prevention of access and loss attraction require the loss of income to be as a result of 
damage to property in the vicinity of Ss premises. I havent seen anything to indicate that 
Covid-19 caused damage to property in Ss vicinity. Therefore, these extensions dont cover 
Ss claim.  
Disease, infestation and defective sanitation
The most relevant part of this extension provides cover for loss of income due to an 
occurrence of a specified disease at Ss premises. Covid-19 isnt one of the specified 
diseases. 
Given Covid-19 wasnt in existence at the time the policy was entered into, I wouldnt expect
it to be included in the list of diseases. But there are similar policies on the market that 
provide cover in the circumstances of the pandemic, e.g. policies which cover all notifiable 
diseases as set out and updated on a Government-defined list. Ss policy is not like this  it 
sets out a defined list of the diseases which are covered. And there is nothing in the wording 
of the policy which implies it would provide cover for any new diseases which might emerge. 
So, I dont think the policy can fairly be read as covering all and any new diseases and 
therefore this doesnt provide cover for Ss claim.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require Aviva to pay Ss claim. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman