DRN-4092000
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited (Reassure) caused a delay in the switching of his 
pension to another provider and that he wasnt able to access his online account with it 
during this time, causing him a financial loss. 
What happened
On 16 December 2021, ReAssure received a request to switch Mr Bs pension to another 
provider, which Ill call the receiving scheme. And the next day it started the transfer process, 
with a transfer value of £358,127.04 that was effective as of 16 December 2021. 
On 27 January 2022, after asking ReAssure for an update on a few occasions, Mr B raised 
his complaint with it, unhappy with the time the switch was taking. He asked what had 
happened to his pension and why he hadnt been able to access it online since making his 
request. The next day, on 28 January 2022, ReAssure released the £358,127.04 transfer 
payment. Mr Bs receiving scheme received this on 2 February 2022 and he went on to 
invest this in a range of funds between February 2022 and April 2022. 
In March 2022, ReAssure sent Mr B its final response letter. It said, in summary, that a 
payment system error caused the delay. And that it would carry out a calculation to see if 
this had caused Mr B a financial loss. ReAssure also apologised and offered Mr B £175 
compensation for the inconvenience caused to him. 
In June 2022, as Mr B hadnt heard anything further from ReAssure, he brought his 
complaint to our Service. He said this pension is a significant proportion of his savings and 
he couldnt check if this was still there as hed been denied access to his account. And that 
ReAssure couldnt provide a satisfactory answer about what happened. Mr B said his fund 
wasnt able to benefit from growth during this time and that hed like adequate compensation 
for the distress caused. He said hed like accountability, that hes concerned about deliberate 
wrongdoing and that this should serve as a deterrent for ReAssure. 
Since doing so, ReAssure carried out a redress calculation and said Mr B hadnt 
experienced a financial loss as a result of the delay.
One of our Investigators looked into it and said that further explanation about what led to the 
delay wasnt necessary, as ReAssure doesnt dispute that it caused this. And that ReAssure 
carried out a calculation in the way wed expect and using relevant dates, which shows Mr B 
hasnt experienced a financial loss. She said it was fair for ReAssure to take into account 
what Mr B went on to invest in following the switch when doing so. And that the £175 in 
compensation it has offered him is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr B didnt agree adding, in summary, that ReAssures explanation that a system error 
caused the delay is meaningless and it should provide details of the cause, who was 
responsible and actions taken to prevent recurrence. Mr B said that, as the transfer value 
secured on 16 December 2021 was the same as that paid to his receiving scheme on        
28 January 2022, this means his fund wasnt invested during this time and that hes lost out 
on growth. And that hed like details of our methodology used to say ReAssures offer of 
£175 is fair, as he thinks this amount is derisory. 
So the complaints been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not asking ReAssure to do any more than it has offered, for largely the 
same reasons as our Investigator. 
ReAssures said a payment system error caused the delay in switching Mr Bs pension.         
I appreciate Mr B would like to know the nature and cause of this, but the role of our Service 
is to provide an informal resolution service as an alternative to the courts. And I dont think 
those explanations are necessary for me to reach a fair and reasonable outcome on his 
complaint, given ReAssure has accepted responsibility for the delay. Instead Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the outstanding issue of whether ReAssure has done enough to put 
things right.
In doing so, Id expect ReAssure to place Mr B, as far as possible, in the position he would 
likely have been if the delay hadnt occurred. I think this would mean ReAssure considering if 
Mr Bs experienced a financial loss to his pension as a result of the delays. But Im satisfied 
it has already done this in the way I would expect, for the following reasons.
ReAssure has told us it had all the requirements it needed to start the transfer process on  
16 December 2021 and that it did so the next day. And that, as it has a service standard of 
processing transfers within ten working days, this means it ought to have made the payment 
to Mr Bs receiving scheme by 31 December 2021 instead of 28 January 2022. These are 
turnaround timeframes Id expect to see in a case such as this and, overall, I think this is fair 
here. 
ReAssure has shown that the transfer value of Mr Bs fund wasnt impacted by the payment 
being delayed to 28 January 2022 though, as it still achieved the value it should have 
effective as of 16 December 2021. This means Mr B hasnt lost out in respect of this as a 
result of ReAssures delay.
Mr Bs frustrated he couldnt access his online account to be able to change investments 
during this time. But ReAssure has explained that Mr B wouldnt have been able to do so 
while his switch request was being actioned. And I wouldnt expect Mr B to have been able 
to change his investments while the switch was ongoing, as it appears to have been a cash 
transfer  as opposed to an in species transfer where funds remain invested  which 
involves selling down investments in order for this to be transferred. 
Mr Bs also concerned hes lost out on growth on his fund value during the period of delay. 
And I appreciate that if it hadnt been for this he would have been able to re-invest his fund in 
the way he wanted with his receiving scheme sooner than he did. But, as Ive said above,     
I think ReAssure has already fairly considered this. I can see it obtained information from   
Mr Bs receiving scheme which showed how and when he invested his fund following the 
switch, along with the units achieved. It then compared this to the position Mr B would have 
been in had he made these investments in the same timescales he did following the transfer, 
but from 31 December 2021 instead in the way he would have been able to if everything had 
happened as it should have. And this shows Mr B hasnt incurred a financial loss. I think ReAssure acted fairly by taking into account what Mr B invested in following the 
switch for the purposes of its calculation. While Mr Bs said ReAssure has no way of knowing 
what investment decisions hed have made if there hadnt been a delay, the delay period 
was just under a month and I think that what Mr B did go on to invest in following the switch 
is a fair and reasonable indication of what hes likely to have done in that case. And I note  
Mr B hasnt actually said, or provided evidence showing, he would have acted differently. 
Mr B would like ReAssure to be held accountable for its error, but were not here to regulate 
or punish the business  thats the role of the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority). 
Ive considered what I think is a fair and reasonable compensation, overall, in all the 
circumstances of this complaint, rather than by reference to a specific methodology. When 
doing so, Ive taken into account that ReAssure made an error, causing just under a months 
delay as well as worry and frustration for Mr B. And that it could have provided Mr B with 
better customer service at times, as he had to chase it on a few occasions. That being said, 
ReAssure has already recognised this, apologised to Mr B and offered him compensation. 
And I think the £175 it has offered is a fair and reasonable amount in all the circumstances to 
make up for whats happened. 
For the reasons Ive given, Im not asking ReAssure to do anything more.
My final decision
ReAssure Limited has already made an offer to pay Mr B £175 in compensation to settle the 
complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances. So, for the reasons Ive given, my 
final decision is that it should pay Mr B this, if it hasnt already. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Holly Jackson
Ombudsman