DRN-3663103
The complaint
Mr S complains that Halifax refused requests to withdraw funds held in a passbook account 
since 1992. Mr S also complains about the service provided by Halifax. 
What happened
Mr S has told us that during the lockdown his parents found a passbook. It showed Mr S had 
a savings account with a building society that was later acquired by the same group of 
businesses as Halifax. The passbook was issued in September 1992 and transactions were 
recorded until early December 1992, at which point there was £100 in the account. 
Halifax undertook a search of its records and dormant accounts to see if Mr S account 
remained open. Halifax confirmed there was no trace of the account in question remaining 
open or being made dormant on its systems. 
Mr S complained but Halifax confirmed its view that there was no open account. An 
investigator at this service looked at Mr S complaint and thought Halifax had dealt with it 
fairly. Mr S asked to appeal, so his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see how strongly Mr S feels in this matter and that he believes he has a passbook with 
no obvious mark to show the account was closed. I understand its Mr S view that the funds 
should still be available, but that isnt always the case. 
Whilst the passbook was the main point of record, accounts of this nature could be used 
without them being present in certain circumstances. Banks and building societies didnt 
generally deny a customer access to their account just because they didnt have a 
passbook. So there were procedures in place that allowed customers to make deposits or 
withdrawals without the passbook being present. And there were other procedures that 
allowed lost or stolen passbooks to be replaced. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but retaining 
the physical passbook doesnt automatically mean the savings account remained open. 
In situations like this Id expect the business to show it had carried out reasonable attempts 
to locate the account. Halifax has sent us evidence to show it searched its records along 
with the dormant account register using Mr S personal details. If the account had remained 
open, Id expect there to be some record of it with Halifax. Even if the account had been 
made dormant, it would have been added to Halifaxs dormant account records. Halifax was 
unable to find an open savings account that matches the information hes provided. And 
theres no evidence that Mr S account was made dormant either. 
Businesses dont keep information indefinitely. Halifaxs final response explains that in 1992, 
when the last notation was made in the passbook, it was required to keep information for 10 
years. Im sorry to disappoint Mr S as I can see how strongly he feels about this point. But 
Im satisfied Halifax doesnt have records relating to an open or dormant account in his 
name. 
Having looked at everything, Im satisfied Halifax has searched its records for this account. 
And Im satisfied its more likely than not the account was closed. Its unfortunate, but not 
unexpected, that after 29 years Halifax doesnt have any records to show what happened. 
Whilst I can understand this is frustrating for Mr S, Im not telling Halifax to take further 
action.
Mr S has also told us branch staff said hed been sent a letter advising his money had been 
given to charity. But Mr S has also told us this was before hed showed branch staff the 
passbook itself. Its possible branch staff were trying to provide general information about 
what can happen to funds held in a dormant account. But Im satisfied that in Mr S case 
Halifax has found no evidence of sending a letter of that nature. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but as Im satisfied Halifax has dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman