DRN-3009121
The complaint
Miss G has complained about Equifax Limited, saying they reported incorrect information on 
her credit file.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the circumstances of this case, so I will summarise things 
in brief.
Miss G raised a series of issues with Equifax about information on her credit file. On each 
occasion, Equifax raised a dispute with the appropriate party on her behalf and got things 
adjusted. They added an automatic notice of correction to her file to notify lenders that some 
of the data was in dispute.
Miss G felt that Equifax were responsible for the incorrect information that the lenders had 
reported. She was unhappy with her credit score, and wanted Equifax to help her improve it. 
She felt the notice of correction was disrespectful. She said the matter had caused a lot of 
stress for her, along with trouble getting credit.
Our investigator looked into things independently and didnt uphold the complaint. They 
explained that Equifaxs role was not as broad as Miss G might have thought. It was the 
lenders who were responsible for the information they reported. They noted that Equifax had 
raised disputes for Miss G and sorted things out. They explained her credit score was just an 
internal estimate of how Equifax thought lenders might view her file, and lenders had their 
own scoring methods. They explained that the notice of correction was standard practice, 
and noted that Equifax had removed it at Miss Gs request in any case.
Miss G didnt agree. She still felt this was Equifaxs fault, and that theyd ruined her credit for 
some time. She felt it was unfair shed had to put such effort into sorting things out. She 
asked for her case to be reviewed afresh, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Broadly speaking, financial businesses are responsible for the information they give to credit 
reference agencies like Equifax. Essentially, Equifax collect, collate, and display the 
information theyre given, and they generally have to rely on the data that businesses give 
them. I understand Miss G feels that Equifax are the ones responsible for the data that they 
are given, but the reporting businesses do have their own responsibility.
Ive gone through all the disputes here, and from what I can see it looks like the incorrect 
information involved had been provided by the other businesses, and were not errors on 
Equifaxs end. And each time Miss G reported something was wrong to Equifax, they raised 
a dispute on her behalf and ultimately got things sorted out. I do appreciate that Miss G 
found it stressful having to deal with these issues. She may wish to complain to the 
businesses who were reporting things incorrectly. But I dont think that Equifax got things 
substantially wrong here.
There was one address which the council had not quite reported correctly, but which Equifax 
could possibly have matched to Miss G. But in any case, I dont think this was primarily 
Equifaxs fault, they sorted this out when Miss G reported it, and I cant see that it wouldve 
had a significant impact.
I also understand that Miss G was unhappy with the notice of correction that Equifax added. 
I hope I can assure her that this was just a standard notice. It did not say that Miss G was 
untrustworthy, as shes suggested, and I dont think it was disrespectful. It was just there to 
notify lenders that some information on her file was under dispute and so they should take 
extra care when assessing her file. It was worded in the normal way. In any case, Equifax 
then removed the notice when Miss G asked them to.
I can appreciate why Miss G was disappointed when her credit score went down. I should 
explain that theres a common misconception that credit reference agencies scores are 
universal, and that lenders make all their decisions based off of them. But thats not the 
case. The score Miss G sees on her Equifax file is just an illustration of how Equifax reckons 
lenders might look at her credit history. It is not a guarantee of what any given company will 
think. Its just a general indication, which helps customers get a simple overview of how their 
credit file might be looked at. Individual companies have their own criteria for how they 
assess credit files. So while I understand Miss Gs concern, her Equifax credit score wont 
cause her any material harm. I can also appreciate why Miss G would have liked Equifax to 
help her improve her score, but thats not something they were required to do.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman