DRN-2663054
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV has 
administered his private medical insurance policy.
  
What happened
Mr R has a private medical insurance policy which is underwritten by CIGNA. The policy 
renewal date was 15 January 2020. His policy had an exclusion clause written into it which 
meant that CIGNA didnt cover claims relating to an eye condition.
In April 2019, Mr R got in touch with CIGNA to provide it with a report about his eye 
condition, with a view to it reviewing whether or not to remove the eye exclusion. Initially, 
CIGNA didnt refer the matter to its underwriting team and it only did so when Mr R chased it 
up a couple of weeks later.
Subsequently, in December 2019, Mr R made several attempts to call CIGNA to check 
whether its underwriting team had looked at the report. However, despite he wasnt able to 
get through and spent a considerable length of time waiting to speak to someone. He also 
tried to contact CIGNA by email. He received automated responses which said that one of 
CIGNAs contact team would get in touch within 48 hours, but it didnt do so. Mr R was also 
unhappy that when he asked for details of CIGNAs complaints team, his enquiry hadnt 
been followed-up or referred to the complaints team. Mr R was unhappy with the way CIGNA 
had administered his policy and he complained. He wanted CIGNA to undertake a full 
investigation into whatd happened and for the CEO to review his concerns.
CIGNA accepted thered been shortcomings in the service it had provided. It didnt have any 
phone records which showed its representatives had discussed Mr Rs enquiry. But it 
reviewed phone records Mr R sent it and it acknowledged that hed either been on hold or 
that thered been a fault on its phone lines. It also accepted that Mr Rs initial enquiry had 
been wrongly referred to as a claim. CIGNA said that Mr Rs emails had been received and 
had been referred to the correct department, but it agreed that the agents shouldve let Mr R 
know what they were doing. And it also acknowledged that its complaints process hadnt 
been followed correctly. 
So CIGNA offered Mr R compensation to recognise its mistakes and to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience hed suffered as a result of its handling of his policy. It offered him one 
month of free cover; together with £40 to reflect his time and £4 towards the cost of his calls.
Mr R remained unhappy with CIGNAs offer and he asked us to look into his complaint.
Our investigator didnt think CIGNA needed to do anything more. He recognised that CIGNA 
hadnt administered Mr Rs policy as well as it couldve done. And he also recognised that 
this wouldve caused Mr R some frustration and upset. But he explained that we cant tell 
CIGNA to change its processes or to make company-wide changes. He was satisfied that 
the redress CIGNA had already offered Mr R was fair and reasonable.
Mr R disagreed. He stated that he wasnt seeking compensation, but instead, he wanted 
CIGNAs errors to be brought to the attention of its CEO. He queried why the investigator 
wasnt telling CIGNA to take any action. He felt that CIGNAs actions reflected its inability to 
take criticism. He was dissatisfied with CIGNAs call handling processes. He felt that CIGNA 
had never responded to or acknowledged his complaints. He considered that we are the 
right body to deal with his concerns, given our role is to ensure that consumers are treated 
fairly and that financial businesses act in accordance with good industry practice. He 
believed that if we were to find evidence of maladministration, then CIGNA would fully 
investigate his concerns and would likely make procedural changes. He felt that if we were 
to make a finding of maladministration, it would have a real impact.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think CIGNA responded to Mr Rs concerns fairly and that its offer of 
compensation is reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, Id like to reassure Mr R that while Ive summarised his detailed submissions to our 
service, Ive carefully considered everything hes said and sent us. In making my decision 
though, I havent responded to each and every point hes raised. Instead, Ive focused on 
what I consider to be the key issues.
Its important that I explain our role and the scope of what I can award when looking at 
complaints. Were not the industry regulator. Our role is to look at complaints brought by 
individual consumers who consider that a financial business has done something wrong 
which has caused them to lose out. I have no power to tell a businesses to change its 
processes or procedures. Neither can I tell a business how it should investigate a complaint 
or direct a certain individual to respond directly to a complaint. Thats a matter for the 
industry regulator. So much of the redress it seems Mr R is seeking isnt something Im able 
to award. Generally, if I consider redress is appropriate, I will look to put a consumer in the 
position they were in before the error or loss happened.
In this case, I can see that CIGNA has acknowledged it made mistakes in the way it 
administered Mr Rs enquiry. It accepts it wrongly categorised his query in April 2019. It 
accepts that Mr R was either on hold for too long when he tried to call in December 2019 or 
that there was a fault with its telephone systems. In either case, it acknowledges that Mr R 
received poor service when he tried to call it. I can see that CIGNA agrees that when its 
agents referred Mr Rs emails on to the relevant department, it shouldve kept him updated 
as to the status of his query. And that they ought to have let him know that it might take 
longer than 48 hours to provide him with a response. Its also acknowledged that his request 
for details of the complaints team wasnt correctly done.
So its clear to me that CIGNA has clearly accepted that it didnt deal with Mr Rs query as 
well as it shouldve done and that it didnt provide the service it ought to have done. I think 
CIGNA did deal with Mr Rs concerns and responded to each one, even if it didnt do so in 
the way Mr R wouldve liked. It seemed there was little else it couldve done to investigate Mr 
Rs complaint any further, given it didnt dispute that itd made mistakes. 
Where a financial business has done something wrong, we may consider that redress is 
appropriate. In this case, CIGNA has offered Mr R free medical insurance for a month; 
recompense for his call costs and £40 for his time and inconvenience. I can see it apologised to Mr R for the inconvenience it caused. And its also stated that its provided 
feedback to some of its staff. In my view, I think this offer is more than fair to reflect the 
trouble and upset I think CIGNAs actions caused. Its also taken all of the steps I wouldve 
been likely to award to recognise its errors. So Im not telling CIGNA to do anything more.
Overall, while I appreciate Mr R will be disappointed with my decision, I think CIGNA 
responded to Mr Rs concerns fairly. And Im satisfied it responded to his complaint in a fair 
and reasonable way.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that CIGNAs offer of settlement is fair 
and reasonable.
I direct CIGNA Life Insurance Company of Europe SA-NV to provide Mr R with one month of 
free insurance cover; pay him £40 compensation and pay him £4 for his call costs.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman