DRN-3071835
The complaint
Ms M complained about advice she received in the late 1990s to take out a free-standing 
additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. 
Ms M says she wanted to increase her pension provision and the recommendations she 
received werent suitable. She implies if shed been given the right information about her 
options, she would have acted differently, including using additional voluntary contributions 
(AVCs) linked to her employers in-house occupational pension scheme (OPS). Ms M 
therefore says she has lost out financially because of this.
The Prudential Assurance Company Limited has accepted responsibility for answering this 
complaint. Ms M is being represented in her complaint by a claims management company. 
So, to keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Prudential and Ms M.
What happened
Ms M had been employed in the teaching profession since 1997 and had been a member of 
her employers OPS - a large public sector scheme - since starting. 
It seems that just a few months after starting teaching Ms M wanted to enhance her pension 
provision. So, in February 1998, she met with an adviser who recommended that she start 
contributing to an FSAVC plan in addition to the OPS she was already a member of. Ms M 
was around 37 years old at the time.
As the name suggests, FSAVCs are free standing, which means they are not tied to the 
employer, but typically run alongside the OPS. The FSAVC plan commenced with Ms M 
making a monthly contribution of £20 (gross). 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think we should uphold it but 
Ms M didnt agree. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M, but Im afraid Im not upholding her complaint.
Ive considered what was expected of the adviser as they were a tied appointed 
representative of the company at the time. Before 1996, the regulator required company 
representatives to exercise due skill, care and diligence in dealing fairly with investors. 
However, in 1996 it issued an update called RU20 which set out the procedures it expected 
product providers to follow, although this wasnt new guidance but restating what was 
already in place. The update said that a tied adviser shouldnt recommend their own 
companys FSAVC until they had: 
Drawn the clients attention to the in-scheme alternative; 
Discussed the differences between the two routes in generic terms; 
Directed the client to their employer, or to the scheme trustees, for more 
information on the in-scheme option. 
As Ive said, Ms M was a member of her professions OPS which had in-house AVCs 
available for those who, like her, wanted to top up their pension provision. These AVCs were 
most likely to have been offered by a different provider, so Prudential would not have been 
required to provide a detailed comparison of the products to Ms M during that process. 
Instead, Ms M should have been told that in-house options were available and also about 
the generic benefits of those options including that fees and charges in the AVC scheme 
would likely be lower than an FSAVC one. 
I have looked at the documentation we have from the sale. Considering all the documents as 
a whole, I think it is fair to say there was clearly a substantial discussion between Ms M and 
Prudential about her financial situation. What flowed from this was a written summary for her 
- a Personal Financial Review  which set down what had taken place. I note Ms M signed 
this document.
In referring to that document, I think its reasonable for me to conclude that what Ms M was 
given was a summary of a wider discussion that had taken place about her options. For 
example, the existence of in-house AVCs, and the generic differences between AVCs and 
FSAVCs, were explained. This would have helped her to make a decision about what she 
wanted to do. I think the discussion captured how her OPS worked, how it was structured 
and benefits she could accrue given that she had joined the scheme at a comparatively late 
point. During their discussion it was explained that Ms M would, on a current trajectory, 
accrue only 23/80ths in her OPS which would be significantly short of a full pension by age 
60. There were also calculations used to demonstrate this potential shortfall. 
I therefore think that as well as the generic differences in the options available, its likely Ms 
Ms OPS was discussed in some detail. She was directed to its main provisions and that 
more information could be obtained. In short, I think the bullet points Ive mentioned above 
were probably covered when she met the adviser.
was Ms M given the right advice?
Specifically in relation to the FSAVC versus AVC option, I note Ms M had only really just 
taken up her career a few months before. Comments made in the review (discussed above) 
are therefore consistent, in my view, with her personal circumstances. It was also recorded 
that during the meeting Ms M expressed a cautionary note about her future career pathway. 
Its clear from what Ive seen that Ms M said she wanted a degree of flexibility when 
choosing any additional pension provision as she foresaw that changes to her career might 
occur in the future.
The added years option was quite a different one to the other two (FSAVC and AVC) in that 
it provided certain guaranteed benefits. Typically, with this option, the employee commits to 
pay either a lump sum or a percentage of their future salary into the OPS to buy more years. 
If it is a percentage, the amount paid will increase as the salary increases  the percentage 
remains the same. 
We now know Ms M remained in her occupation and would have no-doubt enjoyed some 
salary increases, but this doesnt necessarily mean she would have purchased added 
years. As a starting point it should be remembered that she only wanted to contribute a 
relatively small amount. And in 1998, when projected investment returns were much higher, 
added years would have seemed expensive compared to AVC-type projected returns and 
benefits. I think there is solid evidence here that the flexibility, or otherwise, of this option would have also been an important consideration for Ms M. I think it would have seemed 
less attractive given her particular circumstances of that time. In coming to that judgement, 
Ive also taken account of her age, financial and family circumstances.
In summary then, the notes from the sale meeting in 1998 are not brief, but they most likely 
dont record everything that was discussed. Nevertheless, Im satisfied that Ms M was given 
the information she needed to make an informed decision. I think she made it clear she 
wanted a degree of flexibility in the additional contributions she was considering at the time. I 
dont think Prudential did anything wrong. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Ms Ms complaint.
I do not require The Prudential Assurance Company Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman