DRN-3755429
The complaint
Mr H complains that TSB Bank plc acted unreasonably when it defaulted his credit card 
account and recorded the default on his credit file.
What happened
Mr H had a credit card with TSB. He said he paid the card regularly. Mr H told this service 
that in 2019 he made a final payment to the card and he stopped using it. In October 2021 
Mr H said he made an error by using the credit card for a £53 purchase with a retailer. In 
July 2022 he said he received a letter from a debt collection agency for £181 and TSB 
subsequently added a default marker on his credit file. He raised a complaint with TSB. He 
didnt think TSB had made reasonable attempts to contact him. 
In its final response TSB said it had not made a bank error and requested that Mr H contact 
the debt management company to discuss a repayment of the account. It said it hadn't 
received any payments towards the outstanding balance and it had contacted Mr H through 
letters and statements. TSB said letters were sent to the address it held on file for Mr H as it 
hadn't been notified of a change of address. And it noted that it was Mr H's responsibility to 
advise it of any change in personal details such as a change of address. Mr H wasn't happy 
with this response and brought his complaint to this service.
Mr H said he moved house in September 2020 but that TSB holds his email address and 
telephone numbers. He said that when TSB didn't get a response to its letters and 
statements regarding the credit card purchase it should have attempted to contact him by 
email or telephone. He said he didn't feel there was any point in contacting TSB regarding a 
change of address because he thought the account was closed after the final payment.
Our investigator concluded that TSB hadn't made an error. He said TSB had made attempts 
to call Mr H prior to the default but was unable to reach him. He didn't think TSB had acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
Mr H asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. He accepted that TSB hadn't made a 
bank error but said it hadn't made reasonable attempts to contact him when it didn't get 
responses from its letters. He also questioned the details of the phone call TSB said it made 
prior to the account defaulting.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Mr H but having done so I won't be asking 
TSB to do anything further. Mr H isn't disputing the purchase he made which caused this 
complaint and hes accepted that TSB hasn't made a bank error. But he maintains it hasn't 
behaved reasonably in its attempts to contact him prior to defaulting the account.
TSB provided us with a copy of Mr H's account statements. TSB said on 14 July 2019 it 
issued a statement to Mr H showing that he had a previous balance of £317 but then had 
paid £319 to the account on 8 July which put the account £2 into credit, so no further 
payments were due. 
Mr H said he moved house in September 2020 and paid for his mail to be redirected, 
although he hasnt said for how long. He also told this service that he thought the credit card 
account was closed after hed made the final payment (in July 2019). TSB said because 
there was £2 credit on the account it issued statements on 15 December 2019, 13 April 
2020, 13 October 2020 and 13 April 2021 and it provided a copy of those statements to this 
service. I can see the statements were sent to the address it had for Mr H on file. Although 
Mr H said he thought his account was closed I havent seen any evidence that he requested 
for the account to be closed with TSB. Two of the statements were sent before Mr H moved 
and two sent within seven months of him moving. Im satisfied the statements were sent and 
Im persuaded that Mr H knew or ought reasonably to have known that the account was still 
open and active prior to him moving and during the few months after, when he said his mail 
was being redirected. 
When Mr H opened his account he wouldve agreed to its terms and conditions. In those 
terms it says:
You must tell us if your name or contact details change . If you do not tell us, we 
will go on using the details you last gave us, and we will not be responsible if we fail 
to contact you or if we send confidential information to the wrong address using out 
of date details.
As the account was still open it was Mr Hs responsibility to change his address with TSB. 
After Mr H made the purchase in October 2021 and failed to make a payment TSB sent 
several letters to the address it had on file. Ive seen a copy of these letters. It sent 
arrears letter - 25 November 
interest letter - 14 December
arrears letter - 24 December 
default notice - 25 January 2022
demand letter - 1 March 
default notice - 24 May 
demand letter - 15 June 
Im satisfied that TSB made reasonable attempts to contact Mr H by mail through the various 
stages of the account going into default. 
Mr H has said he doesn't think that TSB acted fairly by not attempting to contact him using 
the alternative contact details held for him by the bank e.g phone or email. TSB provided 
details of the contact numbers it had for Mr H. It had on file a landline number and mobile 
phone number. The mobile phone number it had on its files is the same number Mr H 
provided to this service. TSB sent this service screen shots of text messages and call 
records. From these records I can see that texts were sent to Mr H on 24 November 2021, 
13 December and 17 December. There is a record of a phone call made by TSB on 13 
January 2022 to the same landline number recorded in the contact details it held for Mr H.
Mr H has disputed the details of these calls. Im satisfied the screen shots provided indicate 
calls were made to Mr H. I can see on the screen shots there were also three messages 
sent to a different mobile phone number in addition to the calls and messages above. Its not 
clear to me whose number this is, but irrespective of these other messages Im satisfied TSB 
did call and message Mr H using the numbers it had on file for him in what appears to be a final attempt at contact prior to default. 
Mr H has said his view is that TSB has not acted reasonably in its capacity as an 
organisation that is heavily customer focussed. He said this whole experience has been 
extremely stressful for his wife with the involvement of a debt collection agency and is 
something they had never experienced before.
I do understand Mr Hs frustration with this situation, and he has my sympathy. But Im afraid 
I dont agree that TSB has acted unreasonably. Its statements sent prior to Mr H moving 
house demonstrated the account was still open and active even after hed made his final 
payment. As such Mr H had a responsibility to change his address with TSB when he 
moved. TSB issued several letters, in line with the required legislation, and did, towards the 
end, try to contact Mr H by phone. So Im satisfied it acted reasonably in trying to contact Mr 
H and I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
TSB said the information provided to the credit reference agencies shows a true reflection of 
account activity and I'm satisfied this is the case.
I've noted Mr H's concerns that the default may affect his ability to borrow money. He might 
be interested to know that he can place a 'Notice of Correction' on his credit records. The 
purpose of such a Notice is to allow someone the opportunity to add an explanation about an 
event on their credit report. There is no guarantee any Notice of Correction would change 
the outcome of a credit application, but it would be provided to any prospective lender 
checking the report in future, for their consideration. If Mr H wishes to do this he should 
contact the credit reference agencies directly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman