DRN-2418310
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that the compounded rate of interest on their equity release 
mortgage with Aviva Equity Release UK Limited is unfair in relation to current mortgage 
lending rates. 
To settle the complaint Mr and Mrs H want Aviva to stop charging them interest and agree a 
reasonable settlement figure or allow them to exit the mortgage without paying an early 
repayment charge. 
What happened
In April 2002 Mr and Mrs H borrowed £85,000 at a fixed interest rate of 7.79% per annum. 
The advice to take out the mortgage was given by Norwich Union Direct Financial Services 
Limited, and the mortgage lender was Norwich Union Equity Release Limited, now trading 
as Aviva Equity Release UK Limited. 
In May 2020 Mr and Mrs H complained to Aviva about the amount of interest theyre paying 
on their mortgage. Mr and Mrs are unhappy that their outstanding loan amount has 
increased to over £327,000 compared to the original amount of £85,000. They say its 
morally unfair to continue charging the rate of interest applied to this loan in contrast to 
current mortgage lending rates. 
In its final response letter dated 11 May 2020, Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. Aviva set 
out the key factors that influence this type of lending and the reasons why the interest rate is 
charged at a higher fixed-rate for the duration. It also explained why an early repayment 
charge is applicable if the loan is redeemed early. 
Dissatisfied with Avivas response, Mr and Mrs H brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into things and didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed with our investigators opinion and asked for an ombudsmans 
review to consider the fairness aspect and whether in the circumstances we could ask Aviva 
to agree their proposed settlement options. Mr and Mrs H say that since taking their 
mortgage, safeguarding measure have been introduced to protect customers with such 
borrowing in place.
Our investigator considered the comments raised by Mr and Mrs H but explained why his 
outcome remained the same. Because an agreement hasnt been reached, the case has 
been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our service doesnt regulate financial businesses, so its not my role to tell Aviva how to set 
up its lending policies and procedures. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA). If Mr and Mrs H believe Avivas set up is fundamentally flawed and requires 
changing, they would need to raise their concerns with the FCA. My role is to decide if Aviva 
applied its policies and procedures wrongly in the circumstances of this case. Having 
considered the submissions from both parties, I dont find that it did, as Ill explain.  
The nature of these types of loans means no monthly payments are required; instead, 
interest rolls up over the term of the loan, which is repayable on the death of the last 
surviving borrower, or if the last surviving borrower moves into long-term care. The loan can 
be repaid early through sale of the property or redemption through other means - both 
options attract an early repayment charge.
Mr and Mrs H do not dispute that the terms of this mortgage were explained to them at the 
time of sale. They accept that they agreed to compound interest being charged at a fixed 
rate of 7.79% for the duration of the loan. They feel that the rate of interest charged is no 
longer fair in todays financial climate as interest rates are much lower now. 
Under the relevant rules, lenders are entitled to apply an early repayment charge. Im 
satisfied the terms of an early settlement were set out clearly and prominently in the 
mortgage offer. The terms and conditions explain that the plan isnt designed to be repaid 
until both account holders die or need long term care. If the loan is repaid early within 31 
years from the date of sale, an early repayment charge is applicable. An illustration was 
provided with the projected early repayment charge at various stages of the loan. The early 
repayment charge currently applicable is around £85,000. The early repayment charge is no 
longer applicable from 2032. Mr and Mrs H accepted this when they took out the loan.  So, it 
is difficult for me to say that Aviva cant apply the early repayment charge that Mr and Mrs H 
agreed to when they took out the loan. 
Mr and Mrs H say they cant currently sell the property due to Mr Hs age and health. They 
want Aviva to stop charging them interest and agree a reasonable settlement figure. Whilst I 
fully empathise with Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances, I must consider whats fair and 
reasonable for both parties. I can only ask Aviva to put things right, if its done something 
wrong and for the reasons Ive explained I dont think it has.
There may be other options available for Mr and Mrs H, they can speak to an independent 
financial advisor to explore these.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman