DRN-2756422
The complaint
Miss M complains about a loan provided to her by Loans 2 Go limited, (L2G) which she 
says was unaffordable.
What happened
Miss M was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. She took the loan out on 7 February 2020 for 
£250 and was due to repay it in 18 monthly instalments. The repayments were for around 
£57 and the total that she would have to repay was around £1029.
In relation to her irresponsible lending complaint, Miss M mainly said that if Loans 2 Go had 
completed proper checks it would have seen that she had a low credit rating and defaults. 
Shes also mentioned some other concerns, including the high interest rate on this loan and 
also that she was paid the money before she understood what the rate was or saw the 
agreement.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ms complaint. He thought that Loans 2 Go carried 
out sufficient checks before agreeing to provide this loan and that there wasnt anything in 
the information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have lent to Miss M. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Loans 2 Go had been wrong to provide Miss M with the loan and 
he also didnt think Loans 2 Go acted unfairly towards Miss M in relation to her other 
complaint points.
Miss M didnt agree with our adjudicators view. She said she still felt Loans 2 Go unfairly 
provided her with a loan.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it comes to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind when deciding Miss Ms complaint.
General principles and questions I need to think about when deciding whether to uphold 
Miss Ms complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, lenders must work out if a borrower can afford the loan repayments 
alongside other reasonable expenses the borrower also has to pay.
This should include more than just checking that the loan payments look affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. A lender must take reasonable steps to satisfy itself that 
the borrower can sustainably repay the loan  in other words, without needing to borrow 
elsewhere.
The rules dont say what a lender should look at before agreeing to lend. But reasonable and 
proportionate checks should be carried out.
For example, when thinking about what a borrower has left to spend on a new loan after 
paying other expenses, as well as taking into account things like the loan amount, the cost of 
the repayments and how long the loan is for, a proportionate check might mean a lender 
should also find out the borrowers credit history and/or take further steps to verify the 
borrowers overall financial situation.
If reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I need to consider if a loan 
wouldve been approved if the checks had been done.
If proportionate checks were done and a loan looks affordable, a lender still needs to think 
about whether theres any other reason why it would be irresponsible or unfair to lend.
For example, if the lender shouldve realised that the loan was likely to lead to more money 
problems for a borrower who is already struggling with debt that cant be repaid in a 
sustainable way.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular level of income)
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted (reflecting the fact that the total cost 
of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make repayments for an 
extended period).
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to 
before agreeing to lend to Miss M and thought carefully about the following key questions:
Did Loans 2 Go complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M 
would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair lending 
decision? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
what checks did Loans 2 Go do?
Loans 2 Go gathered some information from Miss M before it agreed the loan. It asked her 
for details of her income and verified this by looking at an online income verification 
tool. Loans 2 Go noted details of her normal monthly spending including her housing costs, 
groceries, utilities, transport and other regular expenses  as well as asking Miss M what 
she was spending on other credit each month.It also allowed for some extra spending not already included in case she had some extra or 
unplanned expenses. And it did a credit check to assess how much she was already 
repaying to other creditors.
Miss M told it she received £1200 in income a month. Loans 2 Go told us that it was satisfied 
that Miss M received a minimum monthly income of around £1040 after it verified her 
information. Miss M declared her monthly expenditure and credit commitments to £690 but 
Loans 2 Go calculated the total was around £863.43 following a review of her credit report. It 
also deducted 10% of her income as a buffer to account for any fluctuations in her monthly 
expenditure.
Loans 2 Go worked out that this left Miss M with disposable income which meant that the 
monthly contractual instalments of around £57 that she had signed up to make on this loan 
should have been affordable for her.
did Loans 2 Go do proportionate checks?
Ive carefully considered whether the information that Loans 2 Go gathered at the time 
should reasonably have triggered further checks. On balance, I dont think that the 
information Loans 2 Go had collected about Miss Ms financial situation was enough to 
prompt a reasonable lender to think it needed to do further or more in-depth checking. 
The credit report that Loans 2 Go acquired showed that Miss M had a total debt balance on 
all her accounts of around £1000. She had a credit card account that was within its limit and 
well managed. It appeared that Miss M had no court judgements or defaults recorded in the 
6 months running up to this loan. Miss M did have a default on her report, but this was from 
2015 and so it would be reasonable of Loans 2 Go to assume that this was largely an issue 
that was in the past for Miss M and not so much an indication of problems managing her 
finances at that time. 
There was some adverse information on Miss Ms credit check. Loans 2 Go search showed 
Miss M had entered in to an arrangement to pay on an account after payment problems she 
had fairly recently.
So, I think its fair to say that Loans 2 Go could see that Miss M had sometimes had a 
problem making all her agreed contractual payments in full and on time. But given the type 
of lending, I think a lender would reasonably expect to see some adverse information on its 
customers credit history. And, looked at overall on what it had in front of it, I think it would 
have been fair for Loans 2 Go to have considered that Miss Ms credit report generally 
showed a positive payment history.
did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Taking things as a whole, I think it would have been reasonable for Loans 2 Go to consider 
that the monthly repayments on its loan were affordable for Miss M  allowing for the amount 
it had seen she had to pay each month towards her existing creditors and what shed 
declared as her income and general living expenses.
I've taken into account that Miss M says the credit information that Loans 2 Go relied on was 
wrong because it didnt reveal the full extent of her debt at the time. But Ive needed to see 
whether Loans 2 Go made a fair lending decision based on what it had in front of it, and from 
what I have seen, I think it did.
Overall, I think the checks that Loans 2 Go carried out before lending to Miss M were 
reasonable and proportionate. I think it was reasonable in the circumstances for Loans 2 Go to have relied on the information that Miss M provided and what it found in its checks - and 
this was enough to enable Loans 2 Go to gain a reasonable understanding of her financial 
situation and see that Miss M appeared to be managing her money without any significant 
payment problems. I dont think more in-depth checks  such as requesting bank statements 
were required.
I dont think there was anything in the information that Loans 2 Go gathered at the time 
which should have caused the lender any additional concerns about Miss M s financial 
position when she applied for the loan or that ought reasonably to have led Loans 2 Go to 
the conclusion that her loan application should be declined.
So, I havent seen enough to be able to uphold her irresponsible lending complaint.
has Loans 2 Go acted unfairly in any other way?
Miss M says she received the capital amount before she was aware of the terms and interest 
rate of the loan. But I agree with the adjudicator on this occasion, when he says Loans 2 Go 
would have more likely than not provided details about the loan during the application, and 
then would have sent the agreement after the loan had been agreed. So, I dont think on 
balance, Loans 2 Go acted unfairly here.
Miss M told us that the interest rate on this loan was high.
I think there was a very large amount of interest payable on this loan and I can appreciate 
that Miss M might now feel this is unfair.
But the loan documents set out the terms of the loan and the amount of interest payable. 
Miss M applied for this loan and she had to actively engage in the loan application process. 
So, I think its likely that Miss M wouldve understood the 18-month loan term and been able 
to see the total amount of interest payable at the time. Taking everything into account, I think 
Loans 2 Go made Miss M aware that she was taking a very high cost loan over an 18-month 
period. Miss M accepted these terms, so it seems to me that she was happy with the loan at 
the time she signed up to pay it.
Thinking about everything I've seen and been told, I cant fairly conclude that Loans 2 Go 
was wrong to provide the loan to Miss M. And I dont find that Loans 2 Go has acted unfairly 
towards her in some other way.
So, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
I appreciate that Miss M feels strongly about this complaint and that she will be disappointed 
in my decision. 
I take this opportunity to remind Loans 2 Go that it should always discuss payment options 
constructively with Miss M and treat her fairly and sympathetically if Miss M needs further 
time to pay what she still owes.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against
Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman