DRN-4386359
The complaint
Mr D complains about the suitability of the advice provided by Lighthouse Advisory Services 
Limited (Lighthouse) in November 2017 to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in 
the British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS) to a personal pension plan (PPP).
Both Mr D and Lighthouse are represented in this complaint by different law firms who have 
submitted substantial comments and evidence in support of their clients positions  to make 
my findings easier to follow, Ill refer to the comments and evidence received as being those 
of Mr D and Lighthouse.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 14 September 2023 in which I set out 
the background and my provisional findings. Ive repeated what I said here:
In March 2016, Mr Ds employer, Tata Steel UK Ltd (Tata Steel), announced that it would 
be examining options to restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the 
company. The BSPS was a defined benefits (DB) pension scheme that provided a 
guaranteed lifetime income to members. The consultation with members referred to possible 
outcomes regarding their safeguarded benefits, one of which was a transfer to the Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund designed to provide compensation to 
members of DB pension schemes when their employer becomes insolvent. Tata Steel 
closed the BSPS to further benefit accrual from 31 March 2017.
In May 2017, the PPF announced that the terms of a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement 
(RAA) had been agreed  this was approved by The Pensions Regulator in August 2017. 
Under the announced plans, Tata Steel agreed to set up and sponsor a new DB pension 
scheme, the BSPS2, subject to certain conditions relating to funding and size being satisfied.
In October 2017, these changes were communicated to BSPS members, including Mr D, 
under the Time to Choose communication exercise. This explained that BSPS members 
had three options regarding their safeguarded benefits:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr D to retain guaranteed pension income, albeit at a 
lower level than provided by the BSPS. 
Members that didnt choose an option remained in the BSPS and were ultimately transferred 
to the PPF. The details of Mr Ds safeguarded benefits in the BSPS at that time were as 
follows:
He had accrued 33 years and 8 months qualifying service between September 1982 
and May 2016;
The scheme pension provided was based on his final salary, qualifying service and 
benefit accrual rate  as at the date of leaving the scheme his annual scheme 
pension was £16,494. The scheme pension would be revalued by a prescribed 
amount over the term to the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and, once in 
payment, would also escalate annually by a prescribed amount;
Payment of benefits before age 65 would be subject to an early retirement reduction 
on a sliding scale  in simple terms, the earlier benefits were taken, the greater the 
reduction applied to the scheme pension. Broadly, this meant a 30% reduction would 
apply to the scheme pension if benefits were taken at age 55 and a 18% reduction at 
age 60; and
The cash equivalent transfer value of his safeguarded benefits was £420,105.72. 
In response to the announcement by Tata Steel, Mr D contacted Lighthouse for advice. He 
met one of its advisers in October 2017. A fact find document and attitude to risk 
questionnaire were completed which recorded the following information about Mr D:
He was aged 51 and his wife, Mrs D, was aged 49. They were both in good health. 
They didnt have any children or financial dependents;
He was employed full-time by Tata Steel and paid gross annual income of about 
£32,000. Mrs D was employed by the local council and paid gross annual income of 
about £19,000;
Their assets comprised the marital home valued at £180,000 and cash savings of 
about £22,000. Mrs D also had an endowment policy valued at about £13,700;
They didnt have any debt or liabilities; 
After paying for bills and essentials, he had surplus disposable income of about £360 
available every month;
In addition to the value of his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, he was on course to 
receive the full State pension at age 67 and had been a member of Tata Steels 
defined contribution (DC) pension scheme since June 2016. The total annual 
contribution into his DC plan was 12% of his gross annual salary. His DC plan was 
then valued at about £4,600. He also had a Free Standing Additional Voluntary 
Contribution (FSAVC) plan valued at about £30,000 into which he was contributing 
£60 every month;
Mrs D was an active member of the Local Government Pension Scheme (LGPS) 
and expected the draw those benefits from age 67. She had also accrued benefits in 
a former employers DB pension scheme and expected to draw those benefits from 
age 60; and
He had previously invested in unit trusts and endowment policies but, overall, his 
investment knowledge and experience was limited. His risk profile was determined to 
be 4 on a scale of 1 to 10 where 1 was lowest risk and 10 was highest risk. The 
score of 4 was described as Lowest medium. This was defined as, While you are 
likely to be concerned with not getting as much back from your investments as you 
put in, you may also want to make higher returns on your investments. Your 
preferred investments are likely to be mainly lower- or medium-risk investments such as cash, bonds or property, with typically fewer higher-risk investments such as 
shares.
Following the fact find meeting, Lighthouses adviser issued his suitability report to Mr D in                    
November 2017 recommending that he transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits in the 
BSPS to a PPP provided by Prudential. The suitability report confirmed Mr Ds needs, goals 
and objectives related to his safeguarded benefits in the BSPS, as follows:
1. Early retirement around 55, realistically without any reductions.
2. Did not wish to work until 67 your view would always be potentially earlier retirement 
to enjoy life whilst you have your health.
3. You want the full value of your pension to be passed to your wife which would not 
happen currently.
4. Looking for as much flexibility with your pension in terms of how much tax efficiently 
you take and when you take it.
5. Ability to grow and defer taking your tax-free cash as you did not wish to take in one 
go.
6. Having assessed your income requirements, you told me you require £19,668 net, 
per annum, in retirement from age 55. Your projected outgoings are £1,693 per 
month. [this income requirement was a joint one for both Mr and Mrs D]
7. You have reservations over the future of the BSPS due to the well publicised under 
funding and would therefore like your scheme transferred out. There have been well 
publicised funding problems with the scheme and is going to enter Pension 
Protection Fund (PPF). You do have the option to avoid this by joining the BSPS 2 
but this is on a reduced benefit basis which we will discuss through this report. You 
did not wish to remain in the current format and fall in to the PPF as it totally restricts 
your options further down the line i.e on potential transfers if you felt the need to do 
this. You sought advice on this basis to consider your full options based on the above 
objectives.
8. You understand market related investment and the fact that values will fall as well as 
rise, but you have no reservation and fully understand the risks you are taking.
To align with Mr Ds Lowest medium risk profile, Lighthouses adviser recommended that 
the transfer value of £420,105.72 be invested in the PruFund Growth Fund. The costs 
associated with the recommendation were set out in the suitability report, as follows:
Initial advice charge 
3% (or £12,603.15)  initial adviser charge for recommendation and implementation
Ongoing annual charges deducted from the PPP fund value 
0.50% ongoing adviser charge 
0.65% investment annual management charge
0.35% product feeMr D accepted the recommendation, following which the transfer to the PPP was completed. 
In March 2022, when he was aged 55 (but age 56 within the next two weeks), Mr D 
accessed benefits from his PPP.
This complaint
During 2022, Mr D complained to Lighthouse about the suitability of its pension transfer 
advice in 2017. In summary, he believed that the advice wasnt in his best interests and had 
caused him to suffer a financial loss resulting in him being worse off in retirement. 
Lighthouse didnt uphold this complaint. In summary, it was satisfied that it had considered 
and adhered to the relevant FCA rules and guidance including providing Mr D with all the 
necessary information and risk warnings in good time to be able to make an informed 
decision. It believed that a transfer to a PPP was the only viable option available at that time 
to meet Mr Ds objectives and that its advice was therefore suitable.
One of our investigators considered this complaint and recommended that it be upheld 
because, in her view, Lighthouse had failed to demonstrate that transferring to the PPP was 
clearly in Mr Ds best interests. She thought that the pension transfer to the PPP was an 
unsuitable outcome for Mr D. Given his circumstances and objectives, she thought he 
shouldve been advised to transfer to the PPF on the basis of prospective early retirement at 
age 55. To put things right, our investigator recommended that Lighthouse carry out a 
redress calculation in line with the FCAs guidelines on the basis that Mr D transferred to the 
PPF, took benefits at age 55 and would be a 20% income taxpayer in retirement. In addition, 
she recommended that Lighthouse pay Mr D £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
Mr D agreed that this complaint should be upheld but thought his financial loss should be 
calculated on a different basis. He said redress should be calculated from age 58 rather than 
age 55 because he wouldve used his DC pension savings in the first instance. And that the 
notional reduction for income tax shouldnt apply to the part applicable to adviser and 
product charges.
Lighthouse disagreed with our investigators assessment and provided additional comments 
in response. It stated that when assessing the suitability of the advice given to Mr D, this 
Service had applied an outdated, narrow approach and had failed to pay due regard to the 
FCAs rules and Defined Benefit Advice Assessment Tool (DBAAT). It stated that the 
pension transfer advice provided to Mr D had previously been assessed as suitable by an 
FCA-appointed Skilled Person and so it questioned how this Service had reached a 
different conclusion.
Our investigator considered those additional comments but wasnt persuaded to change her 
view and recommendation that this complaint should be upheld. Since agreement couldnt 
be reached, this complaint has been referred to me to review.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.Id like to clarify that the purpose of this final decision isnt to repeat or address every single
point raised by the parties. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome. Im satisfied that Ive been provided 
with sufficient evidence to decide this complaint.
To make my findings easier to follow, Ive set them out under separate headings below.
The FCAs applicable rules and guidance
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time
of the advice but provides useful context for my assessment of Lighthouses actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule)
The provisions in COBS 19 which specifically relate to a DB pension transfer were as 
follows:
COBS 19.1.2R required the following:
A firm must: 
(1) compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a 
defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme with safeguarded benefits 
with the benefits afforded by a personal pension scheme, stakeholder pension 
scheme or other  pension scheme with flexible benefits, before it advises a retail 
client to transfer out of a defined benefits pension scheme or other pension scheme 
with safeguarded benefits;
(2) ensure that that comparison includes enough information for the client to be able 
to make an informed decision;
(3) give the client a copy of the comparison, drawing the clients attention to the 
factors that do and do not support the firm's advice, in good time, and in any case no 
later than when the key features document is provided; and
(4) take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms comparison 
and its advice.
And COBS 19.1.3 G stated:
In particular, the comparison should:
(1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
(2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and 
the effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed 
scheme;(3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would 
have to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up;
(4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns 
of the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested; and
(5) where an immediate crystallisation of benefits is sought by the retail client prior to 
the ceding schemes normal retirement age, compare the benefits available from 
crystallisation at normal retirement age under that scheme.
Under the heading Suitability, the following was set out:
COBS 19.1.6G: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined 
benefits occupational pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits 
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should start by assuming that a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only then consider a 
transfer, conversion or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on 
contemporary evidence, that the transfer, conversion or opt-out is in the client's best 
interests
COBS 19.1.7G:
When a firm advises a retail client on a pension transfer, pension conversion or 
pension opt-out, it should consider the clients attitude to risk including, where 
relevant, in relation to the rate of investment growth that would have to be achieved 
to replicate the benefits being given up.
COBS 19.1.7B:
In considering whether to make a personal recommendation, a firm should not 
regard a rate of return which may replicate the benefits being given up from the 
defined benefits pension scheme or other scheme with safeguarded benefits as 
sufficient in itself.
COBS 19.1.8G:
When a firm prepares a suitability report it should include:
(1) a summary of the advantages and disadvantages of its personal 
recommendation;
(2) an analysis of the financial implications (if the recommendation is to opt-out); and
(3) a summary of any other material information.
Businesses are required to follow these rules and consider the guidance because the FCA 
considers safeguarded benefits to be valuable. Based on the above regulatory rules and 
guidance, businesses advising on pension transfers should start by assuming that the 
existing DB pension scheme is suitable and to only recommend a transfer, which converts 
safeguarded benefits into flexible benefits, if it can clearly demonstrate its in their clients 
best interests.In assessing the suitability of Lighthouses advice to Mr D, its necessary for me to have due 
regard to the FCAs rules and guidance stated above.
Mr Ds situation
The situation for Mr D wasnt normal because the existing DB pension scheme, the BSPS, 
was closing. So he was essentially forced to transfer the value of his safeguarded benefits to 
a new scheme. He had three options, as set out in the Time to Choose pack issued to him 
in October 2017:
1. Transfer to the PPF;
2. Transfer to the BSPS2; or
3. Transfer to an alternative pension plan such as a PPP.
Its undeniable that it was a period of great uncertainty for individuals such as Mr D. Many of 
these individuals were in a vulnerable position due to the uncertainty surrounding the future 
of the BSPS. I think the uncertainty only served to emphasise the need at that time for a 
balanced assessment of the options available and ultimately the provision of suitable advice. 
Its my view that any concerns Mr D had about the security of his safeguarded benefits 
shouldve been addressed and appropriately managed by the professional party in the 
transaction, Lighthouse.
Options 1 and 2 wouldve enabled Mr D to retain guaranteed income, albeit at a lower level 
than provided by the BSPS. There were differences between the PPF and the BSPS2. For 
deferred members below the scheme normal retirement age, like Mr D, the PPF would 
provide compensation based on 90% of their accrued pension at the scheme normal 
retirement age (in effect a 10% reduction in benefits). The BSPS2 didnt apply such a 
reduction. The BSPS2 also provided the potential for discretionary increases to the accrued 
pension, a higher level of spouses pension and the option to transfer to an alternative 
pension to convert to flexible benefits at a later date, if then deemed suitable.
So while the situation was somewhat unusual, Mr D still had the option to retain guaranteed 
income in either the PPF or BSPS2. Based on his age, circumstances and objective to retire 
earlier than age 65, its my view that Mr D wouldve been better off choosing the PPF instead 
of the BSPS2 because of the higher level of income and tax-free cash it would pay on early 
retirement.
I dont believe that the circumstances surrounding the BSPS altered the FCAs position or its 
expectations of firms. Given the FCAs view on safeguarded benefits and what was known at 
that time, its my fair and reasonable opinion that Lighthouse shouldve started its advice 
process by assuming the PPF was likely to be the most suitable option for Mr D and to only 
recommend a transfer to the PPP if it could clearly demonstrate it was in his best interests, 
as referenced in COBS 19.1.6G.
Transfer analysis 
One of the key components in determining the suitability of a pension transfer is assessing 
the financial viability of the proposed transaction.
The transfer value analysis system (TVAS) rules applied at the time Lighthouse advised  
Mr D. This required it to carry out a transfer value analysis to calculate the critical yield 
applicable to the proposed transfer. The critical yield is the annual rate of investment return 
required on the invested transfer value, after charges, to match the capitalised value of the 
benefits offered by the DB pension scheme on the assumption that the value of the 
alternative pension is used to secure a lifetime annuity at the scheme normal retirement age (or other selected age)  the higher the critical yield, the less likely that the alternative 
pension will achieve sufficient investment growth to match the revalued pension payable by 
the DB pension scheme.
Lighthouse calculated the following estimated benefits and critical yield figures for the BSPS 
and PPF: 
Scheme At age 65 based on 
Mr D taking a full 
pension onlyAt age 65 based on 
Mr D taking a 
reduced pension and 
maximum tax-free 
cash At age 55 based on 
Mr D taking a full 
pension onlyAt age 55 based on 
Mr D taking a 
reduced pension and 
maximum tax-free 
cash 
BSPS £23,615 per year
Critical yield 8.47%£12,712 per year
Critical yield 23.34%
BSPS £15,651 per year plus 
£104,340 lump sum
Critical yield 6.30%£8,990 per year plus 
£59,933 lump sum
Critical yield 14.78%
PPF £19,745 per year
Critical yield 4.62%£13,266 per year
Critical yield 10.97%
PPF £15,448 per year plus 
£102,607 lump sum
Critical yield 4.22%£11,025 per year plus 
£73,232 lump sum
Critical yield 9.86%
In the suitability report, Lighthouses adviser expressed his view on the critical yield figures 
for the BSPS as follows:
The yields at 65 in my opinion are achievable given the past performance of the fund 
although at 55 they are higher and unlikely to be met, this is due to the fact you are 
close to the retirement date and have less time to potentially accumulate the required 
capitalised value to purchase an annuity. Having said this, as you have other 
guaranteed scheme payable via [Mrs D] and the state, taking the annuity option isn't 
something youd pursue at this moment in time. You have stated that you would 
prefer to utilise the tax free cash had you stayed in the scheme and as such I have 
paid reference to those yields specifically.
Lighthouses recommendation to Mr D was provided to him after the FCA gave instructions 
in its Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
DB pension transfers as to how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss 
assessments where a complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to 
October 2017 similar rates were published on our website. While businesses weren't 
required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers,  I consider they 
provide a useful indication of what growth rates wouldve been considered reasonably 
achievable when the advice was given in this case.
The discount rates we refer to are based on a typical investment spread across shares and 
bonds. Over the last thirty years, the bond component in the discount rates has increased to 
reflect the more cautious approach typically taken when members transfer a large number of 
years of DB qualifying service. The closest discount rate which I'm able to refer to and 
published by this Service for the period before October 2017 is 4.1% based on Mr D taking 
benefits at the scheme normal retirement age of 65 and 2.8% based on him taking benefits 
early at age 55. Therefore, the growth rate which wouldve been considered reasonably 
achievable was somewhere between 2.8% to 4.1% depending at which point Mr D took 
benefits between age 55 and 65. For additional context, the FCA's projection rate for pensions at the time was 8% per year for the upper rate, 5% per year for the middle rate and 
2% per year for the lower rate. 
Lighthouse assessed Mr Ds risk prolife as Lowest medium and recommended that the 
value of his PPP be invested in the PruFund Growth Fund to align with this. I've taken this 
into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr D's risk profile and 
the investment timeframe to age 55. Based on these factors, I think the critical yield figures 
meant that there was limited scope to match the benefits likely payable by the PPF, let alone 
exceed them. There would usually be no point relinquishing safeguarded benefits in order to 
stand still, given the risk that the transfer might underperform. Its my view that the critical 
yield figures above show that there was a strong possibility Mr D would be worse off by 
transferring to the PPP compared to the PPF, especially if he took benefits earlier than age 
65 as was his objective. 
Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving pension transfer advice,
as was set out in COBS 19.1.7B. A reasonable prospect of the critical yield being met or
exceeded wouldnt necessarily mean that the transfer was suitable, and, conversely, there
might be other considerations which mean a pension transfer is suitable, despite providing
overall lower benefits. Ill now go on to consider this in the context of Mr Ds recorded 
objectives.
Mr Ds objectives
Based on the fact find document and suitability report, Mr D had several objectives regarding 
his safeguarded benefits, which I think can be distilled into three broad areas, summarised 
as follows:
Control: He was concerned about the longevity of Tata Steel and that the value of 
his safeguarded benefits could be transferred to the PPF, leading to a lack of 
flexibility and reduction in the level of benefits he would receive when he retired. Due 
to these concerns, he wanted control over his pension benefits by transferring away 
to a private arrangement such as a PPP;
 
Flexibility and early retirement: He wanted the flexibility to retire early around age 
55 and, at that point, be able to draw annual income of about £19,668 net. This 
income requirement was a joint one for both Mr and Mrs D; and
Death benefits: He wanted to ensure that, in the event of his earlier death, any 
unused pension benefits be passed on to Mrs D.
I recognise that Mr Ds safeguarded benefits was ultimately his money to do with as he saw 
fit. However, he was relying on Lighthouse to provide expert, balanced information and 
advice, taking into account all the information available to it at that time  so that he could 
then make an informed decision. I understand that there will be instances where a client 
seeks financial advice with preconceived notions or concerns about the financial health of an 
employer or DB pension scheme but, as the professional party, Lighthouse was tasked with 
rationally addressing those concerns and providing an appropriately balanced view of the 
available options. 
In my view, financial planning isnt simply about wish fulfilment and facilitating whatever 
course of action a client wishes to take. If an advising business considers a course of action 
to be unsuitable for their client, or otherwise not in their best interests, it has a choice not to 
facilitate the transaction.In assessing the suitability of Lighthouses recommendation, Ive considered each of Mr Ds 
objectives under separate headings below.
Control objective
Its clear that one of Mr Ds main motivations for considering a pension transfer was due to 
his concerns about the BSPS and the risk it might fall into the PPF. In its suitability report 
Lighthouse referenced Mr Ds concerns about the BSPS as follows: 
You advised me that you would like to be more in control of your own pension fund 
as you are concerned you will lose benefits if you stay in the scheme. There have 
been funding problems with the scheme and is going to enter Pension Protection 
Fund (PPF). You do have the option to avoid this by joining the BSPS 2 but this is on 
a reduced benefit basis which we will discuss through this report. You did not wish to 
remain in the current format and fall in to the PPF as it totally restricts your options 
further down the line i.e on potential transfers if you felt the need to do this. Aside 
from the PPF issues, you are also aware there are reductions planned to the benefits 
too should you remain. You would prefer to be covered by FSCS rules which ensures 
that you get the full value of the pension back with no upper limit which was covered 
by [Lighthouses adviser] at your meeting and also documented within our client 
agreement which you have reviewed and signed.
I accept that such concerns were common among steelworkers at the time, and that it 
wouldve been a major motivation behind many of them transferring out. So I can understand 
why Mr D wanted to have control over his benefits by transferring to a PPP. 
However, I dont consider a transfer to the PPF was an outcome for Mr D to avoid at all 
costs. Ill explain why. Mr Ds safeguarded benefits, accounting for 33 years and 8 months 
qualifying service, represented the backbone of his retirement provision built up by that time. 
While its true Mr D had two DC pensions (FSAVC plan and Tata Steel DC plan) and some 
cash savings, I think its fair to say that when the time came to retire, likely around age 55 
(which Ill come to later), that hed be heavily reliant on the value of his safeguarded benefits 
to provide a minimum level of core retirement income to support his standard of living in 
retirement  and so it was important to protect this source of guaranteed income. Given the 
likely need for guaranteed income I dont think the lack of a transfer option under the PPF 
was particularly relevant for Mr D.
The PPF was introduced by the government in 2005 as a lifeboat scheme to protect 
members of DB pension schemes with the promise of providing a minimum level of benefits. 
The revaluation and escalation rates are set by law. Depending on his age on transfer to the 
PPF, Mr D could expect to receive a minimum of 90% of his scheme pension, although this 
would be affected by the revaluation and escalation rates under the PPF. This contrasted 
with the recommended PPP where theres no promise of a minimum level of benefits 
payable. At the time of Lighthouses recommendation, the PPFs financial position remained 
robust. So there wasnt any reason at that time to question the financial viability of the PPF 
to provide benefits in the future.
If Mr D was concerned about his safeguarded benefits being transferred to the PPF which 
would result in him losing 10% of his scheme pension, then I question why, as a Lowest 
medium risk investor, he would accept the risk of transferring to a PPP which exposed him 
to unlimited downside risks where the loss could be significantly greater than 10%. This 
simply doesnt make sense to me and suggests that he didnt have the knowledge and 
experience to understand the features, risks and benefits of the PPF compared to the pension transfer. Since the PPF provided secure income, I dont think a transfer to it was a 
poor outcome for Mr D, as suggested by Lighthouse.
In summary, I think that Lighthouse failed to adequately allay Mr Ds misapprehensions and 
that he therefore made the decision to transfer to the PPP from an uninformed position 
regarding the security of his benefits under the PPF option.
Flexibility and early retirement objective 
Lighthouse recorded that Mr D wanted the flexibility to retire early around age 55 without any 
reductions and to receive annual income of about £19,668 after tax. This income 
requirement was a joint one for both Mr and Mrs D. 
Lighthouse stated that if benefits were taken early under the BSPS then the income paid to 
Mr D would be reduced. It characterised this reduction as a penalty. But the reduction wasnt 
a penalty but applied to reflect the fact that the scheme would have to support the income for 
longer than anticipated, and to protect the interests of scheme members generally. 
Lighthouse also portrayed the PPP option as allowing for early retirement earlier than age 65 
without penalty. I think this was misleading. The reality was of course that the PPP wouldve 
had less time to grow if accessed earlier than age 65 and any resulting income would need 
to last longer. I cannot see that this was adequately explained to Mr D so that he could 
understand accessing any of the available options early would likely lead to reduced 
retirement income during his lifetime compared to taking benefits at age 65.
Flexibility and control might sound attractive, but I cant see that Mr D had any concrete need 
for it. The suitability report, for example, stated that the PPP would give Mr D increased 
levels of flexibility instead of a fixed income but didnt explain why this was so important. 
And it wasnt explained why he didnt want a fixed or guaranteed retirement income stream. 
In my view, theres no real evidence that Mr D required irregular lump sums, variable income 
or staggered income during retirement. Rather, I think that based on his lack of investment 
experience, risk profile and the fact that the value his safeguarded benefits represented the 
backbone of his retirement provision, Mr D likely needed a source of guaranteed income to 
support his standard of living in retirement. Given the critical yields applicable in this case, 
Im not convinced it was suitable for Mr D to expose the backbone of his pension provision to 
substantial investment risk.
The PPF wouldve provided guaranteed income from age 55 onwards. Lighthouse calculated 
in the TVAS report that at age 55 the PPF was estimated to provide either annual income of 
£13,266 or reduced income of £11,025 plus a lump sum of £73,232. But this wasnt stated in 
the suitability report. So its unclear to me how Mr D could make an informed decision 
regarding the benefits available under the alternative option of the PPF.
The suitability report focused on the benefits payable from the recommended PPP. All that 
was presented for comparative purposes was the estimated benefits that would be provided 
by the BSPS  but the figures presented were misleading. On Page 11 of the suitability 
report it stated that at age 60 the BSPS was estimated to provide either annual income of 
£12,712 or reduced income of £8,990 plus a lump sum of £59,933. It then went on to state, 
Should you retire early at age 55 you will be subject to an 30% reduction in total. I have two 
concerns here. Firstly, the figures of £12,712 or reduced income of £8,990 plus a lump sum 
of £59,933 were as at age 55, as confirmed in the TVAS report, and not at age 60. Secondly, 
Mr D may have interpreted the reference to the 30% reduction as applying to the presented 
figures and so may have thought the estimated benefits at age 55 would be lower than was 
actually the case. This is because the figures presented in the suitability report already took 
into account the reduction.Overall, Im not satisfied that the suitability report adequately set out the income available 
from the PPF option to enable Mr D to make an informed decision.
Could the income need have been met by the PPF?
The basis of Lighthouses advice, as set out in the suitability report, was that the annual 
income need of about £19,668 after tax was a joint one for both Mr and Mrs D which would 
be met by the income generated by both their pension arrangements. Since Lighthouse 
relied on the value of Mrs Ds pension income to support its recommendation to Mr D, I think 
its fair that I also take it into account.
As noted above, at age 55 the PPF was estimated to provide either annual income of 
£13,266 or reduced income of £11,025 plus a lump sum of £73,232. And at age 65 it was 
estimated to provide either annual income of £19,745 or reduced income of £15,448 plus a 
lump sum of £102,607. If benefits were taken between age 55 and 65 then the estimated 
benefits would fall somewhere between these estimate figures. Lighthouse wouldve been 
aware of this.
By the time of the advice in 2017, Mr D had built up DC pension savings of about £35,000 in 
his workplace DC pension scheme and FSAVC plan. He was continuing to pay contributions 
into both plans. Based on the contribution rates and that it was expected Mr D would remain 
employed by Tata Steel until retirement, I think its fair to say that by age 55 the value of his 
DC pension savings would be about £50,000 which would increase the longer Mr D delayed 
his retirement.
In addition, Mrs D was an active member of the LGPS and expected the draw those benefits 
from age 67. According to the suitability report, the projected income from the LGPS at age 
67 was £9,835. She had also accrued benefits in a former employers DB pension scheme 
and expected to draw those benefits from age 60. The projected annual income from that 
scheme at age 60 was £8,361. 
Suitably advised I think Mr D couldve used his DC pension savings to meet the recorded 
annual income need for the first couple of years of retirement from the point he first 
accessed benefits. This course of action wouldve enabled him to delay taking the PPF 
income so as to minimise the level of early retirement reduction applied to that income. I 
note that in March 2022, when he was aged 55 (but age 56 within the next two weeks), Mr D 
accessed benefits from his PPP. So it seems to me that his DC pension savings couldve 
met his recorded income need for the two-year period to age 58. And then, from that age, he 
couldve taken the reduced pension and tax-free lump sum option from the PPF. Based on 
the estimated benefits payable by the PPF from age 55, I think a combination of the reduced 
pension and tax-free cash from age 58 (which would be higher than compared to the figures 
at age 55) wouldve likely met the income need for the four-year period to age 62. Mrs D is 
two years younger than Mr D, so by the time he was age 62, she was projected to receive 
from her 60th birthday annual income of £8,361 from one of her DB pension schemes.
Its my view that the combined income provided by the PPF (from Mr Ds 58th birthday) and 
Mrs Ds DB pension scheme (from her 60th birthday)  supplemented by any tax-free cash 
provided by those schemes  wouldve likely met their joint income need until they started 
drawing their State pensions and Mrs Ds LGPS pension started from age 67. If receipt of 
their guaranteed pension income generated surplus income, this couldve been reinvested 
for future use. In my view, the prospect that the PPF may have generated excess income 
from age 67 onwards wasnt sufficient reason for Mr D to forego that option in favour of a 
transfer to a PPP.Mr D had enjoyed a guaranteed income all his working life and was recorded as having a 
Lowest medium risk profile. I dont think we wouldve been prepared to take too much risk 
with his retirement provision. So I think a guaranteed income wouldve been valuable 
bearing in mind he had flexible options through tax free cash and his DC pension savings 
without taking risk on his main pension provision. 
The alternative, blended approach Ive suggested above likely wouldve enabled                         
Mr and Mrs D to achieve their joint income need but with significantly less risk. I havent 
seen any evidence that Lighthouse adequately considered, presented and discounted this 
alternative blended approach in meeting his objectives. 
Its my view that transferring to the PPP led to the investment, inflation and longevity risks 
associated with providing the retirement benefits moving from the DB pension scheme to             
Mr D for no clearly defined advantage compared to the alternative option of transferring to 
the PPF. 
Death benefits objective
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course, when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. However, while death benefits might be 
important for members such as Mr D, there generally shouldnt be a disproportionate 
emphasis on this compared to their own retirement needs. 
Lighthouse recorded that, in the event of his earlier death, Mr D wanted any unused pension 
benefits to be passed on to Mrs D. The suitability report stated, Your employer provides 
Death in Service benefit and a 6 month full pay, 6 month half pay sickness scheme. You 
appreciate this benefit short term is good but the problem you face is the stay and enter the 
PPF which limits your options, or move to the BSPS 2 scheme on reduced benefits. With 
both the restriction in mind on offer plus the last option of transfer giving extended benefits 
not only now, which is a priority but also long term into your retirement (when death in 
service would be lost), you felt delaying any transfer may limit your options in the future and 
the transfer gave you what you were looking for on several accounts after several 
discussions with [Lighthouses adviser].
I think its important not to underestimate the existing benefits Mr D already had in place. 
Through his employment, he had death in service life cover based on a multiple of four 
times his salary, meaning a lump sum of about £128,000 would be paid in the event he died 
while still employed by Tata Steel  this was payable regardless of whether his safeguarded 
benefits were transferred to the BSPS2, PPF or a PPP. The value of Mr Ds FSAVC and 
Tata Steel DC plans, then both valued in total at about £35,000, would also be payable to 
Mrs D, the value of which would increase over time since he was continuing to pay 
contributions. In addition, the PPF wouldve paid Mrs D a guaranteed spouses pension 
based on 50% of his revalued pension which escalated annually.
The recommended PPP offered flexible death benefits. Based on the applicable tax rules, if 
death occurred under age 75 the benefits are paid free of income tax  after age 75 the 
benefits are taxed at the beneficiarys marginal rate of income tax. Its fair to say that 
immediately following the transfer to the PPP and for the period until Mr D withdrew 
retirement benefits, the death benefits available would be significant (subject to investment 
performance) due to the simple fact he couldnt access and deplete the fund value until at 
least age 55. But Mr D was recorded as being in good health. So he could expect life 
expectancy into his 80s. There werent any immediate health concerns that indicated a 
pension transfer was a suitable course of action at that time. Withdrawing money from the 
PPP to meet his income and lump sum needs from age 55 onwards would likely mean that 
the size of the fund remaining in later years  when death is more likely  could be much smaller than expected. 
If Mr D wanted to provide a lump sum to Mrs D on his death, then life cover couldve 
achieved the same objective of providing a lump sum while enabling him to maintain 
guaranteed income in the PPF. I note that Mr D had disposable income available every 
month after paying his bills which he couldve used to pay for life cover to achieve the death 
lump sum objective. In the suitability report reference was made to the possibility of 
obtaining life cover, as follows:
Before proceeding with this transfer, as death benefits were important to you, I 
considered a whole of life plan to give you the equivalent benefit that the scheme 
transfer value is giving based on the fact that you wanted this to pass back to your 
family upon your death and not the proportional benefit. Bearing in mind, your 
pension will be invested potentially for the rest of your life and it is unlikely you will 
annuitise, I did not deem term assurance relevant as this assumes you need death
cover to a certain date and then it will cease. 
Your objective is to have a death benefit for your wife for the rest of your life and 
pass the fund on in full to her. With this in mind, I sourced a whole of life plan for 
£420,105.72 (your DB pension) linked to inflation assuming this is what your 
transferring pension would grow at. Using whole of market software assureweb to 
research this, I have established that the monthly payment on a guaranteed basis 
(meaning it will not be open to future change based on underwriting statistics) to give 
you a benefit the same as the scheme would be £383.86 per month. We discussed 
this and felt this was too expensive to pay in addition to the fact it still mean that the 
scheme would retain a proportion of your benefits upon your death which is against 
your objectives. This assumes you would qualify for the cover via the cheapest 
provider and the real cost of another plan with the next level of insurers is much 
higher than this cost.
I cannot see evidence that Lighthouse adequately quantified Mr Ds death lump sum need 
taking into account any existing cover, over what term or how this might change over time. 
Rather, it appears Lighthouse assumed Mr D required life cover that matched the transfer 
value. That level of cover may have been inappropriate. Furthermore, it appears Lighthouse 
assumed that Mr D required cover for the rest of his life. Again, this may have not been 
necessary. Using a whole of life policy may have led to Mr D being charged for benefits or 
longer-term life cover that he might not have needed, making the cover unnecessarily 
expensive. 
In my view, a level or decreasing term assurance may have been more appropriate for
comparative purposes. Pure life cover for a defined term is generally cheaper than whole of 
life cover, so the cost was likely to be less than the quoted monthly figure of £383.86 for the 
whole of life plan and may have been more attractive to Mr D. I cannot see evidence that 
Lighthouse considered and presented level or decreasing term life cover quotes to Mr D to 
help him make an informed decision, regardless of his own views about the relevance of life 
cover.
Notwithstanding the above, I think its important to note that Mrs D had accrued substantial 
benefits in two DB pension schemes in her own right. So she wasnt entirely reliant on the 
value of Mr Ds safeguarded benefits to provide income to support her standard of living in 
retirement in the event of his earlier death, further undermining the case for a pension 
transfer to provide death benefits to Mrs D.
While I understand that death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here, in my 
opinion, was to advise Mr D about what was best for his own retirement provision. A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement. Its my view that Mr D had no health 
issues at the time Lighthouse advised him which might reasonably have prompted him to 
relinquish the guarantees attached to his own retirement income for the sake of an 
enhanced safety net for Mrs D. So Im not convinced there was any real merit in him 
transferring to a PPP at that time to provide a lump sum death benefit.
Skilled Person review
The FCA previously required Lighthouse to appoint a Skilled Person to conduct a review of 
certain DB pension transfers that were advised on or arranged by Lighthouse. As part of that 
review exercise, the advice given to Mr D was assessed as suitable by the Skilled Person 
using the FCAs DBAAT. Lighthouse feels this hasnt been taken into account and that the 
DBAAT and methodology used by the regulator has been ignored by our investigator when 
assessing this complaint.
I can assure Lighthouse that Ive considered the Skilled Persons assessment and all the 
documents that were provided with it. The DBAAT is designed to help establish and guide 
users whether DB transfer advice was suitable in a specific case. In this case, based on the 
data inputs in the DBAAT, the suggested suitability rating was actually graded as Potentially 
unsuitable. But the Skilled Person decided to override this and concluded the advice was 
suitable mainly on the basis that the PPP was projected to meet Mr Ds income need but 
only by taking into account income from other sources including Mrs Ds DB pensions and 
their State pensions.
However, Im considering this advice independently and Im not bound by what the Skilled
Person decided. As set out at the beginning of this provisional decision, Ive taken into 
account COBS 9 and COBS 19 as well as the Principles, FCA rules and guidance and good 
industry practice. And, having done so, Ive reached a different outcome for the reasons set 
out above. This doesnt mean I used different considerations to the regulator. I simply dont 
agree with some of the answers the Skilled Person gave in the DBAAT and the ultimate 
outcome that was  reached. For example, I dont think there was sufficient evidence on file 
that flexible benefits or maximising death benefits were in Mr Ds best interests; that the 
transfer analysis supported a recommendation to transfer or that early retirement objectives 
couldnt be met by the PPF.
If properly informed, would Mr D have transferred anyway?
In potential mitigation of Lighthouses advice, Ive also thought about whether Mr D, if placed 
in a fully informed position, would nevertheless have decided to transfer the value of his 
safeguarded benefits to a PPP. This was a complex transaction involving many factors 
which Mr D, as a layperson, wouldnt have been familiar. Its my view, given his lack of 
investment knowledge and experience, that he was heavily reliant on Lighthouse, as the 
professional party in the transaction, to take those factors into account and provide suitable, 
balanced advice. 
Mr D might have chosen to transfer against advice on the basis of his concerns. However, 
bearing in mind that many members transferred to the PPF or BSPS2 even though such 
concerns were widely held, and bearing in mind also his lack of investment experience and 
attitude to risk, I dont think, on balance, that he wouldve insisted on transferring. Given               
Mr Ds reliance on Lighthouse, I think its likely he wouldve accepted a recommendation for 
the PPF had it advised him to take that course of action.
In summary, my provisional decision was that it was fair and reasonable to uphold this
complaint based on the available evidence. I went on to set out what I considered was faircompensation on the basis that Lighthouse undertake a redress calculation in line with the 
rules for calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy 
statement PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4. I also said that 
Lighthouse should pay Mr D £300 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its 
unsuitable recommendation.
I asked both parties to this complaint to provide any further comments or evidence that they 
wanted me to consider before I made my final decision. 
Mr D stated that he agreed with my view and proposed remedy. He requested that in my 
final decision I direct Lighthouse to use a qualified actuary to oversee the loss calculation 
because the value of his PPP has been combined with another pension fund since the 
pension transfer.
Lighthouse replied and stated while it disagreed with my provisional decision it was prepared 
to settle Mr Ds complaint informally in line with my proposed remedy. It said that this meant 
it wasnt necessary for me to issue a final decision on this complaint at this time. It asked 
whether I was prepared to postpone issuing my final decision until such time as Mr D was 
able to consider its settlement offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, and in accordance with the Financial Services 
and Markets Act 2000 and the Dispute Resolution section in the FCAs handbook, I need to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
and codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
The findings I made in my provisional decision and set out above form part of this
final decision. Given the responses received, I see no reason to depart from my provisional 
decision of 14 September 2023 to uphold Mr Ds complaint or my proposed remedy.
I acknowledge Lighthouses request that I delay issuing this final decision. But I see no 
compelling reason to do so given that it says its prepared to settle any redress due to Mr D 
in line with my proposed remedy. To prevent any further delay in resolving this complaint, 
Ive decided to proceed and issue my final decision.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lighthouse to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice he was given. 
Our investigator concluded that given Mr Ds circumstances and objectives, Lighthouse 
shouldve advised him to transfer to the PPF on the basis of prospective early retirement at 
age 55. I have a different view. As Ive explained above, I think that suitability advised Mr D 
wouldve envisaged using his DC pension savings in the first instance before taking benefits 
from the PPF from age 58. So, compensation should be based on Mr D taking benefits from 
the PPF at age 58.
I recognise that there would be a 10% reduction in the starting pension entitlement within the 
PPF and that income in respect of service before 6 April 1997 wouldnt escalate in payment. The BSPS2 wouldnt cut the starting entitlement for deferred members. But the reduction for 
early retirement under the PPF, proposed here at 58, was lower and would likely have more 
than offset the 10% reduction. The commutation factor for converting pension income into
tax-free cash was also slightly more favourable under the PPF compared to the BSPS2 
and its my view that maximum tax-free cash was attractive to Mr D. And so both the starting
income and the tax-free cash would likely have been higher under the PPF compared to the
BSPS2.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Lighthouse to put Mr D, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D wouldve
remained a member of BSPS and subsequently moved with it to the PPF as explained
above.
Lighthouse must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
Lighthouse should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the redress. 
A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr D and our service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ds  
acceptance of my final decision.
I understand that since the pension transfer, the value of Mr Ds PPP has been combined 
with another pension fund. Lighthouse should therefore consider how to apportion the DC 
fund value attributable to the BSPS transfer value and obtain actuarial support where 
required, in line with DISP App 4.2.7G.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, Lighthouse should:
calculate and offer Mr D redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr D before starting the redress calculation that:
- his redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in 
line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), 
and
- a straightforward way to invest his redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr D receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr D accepts Lighthouses offer to calculate how much of his redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr D for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of his redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Ds end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr D as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, Lighthouse may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% 
wouldve been taxed according to Mr Ds likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to 
be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects 
this. 
In addition, Lighthouse should pay Mr D £300 compensation for the trouble and upset 
caused by its unsuitable recommendation.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Lighthouse Advisory 
Services Limited to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000. Where the compensation amount doesnt exceed £160,000, I 
would additionally require Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr D any interest on 
that amount in full, as set out above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds 
£160,000, I would only require Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr D any 
interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D. 
If Mr D accepts this final decision, the money award becomes binding on Lighthouse 
Advisory Services Limited. My recommendation wouldnt be binding. Further, its unlikely that 
Mr D can accept this final decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may want to 
consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this final 
decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023. 
Clint Penfold
Ombudsman