DRN-2970145
The complaint
Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 complain that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) didnt give them a full refund of the premium they 
paid for a single-trip travel insurance policy.
What happened
In early February 2020, Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 took out single trip travel insurance policy 
to cover a trip in September 2020. The policy was provided by Mapfre. In total they paid 
£189.25 in premiums for this policy, which also included cover for medical conditions 
declared by two members of the party.
Because of the global pandemic, the trip was cancelled and on 4 June 2020, they contacted 
Mapfre to cancel the policy and request a refund of their premium.  The policy was 
cancelled, and Mapfre offered to refund 80% of the premium. Mapfre considers this to be fair 
and reasonable because it administered the policy to the point of cancellation, and it 
provided cover for cancellation risks. Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 say they should receive a full 
refund.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She found that the 80% refund Mapfre had 
given was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 didnt agree. As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
If you have not travelled or made a claim and you wish to cancel the policy within 14 
days of receiving your policy documentation a full refund will be given. If you cancel 
after 14 days of receipt of your policy documents no premium refund will be made.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Mapfre doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr C1, Mrs C 
and Mr C2s cooling-off period ended in February 2020. But the policy wasnt cancelled until 
June 2020. So, Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off period. 
This means I dont think they are entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract they had with Mapfre.
But Ive also thought about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 bought the policy in February 2020 for a trip that was due to start In 
September 2020. Under the terms of the policy, cover under the cancellation section of the 
policy started at the time they booked their trip or paid the insurance premium, whichever 
was later. In other words, this is when Mapfre accepted the risk of a valid claim occurring 
under the policy. So, Mapfre covered the risk of cancellation from February 2020 onwards.
I accept that Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of 
both parties to the insurance contract. And this meant that Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 werent 
able to go ahead with their planned trip. But I dont think this made it impossible for their 
contract with Mapfre to be performed.
This is because the policy didnt just provide cover for the dates of travel. The price set by 
Mapfre also covered them if they needed to cancel their trip. So, the premium they paid 
covered the risk of them having to cancel the trip due to any number of listed events insured 
under the policy. And in the circumstances of this complaint, Mapfre was covering the risk of 
Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 making a successful claim on the policy from when it was 
purchased in February 2020 until the trip was cancelled in June 2020.
After the holiday was cancelled, Mapfre didnt bear any risk under the policy anymore. As far 
as I understand, Mapfre hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. In other words, Mapfre was no 
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made under the policy.
Mapfre has told us how the premiums paid on the type of policy that Mr C1, Mrs C and 
Mr C2 had were split, with up to 20% of the premium relating to pre-travel cancellation cover, 
and the rest for cover while travelling. As our investigator explained, an insurer is entitled to 
decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account a variety of 
factors  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Mapfre has provided about its reasons for calculating the 
premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied Mapfre has demonstrated theres a material 
unevenness in the way the risk is spread for this policy. And Im therefore satisfied that 
Mapfre hasnt treated Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 unfairly.
In the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-19 global pandemic, I 
think the offer Mapfre has paid to refund 80% of the premium Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 paid 
for their policy is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I dont think theres anything else 
Mapfre needs to do, to put things right.
Mr C1, Mrs C and Mr C2 say another family member has received a full refund of their 
premium under the same circumstances. And they have also referred to a full premium 
refund they have received on a policy they purchased with a different insurer. They think 
Mapfre should therefore provide them with a full refund. Whilst I appreciate their comments, 
complaints are considered on their own individual merits, based on the specific 
circumstances of that case. The complaint made to this service relates to the refund of 
premium of the policy that they held with Mapfre and, based on the information and evidence 
supplied in support of this complaint, I think Mapfre has acted fairly when reaching this offer.  
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C1, Mrs C and 
Mr C2 to accept or reject my decision before 8 October 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman