DRN-3709126
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc sent him a loan statement after promising it 
would not send any more correspondence regarding a loan that was part of his IVA in 2017.
What happened
Mr L complained to Bank of Ireland in December 2020 about ongoing correspondence 
regarding a loan that was part of his 2017 IVA. It upheld his complaint, committed to block 
any further correspondence and paid him £400 to recognise the impact of its error. Mr L did 
not bring this complaint to our service.
Earlier this year he received an annual loan statement, contrary to Bank of Irelands previous 
commitment. When Mr L complained to the bank it initially said it was unable to find on its 
systems that further correspondence had been sent. Mr L brought his complaint to our 
service. The bank then confirmed that it had sent Mr L an annual loan statement, as whilst 
all other correspondence had been blocked, statements hadnt. It corrected this error.
Our adjudicator upheld Mr Ls complaint. He said it was clear there had been a bank error 
and so Bank of Ireland must write to Mr L to apologise, confirming what it has done to 
ensure there will be no further correspondence.
Mr L asked for an ombudsmans review. In summary, he questioned if an apology was the 
right resolution, saying the impact of the banks repeated failures over five years is 
significant. The continual harassment has caused him stress and inconvenience, and 
impacted his family life. He also asked why the banks own investigation failed to show it had 
sent the annual statement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am upholding Mr Ls complaint. Ill explain why but first I want to make 
clear what the remit of this decision is. 
I cannot consider the correspondence sent prior to the loan statement, nor the impact it had 
on Mr L, as this was the subject of Mr Ls complaint to the bank in December 2020. I note he 
accepted £400 in full and final settlement to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience the banks failings had caused. Under the rules we must follow (DISP 2.8.2), 
he would have needed to bring that complaint to this service within six months of the banks 
the final response letter had he wanted our involvement.
This means I am only considering here the banks error that led to Mr L receiving an annual 
loan statement earlier this year. The facts are no longer in dispute so I need not set them out 
in detail here.
I agree with the investigators recommendation that Bank of Ireland should write to Mr L to 
apologise and to give him the reassurance he is fairly looking for that no more related 
correspondence will be sent.
Mr L has described the impact of all the correspondence on him over recent years, but as 
Ive explained I am only looking at the impact of the one statement that was sent in error. 
And I find a written apology to be a proportionate response.
Mr L is also unhappy with how Bank of Ireland handled his complaint, asking why the bank 
did not realise it had sent the statement. But, there is a difference between a complaint 
about a financial service and a complaint about how a firm has handled a complaint. I can 
only look at the former. Mr Ls concerns about Bank of Irelands investigation into and 
response to his complaint is not a complaint about the banks provision of or failure to 
provide a financial service  its distinctly about complaint handling.  And under our rules I 
cannot consider complaint handling.  
 
Putting things right
Bank of Ireland must write to Mr L to apologise for sending the loan statement, and clarify 
what it has done to ensure it meets its commitment to send no further related 
correspondence.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ls complaint. Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc must put things right as set out 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman