DRN-4164472
The complaint
Mr R complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds (BGs) handling of his HomeCare 
claim. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BG couldnt repair the fridge freezer. Under the policy terms, it was therefore required to 
contribute towards a replacement (sourced from its own supplier). It would pay 100% if the 
appliance was under three years old, or 30% if three years old or more. It would not cover 
the installation cost.
BG has said it was only required to pay 30% contribution towards the new appliance. Mr R 
hasnt disputed this, so it appears to be accepted that the appliance was three years old or 
more. 
However, BG offered 100% contribution, plus installation. That was because BG recognised 
that it had provided Mr R with a poor service when it was attempting a repair. For 
completeness, I would agree. BG had arranged a number of engineer appointments - this 
caused Mr R inconvenience as he didnt live at the property. Its engineers also missed some 
of those appointments. Also, when BG found out that one of the parts needed to fix the 
appliance was no longer available, it delayed telling Mr R this. Mr R also had to make 
several phone calls to BG.
Its therefore apparent that Mr R was caused unnecessary inconvenience by this matter. 
Mr R also had to borrow a fridge. To be clear, I havent taken into account any 
inconvenience caused to Mr Rs family members, as they are not eligible complainants 
under our rules. 
The cost of the new appliance, plus installation, was £624. Under the policy terms, BG was 
only required to pay £156. Mr R is therefore £468 better off as a result of BGs offer. I agree 
with our investigator that this offer was reasonable, and reflects the inconvenience Mr R was 
caused by the matter. 
BGs call notes with Mr R on 5 August 2022 said that BG had offered him £50 towards the 
cost of a mini fridge. That was because he told BG that his family member needed a fridge in 
which to keep medication. However, Mr R has told us that BG didnt make this offer. 
I havent been provided with the call recording and so I cant be certain either way. Though 
given that Mr R already had use of another fridge which he had borrowed, he didnt need to 
purchase a mini fridge for his family member. I therefore doubt he would have made use of 
the offer if it had been made. Whilst Mr R wants BG to now pay him the £50, I see no reason 
to require it to do so, as he didnt buy a mini fridge.
Although Mr R wants BG to return his premiums, I dont require it to do so. As our 
investigator has explained, in making a successful claim, Mr R has had use of the policy and 
so it would not be appropriate for BG to refund his premiums. Mr R chose to renew his policy 
in August 2022 for the following year, which was of course up to him. 
Mr R says that BG hasnt paid him the £624 compensation. I understand that two cheques 
were sent in October and November 2022 when BG responded to the complaint. However, 
these were sent to the insured address rather than Mr Rs address. I cant see that Mr R was 
informed of this. So it wasnt Mr Rs fault that he didnt receive this payment. 
Given that BG sent the cheques to the wrong address (which have not been cashed), it 
should make the payment directly to Mr R. BG should also pay interest on this. Mr R had 
always wanted to accept the 100% contribution plus installation. Therefore, BGs error in 
sending the cheques to the wrong address meant that Mr R has been denied the use of this 
money.  
This Service would normally award interest at a rate of 8%. Mr R says that he purchased the 
new appliance on his credit card and paid a higher rate of interest. However, I dont think he 
needed to do this. BG had offered to purchase a replacement appliance through its supplier, 
but Mr R chose to buy one himself. It would therefore not be reasonable to require BG to pay 
a higher rate of interest in these circumstances.   
My final decision
My final decision is that British Gas Insurance Limiteds offer to pay £624 was fair. However, 
I find that it should pay interest on this. 
So my decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited should pay £624. Interest should be 
added at the rate of 8% simple per annum, from the date it offered the 100% contribution to 
the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman