DRN-4036297
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Wise Payments Ltd (Wise) wont refund the money she lost in a 
scam.
What happened
Mrs B is represented in this case but for ease Ill mainly refer to Mrs B.
Mrs B says that she saw an advert on a social networking site offering trading services. She 
also saw an article from someone who had made a lot of money. Mrs B was interested in 
making some extra money and left her contact details. A manager then contacted Mrs B to 
discuss the investment opportunity and she decided to go ahead. Mrs B had regular contact 
with the manager who kept her updated on how her investment was performing and was 
given help to buy and sell cryptocurrency.
I have listed the payments Mrs B made in the table below. I understand that most of the 
payments were to increase her investment but that later payments related to taxes. 
Payment number Date Amount
1 22/07/22 £2,500
2 05/08/22 £2,000
3 12/08/22 £1,300
4 15/08/22 £1,300
5 16/08/22 £3,200
6 23/08/22 £3,000
7 31/08/22 £5,000
8 13/09/22 £1,026
9 13/09/22 £3,974
10 16/09/22 £3,418
11 16/09/22 £2,900
Total £29,618
Mrs B realised she was the victim of a scam when she was unable to withdraw funds. 
Through her representative, she complained to Wise in early October 2022. 
Wise didnt agree to refund any of the transactions Mrs B made. It referred to its terms of use 
and said that as a money remittance service Wise isnt able to get involved in disputes 
between senders and recipients. Wise also said that it had no way of knowing if the 
transactions were out of character as there was no payment history to compare the 
transactions to. It also couldnt recall the payments but had taken appropriate action to 
prevent further fraud.
Mrs B was unhappy with Wises response and brought a complaint to this service. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend it be upheld. She said that 
given the account was newly opened the payments werent unusual and there was nothing 
to indicate Mrs B was at risk of financial harm. She noted that Wise accounts are largely 
used for sending high value transactions to individuals so the value of the transactions alone 
wouldnt be enough to alert Wise to any issues. 
Mrs B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for a final decision, so the case 
has been passed to me to consider. In summary, she said:
- The payments should have triggered Wises fraud prevention systems due to their 
size and the fact they were out of character. Wise should have been aware that 
scammers often ask victims to open new accounts so Wise should have been on the 
lookout for large payments from new accounts and intervened when payment five in 
the table above (for £3,200) was made, as by that stage Mrs B had transferred 
£5,800 in four days. 
- The argument that the account is new ignores some of the biggest scam trends. 
Moving relatively large funds into a new account and sending these funds to buy 
cryptocurrency matches a known cryptocurrency scam trend. Wise should have 
identified these large payments to a cryptocurrency exchange.
- Action Fraud and the FCA warned about cryptocurrency scams in 2018. 
- If Wise had intervened the scam would have been uncovered. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry that Mrs B has lost so much money in a cruel scam. I need to decide whether 
it would be fair and reasonable for Wise, in all the circumstances of this case, to be held 
responsible for this loss. 
Wise is an electronic money institute and not a bank so isnt subject to the same 
expectations set out in guidance and regulations as a bank when it comes to fraud 
prevention. Wise should execute payment instructions without undue delay. And as a 
starting point there is a presumption that liability for authorised payments is on the payer, 
even where it might have been made as part of a scam. 
I think Wise might be liable for reasonably foreseeable losses if, in breach of its duty of care, 
it fails to act on information which ought reasonably to alert a prudent authorised payment 
institution to potential fraud or financial crime by, or against, its customer. So I think Wise 
should be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions and exercise 
reasonable skill and care. But I dont think Wise has failed in its obligations to Mrs B in this 
case and will explain why. 
I recognise that payments to cryptocurrency exchanges from a newly opened account can 
represent a scam risk. But in this case Mrs B paid individuals via a peer to peer platform that 
allows traders to buy and sell cryptocurrencies directly with other individuals. This means 
that the payments Mrs B made appeared to Wise to be to individuals and not to a 
cryptocurrency exchange. So Mrs Bs representatives points about known cryptocurrency 
scam trends dont apply here. Mrs B opened her account with Wise on 20 July 2022 and no reason for opening the account 
was given and she wasnt required to give payment reasons. She topped up her balance but 
the only transfers she made were the scam transactions. So, Wise had no previous account 
history to compare the transactions with and didnt request information to assess whether 
the payment reason matched the account opening reason. Added to this, the transactions 
Mrs B made were of relatively low value and werent made in quick succession. The overall 
loss is high, but the transactions were made over close to two months.
Whilst I recognise that scammers get victims to open new accounts, theres a balance to be 
struck between identifying payments that could potentially be fraudulent and minimising 
disruption to legitimate payments. If all payments from new accounts were stopped while 
further enquiries were made, many legitimate payments would be affected, which would 
cause significant disruption and delay. 
I dont agree that Wise should have intervened when the fifth payment was made as Mrs Bs 
representative has suggested. Payments three, four and five were made over a four-day 
period, so not in rapid succession which might be indicative of, for example, a safe account 
scam. I dont consider there was a pattern of fraud that Wise ought reasonably to have 
picked up on and the value of the payments remained relatively low and in line with earlier 
payments. 
After the fifth payment there was a week before the next payment and a further week to the 
seventh payment. Whilst the value of payment seven is a little higher than previous 
payments, I dont consider it is sufficiently out of character that Wise ought to have 
intervened. There isnt the kind of sudden increase in spending that would indicate a scam 
risk that warranted intervention. Mrs B called Wise on 31 August 2022. In this call, she 
couldnt provide identification details and was talked through this. Mrs B referred to receiving 
money before ending the call. Im not satisfied Wise should have realised something was 
wrong based on this call. 
On 13 and 16 September 2022 Mrs B made two payments per day, but I dont think this 
means Wise ought reasonably to have intervened. The cumulative value of the transactions 
on each day was around the same as the £5,000 payment on 31 August and Im not 
persuaded a pattern emerged that Wise ought to have been concerned about.
Each payment Mrs B made was to a new payee, but Wise accounts are used to send 
payments to individuals, so I dont consider this to be unusual either. 
In deciding that Wise acted reasonably in processing these payments Ive also taken into 
account the fact Wise has confirmed it hadnt received any reports about any of the 
recipients. So there were no other indications that Mrs B was at risk of financial harm.  
For completeness, the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code doesnt apply in this case for 
a number of reasons including the fact Wise hasnt signed up to it.
Overall, whilst I realise my decision will be disappointing to Mrs B after losing a large amount 
of money, I cant reasonably hold Wise responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman