DRN-1873596
 
The complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender), irresponsibly lent to 
him.                            
What happened
This complaint is about three short-term loans Mr Lender provided to Mr H between October 
2016 and July 2019. There were two chains of lending. Mr Hs borrowing history is as 
follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 18/10/2016 15/03/2017 5 £300.00 £127.20
2 19/03/2017 26/07/2017 4 £500.00 £218.60
Break
3 31/07/2019 01/10/2019 3 £400.00 £195.10
 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Hs complaint. They thought that the checks carried out by 
Mr Lender didnt give any cause for concern that would suggest it should carry out further 
checks. 
Mr H didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said he had complained about another business 
who had lent to him and it was agreed that the lending was irresponsible. 
As the complaint remains unresolved, it has been passed to me for decision in my role as 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint. After doing so, Im not upholding       
Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
I should first explain that when considering a complaint this service treats each complaint on 
its own particular merits and circumstances. So while I appreciate Mr H has said he had a 
complaint against another business upheld for irresponsible lending, the same 
circumstances do not apply to this complaint. 
Mr Lender has told us of the checks it carried out before agreeing to each loan. Mr H 
confirmed his monthly income was £1,300 for loan one, £1,250 for loan two and £1,850 for 
loan three. His expenditure each month was £660 for loan one, £850 for loan two and 
£1,460 for loan three. There was no evidence of IVA, bankruptcy or debt management plans 
on his credit file prior to the loans being approved. So, on the face of it the lending would 
appear affordable on a pounds and pence basis and it wasnt unreasonable for Mr Lender to 
have agreed to lend to Mr H. 
As Ive said above, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But I dont think there was anything in the 
information that Mr H provided to Mr Lender which would have caused it to be concerned 
that he was having problems managing his finances.Its possible that Mr Hs financial circumstances werent correctly reflected in either the 
information he provided, or any other information Mr Lender obtained. And if his 
circumstances were different Mr Hs actual financial position may well have been more 
apparent if further information  such as bank statements or more in-depth credit checks  
had been obtained. Mr H has given us a copy of his bank statements from around the time of 
the borrowing, but I wouldnt have expected Mr Lender to have gathered such detailed 
information at the points of lending to him. 
Mr Lender could only make a decision based on the information it had available at the time. 
That information  and the fact the loans were all at the beginning or very early stage of the 
lending relationship  I dont think indicated there was a greater risk of the loans being 
unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr H. 
In these circumstances, I dont think Mr Lender needed to take further steps to verify the 
information provided  such as asking Mr H for evidence of his income and outgoings which 
Mr Lender could have gathered from his bank statements or copies of any bills, as 
examples. I have considered the information that was provided to, and obtained by Mr 
Lender before it lent to Mr H. And there isnt anything in this information that may have led 
Mr Lender to conclude that it should decline Mr Hs applications for the loans. And there isnt 
anything to have prompted it to ask for more information about Mr H. So, I dont think Mr 
Lender was wrong to have provided these loans, based solely on the information it had. 
So overall, in these circumstances, I think the assessments Mr Lender did for the loans was 
proportionate. And I think its decision to lend to Mr H wasnt unreasonable. 
I appreciate my conclusion to Mr Hs complaint will be a disappointment to him, but I hope I 
have managed to explain how and why Ive reached it. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 26August2020.
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman