DRN-3813954
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Admiral Financial Services Ltd (AFS) lent irresponsibly when it 
approved her loan application.
What happened
Mrs B applied for a loan with AFS in May 2018. AFS approved the application and gave Mrs 
B a loan of £11000. The term of the loan was 5 years with monthly repayments of £233.46. 
Mrs B complained that AFS lent to her irresponsibly. AFS didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B 
complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the checks carried out by AFS 
were reasonable and proportionate but said he was unable to say that AFS had lent 
irresponsibly because there wasnt enough information about Mrs Bs financial situation to 
say that the lending was unaffordable or irresponsible.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said she thought AFS shouldve asked for proof of her income. She 
said she had credit card debt and outstanding loans when she applied for the loan with AFS.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind in considering whats fair and reasonable 
here.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that AFS had to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mrs B could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The 
nature of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will depend on various factors 
including the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost 
of credit and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
AFS says it looked at the information Mrs B had provided about her income and outgoings. 
Mrs B stated that her income was £30,800, so her net income wouldve been around £2000 
per month. AFS carried out a check to verify Mrs Bs income and discovered that the figure 
stated by Mrs B was different to her actual income. AFS says it took the actual income into 
account when assessing affordability. Mrs B stated that her rent/mortgage payment was 
£326 per month. Mrs B didnt declare any other expenses but AFS made an allowance for 
living expenses before calculating Mrs Bs disposable income. AFS calculated disposable 
income at £1034 per month before payment of the loan, which was £233 per month.
AFS also carried out a credit check. This showed that Mrs B had a mortgage, three credit 
cards and a mail order account. Mrs Bs outstanding debt (excluding her mortgage) was 
£1128. There was no adverse information on Mrs Bs credit file.
Based on what Ive seen, I think AFS carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
before approving the loan. I dont think there was anything in the information AFS gathered 
which wouldve given cause for concern., or necessitated further checks being carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the decision to lend was fair.
Ive looked at the information gathered by AFS. Having done so, Im unable to say that there 
was anything in the information to suggest that Mrs B was over indebted, or that she was 
experiencing financial difficulties. I think the decision to lend was fair.
Mrs B said she was going to provide bank statements for the period prior to the loan 
application. I havent received these. But in any event, I dont think the bank statements will 
change the decision Ive reached here. This is because Id only expect a lender to look at 
bank statements if there was something in the information it had already gathered that gave 
it cause for concern. Ive already said that I dont think there was anything in the information 
gathered by AFS which necessitated further checks.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that AFS carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks and made a fair landing decision. Im unable to say that the lending 
was irresponsible or unaffordable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman