DRN-3239403
The complaint
Mr and Mrs F are unhappy at the interest and charges HSBC Bank Plc (HSBC) added to 
their account and overdraft over the years.
What happened
Mr and Mrs F complained to HSBC that when facing financial difficulties it levied excessive 
charges on their account. HSBC says all charges were applied correctly in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account and that it had refunded Mr and Mrs F £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
One of our adjudicators looked into their concerns and reached the conclusion HSBC hadnt 
done anything wrong or treated Mr and Mrs F unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Mr and Mrs F disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Mr and Mrs F raised their complaint in February 2021 in relation to charges applied to their 
account dating back to 2008. Six years before they raised their complaint is February 2015. 
And as the bank charges wouldve been notified to Mr and Mrs F at the time they were being 
applied, I think they ought to have known enough to decide whether they were unfair or 
causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that three years from when they ought to be 
reasonably aware they had reason to complain (2011) provides Mr and Mrs F with a longer 
period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at charges applied from February 
2015.
I can still look into Mr and Mrs Fs complaint about overdraft charges outside this time if Im 
satisfied the failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Mr and Mrs F 
have told us that over the years they have both suffered ill health and job losses and have 
been unable to pay their bills. 
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs F and I accept that they have had a lot to cope with over the 
years. But in coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Mr and Mrs F and HSBC and 
what I have to decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Mr and Mrs F 
wouldve prevented them from referring their complaint earlier had they chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything they have told us about their circumstances during
the relevant period. But some of the charges they are complaining about were applied over 
12 years ago. 
I understand why referring the complaint may not have been a priority for Mr and Mrs F. But I 
think they still could have referred their complaint about the charges incurred from 2008 
within the time limits, especially as it only takes an email or telephone call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at 
charges applied before February 2015. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Mr and Mrs F have referred to the proportionality of the charges applied to their account. But 
before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the 
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. 
Ultimately, how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision. And it isnt 
something for me to get involved with. That said, while Im not looking at HSBCs various 
charging structures per se, it wont have acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr and Mrs F if 
it applied any interest, fees and charges to Mr and Mrs Fs account in circumstances where it 
was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been aware Mr and Mrs F were 
experiencing financial difficulty.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr and Mrs F 
fairly and reasonably. I dont think that HSBC did treat Mr and Mrs F unfairly or unreasonably 
here though. I say this because having looked at Mr and Mrs Fs statements I cant see 
anything to suggest that HSBC ought to have realised they might have been experiencing 
financial difficulty prior to it being notified of this. I accept that there was a high number of 
gambling transactions on the account but during these periods the account was in credit  
indeed for the period I am able to look at from February 2015 for the most part Mr and Mrs F 
had a credit balance on their account.
I can see there were occasions where payments werent made due to a lack of funds in the 
account but this on its own isnt enough to show that HSBC ought to have known Mr and Mrs 
F were experiencing financial difficulty before it was made aware of it.
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to proceed with 
adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Mr and Mrs Fs account was being 
used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that HSBC treated Mr and Mrs F 
unfairly or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs F. But I hope they understand 
the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have been listened to. My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman