DRN-1581281
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mrs H took out a credit card in August 1997. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy to 
protect her credit card monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt feel we should uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Mrs H disagrees with our 
adjudicators view. 
Mrs H is mainly concerned that PPI was added without her knowledge or consent. She also 
told us that if PPI had been explained properly and she had been given the option to decline 
the cover, then she wouldve done that. Mrs H said she had a secure job with good work 
benefits and she rarely took time out of work due to sickness, making it very unlikely that she 
would ever be in a position to benefit from the insurance. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Mrs H took out her credit card with PPI by filling in a postal application. After shed signed for 
her credit card, there was a further section headed Cardholder Payment Protection which 
also had to be signed if PPI was required. The x on the form simply indicates where to sign. 
I think the way the application form is set out makes it clear that it was up to Mrs H to say if 
she wanted to take out PPI with her credit card. 
Mrs H indicated on the form that she wanted to have PPI with her credit card by signing the 
form a second time in the PPI section. 
So, on balance, I find that Tesco made Mrs H aware that PPI was optional and it was added 
to her account when she chose to have it. 
As this was a postal application form which Mrs H most probably filled in at home, I dont 
think its likely that Tesco personally advised her about the PPI. Its completely 
understandable that Mrs H mightve forgotten details of a sale that happened such a long 
time ago. And so I cant uphold her complaint just based on the way she says Tesco sold her 
the PPI. I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. I dont think Tesco recommended the PPI to Mrs H, so it didnt have to check the policy was 
suitable for her. But it still had to make sure that it gave Mrs H enough information to make a 
proper decision about whether PPI was right for her. 
Mrs H was eligible for the policy when she took it out. 
Looking at the other means Mrs H couldve relied on to make her credit card repayments if 
she couldnt work I still think she couldve benefitted from having the PPI if shed needed to 
claim. 
Ive taken into account that Mrs H told us her employer wouldve paid at least 6 months full 
sick pay. But the policy couldve paid out in full for up to 12 months for an accident and 
sickness claim. So the PPI provided better protection than she couldve relied on getting 
through her employer. And it wouldve paid out on top of sick pay providing Mrs H with a 
useful benefit at a difficult time  especially bearing in mind that she mightve had some 
extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs H lost her job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed.
Although Mrs H had a secure job, and some means she could have relied on if she couldnt 
work, this does not mean that PPI wasnt also useful in her particular circumstances. There 
could be no guarantee that her job would remain secure indefinitely. And PPI wouldve paid 
out, in addition to any redundancy money, providing additional financial security in that 
situation. I dont know if she wouldve always had savings to rely on if she couldnt work  
and the PPI offered cover for longer than the amount of savings shes mentioned would've 
lasted if shed had to rely on these when she wasnt able to work. 
So overall, I think Mrs H couldve benefited from having the policy and I can see why 
someone in her situation would've taken it out.
Its possible some information Tesco gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mrs Hs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to have PPI.
I dont think its likely that the PPI cost was made clear to Mrs H when she bought the policy. 
But from what Ive seen, Mrs H hasnt suggested that she couldnt afford the monthly 
premiums. And she chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to so it seems Mrs H 
wanted this type of cover at the time. Looked at overall, I think Mrs H still wouldve decided 
to buy the policy if shed been better informed as it provided her with worthwhile protection. 
I dont think its likely that better information wouldve put her off buying it.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H 
because: 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about that. Because 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC didnt tell Mrs H, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Tesco Personal Finance PLC has basically offered to pay back the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - 
and I think that offer is fair in this case.
What Tesco Personal Finance PLC needs to doTesco Personal Finance PLC has to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should also 
pay back to Mrs H any extra interest she paid because of that.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs H 
the difference between what Mrs H owed and what she wouldve owed if the commission 
and profit share it got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should also pay Mrs H 8%* simple interest (15% before April 
1993) if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs H can claim back the tax if she 
doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But (if it hasnt already) Tesco Personal Finance PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman