DRN-4126938
The complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the premium Great Lakes Insurance SE charged for renewal of her 
lifetime pet insurance policy. 
What happened
Ms B took out a lifetime pet insurance policy with Great Lakes in December 2020. When she 
received renewal documentation at the end of 2022 she complained her premium had 
increased from around £70 a month to over £125. Great Lakes explained the factors which 
had led to the change including that it now took into account individual claims history when 
calculating premiums. Ms B said when she took out the policy she was told that wouldnt be 
the case. 
Our investigator found that when the policy was first taken out claims were pooled between 
similar customers. But that was now being rated on a more individual basis. He thought 
Great Lakes was entitled to make that change but agreed this wasnt made clear to Ms B 
when she took the policy out. He thought it unlikely shed have chosen a policy which 
operated in a different way if it had but accepted the subsequent increase in price would 
have been distressing for her. And he said Great Lakes should pay £250 in recognition of 
that. 
Great Lakes didnt respond. Ms B didnt agree. She said the policy had been mis-sold as she 
was told there wouldnt be individual claims loading. Other providers didnt rate on the basis 
of individual claims but she couldnt switch because her dog now had an ongoing condition. 
She didnt agree the compensation was enough. She also said Great Lakes hadnt treated 
the ongoing claims she did make as continuous but had logged them individually which she 
believed impacted her premium. So I need to reach a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard pet insurance policies usually wont cover any medical conditions a pet had or had 
received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So at renewal ongoing or 
recurring medical conditions wont be covered (once the 12 months cover for any such 
condition has expired). But some pet insurance policies will continue to cover any medical 
conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year. These 
are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions will 
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums carry on being paid. 
Lifetime policies are usually more expensive than standard policies as they provide a greater 
level of cover. But there are also different considerations surrounding the long-term cost and 
cover for customers with these policies, as the cost doesnt stay the same for the life of the 
policy and will generally increase each year at renewal, as the pet gets older and the cost of 
veterinary treatment goes up. The cost can also increase due to claims, changes in 
insurance premium tax or if an insurer re-evaluates the risk. Theres no limit to how high the 
cost could be.
In this case Ms B is unhappy with the premium charged for the renewal of her lifetime policy. 
In particular shes concerned that claims history is now taken into account which is different 
to what she was told when she took the policy out. Ive thought first about whether the 
increase has been correctly calculated by Great Lakes. 
In doing so Ive taken into account that insurers are entitled to decide how much to charge 
for the insurance cover they provide. Its up to them how much they increase their premiums 
by and its common for the percentages of increase to vary from year to year. I dont have 
the power to tell a business what its insurance should cost. I would be, in effect, determining 
or telling a business how it should operate  and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of 
Ms Bs policy is too high, she should have been charged less for the policy or that she 
should be charged less in the future. 
And the policy terms do allow Great Lakes to change the premium at renewal. Its explained 
the factors that influenced the increase which includes claims history but also overall 
increases in vets fees and the age of a pet. And Ive seen evidence to show how thats been 
applied in Ms Bs case. I havent seen evidence to suggest Great Lakes have treated Ms B 
any differently to how it would have treated any other policy holder in the same position. 
Ms B did express concern that claims relating to the same condition had been treated 
individually rather than as a continuous claim and that had impacted her premium. However, 
Great Lakes has told us if a high number of small claims are submitted for one condition this 
is still taken into consideration as a whole. And so whether its one big claim or lots of
small claims, the effect on the premium will be the same. Im satisfied these have been 
correctly considered. 
Ive also taken into account that this policy was marketed to Ms B as one that would continue 
to provide cover for as long as a customer continues to pay the premiums. Weve previously 
taken the view that in some circumstances it might not be fair for a business to make 
changes to a policy like this if they fundamentally change the nature of the cover on offer. 
That might, for example, be the case where an insurer withdrew from the market and left a 
consumer without ongoing cover for a pre-existing condition their pet might have, which 
would otherwise be covered by the policy that insurer had sold. 
I dont think thats the same as what happened here. Great Lakes has changed the way 
it calculates the policy premium and that does differ from the position when Ms B took the 
policy out. However, claims were always taken into account when calculating premiums. The 
difference is that previously they were pooled across customers with similar characteristics 
whereas now customers who have more claims are charged more if claims in the last 12 
months indicate an increased risk of future claims.  I dont think that represents a 
fundamental change to the lifetime cover offered by Great Lakes. So while I appreciate that 
the renewal quote it offered Ms B in 2022 was a significant increase on the previous year I 
dont think its done anything wrong here. But as the seller of the policy Great Lakes also had a responsibility to provide clear, fair and 
not misleading information to Ms B when she took this policy out. The relevant rules (the 
Insurance Conduct of Business Sourcebook  ICOBS) say it needs to take reasonable steps 
to provide a customer with appropriate information about a policy in good time and in a 
comprehensible form so that the customer can make an informed decision about the 
arrangements proposed.
In this case I dont think Great Lakes did provide Ms B with the information she needed. In 
particular when she called to discuss the policy in December 2020 she asked if making a 
claim would automatically put up her premiums. The adviser said at renewal Great Lakes 
would look at claims across the board and not just yourself. I appreciate that reflected the 
pricing position at the time. But the adviser didnt provide any caveat to that or give any 
indication that might change in future. As Ms B was making a decision on taking out lifetime 
cover I think that was something she should have been told so she could make an informed 
choice as to whether this was the right policy for her dog. 
Ive gone on to think about how thats affected Ms B and whether shed have acted 
differently if shed been given better information. I think its clear Ms B wanted lifetime cover 
for her dog; I understand she already had a lifetime policy when she contacted Great Lakes 
but was looking to switch. And from her call with Great Lakes its apparent she was 
interested in the more competitive premium it offered. 
However, she did ask about the impact of future claims during her second call with Great 
Lakes. And its possible that if given clearer information she might have looked elsewhere. I 
also appreciate that some other providers dont apply claims loading in the same way that 
Great Lakes now does. But Im mindful of the fact that when she called Great Lakes Ms B 
had already made the decision to go ahead with this policy; the only reason for her call was 
that she hadnt been able to complete the application online. 
And she hadnt had to make any claims for her dog at that point. Her discussion with Great 
Lakes centred around whether a prior leg lameness issue which had affected her dog some 
years ago would impact future coverage under this policy. It was the reassurance she was 
given on that plus the competitive price this policy offered which I think were the main drivers 
of her decision to go ahead with it. So even if Great Lakes had made clear the way it 
considered claims could change in future, I dont think that would have put Ms B off taking 
out this policy. I think its likely shed have still gone ahead with it. 
However, I accept that the price increase which was, in part, driven by her claims history, will 
have come as a shock to Ms B given shed previously been told individual claims wouldnt 
impact the premium. She might reasonably have thought there would be some increase 
given, for example, her dogs increasing age but I think the extent of that increase would 
have been unexpected and would have caused her distress. Ive thought about the impact of 
that on her and Im satisfied the £250 our investigator recommended is the right amount to 
recognise this. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Great Lakes Insurance SE will need to put things right 
by paying Ms B £250. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Ms B to accept or reject my decision before 10 July 2023.
 
James Park
Ombudsman