DRN-1298240
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement financed by 
Blue Motor Finance Ltd wasn't of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the vehicle and end 
the agreement.
What happened
Mr S tells us he acquired the vehicle from a dealer I'll refer to as "SD"  on 15 June 2019. 
Whilst driving it home after collection he says he noticed that something wasn't right with the 
vehicle. He says he took it to be inspected at his local VAT registered garage which I'll call 
"F" on 17 June. Mr S states that he was informed of numerous problems with the vehicle. 
These included warped brake pads; two tyres were cracked; and a coil spring had snapped. 
He said he told SD and BMF that he wanted to reject the vehicle but had been informed he'd 
have to accept repairs.
BMF initially told us that as SD had agreed to help with repairs it wouldn't support a rejection 
of the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said the vehicle wasn't 
of satisfactory quality when supplied. He thought Mr S should be permitted to reject the 
vehicle and end the agreement. And that BMF should pay Mr S £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Mr S indicated his acceptance of the investigator's view. BMF replied and said it disagreed. 
But following further informal contact it later changed its position and said that it now 
accepted the investigator's view. Attempts have been made to contact Mr S to see if he was 
still willing to accept this informal resolution. As no reply has been received an ombudsman 
has been asked to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I'm sorry that Mr S experienced these faults so soon after acquiring the vehicle. And I 
understand his concern at finding faults on the journey home after collecting the vehicle.
As BMF has now agreed to accept the rejection of the vehicle and end the agreement I can 
be brief in giving the reasons for my decision.
 
 
  
Mr S' hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement. BMF supplied the 
vehicle so its responsible for complaints about the quality of the vehicle. The Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA) states that in order to conform to contract goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. And if goods are found not to conform to contract within 
30 days of supply the consumer can reject those goods.
The notes on the invoice supplied by F show it found a rear tyre was out of shape; a front 
tyre was cracked and perished; front discs were pitted, scored and warped;and a coil spring 
had broken. Brakes and tyres are usually serviceable items for which a consumer would be 
responsible. But as these issues were identified within a couple of days of supply it's clear 
they weren't the result of fair wear and tear whilst Mr S had possessed the vehicle.
Although used vehicles can't be expected to meet the same standards as new vehicles that 
doesn't mean a consumer isn't entitled to a reasonable degree of quality and durability. And 
a reasonable person isn't going to expect a vehicle for which they've agreed to pay almost 
£8,000 to exhibit such serious faults so quickly.
It's no longer in dispute that the vehicle wasn't of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr S. 
The reason I've been given why SD refused to accept rejection of it was apparently that it 
had already allowed an exchange of a previous faulty vehicle it had supplied to Mr S. I can 
only assume that SD misunderstood the provisions of the CRA and thought it had the right to 
repair the replacement vehicle.
I'm pleased to record that BMF has acted fairly in now accepting that Mr S should be allowed 
to reject the vehicle.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
In summary, I find this vehicle wasn't of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr S. 
He correctly exercised his right to reject it and that should have been accepted at the 
time. I'm upholding the complaint but I'm satisfied that the offer now made by BMF - in line 
with our investigator's view - is a fair and reasonable resolution of it. 
Putting things right
BMF now needs to take the following action:
1. End the financial agreement with nothing further for Mr S to pay;
2. Arrange for the collection of the vehicle (if not already done) at no cost to Mr S;
3. Refund all payments made by Mr S in relation to the agreement;
4. Pay £100 to Mr  S for distress and inconvenience;
5. Arrange to have details of the agreement removed from Mr S' credit file.
Simple interest at the rate of 8% per year should be added to any sum arising from item 3 
above.My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I'm upholding this complaint.
I know require Blue Motor Finance Ltd to take the action that I set out in the preceding 
paragraph.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 August 2020.
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman