DRN-3260797
The complaint
Mr J had a motor insurance policy with Covea Insurance plc when he was involved in a non-
fault accident. He says Covea provided poor service in dealing with his claim.
What happened
Mr Js car was written-off in the accident, and Covea offered him £6,601 for it, which it said 
was the market value. But the sum was less than the average of two motor trade guides that 
Covea had quoted to Mr J as reflecting the cars market value Mr J objected and Covea said 
it would pay him the cars retail (forecourt) value. Mr J expected around  £8,500, but Covea 
proposed £7,467.50. In the end Covea offered Mr J the average of all four national motor 
trade guides, but he insisted that he should be paid the cars retail value. 
Mr J also had problems when trying to get the car hire he was entitled to under the policy. 
Covea offered him £210 compensation for that. And he complained about its general poor 
service, for which Covea offered £100 compensation. He wasnt happy about the legal cover 
hed bought when he got the motor policy either, but thats being dealt with separately. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Js complaint. He thought that although Covea may 
have made an error about the payment due for the car initially, it put the issue right by later 
offering the cars market value. He noted that Mr J was offered a hire car but chose not to 
accept one. In his opinion, the £210 compensation Covea paid for 21 days loss of use was 
reasonable  as was the sum it paid Mr J for distress and inconvenience. As Mr J disagreed 
with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Valuation
Mr Js policy says that in the event of the cars loss, Covea will pay the market value for it. 
Market value is usually arrived at by referring to the national trade guides. The sums they 
quote are gathered from extensive nationwide research. This service believes that in most 
cases, by far the fairest way to establish market value is to refer to the trade guides. In this 
case, Covea eventually offered to pay the average of all four guides. The four prices quoted 
were similar, so I think that was appropriate, and in line with standard  industry practice. It 
isnt clear why Coveas advisor said it would pay Mr J the cars retail value. Sales prices at 
garages are open to negotiation and are often not achieved. 
  
I think not getting the valuation right at the outset and confusing Mr J about it amounted to 
poor service, but I dont think Covea should be bound by what were errors on its part. Mr J 
was only entitled to the cars market value. In my opinion, the most important point is that 
Covea finally offered to pay that, based correctly on all four trade guide valuations. In doing 
so, I think it did what it was obliged to do under the policy.
Mr J told Covea that it had insured the car for £12,500. Covea said the valuation Mr J gave 
when he took out the policy wasnt part of the valuation process - and that the other insurer 
would object to paying more than the cars market value. I think Coveas explanation was 
accurate and reflects standard industry practice. 
Car hire  
Mr J was entitled to 21 days hire, but it appears that at the start there was confusion about 
that too. He was advised initially that he couldnt have hire - but then Covea instructed a hire 
firm. There was an unexplained delay in getting a car in place, but Covea sorted out 
whatever the issues were, as in the end Mr J was able to go to the hire firm to collect one. 
The hire car wasnt available when Mr J arrived, and he was asked to wait half an hour. Mr J 
decided not to do that, as he though the hire firm wouldnt have time to sanitise the car in 
line with Covid guidelines. The emails on the file indicate that Mr J wasnt interested an any 
other car from the hire firm, as the same concerns would apply to them. I think Mr J made  
an assumption that may (or may not) have been correct. But from what hes said, the service 
from the hire firm could have been better. Covea advised him to complain directly to the hire 
firm  and provided the standard industry rate of £10 a day for the 21 days he was without 
the car. I think that was fair, given that a car was made available for Mr J. I dont think it 
would be right to require Covea to pay the higher sum he thinks should be paid.  
 
General poor service
Covea accepted that the service it gave Mr J could have been better. I can see why Mr J 
thinks more than £100 compensation should be paid. The accident was traumatic for him 
and Coveas service then fell short of his expectations. His emails werent always answered, 
so he had to chase for progress, which must have been frustrating and inconvenient.
  
In my opinion, undoubtedly Covea made mistakes, but it got the valuation right in the end, 
and I think it compensated Mr J reasonably for the hire issues. Mr J faced a difficult period 
after the accident  so any poor service could only have made matters worse for him. But I 
think the £100 Covea offered for the distress and inconvenience caused by its overall poor 
service was adequate, so Im not going to require it to pay Mr J more.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I must ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman