DRN-3073791
The complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy Zurich Insurance Plc hasnt fully accepted a claim she made under her 
commercial property insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Y has a commercial property insurance policy with Zurich. This covers a commercial 
unit, and flats above it.
In August 2020 water entered the top floor flat from the roof above causing damage. So, a 
claim was made to Zurich.
Zurich considered the claim and information that Mrs Y provided via her broker and they 
accepted the internal damage that had been caused. 
However, Zurich declined the external repairs to the roof. They said there were no storm 
conditions at the time, and the images and report provided by Mrs Ys roofer didnt evidence 
storm or other insured damage to the roof. Instead Zurich said there was evidence of wear 
and tear and gradual damage, which is excluded under Mrs Ys policy. 
Mrs Y didnt agree and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things, but he didnt uphold the complaint. He said there werent 
storm conditions at the time, or any other evidence of insured damage. He said that he was 
satisfied Zurich had reached the correct conclusion, that it was gradual damage and wear 
and tear, which is excluded under the policy.
Mrs Y didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Y has an all risks type commercial insurance policy. Her policy covers a number of 
specific insured events (such as storm, fire and flood). As its an all risks type policy, it also 
covers the broader all other accidental damage, unless otherwise excluded.
Zurich has accepted the internal damage under the all other accidental damage part of 
Mrs Ys policy. As this part of the claim was accepted, I dont need to comment on this 
aspect further. However, Zurich declined the roof repairs, so I need to decide whether that 
was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
Zurich says that there werent storm conditions at the time the loss was reported, and they 
checked weather records to reach that conclusion. Mrs Y also provided information about 
the weather at the time, which she says does show storm conditions.
Ive seen both reports of weather conditions. Mrs Ys is broader in terms of weather 
conditions for both the wider country as a whole, and the wider general area of the property. 
Zurich checked the specific postal code area for Mrs Ys property, which they say didnt 
show storm conditions for that location.
Ive also carried out my own checks using weather records (as did our investigator). This 
relies on the postcode, and nearest weather stations, amongst other data. Having done so, 
this shows similar weather conditions to those concluded by Zurich after they checked 
records. Based on these, Im satisfied that there werent storm conditions on or shortly 
before the date of loss. So, I dont find Zurichs conclusions here unreasonable. There was 
some wind and rainfall at the time, but on balance, not of the intensity that I would deem a 
storm, or able to cause damage to an otherwise well-maintained roof which wasnt suffering 
any other wider existing issues.
However, this wasnt the only reason Zurich declined the claim. As Ive said above, the 
policy covers specific insured events (including storm  which I dont think applies here for 
the reasons explained), but it also covers the broader all other accidental damage  unless 
otherwise excluded.
Mrs Y provided Zurich with a report from her roofer and images of before and after repairs 
were carried out. The report itself, completed several months after the loss and repairs, has 
very limited detail and in its entirety says:
Further to the works we carried out at the above property. I can confirm the cause of the 
leak was due to storm damage dislodging roof tiles from the box gutter.
It doesnt give any more detail than this. Images were also provided from before and after 
repairs. 
Zurich say the images show there are no missing slates, or tiles debris, and the roof is visibly 
suffering gradual deterioration and wear and tear type damage. They say the only repairs 
undertaken were to apply resin to a flat section of the roof. They said this shows all the 
hallmarks of material which has deteriorated gradually due to wear and tear, rather than 
being damaged by a specific one-off event. 
Having seen the images and taking into account the limited report carried out by the roofer, 
on balance, Im persuaded by Zurichs view surrounding the condition of the roof and issues 
with it.
Whilst Mrs Ys policy covers the broader event of all other accidental damage, it also 
excludes:
DAMAGE or CONSEQUENTIAL LOSS caused by or consisting of:
i) Inherent vice, latent defect, gradual deterioration, wear and tear, its own faulty design 
or materialsHaving taken all the information provided into account, as Im in agreement that the images 
of the roof support its suffering from gradual deterioration and wear and tear, I dont think 
Zurich have acted unfairly by declining this part of the claim based on the exclusion.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman