DRN-3807342
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint is about the delays caused to the transfer of their investments held 
within their joint investment account linked to their respective Self Invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP), which they say Barclays Bank UK PLC is to blame for.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this case. I set out the background to this complaint which 
I wont repeat again in full here but will instead focus on the reasons for my decision.
In summary, the following background is relevant to this decision:
Mr and Mrs S held a separate SIPP with a business Ill refer to as J which they 
wanted to transfer to a new provider. Ill refer to the new SIPP provider as T. Mr and 
Mrs S held a joint investment account that was linked to both their respective SIPPs. 
Both SIPPs were with J. The investment account was with Barclays and was called a 
Pension Trader Account (PTA).
The way the PTA worked was that J was the administrator and either Mr or Mrs S 
could communicate directly with Barclays, including to arrange their own 
investments. However, any transfer instructions and any account change restrictions 
had to come directly from J.
In 2013, Mr and Mrs S requested a transfer to T. However, after making several 
requests for information from T, and receiving no response, Barclays cancelled the 
transfer.
In 2015, Barclays decided to discontinue PTAs. J sent a letter from Barclays to Mr 
and Mrs Ss adviser on 25 July 2015 informing them of Barclays decision. Barclays 
letter said PTA clients should make new arrangements by 31 July 2015. However, in 
November 2016, Mr and Mrs S called Barclays asking if their (Mr and Mrs Ss) PTA 
could be reactivated. But, by this point, the account was being wound down, so no 
trading could be carried out.
Mr and Mrs S made a new transfer request in 2017. And in early 2021 they 
complained to J and to Barclays about the delays caused to their transfer request.
I issued a provisional decision where I made an increased award compared to that originally 
offered by Barclays. But in terms of the 2013 transfer request I decided this matter had been 
brought too late and our service didnt have the power to consider it.
In respect of the 2017 transfer, my provisional decision was that Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs S the amount they would have received if the same shares had 
instead been sold on 18 July 2018 plus simple interest at *8% per year from this date 
to the date compensation is paid.
Pay Mr and Mrs S the *8% interest payments of £138.81 (gross) and £28.65 (gross) 
that it agreed to pay for the delay to the transfer of the sale proceeds.
Pay Mr and Mrs S the £172.80 in line with its offer to waive its fees.
Pay Mr and Mrs S £650 for the distress and inconvenience it caused making any 
deduction for any payments already made.
Barclays made a few small adjustments to my calculations. And it made a total offer of 
£2,496.38 based on its calculations. Its offer was forwarded to Mr and Mrs S. And Mr and 
Mrs S accepted this offer. So, the matter has been passed back to me to finalise matters.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
2013 transfer request
In my provisional decision I gave the following reasons for finding we could not look at this 
aspect of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint  this now forms part of this decision:
If a business doesnt consent (Barclays hasnt), I cant consider a complaint which isnt made 
within six years of the event complained of, or if later, within three years of when the 
complainant became aware, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of the cause for 
complaint. This is due to DISP Rule 2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook.
The event complained of is the delays to the transfer request made in 2013. So, the six 
year time limit started from this point. In this case this gave Mr and Mrs S until 2019 to 
complain if they were unhappy with anything to do with the transfer request they made in 
2013. As they only complained about this to Barclays in early 2021, I consider this matter is 
out of time under the six-year part of our time limit rules.
Mr and Mrs S say the 2013 request is a continuation of the later transfer request made in 
2017. But in my view, this is a separate transfer request. One was made in 2013 and then 
another was made in 2017. So, these were two separate events and if Mr and Mrs S were 
unhappy about the delays from 2013 onwards, they had at least six years to complain.
In terms of the three-year part of our rules, Mr and Mrs S had three years from the date they 
knew, or ought reasonably to have become aware, of a cause to complain. Barclays said the 
transfer was stopped in 2013 because T didnt respond to its requests. Im not sure if this 
was communicated to Mr and Mrs S by either Barclays or J.
However, in 2015 J forwarded a letter to Mr and Mrs Ss adviser letting him (the adviser) 
know the PTA was still active. And that it needed to be transferred due to the PTA no longer 
continuing. So, given Mr and Mrs S had already asked for a transfer two years previous to 
this, I consider the 2015 letter would have made them aware that something had gone wrong 
with the (2013) transfer request. This gave them until 2018 to complain under the three-year 
part of our rules. As they didnt complain until January 2021, I think the matter has been 
brought too late.
I can look at a complaint even where it has been brought too late if exceptional 
circumstances apply. But given Mr and Mrs S or their adviser were communicating with 
Barclays during different times up until they made their complaint I dont think this applies in 
this case.
For all these reasons, I find the 2013 transfer isnt a complaint I can look into as it has been 
brought too late and we have no power to consider it. 
2017 transfer request  In my provisional decision I gave the following reasons for upholding this part of Mr and 
Mrs Ss complaint  this now forms part of my final decision:
On 20 January 2018 Barclays was asked by J to sell one of Mr and Mrs Ss shareholdings. 
And on 31 January 2018 Barclays received the full transfer instructions from J. This 
instruction asked it to do an in-specie transfer of all the other shares. It was after this point, 
that I think Barclays made a number of mistakes, so, Im intending to uphold the complaint. 
Ill explain why.
When Barclays was sent the transfer instructions on 31 January, it told J that it (Barclays) 
could not carry out the instructions due to having to move Mr and Mrs Ss shareholdings to a 
custody account. This was due to regulations that had just come in and the fact that Barclays 
was migrating all of its non-active accounts to a new custody platform. It was only after this 
the transfer could be progressed.
I appreciate Barclays was going through significant changes at this point. And it had given 
Mr and Mrs S prior warning of the fact the PTA was no longer going to be supported from 
July 2015. I note Mrs S called Barclays in 2016 to see if she could still trade on the account 
but was told this was no longer possible. So, I think its likely she did receive the 2015 notice 
about the PTA no longer being supported by Barclays. Given Mr and Mrs S had been told 
some time before to transfer their account and only started this process in 2017, I cant fairly 
say Barclays acted unreasonably or unfairly in terms of the delays caused by the migration 
of the PTA account.
On 11 May 2018 Barclays was contacted by J and it seems to have been at this point that it 
told the latter about it not being able to do a partial in-specie transfer. This was because 
Barclays had received instructions to sell one of Mr and Mrs Ss shareholdings, which was 
sent to it by J on 20 January 2018. Whilst I know Barclays is entitled to have its process and 
this may have been the result of Mr and Mrs Ss account no longer being active, I do think it 
couldve communicated this to the respective parties sooner. It at least had an opportunity to 
do so on 20 February 2018 or when J contacted it for updates in March 2018. But I cant see 
any communications from Barclays about this until early May 2018.
That said, I see once it had told Mr and Mrs S via J that it couldnt do a partial in-specie 
transfer, it had to wait two months to receive the updated instructions. Barclays said in its 
final response letter that J had cancelled the transfer instructions in May 2018. And this is 
why there was no progress after this point. However, when our service asked Barclays again 
about who cancelled the transfer instructions in May 2018, it was unable to say whether this 
was J or Mr and Mrs S or their adviser. J has told this service it didnt cancel the sale and 
looking at Js file, Im persuaded it didnt ask Barclays to do so.
So, I think on balance, that it was likely that if there was an instruction to cancel the sale in 
May 2018, this was because Mr and Mrs S didnt want to sell their shares. Instead they 
wanted an in-specie transfer to be done and it would seem that they spent some time trying 
to persuade Barclays that it should do this given the delays they said it caused. I note that 
once their adviser was told about the need to sell all the shares, it took from 11 May until 28 
June 2018 to agree to this  and it was only on 11 July that Barclays received updated 
instructions from J about the sale of the shares. So, I cant hold Barclays responsible for any 
delays during this time.
Once Barclays received the new instructions on 11 July 2018, whilst it did scan this on its 
system, it failed to act upon them until it was chased by J on 15 August. The sale of the 
shares then took five working days as they were sold on 22 August. They seemed to have settled in the account by 4 September at which point Barclays had ten working days to 
transfer the cash to J. However, this wasnt done until 2 October.
So, in summary, I think the errors caused by Barclays up until the transfer of the sale 
proceeds to Mr and Mrs Ss SIPP with J were as follows:
It was unclear in its communications around the inability to do a partial in-specie 
transfer once it was told that one of the shareholdings would need to be sold. I think it 
could have communicated this to J or Mr and Mrs S by the end of February when it 
confirmed the shares had settled in the custody account.
It caused delays to the sale of the shares by not actioning the new instructions it 
received on 11 July 2018.
It caused delays to the transfer of the cash to Mr and Mrs Ss account with J when 
the sale proceeds of the shares had been settled in or around 4 September.
In terms of the communication issues related to the partial in-specie transfer, I think the 
impact of this is unclear as it took Mr and Mrs S sometime to decide what they wanted to do 
once they were told in May 2018. I know Mr and Mrs S were unhappy about not being able 
to do a partial in-specie transfer but I think Barclays were entitled to have its process 
particularly as their account was no longer a trading account. They [Mr and Mrs S] had been 
warned about this in 2015. So, whilst I think Barclays should pay compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience due to its poor communication about its process, Im not 
persuaded this caused any financial loss to Mr and Mrs S.
For the delays caused once Barclays received the sale instructions on 11 July 2018, I think if 
it had acted correctly, it more likely than not would have sold these shares by 18 July 2018. 
This is five working days which is how long it took Barclays to sell the shares once chased 
by J on 15 August. So, Im intending to ask Barclays to carry out a redress calculation based 
on the earlier date.
In respect of the delay in transferring the sale proceeds to Mr and Mrs Ss SIPPs with J, 
Barclays caused around two weeks delay. The cash settled in their account with B by 4 
September and the transfer should have taken ten working days. Instead it took two weeks 
longer than it should have done. But this has to be balanced by the fact that Mr and Mrs S 
didnt use this cash for more than two years as it sat in their SIPP with J for this amount of 
time before being transferred. So, I think Barclays offer, to pay interest on the sum 
transferred is fair and reasonable.
Barclays has offered Mr and Mrs S a total of £450 - £300 in July 2019 and £150 in January 
2021 - for the trouble and upset it caused by its errors. But this didnt take into account the 
communication issues Ive set out above, So, Im intending to increase this compensation to 
a total of £650. I think this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
After the transfer of cash to Mr and Mrs Ss SIPP in late 2018, I dont think Barclays caused 
any further delays. The issues around the non-tradeable shares wasnt something it had any 
control over. And I can see that when T said it would accept two of the shareholdings in early 
2020, Barclays acted on this instruction. Barclays also took steps to relinquish the relevant 
shareholding when requested to do so by J shortly after this.
But there still remains one shareholding to deal with so this is why the account with both 
Barclays and J remains open. Barclays has offered to refund the fees totalling £172,80. I 
think it should honour that offer but I dont think it needs to refund any further fees charged 
whilst the account remains open. When the matter came to our service, our investigator 
mediated with J about the last remaining stock. J agreed the last shareholding could be 
gifted. But Mr and Mrs S do not want this option as they think the shares may have some value. So, I cant say Barclays is wrong for not closing Mr and Mrs Ss account as there is 
still one stock remaining. And whilst the account remains open, I cant say it is acting unfairly 
for charging any applicable fees.
So, for all these reasons, Im upholding the complaint and award compensation as offered by 
Barclays and accepted by Mr and Mrs S.
Putting things right
Barclays made an offer to Mr and Mrs S of £2,496.38 which was broken down as follows:
£1.328.02  Loss as a result of the delay in selling shares (prices as at 18 July 2018 
compared to actual sale date)
£345.56  Net Interest on the loss amount of £1,328.02 (tax of £86.39 deducted  
can be claimed back if a non-taxpayer)
£172.80 refund of fees whilst these issues were ongoing
£650  Distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank Plc should pay Mr and Mrs S £2,496.38 in line with 
the offer it has made as set out under Putting things right.
* Where Barclays Bank PLC UK have deducted income tax from some elements of the offer 
it has made it should give Mr and Mrs S the necessary paperwork for them to reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if they are entitled to do so if they ask for it. Barclays Bank PLC UK will need to 
split the interest payments equally between Mr and Mrs S so they can each reclaim the tax 
from HMRC if they are entitled to do so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman