DRN-2174555
The complaint
Mrs R complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) is holding her liable for a cash machine
withdrawal that she says she neither made nor authorised anyone else to make.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mrs R has explained that somebody stole her purse when she was shopping. Her purse
contained amongst other things several bank cards, her driving licence and some cash.
Mrs R says her TSB debit card was misused by the thief who stole her purse to make a £200
cash machine withdrawal but none of her other bank cards were misused. She says, she did
not keep a written record of the personal identification number (PIN) for her TSB card in
her purse as it wasnt something she would have easily forgotten  it was her year of birth.
And she says the PINs were not the same for her other cards.
TSB have said based on the information provided by Mrs R when she reported the theft of
her card it decided to hold her liable for the withdrawal as there was no known compromise
for her PIN. It concluded it was most likely either Mrs R had made the withdrawal herself or
alternatively, shed been grossly negligent by keeping her PIN written down with her card, in
her purse. Either way, under the relevant regulation it was entitled to hold her liable.
Mrs R maintained shed been the victim of a crime and was entitled to a refund. She
continued to liaise with TSB and the police.
Unhappy with TSBs response Mrs R brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator looked at Mrs Rs complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He
explained the PIN was input correctly at the first attempt. And because Mrs R said she
hadnt written down in a recognisable format, he didnt think it was reasonable to conclude
that an unknown third party couldve correctly guessed the PIN was her year of birth and
made the withdrawal. He also explained why he didnt think the sequence of events was the
typical behaviour of a fraudster.
Mrs R didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
After careful consideration I also concluded that I didnt think Mrs Rs complaint should be 
upheld. I issued a provisional decision as I wanted to share some additional reasoning. I 
said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, however, Im afraid I dont intend to ask TSB to refund the disputed cash
machine withdrawal. Let me explain why.
I can see Mrs R has very strong feelings about her complaint and I know my outcome will be
very disappointing for her. She maintains she has not made nor authorised anyone else to
carry out the disputed cash machine withdrawal. She believes the thief who stole her purse
guessed her PIN to be her year of birth and obtained this information from her driving
licence, which she says was also in her purse.
As far as I can see Mrs Rs case is largely based on her testimony. Id like to assure Mrs R
that by not upholding her complaint Im not calling into question her honesty. My role is to
consider the evidence presented by both parties and reach what I think is an independent,
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Its also worth noting that we are an informal dispute resolution service and It is not my role
to prove what exactly happened. I hope Mrs R can understand in situations like this, where I
wasnt present at the time the disputed withdrawal took place or when the preceding and
ensuing events occurred  I cant know for certain what has happened. And where theres a
dispute about what happened  as is the case here, and the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory, I will reach my conclusions on the basis of what I consider is
most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Im afraid it would not be reasonable, nor fair of me to uphold this complaint based solely on
Mrs Rs testimony.
Id like to assure Mrs R Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my
comments on what I think is relevant. The purpose of my decision is to set out my
conclusions and reasons for reaching them. My findings focus on what I consider to be the
central issues. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I
think is the right outcome.
In short, TSB is generally required to refund unauthorised transactions. The relevant
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). As
Mrs R says she didnt make the disputed cash withdrawal, then my primary concern is to
come to a view about whether I think she authorised them.
However, the regulations also state that even if a transaction is unauthorised, the bank can
still treat the accountholder as liable if they failed, with intent or gross negligence, to keep
their personalised security credentials safe. This includes personal details such as their PIN
and passwords.
With these considerations in mind my role is to decide whether TSBs decision to hold Mrs R
liable for the disputed withdrawal was fair and reasonable.
Firstly, there is no dispute between both parties that the genuine card and PIN were used to
make the cash withdrawal - so I dont need to comment on this matter further.
I know Mrs R says she didnt make or authorise someone else to make the withdrawal, nor
did she have her PIN written down in her purse. And I accept what she has suggested
happened to be a possibility. But it is just one of many possibilities. So, I must weigh up all
the facts to decide what I believe to be most probable. Its always difficult to suggest
alternative scenarios as I sound as if I may be doubting Mrs Rs evidence. Im sorry about
this as I know how adamant shes been about the events. But I can see no other explanation
than what Im going to suggest.I accept Mrs Rs purse was stolen by an unknown opportunistic thief, however, Mrs R hasnt
been able to confirm the exact time the theft took place. Ive used what she has told us, and
the evidence provided by TSB to compile an approximate timeline of how the events
unfolded. I note the cash machine transaction took place at 11.53am and Mrs R called TSB
to report the theft at 12.21pm. Therefore, I must also consider the possibility that Mrs R
couldve withdrawn the money herself before she visited the store where her purse was
stolen or couldve given someone else authority to use her card and PIN to make the
withdrawal. And on balance, this appears to be the most likely explanation, for the following
reasons;
-Mrs Rs PIN was correctly entered on first attempt with no conclusive point of 
compromise.
-I agree with TSB and our investigators suggestion that it is common for a 
fraudster/thief to ensure they gain maximum benefit from the crime. This usually 
means draining an account as quickly as possible.
-The activities on the account are not consistent with those of an opportunistic thief.
-Mrs R had a healthy balance on her account, with a card withdrawal limit of £500. I 
can see a balance enquiry was made before the withdrawal, but only £200 was 
withdrawn. After which, no further attempts were made to use the card  even after it 
was reported stolen.
-Mrs Rs other cards had not been misused  despite by Mrs Rs own admission that 
the PIN for one of those cards was written down and in her purse.
-I appreciate that any of these things in isolation are not conclusive of anything. But 
they are not irrelevant either and, taking account of them altogether and alongside 
the unexplainable discrepancies in Mrs Rs evidence which Ive mentioned below, Im 
not satisfied that the all the information Mrs Rs has provided, and her account of 
events is entirely accurate.
I know how much this means to Mrs R and how strongly she feels so whilst I consider the
above, on balance, to be the most likely scenario as Ive accepted the purse was stolen, Ive
also thought about the alternative  that the thief did made the withdrawal. Assuming the
card was in Mrs Rs purse, whilst the theft may explain how the card came to be
compromised, the key issue here is that it does not explain how an unknown opportunistic
thief was able to enter Mrs Rs PIN correctly first time.
Mrs R hadnt used her card and PIN on the day, or for some time before, so she could not
have been observed by the thief, or shoulder surfed. A PIN isnt stored on the card in any
recognisable format. So, Ive thought about the most realistic possibilities in Mrs Rs
circumstances - these being Mrs R might have disclosed her PIN by keeping a written record
of it in her purse in an easily identifiable format or the thief might simply have guessed the
PIN. And Im afraid of the two I think its more likely Mrs R had her PIN written down. I say
this for the following reasons;
-Mrs R says the PINs for all her cards were different so its plausible in such 
circumstances for a person to not have them memorised, rather, written down.
-This is also something Mrs R would do  as she confirmed to TSB when she reported 
the theft, that she had the PIN to another card written down in her purse.-Mrs Rs says her PIN for her TSB card was her year of birth, and if it were, I agree 
she would not have had a reason to write down. But given Mrs Rs own admission 
when she reported the theft that she had the PIN of another card written down in her 
purse. I think a thief wouldve likely first attempted a written down series of number 
which resemble a PIN  potentially even different variations of those numbers before 
trying something else. So I wouldve expected to have seen at least one incorrect 
PIN attempt  which is not the case here.
-Also given the number of potential combinations, whilst not impossible I think its 
unlikely that an opportunistic thief was able to guess Mrs Rs PIN to be her year of 
birth correctly on first attempt.
-Mrs R told this service she didnt realise until six months later that the PIN for her 
card was her year of birth. Im not persuaded that a person wouldnt recall something 
this relevant  especially at the time when Mrs R reported the theft and TSB advised 
her that it believed shed been grossly negligent by having her PIN written down in 
her purse. I wouldve expected Mrs R to have raised sooner the argument she raised 
several months later that she had no need to write her PIN down as it was her year of 
birth.
-Mrs R believes TSB knew her PIN was her year of birth. She said TSB has provided 
her evidence of this, however, she has not shared this with our service. TSB have 
said it would not have access to or know this information for security reasons. It also 
couldnt confirm when Mrs Rs PIN was last changed.
-I appreciate Mrs R has responded and said her PIN had not been recently changed. 
She says it was created in an appointment with the bank when she opened her 
account and the bank staff knew she was using her year of birth -which shouldve 
been discouraged. But a PIN cant be generated in a TSB branch at account 
opening. The card and PIN are ordered and sent to a customers home address 
under separate cover, with the PIN being a randomly generated four-digit number.
-Further Mrs R said her driving licence was in her purse  which is how the thief was 
able to obtain her year of birth, however, she hasnt provided any evidence to support 
shed reported it as stolen - to DVLA. But even if this were provided, I still dont think 
this would change my mind as it still seems to me most unlikely taking all the above 
into consideration that the thief guessed Mrs Rs PIN correctly at first attempt. 
Im not saying that Mrs R is being dishonest, whilst I recognise it might appear this way to 
her. I think it might simply be the case that she has confused some of these incidents with 
others due to the length of time that has passed.
I know Mrs Rs disappointed the wrong CCTV footage was obtained and now due to the
length of time that has passed the actual footage is no longer available. Shes confident this
evidence wouldve shown the thief carry out the withdrawal. Its possible that CCTV might
have identified that someone other than Mrs R made the withdrawal. But Mrs R didnt have
to make the withdrawal personally in order to be liable for them under the relevant rules.
As Ive explained above, Mrs R can still be held responsible for the disputed cash withdrawal
if she authorised the use of her card or was found to have failed, with intent or gross
negligence, to keep her PIN safe. Here, all of which are probable scenarios. So even if
CCTV had been available, looking at all of the evidence in this particular case, I dont think I
could be as sure as I would need to be to say that Mrs R didnt authorise the withdrawal or
that she didnt fail with intent or gross negligence, to keep her PIN safe.And it is for the same reasons whilst I recognise, she is unhappy that TSB and this service
havent reviewed the shop managers statement or tried to obtain the recording taken on the
managers phone showing the theft. I dont think this wouldve made a difference here as all it
wouldve confirmed is that the theft took place  but this isnt the matter which is disputed.
I note Mrs R has raised concerns about the integrity, and even the authenticity of the police
officer that attended to take her statement. I can see this is something that has deeply
affected her, but Im sorry to disappoint her this is not a matter I can comment or make a
finding on.
And finally, I have considered the point Mrs R has raised about the amount of time she has
spent trying to pursue this matter. She says TSB have needlessly kept her on the phone for
over twelve hours.
With any kind of financial issue raised, it is reasonable to assume some time will be required
in order to resolve the matter. And from reviewing the evidence that has been presented by
both sides, Im afraid I dont think the time Mrs R spent warrants compensation.
I say this because, TSB provided Mrs R with its response within days of her reporting her
card stolen in January 2019. TSBs Fraud Team said it would not investigate the claim as it
believed Mrs Rs PIN had not been compromised. Mrs R didnt accept TSBs response. She
chose to continue to pursue this matter with both TSB and the police.
In April 2019 Mrs R complained about the service, the outcome and handling of her disputed
claim. I can see TSB issued its final response in a timely manner on 12 April 2019 and paid
£25 for service delays  which I consider to be fair.
So with this in mind, I wont be asking TSB to do anymore.
I invited both parties to send any additional comments or evidence theyd like me to 
consider. 
TSB responded to my provisional decision to say they had nothing further to add. 
Mrs R responded and said that she didnt agree with my provisional decision. She felt it was 
biased towards the bank. She asked if I could conclude and issue my final decision as soon 
as possible so she can pursue her claim through other avenues. She maintained that TSB 
have behaved wrongly and should refund her loss, however, she didnt raise anything new 
which Id not already considered. She restated her case making the following points; 
- Her purse was snatched, and this service has not considered the police evidence.
- She said we know her PIN was her year of birth and that her driving licence was in 
her purse. So, she doesnt understand why we would question what has obviously 
happened here.
- She says shed chosen her PIN in front of TSB staff when her account was opened in 
branch and the staff member had told her they also used their year of birth.  
- She said neither she or this service knows what the thief did or didnt do.
 
- She feels weve completely ignored the evidence provided.
So, now that both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my 
decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent changed the opinion I expressed in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why. 
Firstly I want to say that I have taken on board everything Mrs R has said and Im very sorry 
that she feels my decision is biased towards the bank. It is inevitable, where there is a 
dispute, Ill disappoint one party, but Id like to assure Mrs R that we are an independent 
service  we do not take sides. I act impartially and where the evidence is inconclusive, as is 
the case here, I reach a decision based on what I think was more likely to have happened in 
the circumstances.
Mrs R has said in response to my provisional decision that she feels evidence has been 
completely ignored and the evidence held by the police that her purse was stolen hasnt 
even been considered. Id like to assure Mrs R I reviewed and considered all the evidence 
provided by both parties before reaching my provisional decision. And where Ive weighed 
evidence differently to how Mrs R believes it should be weighed, I can see why she might 
translate this to feeling that the evidence has been ignored. But a difference in opinion does 
not mean that the evidence has not been considered. It simply means I dont agree with how 
Mrs R views it. And regarding the police evidence that proves Mrs Rs purse was stolen, as I 
explained in my provisional decision, Ive accepted that Mrs Rs purse was stolen, and this is 
not a disputed matter. 
Mrs R has also re-iterated and stated that I know that her PIN was her year of birth and her 
driving licence was in her purse. Id like to be clear that I dont know for fact that Mrs Rs PIN 
was her year of birth or that her driving licence was in her purse. Ive explained in my 
provisional decision even if I were to accept both these points I still think, on balance, its 
unlikely taking all the other circumstances into consideration that the thief guessed Mrs Rs 
PIN correctly at first attempt.
And for the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I still think TSB decision to hold 
Mrs R liable for the disputed withdrawal was reasonable. So it follows that I cant fairly 
require TSB to refund her.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman