DRN-3458087
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with BMW 
Financial Services (GB) Limited trading as Aston Martin Financial Services (BMW) was of an 
unsatisfactory quality. Shes also unhappy that interest was charged on a payment deferral.
What happened
In June 2019, Mrs S was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement with 
BMW. She paid an advance payment of £5,000 and the agreement was for £146,385 over 
49 months; with 48 monthly repayments of £2,469.81 and a final payment of £52,745.05 if 
she wanted to keep the car at the end of the agreement.
In May 2020, the rear windscreen of the car shattered when the boot was closed, resulting in 
Mrs S child, who was in the back seat, being showered with broken glass, causing some 
minor injuries. The damage was caused because of an issue with the roof panel, and the car 
was fixed by the supplying dealership. Around this time, the dealership also investigated a 
squeak in the brakes and deglazed the brake pads. Following the roof repair there were no 
further problems with the rear windshield.
In October 2020, Mrs S had an issue with the traction control on the car, which caused her to 
spin while driving. This was identified as a wiring issue which was fixed by the dealership. 
And, following this repair, there were no further issues with the traction control.
During this period, Mrs S income was also affected by the coronavirus (Covid-19) pandemic. 
BMW initially agreed to a payment deferral (otherwise known as a payment holiday) to cover 
the payments due from June to August 2020. However, this was extended to eventually 
cover the payments due from September to November 2020.
Mrs S complained to BMW that she hadnt been told about any additional interest costs 
when the payment deferrals were agreed, and she thinks these are unreasonable. She also 
complained that the car is a death trap, and its sat unused on her drive, as she doesnt feel 
safe driving it. 
BMW agreed the faults with the car meant it wasnt of a satisfactory quality at the point it was 
supplied. But they thought that, since the faults had been repaired, and the was no evidence 
the faults had returned, this was reasonable. And Mrs S didnt have the right to reject the car 
now. BMW also said that the payment deferrals were offered in line with the Covid-19 
guidance issued by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, they didnt think they needed 
to do anything more.
Mrs S wasnt happy with BMWs response, and she referred her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator agreed the faults with the car made it of an unsatisfactory quality when 
supplied. But they also said Mrs S had accepted repairs, which had resolved the issues. And 
the faults hadnt reoccurred. The investigator also said that Mrs S hadnt asked to reject the 
car when either fault occurred. 
They acknowledged that Mrs S didnt think the traction control was working, but that shed 
also refused the option to have the car inspected to confirm if this was the case. And she 
didnt mention an ongoing issue with the traction control when the car was serviced in 
November 2021. Given these circumstances, they thought the repairs to the car were a fair 
remedy.
However, the investigator thought the issues with the rear windscreen shattering and 
causing injury to Mrs S child; and the nature of the traction control failure that left Mrs S on 
the wrong side of the road, facing oncoming traffic, wouldve caused her significant distress. 
And, because of this, they thought it was fair that BMW pay Mrs S £450 compensation.
With regards to the payment deferral, the investigator said BMW had written to Mrs S on five 
separate occasions during the payment deferral process, explaining that additional interest 
would be charged on the deferred payments. So, they thought BMW had acted fairly by 
telling Mrs S what impact the deferral would have, and they didnt think BMW needed to do 
anything more.
BMW agreed with the investigator, but Mrs S didnt. She said BMW never offered her the 
option to reject the car in October 2020. And, if they had, she wouldve done so as she felt it 
was unsafe. She also said that the interest payments were never made clear to me and the 
additional interest was unfair. Mrs S felt that I have been sold a faulty car that I have been 
over charged for with terrible customer service and I feel £450 is a bit of an insult 
considering the impact and stress this has had.
Mrs S went on to explain that the car has now developed a new fault thats causing reduced 
engine performance. Because of this, along with the fact that she says BMW didnt inform 
her of her right to reject the car, Mrs S feels that I should therefore be allowed to return the 
car immediately and be provided with significant compensation for the £25-£30,000 I have 
subsequently had to pay since the car was in the workshop.
Because Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
satisfactory qualityThe Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, BMW 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable 
person would consider satisfactory given the price, description, and other relevant 
circumstances. 
The CRA implies that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where a 
fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when the 
car was supplied, unless BMW can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after the 
first six months, the CRA implies that its for Mrs S to show that it was present when the car 
was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs S took possession of it, and this 
made the car not of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair to ask BMW to put this right.
Its not disputed there were faults with the car, relating to the roof and wiring. Nor is it 
disputed that the causes of these faults were present when the car was supplied to Mrs S, 
and that these faults made the car of an unsatisfactory quality. As such, I wont be 
specifically addressing the faults within my decision, and instead will focus on what was 
done to put things right.
Where theres a fault that makes the goods of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows for 
one chance at repair. And, if this repair is unsuccessful, it allows for the right to reject the 
goods. However, as this is a right and not a requirement, the CRA also implies that the 
customer can agree to accept further chances to repair instead of rejection.
The first issue was the rear windscreen in the car shattering due to a faulty roof panel. This 
was repaired by the dealership, and the fault has not reoccurred. This was the one repair 
allowed under the CRA and, as the fault was fixed, Mrs S has no right to reject for this issue.
The second issue was a broken wire to a wheel speed sensor, which resulted in dashboard 
warning lights being lit, and a loss of traction control. Its been acknowledged that this fault 
wouldve been present when the car was supplied to Mrs S so, under the CRA, Mrs S had 
the right to reject the car at this stage. Or she couldve chosen to allow a further repair. In 
this instance, the car was repaired, and the fault hasnt reoccurred.
Mrs S has said that BMW didnt advise her of her right to reject the car at this point, and if 
they had done, she wouldve rejected the car as she no longer felt safe driving it. However, 
BMW werent made aware of this second fault until after the repair had taken place, so they 
werent in a position to provide Mrs S with this advice at the point the fault occurred.
The second fault occurred on 27 October 2020, at which point Mrs S had done 10,161 miles 
in the 16-months she was in possession of the car  an average of 635 miles a month. She 
had the car serviced in November 2021, when the car had done 16,837 miles  an average 
of 556 miles a month between the second fault and the service. And evidence of the mileage 
Mrs S provided on 1 February 2022 shows that the car was still being used to this point.
This shows that Mrs S continued to use the car at roughly the same rate in the 12-months 
following the second fault, as she did in the 16-month period before this. Which doesnt imply 
that Mrs S stopped using the car as she no longer felt safe driving it. Whats more, I havent 
seen anything that shows me that Mrs S raised any further issues with the traction control or 
advised the dealership/BMW that the car was undrivable.
Given this, while Mrs S may now no longer be using the car, as she continued to do so for a 
year after the traction control issue was fixed, Im not convinced that she didnt feel safe 
driving the car. And, had she been advised of her right to reject in October 2020, I think its 
more likely than not that she would have accepted the repair instead.Notwithstanding this, as the repair took place and was successful, and as Mrs S continued to 
use the car for at least the next 12-months, I dont think its reasonable to allow Mrs S the 
retrospective right to reject at this stage.
However, this isnt to say she wasnt inconvenienced by whatd happened. It wouldve been 
distressing to see the rear windscreen shatter, and this result in minor injuries to her child. 
Whats more, having the traction control fail and finding herself spinning, crossing the 
carriageway out of control, and facing the oncoming traffic, would also have been distressing 
to Mrs S.
Given this, Im in agreement that BMW should compensate Mrs S. The investigator has 
recommended a payment of £450, which I think is fair and in line with what I would direct in 
similar circumstances. So, Ill be adopting this as part of my final decision.
Mrs S has also referred to a further fault with the car. Ive seen no evidence that there is any 
additional fault that was present or developing when the car was supplied to Mrs S, or that 
this has cost her the £25,000 to £30,000 shes said it has to repair. But, regardless of this, 
this isnt something shes raised with BMW, or that theyve had the opportunity to investigate. 
As such, this isnt something were currently able to look into, so Im not considering it as part 
of my decision.
payment deferral
The FCA issued temporary guidance in April 2020 about customers who were faced with 
payment difficulties as a result of Covid-19. This allowed financial businesses such as BMW 
to grant payment deferrals to people like Mrs S.
The guidance said that a customer should have no liability to pay any charge or fee in 
connection with the permitting of a full or partial payment deferral  the exception to this is 
where interest continues to accrue at the contractual rate  the continuing accrual of 
interest on sums owed under the agreement that remain unpaid would not be inconsistent 
with this guidance.
Given this, Im satisfied that BMW could charge interest on the deferred payments and doing 
so wouldnt be outside of the guidance issued by the FCA. However, I would expect BMW to 
make this clear to Mrs S.
Ive seen copies of letters sent to Mrs S on 7 May and 11 August 2020. These letters refer to 
a payment deferral coming to an end, and the new payments Mrs S was required to pay. As 
well as explaining the payment would increase due to additional interest being charged on 
the deferral; the letters broke down the payments and confirmed the overall cost of the total 
additional interest. 
Additionally, under the heading Additional interest to pay the letters all clearly explained 
that as it will take longer to pay back the amount borrowed, there will be additional interest 
to pay  the interest you are charged for the deferral includes interest on [the optional final 
payment], because this will be outstanding for longer.
Letters sent to Mrs S on 1 October 2020, 30 October 2020, and 23 February 2021 also 
explained additional interest would be charged but didnt include the additional interest to 
pay paragraph referred to above.
As such, I think BMW acted in line with FCA guidance and informed Mrs S about the 
additional interest. So, I dont think theres anything more they need to do regarding this.Putting things right
BMW are to pay Mrs S £450 for the significant distress that was caused to her as a direct 
result of the failures in both the rear windscreen and the traction control.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mrs S complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
trading as Aston Martin Financial Services must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman