DRN-2336908
The complaint
Dr V complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) processed an international payment 
without her authorisation.
What happened
Dr V says that she intended to make an international payment from her bank account. 
During the course of the payment process Dr V was made aware of the cost of the payment 
and decided not to proceed and logged out of her computer and made alternative 
arrangements to make the transfer. When Dr V discovered shortly afterwards that the 
payment had been made from her bank account, she contacted Santander who said the 
payment had been authorised by her online and offered to attempt to recall the payment for 
her. Dr V was unhappy with this as she says that she never authorised the payment and 
asked Santander to refund her the full amount of the payment. 
Santander says that Dr V authorised the payment by verifying and inputting a one-time 
passcode (OTP) online. It says that they have paid Dr V £25 as a gesture of goodwill and 
later offered a further £25 to recognise Dr V hadnt been informed of the outcome of recall 
payment request. 
Dr V wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld the complaint saying that 
while Dr V unintentionally validated the payment online, Santander hadnt acted fairly when it 
failed to advise her of the outcome of the recall request  making it difficult for Dr V to now 
secure a refund from the beneficiary.The investigator asked Santander to pay Dr V a further 
£125 by way of compensation for the inconvenience and upset caused. 
Santander wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said:
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I have come to a different outcome to that of the investigator and I will 
explain how I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would have been frustrating for Dr V to see that a payment had been 
debited to her bank account for an international payment she believed she hadnt authorised. 
What happened here was Dr V says she partly completed an online international payment 
instruction but decided not to proceed when she saw the charges were higher than expected 
and made alternative arrangements for the payment.
I have carefully considered this point and have obtained further information from Santander 
detailing the process when undertaking an international payment.
It is worth mentioning that Dr V says that she only knew of the charges relating to her 
payment after the One-Time Passcode (OTP) was entered. From the evidence presented to 
me I can see the details of the charges are provided before the OTP is entered to authorise 
the payment and not after as Dr V believes. 
It should also be pointed out at the beginning of the international payment process online it 
clearly states that the OTP code will be sent to authorise the payment. I am satisfied this 
explains by entering the OTP this would authorise the payment.
I have also seen evidence of a further report from Santander showing the OTP was validated 
by Dr V and while she may disagree and this may have been done inadvertently, on 
balance, given the evidence presented to me, I am satisfied the OTP was entered to 
authorise the payment and confirmed by Dr V.  
The investigator also feels from the information provided to her that Dr V authorised the 
payment but felt that Santander hadnt acted reasonably when dealing with the attempted 
recall of the payment on Dr Vs behalf. She felt that Santander should have let Dr V know of 
the outcome sooner which might have helped her in obtaining a refund for the duplicated 
payment.
While I can see that this may have helped Dr V with her discussions with the beneficiary, 
Santander have offered a total of £50 by way of apology, of which £25 has already been 
paid. So, when considering an award for the inconvenience caused to Dr V bearing in mind 
the initial error was not of Santanders making, I feel their offer of £50 is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. 
Given that Dr V has clear evidence that the payment has been made twice, the option to 
clarify this with the beneficiary is still open to Dr V to pursue. 
While Dr V will be disappointed with my decision it follows that I wont be asking anymore of 
Santander here.
Neither Dr V or Santander responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Dr V and Santander until 11 November 2020 to accept or reject my provisional 
decision, but as I have heard nothing from either I see no need to change or add to this and 
so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman