DRN-4101444
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) mishandled and unfairly declined its application for a Bounce Back Loan.
The complaint is brought by Ts director, who Ill refer to as Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs S wanted to obtain a loan for T from NatWest under the Bounce Back Loan Scheme 
(the Scheme) shortly after its introduction on 4 May 2020. 
T didnt hold an account with NatWest at the time and needed one before it could apply to 
the bank for the loan. T applied for a business current account on or around 12 May. After 
some delay, the application was accepted and NatWest opened an account for T on or 
around 28 August 2020.
On Ts behalf, Mrs S then applied to NatWest for the Bounce Back Loan. T made a number 
of requests to NatWest, each of which was declined. 
Initially, NatWest understood that Mrs S was attempting to obtain a loan for herself  rather 
than T  in connection with her separate sole trader business, for which the bank had 
already provided her a Bounce Back Loan. A second attempt was declined on the basis of it 
being a duplicate of the first. 
When confirming its decision to decline a subsequent application on 11 November 2020, 
NatWest said that T hadnt been trading as of 1 March 2020  meaning that it didnt meet the 
Scheme eligibility criteria. But when responding to a complaint from Mrs S about how it had 
handled things, NatWest said that T didnt meet the banks own eligibility criteria  as it was 
only accepting applications from customers whod banked with it prior to 4 May, and T had 
opened its account after this date.
Mrs S didnt think NatWests latest position was fair. She said shed been trying to open an 
account for T since February and had, in the meantime, been processing Ts transactions 
through her personal account with the bank. So she thought that ought to have satisfied 
NatWests requirements. In light of her comments, the bank agreed to reconsider the 
application but only if it could see evidence that T had been trading prior to the opening of its 
NatWest business account.
Mrs S submitted some additional documentation in an effort to evidence Ts trading activity, 
but NatWest advised on 22 January 2021 that its decision remained unchanged. A further 
application was also declined on 22 February 2021, which NatWest again advised was 
because it didnt think T was trading on 1 March 2020. 
Mrs S doesnt think NatWest treated T fairly. In summary, she says T was eligible for the 
Bounce Back Loan and NatWest hasnt provided a valid reason for its decision to decline the 
companys request. The company was trading at the requisite time, and met the banks 
requirement to have been trading through an account held with NatWest prior to 4 May 2020 
through its use of her own. And she doesnt think it was fair for Ts loan application to fail on 
the basis that it didnt hold an account at the right time, given that this was the result of 
delays on NatWests part. Shes also unhappy with the level of service she received in 
connection to the applications, which she says were subject to unacceptable delays and 
about which she received misinformation.
NatWest has accepted that there were delays in processing Ts account application, for 
which it has already paid the company £100 compensation. The bank has also 
acknowledged that it should have told Mrs S sooner  when initially declining Ts loan 
application  that it was only accepting applications from existing customers as of 4 May 
2020, and therefore that T wasnt eligible under the banks criteria. It has offered a further 
£300 compensation for the impact this had. But it maintains that its decision to decline the 
loan application was correct, on the basis that T didnt bank with it at the requisite time and, 
in any event, hasnt evidenced that it was trading at 1 March 2020.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month, explaining why I didnt intend to require NatWest 
to take any further action beyond paying the £300 compensation it had already offered. I 
said:
I should start by saying that I can see why Mrs S would feel that T has a strong case 
in terms of demonstrating that it met the core eligibility criteria for a Bounce Back 
Loan. So I understand her strength of feeling over the matter. But ultimately the 
question for me to decide here is whether NatWests decision to decline Ts 
application was reasonable  whether or not I agree with it or whether another 
decision could also, reasonably, have been reached.
The context for this is that under the Scheme rules, all lending decisions were fully 
delegated to the lenders. So NatWest had the discretion to decline an application if it 
didnt wish to lend. Id expect NatWest to have exercised this discretion fairly and 
reasonably. Having carefully considered the reasons behind its decision to decline 
Ts application, I think it did so here. Ill explain why.
To be eligible for a Bounce Back Loan, applicants had to meet the criteria set by the 
British Business Bank (the government-owned bank responsible for administering the 
Scheme). Of relevance here, this included the following requirement as set out on the 
BBBs website:
The business is engaged in trading or commercial activity in the UK 
at the date of the application, was carrying on business on 1 March 
2020 and has been adversely affected by coronavirus (COVID-19).
NatWest wasnt persuaded that T was carrying on business on 1 March 2020. 
Although the company was incorporated before this date, this doesnt automatically 
mean it was trading. Ts recent incorporation meant that the types of documentation 
that the bank would typically review to verify this  such as a tax return, VAT 
document or accounts  werent available. The company didnt have its own bank 
account, so there wasnt a statement in Ts name that evidenced its activity either.
I can see that Mrs S had run some transactions through her own account with 
NatWest in respect of a prospective transaction for T. And that information was 
presented to NatWest when Mrs S sought to challenge its decision. I accept that 
these transactions were for Ts benefit and that they demonstrated some level of 
trading activity. But at the same time, I can see why NatWest didnt consider this sufficient evidence, given that it fell short of its standard requirements. And ultimately, 
there remained a further issue of the companys turnover.
The issue of turnover is relevant in two ways. Firstly, it speaks to the question of 
whether T was carrying on business. T hadnt generated any revenue prior to 
1 March 2020 or before its initial loan application. I think it is open to debate as to 
whether the generation of turnover was required in order to satisfy the Scheme 
requirements. And the use of various terms, seemingly interchangeably  carrying 
on business, commercial activity, trading activity and trading  complicates 
matters further. It could be argued that the activity itself  regardless of whether it 
had yet yielded any turnover  was sufficient. Ultimately though, I think the absence 
of any turnover was reasonable grounds for NatWest to consider that the company 
didnt meet this aspect of the Scheme criteria. 
In any case, the second way in which turnover is relevant is because the amount an 
applicant could borrow was dependent on their turnover. Businesses could borrow up 
to 25% of their turnover (during the calendar year 2019). While businesses 
established after 1 January 2019  as T was  could use an estimated figure, lenders 
werent obliged to accept any figure that was submitted. 
T applied for different amounts and used different turnover projections when doing 
so. But the lowest amount it sought was £40,000. So it needed a turnover of at least 
£160,000 to be eligible for this. While accepting both that T was entitled to use a 
projected figure and that it did so in good faith, I think NatWest wouldve been within 
its rights to decline the application on the basis that it had little to verify this projection 
as accurate. The company had no track record to substantiate this projection. It gave 
different projections to the bank, varying by almost 50%, which do cast some doubt 
as to their reliability. And as things turned out, I understand that T didnt actually 
generate the level of turnover it projected either. 
NatWest has also said that Ts application was declined on the basis that the 
company didnt hold an account with it at the requisite time. Lenders were entitled to 
decide the basis on which they would accept Bounce Back Loan applications, and 
NatWest wasnt willing to lend to anyone that hadnt banked with it before the 
Scheme was launched. That also wouldve been reasonable grounds for the bank to 
have declined Ts request. Mrs Ss longstanding personal relationship didnt have a 
bearing on this, as it was T who was applying for the loan. And Ive not seen that T 
submitted an account application prior to the 4 May 2020 cut-off date, so I dont think 
it was down to a fault on NatWests part that the company didnt hold an account with 
the bank at the requisite time. 
On review, NatWest agreed to waive this requirement and undertook a manual 
review of Ts application in an effort to help. But it wasnt satisfied of Ts eligibility and 
so maintained its decision. Given all Ive said above, I think that was reasonable. The 
bank confirmed its decision to Ts last application on 22 February 2021, with the 
Scheme remaining open until 31 March. So I dont think NatWests actions deprived 
T of the opportunity to access the Scheme either, as the company was free to apply 
elsewhere (as it had also been after each of the applications had been turned down).
The position has been complicated somewhat by NatWests submission to us, in 
which it said that Ts applications had been declined as the company was already 
banking with another provider. Mrs S has understandably queried this, being the first 
she had heard of it. But I dont think this is a wholly accurate description of the banks 
position. The submission goes on to explain that the application was declined as 
NatWest wasnt accepting applications from customers who opened their account after 4 May 2020 and  regardless of that  there was no evidence that T was trading 
at the requisite time. I think the banks decision to decline the application was, 
ultimately, due to the fact it wasnt satisfied T met the eligibility criteria as described 
above.
I understand why Mrs S feels that NatWest  and, in reviewing this complaint, this 
service  are subjecting Ts eligibility to a greater level of scrutiny than it ought 
reasonably to have been at the time of its initial application, and looking for reasons 
to find fault with it. I dont believe that to be the case. While it is fair to say that 
lenders werent required to conduct the level of checks that have been applied to Ts 
application, these have only come about in an effort to assist T rather than to 
frustrate it. Had NatWest maintained its decision in line with the automated 
processes it typically followed, I think it would simply have declined the application at 
the outset on the grounds that T didnt hold an account with it at the requisite time, or 
on the basis that it couldnt verify when the company started trading or the level of 
turnover it had declared. So I dont think Ts position has been prejudiced by the 
banks review (or ours), or that it has been put to an unreasonable burden of proof in 
the process.
I do, however, agree that some aspects of NatWests handling of Ts applications fell 
below an acceptable standard. It took longer than necessary for NatWest to process 
Ts account application, putting the company to some inconvenience in having to 
chase things up. The bank has already paid T compensation of £100 for this, which I 
think is fair. In respect of the Bounce Back Loan, Ts first two applications were 
declined on an incorrect basis  with the bank having considered Mrs S was seeking 
a second loan in her own name, which necessitated a third application. All of this put 
Mrs S, as Ts director, to some further avoidable inconvenience  having to engage 
in additional correspondence, including by way of complaint, to resolve matters. Its 
right that T is compensated for this. To that end, I think the £300 that NatWest has 
already offered is a fair amount and in line with what I would have otherwise 
awarded. 
I understand Mrs S believes that T was caused further inconvenience by what she 
considers to be a lack of transparency as to its reasons for declining the subsequent 
applications, and its shortcomings in how its provided information both to her and our 
service. But Mrs S was advised that the application was ultimately unsuccessful as 
NatWest wasnt satisfied that T was trading as of 1 March 2020, which was as much 
as the bank needed to disclose. I appreciate that the issue with T banking elsewhere 
may have given Mrs S particular cause for concern as to the basis of the banks 
decision, but as Ive explained I dont think that was a pertinent factor in the outcome 
here. And I dont think there have been any other errors on NatWests part that have 
unfairly impacted Ts applications, their outcome, or Mrs Ss ability to appeal them 
such that any further compensation is appropriate.
NatWest responded to say that it agreed with my provisional decision, but considered that 
confusion over T banking with another provider arose only because Mrs S stated this in her 
original application and not because of a bank error.
Mrs S responded to say that she didnt accept my provisional decision and raised a number 
of points for me to take into account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within my provisional decision, I said that lending decisions were fully delegated to lenders 
under the Scheme rules  and so NatWest had some discretion over whether or not to 
accept an application. Mrs S hasnt explicitly challenged this, but has said that shes seen no 
evidence of it. I appreciate that there is  and was  limited information in the public domain 
as to the finer detail of how the Scheme was to work and, to that end, the way lenders were 
entitled and expected to assess applications. But I can confirm that the rules of the 
Scheme  shared by the BBB with the accredited lenders  explicitly stated that application 
processing and all subsequent lending decisions were fully delegated to the lender. There 
was no obligation on NatWest to make this point any clearer than it did to applicants, as 
Mrs S has suggested in her response to my provisional decision.
Fairness dictates that such discretion must not be unquestionable or without limitation. I set 
out in my provisional decision the reasons why I thought NatWest had fairly and reasonably 
exercised its discretion to decline Ts application. Ive reflected on this in light of Mrs Ss 
response, but havent reached a different view. Ill explain why Mrs Ss further points havent 
changed my mind. 
It is worth me highlighting at this juncture that neither my provisional decision nor this final 
decision covers each and every point raised by the parties. I can assure each of them that 
Ive considered everything theyve said and submitted, but my findings concentrate on 
detailing the matters I deem most relevant to how Ive reached my decision  in keeping with 
the informal nature of our service.
Firstly, I note that Mrs S remains sceptical as to NatWests rationale for declining Ts 
application. She suggests that the bank secretly declined the request on the basis that T 
was also banking with another provider. But I still think the application was declined for the 
reasons Ive described, as the bank set out in its letters to Mrs S of 11 November 2020 and 
22 February 2021  in which it said that the applications considered around these times 
were declined on the grounds that your business was not trading as of 1 March 2020. The 
banks internal records further corroborate this, noting that T was not a trading business 
when completing its review on 11 November.
Mrs S disputes that NatWest wrote to T on 11 November 2020 as Ive said, and that it wasnt 
until January 2021 that NatWest said it was declining Ts application on the grounds that it 
wasnt trading at the requisite time. But Ive seen a copy of this letter, addressed to Mrs S at 
the companys registered address at the time (a copy of which has also been shared with 
Mrs S previously). Its regrettable if Mrs S didnt receive this. But even if she didnt, that 
doesnt seem to be down to a fault on the banks part.
I noted in my provisional decision that I thought NatWest had complicated matters when 
telling us that Ts applications had been declined as the company was already banking with 
another provider (which in turn had been shared with Mrs S). The bank suggests in its 
response to my provisional decision that confusion only arose because Mrs S said T held an 
account elsewhere. But T holding a bank account with another provider isnt the issue, and 
isnt in dispute. Confusion arose due to NatWest saying that this was the reason it declined 
Ts applications, when it wasnt.
NatWests letters to T and its contemporaneous notes make clear that its principal reason for 
declining Ts applications was because it didnt consider that T had sufficiently evidenced 
that it met the requirement to have been carrying on business prior to 1 March 2020. I think 
that view was reasonable. On the one hand, T was incorporated before this date and Mrs S 
was able to show that some transactions had been carried out in connection with Ts 
prospective trading, as I described in my provisional decision. On the other, however, the company had yet to generate any turnover  indeed, the means through which it was to 
generate its turnover had yet to even be acquired. As I explained in my provisional decision, 
for these reasons I think it was reasonable for NatWest to consider that T didnt meet the 
Scheme requirements to have been trading at the requisite time.
Mrs S has noted that I made no reference to a debenture that was in place and of NatWests 
knowledge of this when considering Ts application. I dont think the presence of a debenture 
is particularly persuasive evidence of the sort of trading activity that Ive described as being 
lacking here  in that holding debt and/or providing security dont equate to trading or 
generating an income. And it certainly doesnt speak to trading prior to 1 March 2020 as the 
debenture was only completed after this date. 
Regarding the issue of turnover, Mrs S has highlighted what I agree to have been an error in 
how I phrased one aspect of my provisional decision. I said that T hadnt generated any 
revenue prior to 1 March 2020 or before its initial loan application. But Mrs S had already 
explained and evidenced that money due to the company had been received into a personal 
account in May 2020  predating its first loan application. Im sorry for this error but it doesnt 
affect my findings. This is because it remains the case that this revenue, being generated 
after 1 March 2020, doesnt show that T was trading before this date  being the basis of the 
banks decision to decline the application. 
Mrs S has highlighted that new businesses were allowed to apply for a Bounce Back Loan 
under the Scheme rules, with a requirement only to have been established by 1 March 
2020 (with the Scheme being launched on 4 May 2020). So a business which had only been 
running for a couple of months was eligible to apply. I dont dispute that. But the date on 
which a business was established was only one of a number of criteria. There was also the 
requirement to have been carrying on business. So the fact T existed on or before 1 March 
2020 wasnt, in and of itself, enough for it to be deemed eligible for the loan  or for NatWest 
to be obliged to have provided it with one. 
I also described in my provisional decision that businesses could only apply for a loan up to 
25% of their turnover. New businesses  i.e. those established after 1 January 2019, like 
T  could use an estimate. But lenders werent obliged to accept any figure that an applicant 
provided. Even if I were to accept that T was trading at the requisite time, I still think 
NatWest would have been entitled to decline the application on this basis for the reasons 
given in my provisional decision. 
I understand Mrs S is concerned that I am proposing another reason  beyond those given 
by the bank  for why the application could have failed, especially having also said that it is 
not for me to substitute the banks decision for my own. But Im not substituting one decision 
for another. Rather I am explaining why, even if I were to accept one of Mrs Ss arguments, I 
would not ultimately be led to reach a different conclusion on the complaint as a whole. 
I also said in my provisional decision that NatWest was entitled to decline Ts application on 
the basis that the company didnt fulfil the requirement to have banked with NatWest from 4 
May 2020 or earlier. I accept Mrs Ss comment that the banks policy may not have been 
quite as binary but, nonetheless, I believe it is a valid reason by which NatWest could have 
rejected Ts application (in that T didnt have the requisite pre-existing relationship with the 
bank and, as I said in my provisional decision, Mrs Ss own personal relationship with the 
bank wouldnt have satisfied the banks requirements). In any event, NatWest agreed to 
waive this requirement in an attempt to help T. It could simply have declined the application 
at the outset but chose not to do so, which I highlighted to demonstrate my view that the 
bank wasnt out to deliberately frustrate Mrs Ss attempts to obtain a loan for the company 
and rather approached the matter in good faith. Put simply, I cant see why NatWest would have taken the time and trouble to treat Ts application as an exception and to conduct a 
manual review of Ts eligibility if it had no intention of ever lending to T. 
I take Mrs Ss point that it wouldnt have been fair for NatWest to rely on this criterion once it 
had agreed to waive it  but it didnt do this. It said it would waive the requirement if it was 
satisfied that T met the Scheme eligibility criterion to have been trading prior to 1 March 
2020, which ultimately it wasnt.
I set out in my provisional decision that I thought some aspects of NatWests handling of Ts 
applications fell short of an acceptable standard and I still consider that to have been the 
case. But I still dont think NatWests actions prevented T from applying elsewhere. And 
while Ive taken into account everything Mrs S has said in respect of the additional 
inconvenience she believes T was caused by errors on the banks part, I dont think that the 
company was impacted to such a level that any further compensation is warranted. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc has made an offer of £300 to resolve Ts complaint and for 
the reasons Ive explained, I think that is a fair way to put things right. 
My final decision, therefore, is that National Westminster Bank Plc must pay T compensation 
of £300.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2023.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman