DRN-3322001
The complaint
Mr M has complained TSB Bank plc hasnt properly considered his claim that fraud 
happened on his joint account with his ex-partner.
What happened
In December 2015 Mr M and his partner split up. He notified TSB that they no longer 
managed the account jointly on 9 March 2016. The account was blocked so no real spend 
took place after this date. Overdraft charges mounted up. In August 2016 TSB passed this 
debt to a third party to recover what they could from Mr M and his ex-partner (who Ill call 
Miss M).
The amount outstanding was £2,727.89. Limited payments (by Miss M) were made to the 
account.
In 2020 Mr M complained to TSB. He told them hed been a victim of financial, emotional 
and physical abuse during the period of his relationship with Miss M. He didnt believe he 
should have to pay this debt. He shared with TSB what costs he felt he should be liable for.
TSB rejected this proposal. They said theyd taken the time to consider Mr Ms specific 
personal circumstances. They confirmed Mr M and Miss M had held a joint account so the 
terms and conditions meant they were both individually liable for repayment of the debt.
Mr M had more recently realised the extent of the coercive control hed suffered and was 
keen to have his finances sorted. His partner had taken out finance in his name as well as 
making use of their joint finances without his agreement. Mr M brought his complaint against 
TSB and other institutions to our service. Some financial institutions had agreed to waive 
debt in his name.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence but felt overall that TSB had acted correctly. She 
didnt think it was clear that any of the expenditure Mr M disputed hadnt also been for his 
benefit.
Mr M strenuously disputed this finding. Hed also explained to our service some of the abuse 
hed been subject to before he and Miss M split up. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider 
his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 27 January 2022. I believed TSB could have done 
more to assist Mr M. I asked them to waive overdraft fees and charges from the date Mr M 
notified them this was no longer a joint debt and to pay him £500 for the trouble caused.
Mr M provided a number of responses. He believed there was adequate third-party evidence 
to demonstrate physical abuse at different times, as well as the action taken by other 
financial institutions showed the financial abuse by his ex-partner. He accepted Id noted 
action taken by TSB after hed notified them that he could no longer be responsible for 
expenditure on the account. He believed TSB was limiting the ability of credit record 
agencies from disassociating his record from Miss Ms.
TSB believed Id come to the same conclusion as our investigator but was unsure why Id 
asked them to pay redress. They pointed out that in cases like this they were often caught in 
the middle of two partners disputing responsibility.
I now have all I need to complete my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same outcome as I did in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why and cover any issues I need to take into account after receiving comments by 
either Mr M or TSB to my provisional decision.
I should point out that whilst TSB may have believed Id come to the same overall conclusion 
as our investigator, this isnt the case at all. She didnt believe TSB had acted incorrectly 
whilst I do.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence.
To help me reach this decision, Ive considered evidence provided to us by TSB and Mr M. 
Ive also noted the detail in our investigators view of 8 September 2021 but feel no need to 
rerun some of the arguments made there. Im also not going to run down the disputed 
transactions. Mr M provided us with a list of these and Ive matched these with the bank 
statements provided to us by TSB.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. Mr M 
has drawn my attention to best practice on managing financial abuse. I confirm Ive taken 
this into account.
The regulations which are relevant to Mr Ms complaint are the Payment Services 
Regulations 2009 (PSRs). These primarily require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. 
But this isnt the only aspect thats relevant. Theres no dispute that Mr Ms account  thats 
the subject of his complaint  is a joint account. And that the terms for this account do 
specifically make Mr M  as well as Miss M  liable for any outstanding debt however that 
occurred.
When we consider complaints where payments are disputed, we look at whether the 
transactions were authorised. However Id say here that theres no question Miss M made 
the transactions which makes them authorised in terms of the PSRs. I know Mr M disputes 
this but under the PSRs Im satisfied this is the case. There is limited leeway within these 
regulations to consider the impact of abuse or duress or fraud within a partnership.
I appreciate this makes any resolution in Mr Ms favour quite difficult. I believe its clear the 
transactions were authorised but I do wonder how account terms and the PSRs help anyone 
 who has a joint account  to raise valid objections against how the account was used by 
the other account-holder. This would be where financial abuse best practice comes into play.In these cases banks are able to consider whether the circumstances are appropriate to 
allow fair and reasonable redress to be given. Mr M has questioned why TSB didnt believe 
exceptional circumstances applied here. TSB noted Mr M let them know in March 2016 that 
the account was no longer to be considered as a joint account. I believe they placed blocks 
on account use at that time. They wondered why it wasnt until 2020 that Mr M raised a 
complaint concerning the abuse hed suffered.
I suggest this may partly be explained by the fact that legislation around the offence of 
coercive control is reasonably recent. Its also true that victims of abuse take time to 
understand the extent of the experience theyve gone through before they are able to tackle 
what happened. Im not therefore surprised it took Mr M time to contact TSB about the 
disputed transactions.
Ive seen limited evidence  despite TSBs confirmation  of their investigation into what had 
happened. It looks very much to me that they relied upon the terms and conditions of Mr Ms 
joint account rather than the personal circumstances hed gone through. I appreciate the 
points theyve made about trying to follow a middle path but Im not sure theres enough 
evidence to suggest they took appropriate action at the time.
I appreciate, however, that we have limited third party evidence of what Mr M went through. I 
dont doubt he has a number of grievances against his ex-partner and some of these relate 
to access to his daughter. Mr M mentioned evidence that we had seen and I confirm this has 
been considered.
Ive specifically looked at the transactions that Mr M disputed. None of the transactions hes 
disputing look out of the normal for joint account use. None of these are high-value. Two 
salaries were being paid into the account. Mr M and Miss M have a child together so I can 
see child benefit payments and a lot of household expenses most likely related to their 
daughter. I can also see payments that Mr M did make during this period too. This was the 
point TSB made to me which Id already noted.
Mr M questioned what I mean as for his benefit  I should confirm this doesnt mean items 
bought are directly for him or for his direct benefit but they could be seen as household costs 
shared between two individuals. This makes it difficult to decide what expenditure could be 
considered as part of the financial abuse. This doesnt mean there was no abuse just that I 
cant fairly distinguish the expenditure.
Putting things right
Like our investigator I cant see that the evidence is clear enough to suggest Mr M, either 
himself or as a father, didnt benefit from the expenditure. I believe it wouldnt be fair to ask 
TSB to refund the transactions he disputed. 
I can however see that about £300 worth of overdraft charges were added to the account 
after Mr M notified TSB that the account wasnt being used on a joint basis. This cant help 
Mr M in getting his life together and trying to repay the debts he still has. I think its fair and 
reasonable TSB waive all fees added to the account after 9 March 2016 when they knew the 
account use was in debate. I appreciate this will also benefit Miss M by reducing the joint 
debt but it will have an impact more importantly on Mr M.
TSB say the fees were added in line with account terms and conditions. I accept that is the 
case. But I do believe there are circumstances where these can be waived. In a case where 
there has been abuse, I think its fair and reasonable to do this.
I also dont believe TSB gave proper consideration to the issues Mr M raised with them and they seem to have acted dismissively. Its hard enough to raise such personal issues without 
then having them questioned. I dont think theres any doubt this has had an impact on Mr M. 
He continued to raise issues with TSB over a prolonged period and Im sure this is because 
he believes they have not taken his concerns into account.
Overall I believe its fair and reasonable TSB pay Mr M compensation. I think £500 is the 
right amount taking into account what happened.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is to instruct TSB Bank plc to:
Waive all overdraft and interest fees and charges allocated to Mr M and Miss Ms 
joint account from 9 March 2016; and
Pay Mr M £500 for the trouble caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman