DRN-2981491
The complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) unfairly applied charges and 
interest to his credit card account, which caused him financial difficulty.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr G missed his first payment in December 2017 after his direct debit was reversed, 
and he missed a further payment in January 2018, which resulted in him being 
charged a late fee of £12. He made a payment in February 2018 but incurred further 
charges as he was over his agreed credit limit. Mr G then failed to make any further 
repayments, which resulted in additional late payment fees being applied to his 
account. 
Having reviewed the charges and interest applied to Mr Gs account, Im satisfied this 
has been done in line with the terms and conditions of his credit agreement and that 
Capital One were entitled to apply these charges.
However, I understand that Mr G was experiencing financial difficulty at the time, 
which means that Capital One were under an obligation to treat his arrears and 
situation with forbearance and due consideration. I can see that Mr G contacted 
Capital One in April 2018 and explained that he was working with Step Change with 
regards to his debt, so a block was placed on his account to stop any collection calls 
for the next 30 days. However, Capital One never received any further details of 
Mr Gs income and expenditure or any proposal for a repayment plan, despite them 
writing to Mr G and Step Change requesting this. Therefore, no repayment plan was 
set up and the account was eventually defaulted in August 2018 after several months 
of missed payments.
I appreciate that Mr G contacted Capital One in June 2018 to explain that he was 
applying for bankruptcy. But given that he had failed to enter into any discussions 
with Capital One regarding his income and expenditure, Im not persuaded theyve 
acted unfairly by defaulting the account. They wrote to both Mr G and Step Change 
asking him to get in contact to discuss his situation further, and I can see they were 
working to reach a suitable arrangement with him. So Im satisfied they have acted 
with reasonable forbearance and due consideration, and I do not consider there to be 
any fair and reasonable basis for the charges and fees to now be refunded in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr G, and I understand he has been 
through a very difficult time. But in the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Capital One 
have acted unfairly, so I will not be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman