DRN-2224007
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B have complained about their insurer Aviva Insurance Limited. Their 
complaint relates to mis-sale of their policy and a declined claim. The policy was sold via 
their bank, but as the bank acts as Avivas agent for sales I am considering their complaint 
about both the mis-sale and the claim decline (which really resulted from the mis-sale) 
against Aviva.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were buying a new home. They spoke with their bank about insurance and a 
policy was arranged. The policy did not include optional accidental damage (AD) cover.
Mr and Mrs B say the bank representative told them AD was usually taken to cover 
relatively minor damage such as a child chipping a window and they felt they didnt need 
that type of cover at that time.
Shortly after moving into their home they noticed a foul smell. They contacted a drain 
company and Aviva. Aviva told them that drains were only covered for AD and they hadnt 
taken this option. Mr and Mrs B were confused, they recounted the conversation theyd had 
at the bank and noted that the buildings definition within the policy included drains.
A final response regarding Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the sale of the policy was issued 
on 3 May 2019. It was felt that the policy had been sold in-line with procedures. It was 
explained that the sale was non-advised and it was up to Mr and Mrs B to ensure the cover 
suited their needs.
Mr and Mrs B initially complained to us in July 2019. But following a further conversation 
with Aviva in August 2019 and a final response in December 2019, they made a further 
complaint. Theyd had the drains repaired  seemingly one had collapsed and one hadnt 
been connected properly. Aviva had then told them that the collapsed drain would be 
covered. They then made a claim only for Aviva to decline it for the same reasons their
mis-sale complaint had been triggered  drains are only covered on their policy as part of 
the optional accidental damage cover which they had not taken. Mr and Mrs B made a 
further complaint to us (which was later closed based on a strict assessment of the policy 
terms).
Therefore, Mr and Mrs B are £3,000 out of pocket and feel they should not be. They say 
that if theyd known the optional AD cover included drains they would have happily paid the 
small extra premium, as it was they had been left without cover and having to find money 
for necessary urgent repairs.
Our investigator didnt think the policy had been mis-sold to Mr and Mrs B. She explained 
she couldnt know what was discussed but the sale was non-advised and relevant 
paperwork had been provided to Mr and Mrs B to allow them to make an informed decision 
about buying the policy.
Mr and Mrs B were upset and frustrated. They felt their version of events at the time of the 
sale hadnt been taken into account. They were adamant that the bank representative had 
later told them she understood cover for drains wasnt an optional extra. Our investigator 
said that the business complaint investigation didnt reflect that. The complaint was passed 
to me for a decision to be made and I felt it should be upheld. I issued a provisional 
decision to which the parties have now both responded.
My provisional findings were: 
The sale of the policy was non-advised. But even in a non-advised sale the seller has to 
draw significant and unusual policy exclusions to the buyers attention. It isnt enough for 
them to just be contained within the general policy terms and conditions.
This is important because the cover within this policy for drains is unusual because it 
doesnt come as standard. Almost all household policies that I am aware of provide 
accidental damage cover for drains as standard whilst also offering optional accidental 
damage cover for other parts of the home and contents. I think it is fair to say that almost all 
retail policies provide cover in this way.
The cover is significant too as repairs for drains can be costly. Having to pay an extra 
amount for cover that in most other policies is provided as standard, is a significant factor 
that should reasonably have been brought to Mr and Mrs Bs attention.
Whilst I wasnt present during the sale, I do wonder whether the bank representatives didnt 
actually understand the significant and unusual nature of what they were selling. The details 
Mr and Mrs B have recounted make sense to me in that context.
It certainly doesnt seem to be suggested at any stage by Aviva that this significant and 
unusual policy term was drawn to Mr and Mrs Bs attention. Whilst it is true to say that not 
all terms, or even examples of what might constitute damage, can be discussed during a 
sale  that doesnt mean the policyholder can reasonably expect to read the policy terms 
and understand from them alone what might be significant and unusual.
I expect Aviva will say that Mr and Mrs B, regardless of the significant and unusual nature 
of the term in question, did have a chance to read the terms and didnt object to drains 
being part of AD only. Ideally, they should have read the terms  but that doesnt change 
the fact that Aviva did not highlight the term to them during the sale, and it should have. In 
the context of a sale environment, as opposed to glancing through policy terms and likely 
not really understanding their importance afterwards, Im satisfied that if this had been 
properly drawn to Mr and Mr Bs attention, they would have either paid the additional sum 
for the optional cover or looked to arrange their policy elsewhere. Either way they would 
have had cover for AD to drains when they needed it shortly after moving into their new 
home.
Im satisfied that Aviva failed Mr and Mrs B and that it needs to put things right by acting as 
though Mr and Mrs B had selected the optional AD cover. Im also satisfied that they were 
caused a lot of upset when they discovered they didnt have cover for the drains. They felt 
let down by the bank representatives and confused as to why their policy seemed 
inadequate. I think Aviva needs to pay £250 compensation too.
Id explain though that, whilst I understand that Mr and Mrs B have had to arrange for 
repairs themselves and suffered upset as a result, I cant consider that at this time. Thats 
because whilst I am now saying Aviva should act as though they had cover for AD to 
drains, it is yet to consider their claim in this respect. So I dont know if it is covered which 
mean I cant reasonably say the upset they suffered when having to handle the repairs 
themselves was also due to Avivas failings.Mr and Mrs B said they had no further evidence or comment to provide. Aviva said it 
couldnt agree with my findings because it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy as 
that had been done by an employee of the bank. But it said it was able to confirm that its 
policies dont provide any accidental damage cover as standard. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand it was a bank employee that sold Mr and Mrs B this policy. I also understand 
that accidental damage cover, for this policy, is entirely an optional extra. I remain of the 
view the latter is unusual and should have been drawn to Mr and Mrs Bs attention when the 
policy was sold. Whilst I understand why Aviva would want to see liability for the sale fall 
squarely at the banks door, I dont think that is a reasonable position to take. As I set out at 
the start of this document, which was the same in my provisional decision, the bank can be 
seen as having acted for Aviva when selling this policy beause it is a policy which Aviva 
underwrites (bears the risk for) whilst allowing the bank to sell it under its own name.
My decision as set out provisonally has not changed. I have found that Mr and Mrs B were 
mis-sold their policy and Aviva is responsible for that along with rectifying the matter of the 
claim that was declined as a result of the mis-sale. Ive set out below what Aviva must do to 
put things right. My provisional findings are now the findings of this, my final decsion. 
Putting things right
I require Aviva to treat Mr and Mrs B as though they did have accidental damage cover in 
place. That means it will need to consider their claim for damaged drains. As Mr and Mrs B 
have done the work (they had no choice but to), Aviva wont be able to settle the claim 
based on what it might have cost it to do the work  it will have to base its settlement on the 
costs Mr and Mrs B had to pay. To any settlement amount paid it will have to add interest* 
from the date Mr and Mrs B paid the sum until settlement is made.
I also require Aviva to pay Mr and Mrs B £250 compensation for the upset they were 
caused as a result of it failing to draw significant and unusual terms to their attention. Then, 
once the claim outcome is known, Aviva should consider whether further compensation is 
due for any upset caused by its decline of, and delay in, settling the claim.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Aviva Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr and Mrs B, it should tell them 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Aviva Insurance Limited to provide redress (put things right) 
as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman