DRN-3344748
The complaint
Mr E is unhappy that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) hasnt offered him a refund 
after he says he was the victim of a scam. 
What happened
The facts of this case are well-known to both parties, so I wont go into too much detail here. 
However, in summary, Mr E says hes been the victim of a scam. Between February and 
June 2020, he sent £164,735.89 to his wifes bank account in Malaysia. He did so via a 
series of bank transfers processed via a third-party money remittance service - which I will 
refer to as Company W. 
Mr E and his wife had been married for 17 years and she had told him she needed money to 
invest in a land purchase in Malaysia where she was visiting her family for a prolonged 
period during the Covid-19 Pandemic. However, Mr E later found out that he had likely been 
mis-led and it doesnt appear that any land was purchased with Mr Es funds as initially 
agreed.
Mr E now believes he has been a victim of fraud and has requested that Nationwide refund 
him his losses on the basis that it shouldve done more to protect him when the transfers 
were initially made. Mr E has also told us that the scam and its ongoing consequences have 
had a significant impact on him both emotionally and financially and that Nationwides 
handling of his complaint has made what was already a difficult time worse. Hes told us that 
Nationwide failed to let him know what action it was taking in order to get his money back 
once he notified it of the scam and it failed to provide him with regular updates which added 
to the stress and worry he already faced.  
Nationwide declined to offer Mr E a refund. It didnt think it had done anything wrong in 
processing the transfers at his request and it thought this was likely a civil dispute between 
Mr E and his wife, rather than a scam. It acknowledged that it hadnt been able to provide Mr 
E with as many updates as he wouldve liked but it explained that because the transfers 
were made to international accounts via a third party, Company W, the process had been 
complicated and it was difficult to get updates  especially due to the values involved which 
required the case to be escalated to senior members of staff.  
Mr E didnt agree with what Nationwide said so he brought his complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into things. He also thought this was more likely a civil 
dispute between two private individuals, Mr E and his wife, rather than a fraud/scam. And so 
he didnt think it fair that Nationwide now be asked to provide Mr E with a refund of the 
money he had lost. He went on to say that even if what had happened to Mr E was 
considered a fraud/scam and was treated as such by Nationwide, it still wouldnt be fair to 
hold Nationwide responsible for his losses. He didnt think Nationwide had done anything 
wrong in processing the transfers at Mr Es request and even if Nationwide had questioned 
Mr E about them, he didnt think this would have led to the scam being uncovered and 
prevented. Whilst he appreciated that this had been a very difficult time for Mr E and that 
Nationwide hadnt corresponded as often as he wouldve liked, he didnt feel this warranted 
an additional compensation award. 
Overall, our investigator thought Nationwide had acted reasonably when it didnt offer Mr E a 
refund. It had followed his instructions in making the payments in the first instance. And it 
acted fairly when trying to recover his funds too. 
 
Mr E disagreed with the investigators findings. He acknowledged that what had happened to 
him wasnt the usual textbook scam but he felt it was a scam all the same and not a dispute 
between him and his wife. He highlighted the evidence hed provided to this service which 
concluded that some of the information his wife had told him now appeared to be false. Mr E 
says this is an indicator that she had intended to deceive him from the outset. He also 
reiterated that Nationwides actions throughout the course of the complaint had caused 
undue distress that couldve ultimately been prevented.  
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, Im minded to reach the same conclusion as our investigator - 
for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why.
 
I agree with our investigator that what has happened to Mr E is likely a private civil dispute 
between him and his wife - rather than a scam which Nationwide should now be involved in. 
Based on the evidence I have available to me, it is also difficult to know whether Mr Es wife 
wouldve had a genuine claim on any of the funds now in dispute and this is likely to form a 
consideration should there be any future separation proceedings. However, even if I were to 
be satisfied that Mr E had fallen victim to a scam and Nationwides actions in processing the 
transactions assessed against the applicable regulations, I still dont think this would result in 
Mr E receiving what he wants - a full refund from Nationwide. 
I say this because I dont think Nationwide wouldve been able to uncover and prevent the 
scam from taking place  even if probing questions about the transfers had been asked at 
the time. Im not persuaded that there was anything about the circumstances leading up to 
the transfers that wouldve put Nationwide on notice that Mr E might be at risk of financial 
harm from fraud. It is only now, that the money hasnt been used as he intended, that we 
know something isnt quite right. But Im not satisfied there wouldve been any indication of 
this at the time. Ill explain why in more detail below. 
Nationwides obligations
It is not in dispute that Mr E authorised the transfers himself. He says he was duped into 
doing so by his wife. And so, I accept that the payments were authorised payments even 
though Mr E now believes he has been the victim of a cruel scam. So, although his funds 
have not been used as he initially thought they would, under the Payment Services 
Regulations, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr E would be presumed liable 
for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to be good industry practice at the time, Nationwide should 
fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to 
counter various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the 
financing of terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other 
signs that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among 
other things). This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated 
fraud and scams in recent years, which banks are generally more familiar 
with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have 
taken additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a 
payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help 
protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
So, at the time that Mr E made the transfers now under discussion here, I consider that as a 
matter of good practice, Nationwide should have been on the look-out for unusual and out 
of character transactions. 
But I dont think there was anything about the initial transactions that shouldve stood out as 
unusual and out of character or put Nationwide on notice that Mr E mightve been at risk of 
financial harm. The first transactions were for relatively small amounts and they werent 
being made to an international account, they were being made to a legitimate company  
Company W. However, as the transactions became more frequent and the total outlay 
increased, I do think there should have been a point where Nationwide shouldve stepped in 
and questioned Mr E about the activity on his account. But even if Nationwide had 
questioned Mr E, I still dont think the scam wouldve been uncovered. Ill explain why.
Had Nationwide questioned Mr E about the transfers at the time, I am satisfied he wouldve 
told them he was transferring money to his wife who was abroad visiting family at the time 
and the transfers were in relation to a house/land purchase. I see no reason to find that Mr 
E wouldve told the bank anything else, this is what he believed he was doing.
At this point, Nationwide may have had some concerns that Mr E mightve been falling 
victim to a romance scam and asked further probing questions. However, at this point, Im 
satisfied Mr E wouldve told Nationwide that he had been living with his wife in the UK for 
many years and that they had been married for some 17 years. At this point it wouldve 
become clear to Nationwide that Mr E was in a long-term and, what appeared to be, a 
trusting relationship with his wife and had been for a long time. And I dont think him 
wanting to invest in property with her in her home country wouldve appeared untoward or 
unusual. And so, I dont think any of Mr Es likely answers wouldve put Nationwide on 
notice that Mr E was at risk of financial harm to the point that it shouldve refused to follow 
his payment instructions. 
There was simply no way that Nationwide couldve uncovered that Mr Es wife did not intend 
on using the funds as she had said she would. Neither Nationwide nor Mr E couldve known 
this at the time. It is only now with the benefit of hindsight that this has come to light. And so 
it wouldnt now be fair to say that Nationwide should bear the responsibility for the loss of 
these funds. Nationwide had an obligation to follow Mr Es payment instructions unless it had 
genuine concern that he was about to be defrauded. And in the particular circumstances of 
this case, theres no way it couldve known this at the time. 
In addition to the above, when Mr E eventually reported the scam to Nationwide, there 
wasnt really anything it could do help Mr E at that point. The only option left open to 
Nationwide was to contact Company W to see if any of the funds remained in their accounts, 
which Nationwide did, on the same day. Company W had processed the transfers at Mr Es request and they had already been 
converted and sent, presumably to his wifes account. Due to the transfers being processed 
through Company W, it wasnt possible for Nationwide to contact Mr Es wifes bank directly 
in Malaysia. 
I am aware in his response to our investigators opinion, Mr E posed a number of questions 
about the actions of Company W. As this is a complaint about the actions of Nationwide, we 
havent looked into the role that Company W played in the transfers under discussion here. 
If Mr E would like further information about the transfers from Company W, he will need to 
contact Company W directly. 
Additional compensation
Ive considered whether Nationwide should pay Mr E compensation for the way his complaint 
was handled from the outset. Ive taken into account that much of the distress and 
inconvenience Mr E has experienced was ultimately the result of the actions of his wife, not 
Nationwide. I also have to bear in mind that its not unusual to experience a certain level of 
frustration and annoyance when dealing with financial businesses during the course of a 
complaint. 
In this case, I can see that it took Nationwide two months to look into Mr Es concerns and 
issue its final response letter. This is longer than I would expect but I also have to bear in 
mind that this case and its surrounding circumstances are somewhat unusual and complex. It 
involved a third-party money remittance service and significant sums of money that had been 
transferred abroad. So, whilst I agree that there are some learnings for Nationwide here in 
terms of keeping its customers updated in cases such as this, I am satisfied that it contacted 
the money remittance service as quickly as it could and I dont think it unreasonable that the 
case was referred to and discussed at a senior level before an outcome was issued to Mr E. 
And so I wont be recommending Nationwide pay compensation for this now. 
Finally, I want to say how sorry I am to hear about the circumstances Mr E has found himself 
in. Its clear that he has been deceived by someone he felt he could trust. But I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable of me to conclude that Nationwide should be liable for his 
losses.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I wont be upholding this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman