DRN-1826529
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy because Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has declined to pay various 
expenses following a claim he made on his travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr C had a heart attack whilst in the USA. It isn't in dispute that IPA made an error and 
assessed the claim against the wrong policy terms and conditions. They declined the claim 
and Mr C had to make his own arrangements to get home. An ombudsman at our service 
has already issued a final decision upholding a complaint about this. She awarded Mr C 
£800 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
However, Mr C raised a separate complaint as he made a claim for various expenses such 
as flights, food, accommodation and car hire. IPA has agreed to cover around £6650 of 
these expenses and offered Mr C £150 compensation for the delay in handling his claim. But 
there's a further £2668.75 expenses in dispute. Mr C also claimed for his colleagues loss of 
time, as his colleague supported Mr C during his recovery and repatriation. 
IPA says that it has assessed the claim in line with the policy terms. Mr C says, in summary, 
that the initial error meant he had to stay in the USA longer than he should have done, and 
he incurred more costs. My decision will focus on this point and not the issues our service 
has already considered. 
Our investigator upheld Mr C's complaint.  He thought that IPA should cover all of the 
outstanding expenses. He explained that Mr C incurred the expenses because of the initial 
error. However, he didn't think it was fair for IPA to cover Mr C's colleagues bill for lost time. 
Mr C didn't make any further comments in response to the investigator's findings. IPA asked 
an ombudsman to review the complaint. They said they'd paid compensation for the error 
and paid Mr C the same expenses he'd have been entitled to if the error hadn't been made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And they shouldn't reject a claim unreasonably.
I'm upholding Mr C's complaint as I think it is fair and reasonable that IPA cover the 
remaining expenses in the circumstances of this case. I say that because: 
There's no dispute IPA made an error when it originally declined Mr C's claim and 
that this meant he had to make all the arrangements himself
 I think Mr C has made a fair point that if he'd received the correct assistance it is 
likely he'd have been able to return to the UK more quickly and it's likely he wouldn't 
have incurred as many expenses. IPA hasn't suggested in response to the 
investigator's findings that this is incorrect
 
Some of the expenses exceed what is set out in the policy terms and conditions. But 
I bear in mind that IPA's error was a serious one and there's no dispute that Mr C 
was in the USA for longer than he should have been
 
IPA has also not suggested that any of the expenses incurred were unreasonable or 
excessive in the circumstances. The evidence I've seen suggests Mr C acted 
reasonably and tried to keep his costs to a minimum. I also bear in mind that he was 
expecting to have to foot the bill himself, as IPA's error wasn't discovered until he 
returned to the UK
 
Taking into account all of the above information I think it is fair and reasonable that 
IPA pay the full amount of outstanding expenses due to the circumstances of this 
case. I think Mr C acted reasonably, and was in the USA for longer than he should 
have been. His financial losses therefore directly flow from IPA's mistake in declining 
cover. So I don't think it's fair in this case to say he's only entitled to what is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. IPA's error also meant they were unable to mitigate 
their own losses, which isn't Mr C's fault 
 
Our investigator calculated the outstanding expenses to be £2668.75. Neither Mr C 
nor IPA have made any further representations about that figure and that's what I'm 
directing IPA to pay. I don't think it's fair for IPA to compensate Mr C's colleague for 
loss of time. His colleague wasn't covered by the insurance contract and, in any 
event, I think it would go beyond what is fair and reasonable for IPA to pay for this. 
 
Putting things right
IPA should pay Mr C £2668.75 in addition to the £150 compensation they've already offered. 
They should pay 8% simple interest from the date the original settlement was made (or was 
due to be made) until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
I'm upholding Mr C's complaint against Inter Partner Assistance SA and directing them to put 
things right in the way I've outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2020.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman