DRN-1482675
The complaint
Mr R complains about the service he received when he reported an item hed purchased 
with finance from Shop Direct Finance Company Limited as faulty. Hes also unhappy that 
he didnt receive a promotional discount for another item he purchased on credit.
What happened
Mr R opened a credit account with SDFC in 2014. SDFC is a finance provider and in this 
case, provided credit for purchases from Shop Direct Home Shopping Limited t/a Very.
In 2018 Mr R purchased a fridge. When he received it, it was faulty. He contacted Very to 
report the fault. Very asked Mr R to log a complaint online. Mr R wasnt happy to do this and 
wanted to register his complaint by telephone.
Mr R contacted Very again the following day and asked for compensation for food which had 
been spoiled in the faulty fridge and for the cost of takeaway meals. Very asked Mr R to 
provide receipts for the food and takeaways. Mr R provided these but didnt receive a 
reimbursement immediately. 
Mr R contacted Very again in November 2018 to chase his refund. He was reimbursed 
£31.96 for food and takeaway meals. He remained unhappy with the customer service hed 
received and asked for additional compensation. Very offered him an additional £50, which 
he refused. This offer had since been increased.
In December 2018 Mr R purchased an item on a Buy Now Pay Later account. Hes unhappy 
that a special offer discount wasnt applied to the correct account and brought both his 
customer service complaint and his complaint about the BNPL account to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although SDFC had made an error 
in the handling of Mr Rs account, he thought it had done enough by applying the credit to an 
account which was accruing interest.
Mr R didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr R is unhappy about the way his complaint was handled here. But as the 
investigator has already explained, this service isnt able to consider a complaint against 
SDFC in its capacity as a retailer, but only in relation to the administration of Mr Rs credit 
account.
I understand that Mr R experienced some issues with a faulty fridge and that he had to make 
several calls about this. I also understand that there was some delay between Mr R 
providing his receipts for spoiled food and receiving reimbursement. Im unable to comment 
on the offer made by the retailer (Very) but I can see that some customer service issues 
arose here.
In relation to the promotional discount Mr R was entitled to when he purchased the BNPL 
item, I can see that a credit of £124.50 was applied to his shopping account, and not to the 
BNPL account. SDFC has said that the credit can be moved and applied to the BNPL 
account if Mr R wishes but has explained that this will increase the balance on his shopping 
account, which will in turn increase the minimum monthly payments required on the account. 
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr R received the promotional discount. I agree 
that there was an error and that the discount wasnt applied to the item he purchased . 
However, I dont think SDFC need to do anything further here, because it has applied the 
discount in a  way which benefitted Mr R by reducing the interest he was required to pay on 
the shopping account. There was no disadvantage to Mr R in relation to the BNPL account, 
because the balance on this account wasnt accruing interest at the time the promotional 
discount was credited.
Taking all the circumstances of the complaint into account and for the reasons Ive 
explained, I wont be asking SDFC to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman