The complaint
Mr S complains that Atom Bank PLC (T/A Atom Bank) incorrectly calculated the interest due 
on his savings account. Hes also unhappy about the way his interest was paid and how his 
complaint about what happened was dealt with.
What happened
In January 2019 Mr S opened a 12 month fixed savings account with Atom Bank, which 
attracted a gross interest rate of 2.03%. Between 4 and 7 January 2019 he funded his 
savings account by crediting it with four separate payments totalling £75000. 
Interest payments were due to be paid to Mr S each month. He said these payments should 
have been paid to an account he held with a bank that Ill refer to as S in this decision. He 
said he had linked his account with S on opening his savings account in order to facilitate 
that arrangement. But while the first monthly interest payment was paid to S the remaining 
payments werent.
When Mr S account matured, on 4 January 2020, the amount he was paid was less than he 
was expecting to receive. He thought Atom Bank had underpaid the interest due to him as, 
while there were interest calculations covering March until December 2019, there were none 
for January and February 2019. So, he believed he hadnt been paid the interest that had 
accrued during those months. 
Mr S also said Atom Bank hadnt paid his interest correctly as it hadnt credited his account 
with S as hed instructed it to do each month. In light of the errors Mr S felt Atom Bank had 
made he complained.
Atom Bank investigated the complaint it had received from Mr S and said it had calculated 
interest on a daily basis from the date he had deposited his funds in his account. It told him it 
had calculated the interest due correctly and in line with the terms of his account. And it said 
it had paid his interest in the way hed instructed it to. So it didnt think it had made any 
errors and it didnt uphold this complaint.
Being dissatisfied with Atom Banks response to his complaint Mr S referred it to our service. 
Our investigator looked into his complaint but they werent persuaded Atom Bank had made 
an error in how it had calculated or paid interest to him. And they thought it had dealt with 
this complaint fairly. So, they didnt recommend upholding this complaint or asking Atom 
Bank to do any more. But Mr S disagreed and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
DRN-1826478reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr S feels very strongly about the issues raised in this complaint and Ive 
carefully considered everything hes said. But Im not going to be able to help him in the way 
he would like. Ill explain why. 
I can see that Mr S has made a number of detailed points, which Ive read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I do not respond in a similar detail here will not be taken as a discourtesy. 
As an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
There are three parts to Mr S complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
The amount of interest paid
Its clear from the complaint Mr S referred to our service that he believes Atom Bank has 
underpaid interest on the money hes invested. Ive therefore considered what the terms and 
conditions that apply to his account say about how interest is paid. These terms outline that: 
As soon as we receive a payment into your account, youll start to earn interest. Interest on 
your balance is calculated daily and will be paid at the rate stated in your Fixed Saver 
Summary Box (based on the number of actual days in the relevant period and a year of 365 
days). All interest is paid gross, in line with the Personal Savings Allowance (PSA).
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint the gross interest rate applicable to this 
account was 2.03%. Based on the evidence Ive seen, and from reviewing Mr S account 
closing statement carefully, Im satisfied Atom Bank has applied this interest rate in 
calculating how much interest hes accrued on his savings.
I can also see our investigator has used a compound interest calculator to check the interest 
Mr S accrued. This has shown that Atom Bank correctly calculated interest on a daily basis 
from the date he made his deposits.  
As Mr S opted to receive interest payments on a monthly basis he was due a total of 12 
interest payments. His account closing statement clearly shows he received the correct 
amount of monthly payments. So, Im satisfied interest was paid in line with the terms of 
account Mr S opened.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im not persuaded Atom Bank made an error 
in calculating the interest due on Mr S savings.
How interest was paid
Atom Bank said Mr S made a change to his interest preferences on 6 February 2019, which 
meant that interest payments from that date onwards would be paid directly into his Atom 
Bank account instead of to his account with S. However, Mr S disputes he made the change 
in question.Atom Bank has provided evidence to our service, including process maps, that satisfy me 
that the only way in which the monthly payment method could have been changed would be 
by Mr S directly via its banking app. Based on what Ive seen, it doesnt appear its possible 
for Atom to initiate this change of its own volition.
Like our investigator, I also think that if Mr S hadnt made that change himself hed have 
questioned why interest payments werent crediting his account with S very soon after the 
change had been applied to his account. And I havent seen enough to persuade me that Mr 
S raised this with Atom Bank prior to January 2020 when he complained.
Based on the evidence available to me, Im not persuaded the change was made by any 
action Atom Bank took here. On balance I think Mr S made the change in question  
whether intentionally or in error. And this means I cant fairly hold Atom Bank responsible for 
changes Mr S made. I also cant criticise it for adhering to his instructions that it pay interest 
to his Atom Bank account.
Poor service 
Finally, I understand that Mr S is unhappy with how Atom Bank has dealt with, and 
responded to, his complaint. Im not seeking to downplay the difficulties or frustrations Mr S 
had here  far from it. But we dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal 
with complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs 
our service. This means that, even if I did think Atom Bank hadnt done things well in this 
regard, I wouldnt be able to uphold that element of Mr S concerns or make an award. So, I 
wont address this any further.
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im satisfied that Atom Bank acted fairly and 
reasonably. So, Im not going to be asking it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman