DRN-1618233
 
The complaint
Mr M says St Andrews Insurance Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mr M took out a credit card in September 2006. In October 2007, St Andrews sold him PPI 
over the phone to protect his card repayments if he couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life and critical illness cover. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. Mr M didnt agree, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms case. 
Having done so, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the sale took place, St Andrews doesnt hold a recording 
of the sales call. But St Andrews has provided a copy of the call script it says its adviser 
would have followed.
Im satisfied both that I can rely on the script as reflecting the discussions that took place and 
that its likely Mr M was made aware he had a choice about taking out PPI. Its difficult to say 
for sure exactly what was discussed. And Im mindful of what Mr M says about his 
understanding of the discussion potentially being impacted by his medical condition. 
Overall, I think St Andrews likely made it clear to Mr M that he had a choice about taking out 
PPI and that he then chose to take it on that basis. I havent seen enough evidence to show 
Mr M didnt broadly understand what he was agreeing to. 
Ive gone on to see if there are any other reasons why I should uphold Mr Ms complaint, but 
I dont think there are. St Andrews says it recommended the PPI to Mr M. That favours him 
because it meant St Andrews, among other things, should have looked in to whether it was 
right for him. 
I cant say for sure what checks St Andrews made. But, from what I know of Mr Ms 
circumstances at the time, I think the PPI was right for him. I say that because:
It seems Mr M would have been eligible for the cover. And there was nothing to 
suggest he was significantly affected by the main exclusions to, or limits on, the policy. Ive thought carefully about his pre-existing medical condition, but Ive seen 
nothing to indicate hed have thought it likely to lead to significant time off work. 
While Mr M was entitled to enhanced sick pay and redundancy pay, the PPI benefits 
would have paid out on top of that and for up to 12 months per claim. The benefits 
could well have allowed him to put his employers pay towards covering his other 
daily living costs if he was off work. So, I think the PPI provided Mr M with useful 
additional protection. 
The PPI appears to have been affordable for Mr M. And it was flexible in that he 
could have cancelled it at any time, and at no extra cost, if he decided he no longer 
wanted it.
 
As well as checking if the PPI was right for him, St Andrews also should have given Mr M 
clear information about the policy so he could make an informed decision about buying it. I 
dont know what steps St Andrews took to do this. And its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they should have been. But, as Ive said, I think its likely Mr M 
agreed to the cover and it looks to me as if it was right for him and was affordable. So, I dont 
think better information would have affected his decision to buy it.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Ms lost out because of how St Andrews 
sold him the PPI.
Finally, I havent considered whether Mr Ms due any compensation in relation to 
undisclosed commission in this case, as the relevant rules and guidance cover what the 
lender should do. As this complaints set up against the insurer, the rules and guidance dont 
apply here.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman