DRN-3699048
The complaint
Mr G complains about a claim for water damage on his home insurance policy underwritten 
by Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd. His claim was declined many months after repair work 
had already been authorised and started.
What happened
Mr G suffered water damage following a leak from a pipe to his kitchen sink and dishwasher. 
So he contacted his insurer and submitted a claim in August 2021. Mr G was told a 
contractor would be appointed and work would start straight after Christmas. He was then 
told it wouldnt begin until the end of March 2022. 
Mr G said hed already been without access to his kitchen for six months and work hadnt 
even started. So he found a local contractor and submitted a quote to his insurer. The quote 
was approved but Mr G was asked to provide a second quote once the kitchen units had 
been removed and the full extent of the damage could be seen. After Mr G submitted the 
second quote a loss adjuster was appointed. Mr G was then told he should be claiming on 
his previous home insurance policy as the damage had begun at an earlier date. And the 
repairs to Mr Gs kitchen were stopped.
Mr G said he didnt understand why itd taken six months for the loss adjuster to get 
involved. Hed already been given permission to start the repairs. And hes now been without 
a functioning kitchen for over a year.
Accredited accepted the decline of Mr Gs claim shouldve happened much earlier based on 
the information itd seen. But it felt itd declined the claim correctly as it related to a pre-
existing condition. The policy had been taken out three months before the claim had been 
submitted. And a leak would not have been able to cause such substantial damage in that 
short period of time. 
The loss adjusters report confirmed the amount of rot indicated an existing issue thatd 
begun before the policy was taken out. And cover couldnt be provided if the issue had taken 
place outside of the policy terms. But Accredited offered Mr G £300 compensation as a 
gesture of goodwill for any distress or inconvenience that might have been caused.
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Accrediteds response. So he contacted our service and our 
investigator looked into the matter. She accepted a strict interpretation of the home 
insurance policy terms and conditions would mean the claim wouldnt be covered. But she 
didnt think that would be a fair outcome.
Our investigator said that some of the damage had occurred during the most recent policy 
period. And while it was possible some mightve started before the cover began it would be 
impractical to know where to separate the matter. So our investigator felt Accredited should 
take the lead and deal with the claim. 
She could see Mr G and his family had suffered considerable upset and inconvenience and 
had been without a functioning kitchen for a year so far. 
So our investigator felt Accredited should pay an additional £450 on top of the compensation 
previously offered. Mr G and his family had suffered considerable upset and inconvenience 
for a long period of time. And the repair work was still to be completed.
Accredited accepted our investigators recommendations and said it was happy to address 
the claim first. Any efforts to seek contribution from the previous insurer would be done 
separately after itd settled the claim. But it asked why additional compensation was 
necessary.
Our investigator explained in detail how shed arrived at the increased compensation award. 
And she asked Accredited to confirm if it accepted the increased award. As no response has 
been forthcoming this complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr G and his family have been experiencing. The 
delays in resolving the water leak have made a stressful situation even worse. And I 
understand Mr G is still awaiting confirmation that repairs can begin.
There are two key issues that need resolving and I will deal with each in turn. Firstly I can 
see Accredited considered our investigators view and agreed to take the lead on covering 
the damage to Mr Gs property. 
Ive looked at the wording of the terms and conditions of the home insurance policy. Ive 
considered the difficulty of determining when the leak started, how much damage had been 
caused before and how much damage was caused after the Accredited policy came into 
place in May 2021. And Ive thought about when Mr G wouldve been aware, or shouldve 
reasonably been aware, that the damage was taking place.
Based on everything Ive seen I think our investigator was right to ask Accredited to take the 
lead on dealing with Mr Gs claim. And Im pleased to see it has agreed to do so. Accredited 
has stated it will deal with Mr Gs claim and then discuss any contribution from the previous 
insurer after the claim has been settled. 
I think thats the right outcome. There is a pressing need for the water damage to be dealt 
with as a priority after such lengthy and unnecessary delays. And I agree Accredited should 
take responsibility for urgently dealing with Mr Gs claim and then discuss contribution from 
the previous insurer as a separate matter once the work has been completed.
Mr G has been put through considerable trouble and upset by the way his claim has been 
dealt with. It took six months before he was notified his claim had initially been declined. The 
strip-out work in the kitchen was halted and no further progress has taken place for over a 
year. Accredited has accepted it couldve responded sooner and shouldve carried out 
further investigations in September 2021.
Ive looked at everything Mr G has been put through. I would consider a functioning kitchen 
to be a basic necessity but Mr G and his family have been without access to kitchen facilities 
for over a year. 
The family have had to use the back door to enter the property for all of that time. And Mr G 
has had to chase contractors and insurers for action while dealing with the poor health of his 
wife.I can see our investigator recommended that Accredited increase its offer of compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G from £300 to £750. Given the 
considerable inconvenience and distress caused by the lengthy delays and the impact of 
being without a kitchen for over 12 months I think thats an appropriate response. The repair 
work hasnt started yet and Mr G and his family will be put to further inconvenience while the 
repairs actually take place.
Putting things right
To put things right Accredited should accept Mr Gs claim as it has already agreed to do. I 
would expect Accredited to contact Mr G with some urgency to agree a suitable plan of 
works to repair the damage and restore Mr Gs access to a functioning kitchen area. 
I understand Mr G has already provided his own contractors estimates for repairing the 
damage if the insurers contractors are unable to carry out the work within a reasonably short 
timeframe.
And in recognition of the lengthy and considerable distress and inconvenience caused 
Accredited should increase its offer of compensation from £300 to £750.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Accredited should accept Mr Gs claim for 
water damage, as it has agreed to do, and deal with the issue of contribution from the 
previous insurer as a separate matter after the work is completed.
Accredited should also pay Mr G a total of £750 compensation for the considerable trouble 
and upset caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman