DRN-2846619
The complaint
Mrs W is complaining about how Aviva Insurance Limited handled her claim against her 
motor insurance policy. Mrs W has raised other complaints against Aviva in relation to the 
same incident but they included different complaint points. For the avoidance of doubt, this 
complaint covers two points:
Avivas decision to appoint two different solicitors to deal with Mrs Ws claim delayed 
the recovery of her excess.
The time taken by Aviva to confirm Mrs Ws no claims discount (NCD) status.  
What happened
Mrs W was involved in a car accident in 2018. Aviva was unable to resolve the question of 
who was at fault with the third party and their insurer so appointed solicitors to deal with the 
matter. Aviva appointed a separate firm of solicitors to deal with any uninsured losses, for 
example recovering Mrs Ws excess. 
At the beginning of September 2020, the court decided Mrs W wasnt at fault for the 
accident. Among other things, that meant she could recover her excess, of £450, from the 
third party, and that her NCD shouldnt be affected by the accident.
On 10 September, Mrs W contacted Aviva to ask about the result of her court case and for 
her NCD to be reinstated. She didnt receive a reply to her first email. In response to her 
second email, Aviva told her on 18 September 2020 that the claim was still under 
investigation and no decision had been made so they couldnt reinstate the NCD. Mrs W 
took the matter up with the solicitors who said they had told Aviva that the court case had 
been dismissed. The solicitors added that Aviva would need to confirm the NCD status, as it 
wasnt something they could deal with.   
The second firm of solicitors was instructed to recover the excess and Mrs W received the 
amount of her excess in mid-October.
By 10 November 2020, Mrs W still hadnt received confirmation of her NCD from Aviva. She 
complained to Aviva about how long it was taking, and received the certificate within a few 
days. 
Aviva didnt respond formally to Mrs Ws complaint. They questioned whether it was a 
duplicate of other complaints raised but our investigator confirmed it wasnt. Our investigator 
asked Aviva for some more information but received very little. Looking at the information 
she had, our investigator felt Aviva could have acted more quickly after the court case to 
confirm Mrs Ws NCD status. She said it was clear this was a matter of urgency and 
importance to Mrs W and she shouldnt have had to wait for two months to receive 
confirmation. So she said Aviva should pay Mrs W £150 for the trouble and upset caused by 
the delay.
In relation to the excess, our investigator said she thought Avivas appointment of a second 
firm of solicitors to recover the excess had delayed the payment of this to Mrs W. She said 
the court case had been on 20 August and the second firm hadnt been contacted until 24 
September  so she felt it was reasonable to say this had delayed the recovery of the 
excess by five weeks. She suggested Aviva pay Mrs W interest at 8% per annum of her 
excess amount for the five week delay.
Mrs W accepted our investigators view. Aviva didnt. They queried again whether the 
complaint was a duplicate but didnt reply when our investigator told them again that it wasnt 
a duplicate. Because Aviva havent accepted the view, the complaints come to me for a 
decision.
When I looked at the complaint, I could see that the court case was scheduled for 
3 September 2020 rather than 20 August 2020. So I felt that our investigator should have 
suggested three weeks interest rather than five weeks interest. I put this to both parties in 
an email and Mrs W accepted. I heard nothing from Aviva by the deadline Id given them so 
Im now writing a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint for the same reasons as our investigator. Ill explain briefly.
Aviva havent sent a full response to our investigators view, or any detailed information 
about their perspective on the complaint. So Ive had to base my decision on fairly limited 
information. 
Im aware Aviva have raised concerns that this is a duplicate of another complaint Mrs W 
raised with them. Weve looked at several of Mrs Ws complaints against Aviva, all relating to 
the same car accident. And there is some overlap between the first complaint and this one, 
in that the first complaint also mentioned Aviva appointing a second firm of solicitors. 
However, that complaint dealt with Avivas miscommunication and lack of updates, and the 
confusion and inconvenience caused to Mrs W. It didnt cover any delays in recovering the 
excess as liability hadnt been decided at that point. 
My decision from that previous complaint established that although it was reasonable for 
Aviva to appoint two sets of solicitors as part of their usual process, they should have 
transferred the responsibility for recovering the excess to the first set of solicitors once theyd 
realised the matter would go to court. The solicitors could then have included the excess 
recovery in the same court proceedings as the liability.
I can see Mrs W had received her excess back by mid-October, around six weeks after 
liability was decided. This doesnt seem excessive, so I dont think Aviva need to pay any 
compensation for trouble and upset to Mrs W in this respect. But I do think its likely Mrs W 
would have received her excess sooner if both liability and excess had been dealt with by 
the same firm. From what Ive seen, it appears that liability was resolved on 3 September  
and that the second firm of solicitors was contacted to recover the excess on 24 September. 
So I think its likely the use of two firms of solicitors caused unnecessary delays of around 
three weeks. It follows that its reasonable to ask Aviva to compensate Mrs W for this by 
paying her the interest on her excess for this period.
In relation to Mrs Ws NCD status, its clear this was a source of stress for Mrs W. She was 
looking for quotes for car insurance and didnt have up to date information. And NCD status 
can make a significant difference to car insurance pricing so I can appreciate this was 
stressful and upsetting. Mrs W chased Aviva on a number of occasions to try to get hold of 
confirmation.Avivas notes suggest they spoke with Mrs W on 24 September 2021 and told her theyd sort 
the NCD out and then email her with confirmation. But I cant see they emailed confirmation 
until around 11 November 2021, despite Mrs W chasing them. I cant see why Aviva couldnt 
have resolved Mrs Ws NCD status when she first asked about it on 10 September  and I 
think this two month delay caused a lot of unnecessary stress. So Im satisfied its fair to ask 
Aviva to pay Mrs W £150 to compensate her for this.  
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Aviva need to pay Mrs W:
Simple interest at 8% per annum on the amount of Mrs Ws excess for the three 
week delay in recovering it; and
£150 to compensate her for the stress caused by delays in confirming her NCD 
status.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman