DRN-3117308
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited (HLAM) didnt give 
sufficient warnings when she made a stop loss instruction.
What happened
Mrs K has a share dealing account with HLAM. In 2019, Mrs K wanted to set a stop loss 
instruction to sell her shares if the price per share went below 45 pence. When Mrs K input 
her instruction, shed input the share price to sell as 0.45 pence. This meant the stop loss 
didnt trigger when she believed it would, as a result she lost out. Mrs K complained as she 
felt her intentions were clear to sell at 45 pence per share.
HLAM explained to Mrs K that it wouldnt question her intentions and it felt the platform was 
clear enough that the price entered was in pence. It also said as an additional measure, it 
showed her the percentage difference if her shares were to sell at the price she set. Mrs K 
said she didnt see this. She complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service and sent in a 
video to show that the warning HLAM suggests it showed, wasnt visible when using the app.
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He explained that the warning was in the app, 
but Mrs Ks screen settings meant that the warning was covered up by the keyboard. He 
said that HLAM had done enough to make things clear when she was placing the trade.
Mrs K disagreed. She said that she wouldnt have lost money had the app displayed the 
warning in the same way the website did. She believes its unreasonable that the app doesnt 
display it the same way, and that screen settings can interfere with this. So, shed like HLAM 
to compensate for the losses she made. Mrs K provided additional videos of what she sees 
when using the platform and how the app and website differ. She asked for an ombudsman 
to consider the complaint so it has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigator that HLAM hasnt made an error. Ill explain 
why.
Ive considered all the evidence that Mrs K and HLAM have submitted. I can see that 
HLAMs app and website asks for the stop loss instruction to be entered in pence. So, Im 
satisfied that it was Mrs K that made the error when putting in 0.45. I wouldnt expect HLAM, 
as an execution only service, to have questioned Mrs Ks intentions when she set this price 
for the stop loss.
Mrs Ks main complaint is that the warning to show the percentage difference wasnt visible 
to her when she used the app. Shes sent in a video to show this and I agree that when she 
input the price, she couldnt see the warning. But this was because of her screen settings. 
The warning was there and it was clear, from the video she sent to us, it was then covered 
with the keyboard. Had she scrolled down shed have seen it as it was directly under the 
area where she input the price.
I understand that if Mrs K had used the website, she wouldve seen the warning as it is 
displayed differently. But the nature of websites and apps mean that usually they display 
differently. HLAMs responsibility is to ensure that the important information is visible in both. 
And Im satisfied that it is. When using a mobile phone app its common for the keyboard to 
cover part of the screen  which is what happened here. It is Mrs Ks responsibility to ensure 
she looks at the whole available screen before proceeding with instructions.
I do understand Mrs K will be disappointed with this decision as shes lost a significant 
amount of money. But I dont think that was because of an error HLAM made. The loss was 
because Mrs K input the price wrong. And although the screen settings meant she didnt see 
the percentage difference, it was there and wouldve been accessible by Mrs K had she 
scrolled down or minimised the keyboard. Im satisfied that HLAM hasnt made an error.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman