DRN-3476122
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) have acted unfairly by refusing to return 
money to his account after he recalled an online transfer. 
What happened
On 15 May 2021, Mr W made an online transfer of £300 from his bank account to his nieces 
account who also banked with BoS. Shortly after making the transfer, Mr Ws niece let him 
know that she wasnt able to access the money hed transferred, as her account was 
overdrawn and she was in a payment plan with BoS to reduce the balance. She had a 
second account which she used instead.
Mr W says that BoS didnt indicate to him whilst he was making the transfer, that there would 
be any issues or prompt him to refer to the payee. Also, that BoS didnt make him aware of 
the second account held by his niece.
Within two hours of making the transfer, Mr W says he called BoS to ask for the funds to be 
recalled. During this call, he was assured and advised that he would get his funds back 
which would take 20 working days. Mr W says that on the basis of what he was told by BoS, 
he sent his niece another £300 to her second account.
A few weeks later, Mr W says he called BoS when he was informed it was unlikely he would 
get his money back as the beneficiary account was overdrawn. Unhappy with this, Mr W 
raised a complaint.
BoS explained that they arent able to stop a payment once it had been sent even though Mr 
W had contacted them within two hours of making the transfer. They said that in these 
instances, they complete a payment in error process which is completed on a best 
endeavour basis and can take up to 20 working days. They said they made Mr W aware of 
this during the call of 15 May 2021. 
Mr W referred his complaint to our service. He explained that he transferred funds to his 
niece as she was struggling financially. He believes BoS were attempting to deprive his 
niece of money when she couldnt afford it. He explained the funds should be returned to 
him as his niece was unable to spend this money. BoS have absorbed the payment and 
defaulted his nieces account at a lower amount.
Our investigator said that BoS hadnt made an error in completing the transfer and 
attempting to recover his funds. She said if Mr W told BoS that his nieces account was 
overdrawn, they couldve told him sooner that his claim was likely to be unsuccessful. Mr W 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for broadly the same 
reasons. I know Mr W will be disappointed, so Ill explain why.
Firstly, I think its important to clarify that although BoS here are both the sending bank and 
receiving bank, I cant consider how BoS have treated Mr Ws niece as part of this complaint. 
These matters are between BoS and Mr Ws niece and I wont be commenting on it here.
Mr W has told us himself that he has had his niece as a payee on his dashboard for a 
number of years. He completed the transfer of £300 using these details. In doing so, it was 
Mr Ws responsibility to ensure that he was transferring money into the correct account.
Although BoS wouldve been aware, I wouldnt reasonably expect them to make Mr W aware 
that the account he was intending on transferring funds into was overdrawn or that he should 
refer to the payee. They were simply following Mr Ws instructions to transfer funds to an 
account, as Id expect.
I dont think BoS could reasonably have realised Mr W was making a mistake due to the 
recipient account being overdrawn. Its not unusual for funds to be paid into an overdrawn 
account. So, I cant fairly agree that BoS did anything wrong in completing the online transfer 
Mr W requested.
Since Mr W had sent the payment to the wrong account, Id expect BoS to act promptly and 
take reasonable steps to recover the funds. However, in this case, it was never a possibility 
to do so.
I say this because the funds were sent to an account which was overdrawn. And as soon as 
Mr Ws payment of £300 credited the account, the funds wouldve reduced the overdrawn 
balance  meaning there was no funds available in Mr Ws nieces account to return to him. 
BoS also contacted Mr Ws niece in an attempt to recover his money. Therefore, Im satisfied 
they took reasonable steps to recover his funds and there wasnt anything further they could 
do.
Ive listened to the call of 15 May 2021. During the call, BoS gave Mr W the impression that 
the payment would be returned to his account within 20 working days. I dont think they 
made it clear that theyd attempt to retrieve his money back on a best endeavour basis.
That said, I dont think BoS can fairly be held responsible for Mr Ws decision to transfer 
further funds to his niece. I say this because Mr W wasnt completely upfront with BoS about 
the reason why he was asking them to recall the payment.
Mr W already knew there was a problem with the transfer when he called BoS as his nieces 
account was overdrawn. However, when Mr W spoke to BoS, he only told them that hed 
transferred the money to the wrong account. He didnt explain that his nieces account was 
overdrawn, and she couldnt access the money hed sent either to spend herself or to return 
to him.
Generally speaking, Id expect BoS to have told Mr W that theyd attempt to recall the 
payment on a best endeavour basis. However, in this case, given the information Mr W had 
provided them, I can understand why they didnt foresee an issue to warn Mr W of the 
possibility that his funds may not be recovered.I say this because Mr W told BoS that hed spoken to his niece, but felt it would be simpler 
and faster to get the funds back through them  indicating that his niece wouldnt have a 
problem with returning the funds.
I recognise Mr W sent an additional £300 to his niece but he did so despite knowing there 
was a problem with the initial transfer as the funds went into an overdrawn account. Mr W 
was also aware he hadnt given BoS the full story when asking them to recall his transfer, so 
it wasnt reasonable for him to rely on the assurances he was given by BoS.
All things considered, I cant agree Mr W mitigated his situation and so, I wont be asking 
BoS to compensate him or reimburse him the £300 he transferred.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Ash Weedon
Ombudsman