DRN-4209049
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax told them they could port 
their mortgage to a new property. But then when they asked to do so, they were refused. 
They told us they had to pay their mortgage off, which led to financial difficulty for them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B explained that for personal reasons, they needed to move home. They spoke 
to Halifax in November 2021, and said it confirmed their mortgage was portable. They found 
a new property, and moved ahead with the sale. But they said in April 2022, just a couple of 
weeks before the sale, Halifax said they couldnt port their lending after all. 
Mr and Mrs B said they then had no option but to borrow the same amount that theyd 
previously had outstanding on their mortgage, about £16,000, from family to make sure they 
didnt lose their sale and purchase. And they said even though Halifax had turned down their 
request to port their mortgage, it then sent them a mortgage promise letter. 
Mr and Mrs B said they were now heavily in debt, not able to pay back what they had 
borrowed, and very stressed by what had happened. They wanted Halifax to pay back the 
£16,000 theyd paid to redeem their mortgage, due to the trauma theyd experienced, and 
were continuing to go through. 
Halifax said it felt it had made a mistake when it first spoke to Mr and Mrs B in November 
2021. It said it should have advised Mr and Mrs B then to talk to a mortgage advisor, and 
asked them to check the terms of their mortgage offer, so they were more aware of the 
conditions for porting. Halifax said it would pay Mr and Mrs B £100 because it hadnt done 
that. But Halifax said it wasnt able to lend to Mr and Mrs B, at the time when they wanted to 
move. The mortgage promise letter that it had sent them was just an illustration of how much 
they might be able to borrow. It wasnt actually a firm offer to lend to them. 
At first, our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, and Mr and Mrs Bs 
mortgage should be reinstated. Mr and Mrs B agreed with that, but Halifax didnt. 
Halifax drew our investigators attention to the terms under which it allows customers to port, 
or in other words, take their existing interest rate to a new mortgage. It stressed that these 
terms require customers who want to port to make a new mortgage application. And that 
application will be assessed in line with Halifaxs lending policy at the time. Halifax showed 
that Mr and Mrs Bs previous mortgage offer included this wording. 
Halifax said when it checked whether Mr and Mrs B could afford to borrow against their 
home, it would only lend them £14,595. And Halifaxs mortgages at the time all had a 
minimum loan of £25,000, more than it thought was affordable for Mr and Mrs B. So Halifax 
couldnt give them a mortgage.
Our investigator then changed her mind. She said Halifaxs decision had been made in line 
with its lending criteria. What Mr and Mrs B wanted just didnt meet those criteria at the time. 
And Halifaxs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Bs porting application was fair and reasonable. 
But she thought Halifax couldve given Mr and Mrs B clearer information about their ability to 
port when they first contacted it. She said this mistake caused Mr and Mrs B undue upset. 
So she said Halifax should increase its offer, and pay Mr and Mrs B a total of £200 in 
compensation.
Halifax agreed with that, but Mr and Mrs B didnt. Their representative said they were 
devastated, and our service had let them down. She queried how our service had reached 
two different views, within a short space of time. Mr and Mrs B wanted their complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman, so this complaint was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.
I understand that this has been a very difficult experience for Mr and Mrs B, which has been 
compounded by the distressing decline in health theyve both experienced since moving. 
And Ive been very sorry to hear about how this has affected them. But in deciding this 
complaint, I first have to consider to what extent its fair and reasonable to hold Halifax 
responsible for whats gone wrong. 
Ive listened to the relevant calls that Mr and Mrs B had with Halifax, in November 2021, and 
in April 2022. 
I can hear that Halifax didnt give Mr B full advice on the call in November 2021. I think, as 
Halifax suggested, Mr and Mrs B should have been told then that they ought to talk to a 
mortgage advisor, and to consider the terms of their existing mortgage, so that they were 
aware they would need to make a new mortgage application if they did want to move house. 
Although Mr B does only seem to have been seeking to have a conversation in quite general 
terms at this stage, I do think it would have helped if hed been signposted to more detailed 
sources of advice. 
I then listened to the second call Mr and Mrs B had with Halifax, in April 2022. Mr and Mrs B 
said then that their move was imminent. This call happened on 19 April, and Mr and Mrs B 
then redeemed the mortgage on 28 April. Mr and Mrs B also told us that any delay to their 
sale and purchase would have meant their chain was in grave danger of collapse. 
Halifax has shown us that it only allows its customers to port a mortgage where theyve 
completed a new mortgage application. So Halifax would have needed to ensure that it was 
comfortable lending to Mr and Mrs B, and that it was satisfied their new home provided 
appropriate security for that lending. This does usually take a little time. 
Mr and Mrs B do appear to have been aware that they were asking Halifax for help very late 
in the day. They told its mortgage advisor on this call, that they hadnt been planning to 
move their mortgage. Theyd been planning to pay off the mortgage and finance their move 
with an estate settlement they were expecting. They had recently found this wouldnt be paid 
in time, and they wouldnt have enough cash to pay for their move now, although they were 
still expecting this money to be released in the near future. 
Mr and Mrs B were told on this call that Halifax didnt think its minimum lending amount was 
affordable for them. As Halifax wouldnt let them take out new lending, that meant they couldnt port their existing mortgage. If they still wanted to move, the mortgage would have 
to be paid off. 
I know that Mr and Mrs B then felt they were in a desperate situation. They felt they had to 
go ahead with their sale and purchase, and find the money by borrowing from family. I 
understand this was upsetting for them, and made worse by the timing of this discovery. But 
I do think this was a fair and reasonable decision for Halifax to have taken, considering its 
criteria for mortgage porting. And I dont think its Halifaxs fault that Mr and Mrs B only found 
out it wouldnt lend to them so close to their sale and purchase. Unfortunately, I would also 
say that it was always unlikely that Mr and Mrs B could have arranged to port their mortgage 
in the time they apparently had available.
So I do think Halifax could have done more, on the call it had with Mr B in November 2021. 
But ultimately, I dont think it made a mistake in April 2022, when it decided not to lend to Mr 
and Mrs B. Considering all the circumstances of this case, I do think Halifax should pay a 
little more compensation, as our investigator suggested, to make up for only giving partial 
advice in November 2021. But I dont think Halifax has to reinstate their mortgage, or simply 
pay them the amount theyve apparently borrowed elsewhere. 
I think a total payment of £200 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint. I understand Halifax has already paid £100, and if thats right, then that means 
Halifax would pay a further £100 now.
I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed, but I dont think Halifax has to do more than that. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax must pay Mr and Mrs B a 
total of £200 in compensation. Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax can count towards this 
award any money it has already paid to Mr and Mrs B for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 August 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman