DRN-2976996
The complaint
Mr C complains that the valuation fee he paid when he applied to National Westminster 
Bank Plc for a mortgage was excessive for the service and information provided. He asks for 
the fee to be refunded.
What happened
Mr C applied to NatWest for a mortgage. He paid a valuation fee of £534. The valuer said 
the property wasnt suitable security with a paragraph to explain why and didnt complete 
other parts of the form.
Mr C says he considers the fee to be high compared to other lenders. And he expected to 
get more information about the property. Mr C says he has a detailed report from a better 
qualified surveyor that specialised in this type of building which shows the comments of 
NatWests valuer werent accurate. Hed been offered a mortgage by a different lender. Mr C 
said he wanted a refund of the valuation fee as he doesnt consider the cost to be justified.
Our investigator said NatWest applied the charge stated in its tariff for properties of this 
value. He didnt think it was fair to require NatWest to refund the fee.
Mr C didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before Mr C applied to NatWest for a mortgage hed had an application declined by another 
lender on the basis the property didnt meet its lending criteria. Hed commissioned his own 
building survey before he applied to NatWest. Mr C was satisfied with the survey and 
planned to do some decoration and repair work to the property after moving in.
NatWest is entitled to ask for a valuation of a property to decide whether its suitable security 
for a loan. Here, it instructed a suitably qualified valuer  a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. 
The valuer completed the first question on the form  whether the property was suitable 
security in accordance with NatWests guidance. The valuer said it wasnt and explained 
why. In summary, he said the property was in poor condition with significant defects and 
wasnt habitable. He said it had been empty for some years and on the market for nearly two 
years with potential purchases falling through due to the condition of the property. The 
property needed repair and refurbishment which meant it wasnt readily saleable. The valuer 
said it wasnt suitable security even if specialist reports were provided.
Mr C doesnt agree with the valuers comments. He says there are discrepancies between 
what the valuer said and the survey he commissioned, which he says was carried out by a 
surveyor better qualified for the type of property. And his solicitor told him while previous 
purchases of the property had fallen through this wasnt due to the condition of the property.
NatWest appealed the valuers decision on Mr Cs behalf. It sent documents provided by 
Mr C for the valuer to review, which I think was fair. The valuer didnt change his view that 
the property wasnt suitable security for NatWest. I do understand Mr Cs frustration. But I 
think NatWest was entitled to rely on the opinion of the valuer, even if this was different from 
the surveyor instructed by Mr C. Each lender has different criteria about the suitability of 
properties as security. So, while Mr C was offered a mortgage by another lender, this doesnt 
mean NatWest made an error. 
The valuer deemed the property not suitable security for NatWest. Had this not been the 
case, he would no doubt have completed the form, made recommendations about any work 
or further reports needed and given a valuation amount. Because the valuer didnt deem the 
property suitable security for NatWest he didnt complete the remaining parts of the form. 
NatWest says this is standard practice when the valuer deems the property unsuitable. 
Mr C agreed to pay the valuation fee, which was non-refundable. The fee is consistent with 
NatWests tariff. So I dont think NatWest made an error when it applied the fee.
Mr C is making a specific point here  he says the fee wasnt justified by the amount of work 
carried out and the information he received about the property. But theres no suggestion the 
fee would be adjusted depending on the amount of work carried out by the valuer. It was a 
fixed fee for a valuation, instructed by NatWest for lending purposes. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require NatWest to refund all or 
part of the valuation fee.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman