DRN-2842879
The complaint
Mrs P says she was mis-sold, by a financial adviser, a recommendation to move her pension 
fund to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) with Intelligent Money Ltd (IM) and that 
the case she pursued in that respect was resolved with compensation. Thereafter she says 
she instructed IM, on 29 January 2020, to liquidate and move her SIPP into cash (the cash 
fund within the SIPP) in order to stop her exposure to risk in the invested funds. Her 
complaint is that IM wrongly failed to execute her instruction.
What happened
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. 
She found mainly as follows:
On 30 January 2020, and in response to Mrs Ps instruction, IM sent her an email in 
which it said it  strongly recommend[ed] seeking financial advice and appointing 
an [sic] financial adviser before [she] submit any request to sell down the Aria funds 
into cash. On the same date Mrs P wrote back to IM, thanked it for its email and 
asked it to let her know when her funds had been sold. On 3 February 2020 IM wrote 
to her again and said it  would need the request to withdraw the full plan to come 
from [her] adviser. 
Mrs P complained about the matter. In response, IM said it is an intermediary only 
SIPP provider so it always acts on instructions from advisers; that it did not receive a 
response to its email of 3 February so no action could be taken on Mrs Ps request; 
that the next correspondence it received was the instruction from her financial 
adviser on 23 March 2020 and the instruction was executed on the same day.
However, there are provisions within the SIPPs Key Features booklet which say IM 
can take instructions from clients as well as from their financial advisers. This was 
put to IM and its response was that it always recommends that clients seek financial 
advice, but if they are insistent on proceeding without such advice it will accept their 
instructions. It repeated that it did not hear from Mrs P after its email of 3 February 
so, it said, it could not proceed and there was no opportunity to discuss this with her.
Facts show that IM gave Mrs P incorrect and misleading information by saying the 
instruction had to come from a financial adviser, when that was not the case. She 
should be compensated to reflect what her SIPP value would have been had her 
instruction of 29 January been executed on that date, and she should be paid £200 
for the trouble and upset the matter has caused her.
IM disagreed with this outcome and stressed that it was acting in Mrs Ps best interest by 
recommending she seek professional advice at the time. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for the 
same reasons.
It is not disputed that IM could have taken instructions either from Mrs Ps financial adviser 
or  if she insisted on presenting instructions directly and without a financial adviser, and if 
she insisted on doing so despite IMs recommendation to take financial advice  from Mrs P 
directly. IM accepts this and, as the investigator highlighted, there are provisions in the 
SIPPs Key Features booklet that appear to confirm IM can accept instructions from a client 
or from a clients financial adviser.
IMs argument is that the option of accepting insistent instructions from Mrs P  without her 
taking financial advice and despite its recommendation that she take such advice  was 
inapplicable because she did not respond to its email of 3 February and it heard no further 
until her advisers instruction on 23 March, which it executed on the same date.
Like the investigator, I consider that a key point to note is that Mrs P was misled by the 
information IM gave her in its email of 3 February. The email clearly presented the notion of 
advice and/or instruction from a financial adviser as a requirement, when it was not. 
Furthermore, and as Mrs P noted in her complaint submissions, the email also misguides 
itself by referring to withdrawal of the full plan. She had not instructed withdrawal from the 
SIPP, what she asked for was to have the SIPPs investments liquidated and to have the 
proceeds moved into the SIPPs cash account. This is what IMs email of 30 January 
summarised, so it knew the true nature of the instruction and it is not clear why (or how) it 
misguided itself to refer to a withdrawal of the full plan just a few days later.
As the email of 3 February misled Mrs P and because it made no mention of the option to 
proceed on an insistent basis, I do not find merit in what appears to be IMs criticism of Mrs 
P for not responding and I do not find merit in its argument that her failure to respond meant 
the matter could not be discussed further. The option was not presented to her, so she was 
not informed that there was anything to potentially discuss further.
On balance, I also consider that IM already had confirmation of an insistent instruction from 
Mrs P, that there was nothing to discuss further and that it should have accepted such an 
instruction  as it says it would in such circumstances. It says first it strongly recommends 
the taking of advice, but if a client insists on proceeding without such advice it accepts the 
instruction. Its email to Mrs P of 30 January strongly recommended that she take financial 
advice, and she replied on the same date thanking IM for the email and asking to be told 
when the funds had been sold. It should have been sufficiently clear to IM that this reply 
meant she had noted its recommendation, but she wanted to proceed with the direct 
instruction, and she looked forward to being told when the funds had been sold. It should 
have executed the instruction on this insistent basis.
For the above reasons, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Putting things right
I agree with the investigators recommendation that Mrs P should be paid £200 for the 
trouble and upset the matter has caused her  especially the trouble and upset caused to 
her by IM giving her misleading information in the matter. It is broadly consistent with awards 
made in other cases with comparable circumstances and it caters for the trouble and upset 
caused specifically to Mrs P in this case. I order IM to pay her £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused to her.With regards to redress, fair compensation to Mrs P will be to put her SIPP into the position it 
would be in had her instruction been executed on 29 January as it could and should have 
been executed. I acknowledge that she confirmed the insistent instruction on 30 January, as 
I treated above, but that was only because IM raised its recommendation on this date. Had 
IM raised its recommendation on 29 January  which it arguably should have done if, as it 
appears, it intended to do so  I consider it more likely (than not) that Mrs P would have 
confirmed her insistent instruction on the same date. I do not consider that this should affect 
the instruction initially given on 29 January or use of this date for redress.
IM must do the following:
Calculate the value of the liquidation (and transfer to cash) that eventually took place 
 actual value.
Calculate the value that the liquidation (and transfer to cash) would have had if it had 
been executed on 29 January 2020  fair value.
If fair value is greater than actual value, IM must pay the difference to Mrs P in 
compensation. If fair value is not greater than actual value, then no compensation is 
payable.
Pay the compensation into Mrs Ps pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation should not be paid into her pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. If the compensation cannot 
be paid into her pension plan, pay it directly to her. 
Provide calculation of the compensation to Mrs P in a clear and simple format. 
I have made no provisions for interest payment because IM gave Mrs P prior notice that no 
interest accrues in the SIPPs cash account. I have also made no provisions for the cost of 
the financial adviser that assisted Mrs P in the matter because she has confirmed to us that 
she incurred no costs in that respect.
compensation limit
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the
complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the respondent
firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of my 
determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before
deciding whether to accept the decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and I order Intelligent Money Ltd to 
pay her compensation as set out above and to provide her with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman