DRN-3928123
The complaint
Ms V complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) hasnt done enough to assist her in recovering funds 
she mistakenly paid to an unknown person. 
What happened
In October 2021, Ms V needed to transfer money (£460) to her friend who I will refer to as T. 
She says the money was for medical treatment. T was also a customer of Revolut so she 
completed the transfer via their online banking app. Once the transaction was complete, Ms 
V realised it had been paid to the wrong person, she contacted Revolut immediately to try to 
recover the money. 
Revolut said they had made several attempts to contact the recipient but they received no 
response. They told Ms V she should try contacting the person directly. She complained.
Revolut said before completing the transfer, Ms V was prompted to check the details of the 
person she wanted to pay and to make sure it was somebody she knew and trusted. They 
said they had tried to contact the recipient but without success. In conclusion they said they 
couldnt be held liable as the payment was authorised by Ms V and they had carried out her 
instruction. Given Ms Vs vulnerability and health concerns, Revolut later paid £115 to her as 
a gesture of goodwill. 
Ms V wants the full amount repaid to her. She also wants Revolut to update their app to 
show the full name and surname of their users to prevent this situation from happening 
again. 
Unhappy with their response, the complaint was referred to our service. The investigator 
recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. She concluded Ms V had paid the wrong person 
based on their username and in line with the terms, Revolut hadnt done anything wrong by 
processing the transfer request. She also said Revolut had made reasonable attempts to 
contact the recipient to retrieve the money. 
Ms V disagreed and maintained her position. She said had the app correctly outlined the full 
name of the person, she wouldnt have authorised the payment as she wouldve realised it 
wasnt the intended beneficiary, T. She also comments Revolut acted irresponsibly by saying 
she should try to contact the recipient directly by social media to try to recover the money.  
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Vs complaint. I will explain why. 
As Ms V wanted to transfer money to T (the intended beneficiary), who was also a customer 
of Revolut, this would be considered an instant transfer, meaning payment would be 
received immediately. Based on Revoluts terms, such transfers can be made by a number 
of ways such as choosing people from the contacts list on the Revolut app, by using 
usernames or by using any other method provided by Revolut. Ms V said she was sent a link 
from T to make a payment (known as a payment link) and the recipients name automatically 
came up so she assumed it was for T. 
Revolut has checked this link provided by Ms V and confirmed it isnt a payment link but 
instead a referral link and I agree. I say this because when you follow it, it prompts you to 
join Revolut rather than make a payment. There is insufficient evidence for me to reasonably 
say Ms V received a payment link directly from T, nor am I persuaded the recipients name 
automatically came up when she clicked it. On balance, I find its more likely than not, Ms V 
chose from Revoluts contact list (which may have suggested the recipients username) or 
she entered the username that she believed belong to T.  
Revoluts terms say:
The contacts you see in the Revolut app are taken from the names and phone 
numbers you have saved to your own phone. These names and numbers are not 
verified by us or anyone else. This means that if you have saved the wrong number 
or wrong name to your phone, you will pay the wrong person and may lose your 
money.
The usernames you see in the Revolut app can look similar to other usernames and 
are able to be changed by individual users. We take steps to remove any 
inappropriate usernames, but these usernames are not verified by us or anyone else. 
This means that if you are not sure that the person is who they say they are, you may 
pay the wrong person and may lose your money
It also goes on to say:
We are not responsible if we make a payment to the person you tell us to, even if 
you gave us the wrong account number, username or phone number by mistake. 
However, if you ask us to, well try to get your money back for you. We may also try 
to get you information about the beneficiary so that you can try to get it back yourself 
(if the law allows us to). While we will try to do these things, we dont guarantee that 
we will, and in some cases we wont be able to.
Having read the above terms, its clear the onus is on Ms V to make sure she pays the right 
person. She said the recipients first name matched T but the surname wasnt showing in full 
on the app, just the initial (which was also the same as Ts). By her own admission, she 
assumed the username belonged to T. While I can understand why she would think that, 
unfortunately that wasnt the case. 
Revolut says Ms V wouldve seen a number of warnings about making sure the details were 
correct as they may not be able to recover money if it wasnt. They said Ms V wouldve had 
to confirm she understood the same before finalising the transaction therefore Im satisfied 
she was made aware in advance about the consequences of not doing so. If Ms V was 
uncertain whether the username belonged to T or couldnt see the surname in full, I believe it 
wouldve been reasonable for her to have checked before proceeding. On that basis, I cant 
say Revolut did anything wrong or acted unfairly by carrying out her instruction to transfer 
the money.In instances where a person makes an error in sending money, there is no guarantee the 
financial business will be able to retrieve the funds. However I would expect them to make 
reasonable attempts to do so such as contacting the recipient and/or their bank and to ask 
permission for the money to be returned. I must make it clear once the payment is cleared 
into a persons account, a financial business doesnt necessarily have the authority to take 
the money back. They may have to ask the recipient to do so, this is often referred to as a 
debit authority. In this case, I can see on the same day Ms V raised the error, Revolut tried 
to contact the recipient to ask about the payment. I can also see they made a few further 
attempts in November 2021 to contact the recipient but they received no response. Based 
on what Ive seen, Im satisfied Revolut made reasonable attempts to contact the recipient 
but unfortunately they received no response. Revolut also made Ms V of the same. 
In situations where the money cant be recovered, I would generally expect the financial 
business to let the consumer know their other options such as pursuing the recipient directly 
and I can see thats what Revolut done. Ms V asked for the recipients contact details but 
they said that wouldnt be possible. Due to data protection regulations, I believe Revolut 
acted fairly by not disclosing this information. While I accept Ms V wasnt happy that they 
suggested she use social media to find the recipient, I dont think it was wholly unreasonable 
for Revolut to suggest this as an option especially as Ms V already had the recipients full 
name. 
Im aware Ms V wants Revolut to change their app to show their consumers full names 
including surnames. However its not my role or this service to tell Revolut to change their 
operating system or processes, thats better dealt with by the financial regulator. My role is to 
consider whether based on the circumstances of this case, has Revolut acted fairly and in 
line with their terms and Im satisfied they have. 
I note Revolut paid £115 as a gesture of goodwill. Given they hadnt made an error, they 
werent required to pay this. But it appears theyve decided to do so given Ms Vs personal 
circumstances so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. While I recognise it doesnt cover the full 
amount, I hope it goes some way to helping her. Im sorry to hear the situation Ms V finds 
herself in especially as the money was needed for medical treatment, its an unfortunate 
situation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Vs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Simona Reese
Ombudsman