DRN-2764981
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was misled by Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax about how he
could pay money back into his Personal Investment Plan (PIP). He was then unable to
contact Halifax and incurred a loss as a result of not being able to re-invest when he wanted
to.
What happened
On 18 March 2020 Mr S contacted Halifax by telephone to make a withdrawal from his PIP.
He asked to take out £38,000 because he was worried about the impact the rapidly
developing pandemic situation might have on his investment. He left some money in the PIP
so that he could monitor how it fared and re-invest, if and when the circumstances were
appropriate.
During the call Mr S asked what he would need to do to re-invest. The call handler explained
that he could make an electronic transfer or send in a cheque. Mr S said that he didnt have
a cheque book and the call-handler then went on to explain how the payment could be made
by going to a branch.
The next time Mr S spoke with Halifax was on 22 April 2020. He enquired about re-investing
and was told that he could do it by cheque or by bank transfer. He was then given the
required banking details so that hed be able to make an on-line payment.
Mr S then explained that he was unhappy that he hadnt been told during the call of 18
March 2020 that he could re-invest using on-line payment. He felt this had caused him to
incur a loss because the price of what he was looking to re-invest in had been going up, but
he hadnt been able to re-invest because, firstly, he hadnt been made aware of the on-line
option and, secondly, hed been unable to get through to Halifax by telephone because of
the pandemic situation.
Halifax dealt with Mr S concerns as a formal complaint and issued a final response. It
explained that it didnt think it had acted incorrectly in respect of the information that had
been provided to Mr S about re-investing. It did, however, offer him £125 for the distress
caused by delays in responding to him about the complaint.
Mr S didnt accept this and referred his complaint to this service, but our investigator also
didnt think it should be upheld. She said, in brief:
She didnt think Halifax had acted unfairly.
At the time Halifax was adapting to new ways of working in response to the
pandemic, but there was no evidence that Mr S had experienced long waiting times
trying to get through.
There was also no evidence that Mr S had tried to contact Halifax via other means.
Although he couldnt go to a branch, he wouldve been able to send an email.
In the circumstances, it wouldnt be reasonable to expect Halifax to back date any
purchase price for re-investment to 1 April 2020.
The £125 offered for the delays was fair and reasonable.
Mr S strongly disagreed with the investigators view. He said, in brief:
He hadnt been confident that contacting Halifax by email during the pandemic
wouldve been effective.
The short calls on his phone bill were due to being disconnected. Hed been
prepared to wait for over an hour to get through.
Halifax didnt clearly explain the on-line payment process, hence why he sounded
shocked during the call of 22 April 2020 when he discovered it was an option.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matter was referred to
me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I said, in part:
There are two elements to Mr S complaint. Firstly, the information he was given on the call
of 18 March 2020. And secondly, the difficulties he encountered in contacting Halifax to
follow up on that information when trying to re-invest.
Ive listened to the call of 18 March 2020 and I can see how Mr S might have come away
from the call under the impression that payment needed to be made via a Halifax branch.
Although the call handler did say that payment could be made by electronic transfer, the
conversation did then very much go down the route of discussing how payment could be
made via a branch, as Mr S didnt have a cheque book. The call handler said that payment
couldnt be made over the phone, which was correct, but she could have offered the banking
details that were later given in the call of 22 April 2020 so that Mr S could have made an 
online payment.
That said, I think overall it was more a matter of crossed wires than one of Mr S being
actively misinformed. As I say, the call handler did say there was the option of an electronic
transfer.
But without the details needed to make such a transfer Mr S was always going to need to
call Halifax back. And this brings me on the second element of the complaint  Mr S
attempts to contact Halifax.
Mr S has said that he tried repeatedly to call Halifax as he was very keen to re-invest, as
prices were rising. This is what he bases his potential loss on  his inability to re-invest on 1
April 2020 or soon after, and not being able to do so successfully until 22 April 2020.
Mr S has supplied a copy of his phone records for the period from 25 March 2020 onwards.
They show a number of calls to various 0345 numbers on 8 April 2020, but only two of these
are to the number ending 6244, which is the number for Halifax investment services. These
two calls have durations of only 50 and 54 seconds respectively. There is no further record
of a call or attempted call to the 6244 number until the 22 April 2020 call during which Mr S
was given the banking details.
I accept that Mr S has said that he was cut-off a number of times. But given his keenness to
contact Halifax, I wouldve expected to see more records of attempted calls on his bill and
over a greater period of time. I accept that it wouldve been difficult to get through to Halifax
during the period in question. Many businesses were having to make operational changes
and Halifax has confirmed that its contact centres were closed in early April.
But nevertheless, when I weigh the evidence of Mr S recollections against the documentary
evidence of the phone records its difficult for me to conclude, on balance, that he wasprevented from contacting Halifax during the whole period from 1 April 2020 to 22 April 2020.
It appears that he may have spoken to another part of the Bank of Scotland business during
the period and it may be that theres references on those calls to him trying to contact
Halifax. Id stress that this is a provisional decision, so Mr S still has the opportunity to
provide additional evidence that he feels supports his position that he was trying to contact
Halifax and unable to do so.
Ive noted also what Mr S has said about deciding not to try to contact Halifax by email. I
understand why he might have concluded that it wouldnt have been effective. But I think in
the circumstances, it wouldve been reasonable to have attempted to do so.
I appreciate Mr S feels very strongly that he has been let down by Halifax. But as things
stand, I dont think I can reasonably uphold a complaint against it and direct it to make good
any loss. While the call of 18 March 2020 could possibly have been handled better, it wasnt
entirely misleading and gave Mr S enough information to prompt him to try and contact
Halifax so as to make an electronic transfer. And I dont think theres enough evidence that
Mr S was subsequently prevented from contacting Halifax because of a failing of its service.
Mr S responded to my provisional decision to voice his unhappiness with our handling of the 
matter and the conclusions Id reached. But he provided no additional evidence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision, which I continue to believe are fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman