DRN-2167317
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint about Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) relates to the service he 
received in regard to a current account switch he requested through the Current Account 
Switch Service (CASS).
What happened
Mr P said there were two aspects to his complaint. First, the difficulty in contacting the CASS 
dept and being placed on hold for excess of an hour on each of two calls he made. 
Secondly, when the switch took place four direct debits (DDs) were wrongly cancelled. Mr P 
has said he did not ask for compensation but was offered £75 and his complaint closed 
without resolution of any of the issues. He wanted to know why he had been kept on hold for 
so long and what was being done to prevent recurrence. He asked to see copies of emails 
sent to the companies with whom the DD had been cancelled.
Nationwide accepted Mr P had been on hold for a substantial amount of time and apologised 
for the inconvenience caused. They explained to this service that changes have now been 
implemented to improve the customer service.
Nationwide accepted they had made an error in relation to one DD but for the other three, 
they said they had passed on the correct information to the merchants, and it was the 
responsibility of each merchant to set up the DD correctly.
Mr P was unhappy with Nationwides final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into the complaint and 
obtained answers for the delay and difficulties Mr P experienced when he called. Overall 
though she thought that although there had been some poor service, the amount of 
compensation Nationwide paid was enough to put things right. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know the parties went into a lot more detail. 
Bur, Im going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it 
reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
The evidence provided by Nationwide shows that it set up ten DDs successfully of which four 
failed. One of those four failed because it was actually Nationwides credit card departments 
error, for which Nationwide naturally have accepted that they are responsible. Other 
evidence shows that Nationwide sent the necessary account information to the merchants 
and complied with the CASS process correctly. I cant therefore say that Nationwide could 
have done any more. I do accept that leaves Mr P still in the dark to a degree as to why this 
issue arose, but my role is to consider whether Nationwide have acted unfairly, and I cant 
say they have in this respect.
Where Nationwide have acted poorly is in relation to the service Mr P received when he 
called on two separate occasions. Nationwide have acknowledged that the service was poor 
and have paid compensation to Mr P. In addition, Nationwide have explained to Mr P, 
through this service, that it was experiencing difficulties in handling the volume of calls to its 
CASS service and so as a result of that changed the process shortly after Mr Ps experience. 
So, Im satisfied Nationwide have addressed that issue and I dont require them to do 
anything else. 
Nationwide has accepted that it didnt get things right and because of that it compensated Mr 
P with £75. As Mr P didnt think that was enough to put matters right, Ive given this some 
further thought.
Mr P has confirmed that he did not incur any charges as a result of the cancelled DDs and 
that there were no further adverse effects for him. I am aware of course that this is partly 
because he was proactive in resolving the problem himself. And I know that Mr P wanted to 
see the evidence Nationwide were relying on and I can see that this was sent to him in 
September since he has acknowledged receiving it. As he has not raised any further issue 
since I assume that he was satisfied by it. 
So, in the light of the above, and the impact of Nationwides error, I return to what would be a 
fair and reasonable outcome.  In my view I think what Nationwide have already paid is fair 
and reasonable, and so I dont require them to do anything else. 
My final decision
Nationwide Building Society has already paid Mr P £75 to settle this complaint, and I think 
that is fair and reasonable. So, my final decision is that I dont require it to do anything else.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman