DRN-2166286
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund her for a withdrawal 
she tried to make at a cash machine. She says her account was debited but the money 
wasnt dispensed.
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs J says she tried to withdraw £300 from a cash machine at a 
supermarket. She says the transaction declined, her card was returned, and no money 
came out. She says she then made a couple of further attempts and tried to withdraw the 
funds - unsuccessfully. The following day Mrs J received a text message alert, from Barclays 
notifying her of the £300 cash machine withdrawal. She contacted Barclays to complain as 
shed not received the money and couldnt understand why theyd debited her account. She 
asked Barclays for a full refund and compensation for the inconvenience caused.
The cash machine was owned by Barclays, so it was able to investigate matters quickly. It 
said the funds had dispensed without any problems and the machine balanced with only a 
small purge amount of £20. Based on the information available to it, Barclays said it wasnt 
able to uphold Mrs Js complaint as the technical evidence from the machine suggested the 
money had been correctly dispensed. Mrs J also asked Barclays to provide CCTV. It 
explained, the CCTV owners were the supermarket not Barclays, so Mrs J would need to 
contact them if she would like to obtain any footage. 
Mrs J wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred her complaint to this service, where 
one of our investigators looked into it. She thought on balance, its most likely the cash 
machine correctly dispensed the £300 requested by Mrs J. She concluded Barclays didnt 
need to provide Mrs J with a refund nor was any compensation due. Mrs J didnt accept our 
investigators outcome. She maintains no money was dispensed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator so Im not upholding 
this complaint. I know that will be disappointing, so Ill explain why.
Mrs J doesnt dispute that she attempted to withdraw £300. Her complaint is that she didnt 
receive the money. So the decision I need to make is whether Barclays, based on the 
information available to it, were correct in debiting £300 from her account. 
In reaching my decision Ive looked at the technical evidence from the cash machine, 
provided by Barclays and considered what Mrs J says happened. And from what Ive seen, I 
dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to have debited her account nor decline the claim. I 
say this because:
- The cash machine when next checked after Mrs Js withdrawal, balanced, and 
although a £20 surplus was found in purge this wouldnt explain Mrs Js missing 
£300. Purge is where retracted or rejected funds are usually held. So if Mrs Js 
money hadnt dispensed, Id have expected the surplus in the machine to be rather 
more. 
- Mrs J says she made three attempts to withdraw the funds. However, both the cash 
machine and Barclays records only show one attempt at 7.03pm. Mrs Js genuine 
debit card and correct corresponding PIN were entered. A sum of £300 was 
requested and shows as being successfully dispensed.  
- Mrs J says the transaction declined  but neither the cash machine nor Barclays 
system records collaborate her assertation. In fact, the evidence provided by 
Barclays shows the transaction as authorised making it unlikely that Mrs J wouldve 
received a decline message. 
- The records Ive seen show other people were able to use the machine both minutes 
before and after Mrs J, so I think this suggests the machine was working correctly at 
that time.
I know Mrs J has mentioned reviewing CCTV, but I think its worth mentioning CCTV doesnt 
always show the detail wed need to help us. I also think its unlikely any CCTV footage from 
that time is still available, as its quite common for businesses to delete CCTV quite quickly, 
if its not apparent that its going to be needed. Nonetheless even if CCTV were available. I 
think its unlikely to have shown close up footage of the machine itself, nor do I think it would 
have provided conclusive evidence of whether or not cash was dispensed. I think it would 
have likely shown Mrs J at the machine, which is not in dispute. In any case, it isnt Barclays 
responsibility to approach a third party to request CCTV, and given its unlikely that it 
wouldve been conclusive, I dont think it wasnt unreasonable for them not to do so. 
Overall, I find the technical evidence more persuasive than Mrs Js testimony, so on balance, 
I think its more likely than not that the cash was dispensed. It follows that I dont think its 
unreasonable for Barclays to hold Mrs J liable for the withdrawal.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sonal Matharu
Ombudsman