The complaint
Mr O complains about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled a missed departure claim he 
made on his travel insurance policy.
Mr O has travel insurance as a benefit of his packaged bank account.
What happened
Mr O was abroad in September 2019 and he was due to fly home on 14 September. While 
he was travelling to the airport, his taxi was delayed due to congestion following a robbery, 
Mr O missed his flight and had to pay for a new flight home, accommodation and his taxi 
fare. He made a claim for missed departure on his travel insurance policy.
AXA agreed to consider Mr Os claim, although it said it wasnt strictly covered by the terms 
of the missed departure section of the policy. It told Mr O hed need to provide evidence 
showing the incident had happened.
Mr O wasnt happy that AXA had asked for additional evidence. He said hed had to borrow 
the money to buy a new ticket and was incurring monthly interest of £50 on the debt. He 
made a complaint to AXA and asked us to look into it.
In the meantime, Mr O sent AXA a newspaper report which detailed the robbery. And the 
original airline later confirmed Mr O hadnt got a refund for the flight he missed. So AXA 
agreed to settle the claim in December 2019. It initially wrongly deducted an excess from the 
settlement, which it paid to Mr O a few weeks later. It also paid Mr O a total of £200 for 
delays in its handling of the claim and the trouble and upset this had caused him.
Mr O wasnt happy with AXAs settlement. He didnt feel it covered his total losses  
especially the interest hed accrued on the money hed borrowed or his lost earnings.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Os complaint should be upheld. He felt AXA had been 
entitled to ask for evidence in support of his claim and that it had settled the claim fairly. He 
didnt think the policy covered Mr Os interest payments or lost earnings. He thought the 
compensation AXA had paid was reasonable.
Mr O disagreed. He felt the delay in AXA settling the claim had caused him to incur interest. 
He said AXA used its small print to steal from customers.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
DRN-1800424What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think AXA has treated Mr O fairly. Ill explain why.
The regulators rules require insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly. And not to turn 
down claims unreasonably. Its a policyholders responsibility though to show they have a 
valid claim. 
Ive looked carefully at the terms of Mr Os policy. The Making a Claim section says:
Ensure that you have all the claims evidence we require. All claims evidence must be 
supplied at your own expense in its original form.
This section also includes a list of specific information AXA needs to see when a 
policyholder makes a missed departure claim. These include:
- The tour operators invoice or other evidence of your trip;
-Confirmation of the delay to public transport from the company involved; or
-Confirmation from the Police (if involved) of the circumstances giving rise to the 
claim.
So I think the policy makes it clear that before AXA agrees to deal with a missed departure 
claim, its entitled to see evidence which shows the reason why a policyholder missed their 
flight etc. This means it was Mr Os responsibility to ensure that he provided enough 
evidence to show that his claim was valid. 
I appreciate it mustve been frustrating for Mr O when AXA required him to send in evidence 
to support his claim.. Especially as hed sent an affidavit which supported his version of 
events. But I think it was reasonable for AXA to know a) that it was the robbery and resulting 
impact on the traffic build-up that caused Mr O to miss his flight; and b) that he hadnt had a 
refund from the airline. So I think AXA was reasonably entitled to ask for this information 
before it agreed to settle the claim.
Mr O feels AXA hasnt settled his claim fairly. But I dont agree. Ive thought about what the 
missed departure section of the policy covers. It lists the circumstances in which a 
policyholder will be covered. These are a policyholder being unable to make their pre-
booked transport to or from the UK because of:  public transport services failing to arrive in 
time at the departure point due to adverse weather; an accident its directly involved in, strike 
or mechanical failure. Or the private motor vehicle in which a policyholder is travelling 
breaking down or being involved in an accident.
The policy then says: 
We will pay you up to £1000 for:
Your reasonable and necessary extra travel and accommodation expenses (room only) to 
allow you to get to your trip destination or return home.
The circumstances of Mr Os claim dont fall within the scope of any of the insured events 
under the missed departure section. So AXA wasnt strictly liable for the claim and it settled it 
on a fair and reasonable basis.AXA has refunded Mr O for the new flight he had to buy, together with his accommodation 
costs and his taxi fare. It seems it paid for the accommodation with no evidence to show Mr 
O had incurred these costs. It initially wrongly deducted an excess, but later refunded this 
amount. So I think AXA has settled Mr Os claim in line with the policy terms.
I appreciate Mr O feels AXA should also pay for the interest he incurred when he borrowed 
the flight fare and for his lost earnings. These costs simply arent covered by the policy. And 
AXA isnt responsible for how Mr O chose to pay for his return trip. So Im not directing AXA 
to pay Mr O these additional costs.
AXA has also paid Mr O total compensation of £200 for its handling of the claim and for 
some delays in the way it dealt with things. Having considered everything, I think this was 
more than reasonable. AXA wasnt as proactive as it couldve been. And I accept it wrongly 
deducted an excess. But I think it soon sorted problems out and I think that overall, it took 
pragmatic steps to settle Mr Os claim. Mr Os claim was also broadly settled in December 
2019  only around three months after he brought it. So while there was a period of delay, I 
dont think this claim was unusually prolonged. This means I dont think AXA needs to pay 
Mr O any more compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman