DRN-4150475
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain about Nationwide Building Society.
They say that Nationwide mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S were sold a PPI policy alongside their mortgage in 2001. 
They complained to Nationwide that the policy was mis-sold to them, but it didnt uphold their 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S then brought their complaint to this Service. Our Adjudicator considered their 
complaint but didnt think that it should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs S asked for an Ombudsman to review their complaint, so it has been passed to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Having done so, Ive 
decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. I know that this will be disappointing for 
them, so Ill explain why.
Nationwide has provided a copy Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage application  on this I can see 
that the PPI is presented as an optional, separate product to the mortgage itself. Mr and 
Mrs S have both signed to say they wanted to take out the policy, which is sperate to their 
signature for the mortgage. So, I think that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S a choice in taking 
out the policy  and they decided to do so.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs S, so it didnt need to make sure that 
it was right for them  this means that it didnt give them personalised advice. But it did need 
to make sure it gave Mr and Mrs S enough information for them to decide if they thought it 
was right for them.
It is possible that some of the information Nationwide gave to Mr and Mrs S wasnt as clear 
as it should have been. But based on what I know of their circumstances at the time it 
doesnt look like they were affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, or 
had any savings or generous sick pay allowance - so it could have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. So, I dont think better 
information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the cover.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Other considerations
The Supreme Court decided a case that involved the commission on a PPI policy  Plevin v 
Paragon Personal Finance. And the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  who make the 
rules for financial businesses  introduced some new rules and guidance for businesses to 
follow when theyre looking at PPI complaints. This means businesses will sometimes need 
to give consumers back some of the commission paid on certain PPI policies.
But this only applies to credit agreements taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements 
taken out before then which were still running on 6 April 2008. From the information Ive 
seen, Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage doesnt fit into these dates - and so Nationwide doesnt have 
to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI policy.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 June 2023.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman