DRN-3704678
The complaint
Mr G complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) has unfairly declined a claim 
made under his legal expenses insurance (LEI).
Any reference to Mr G or Great Lakes includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
Mr G has a dispute with his local council. He says its erection of a building has 
impacted his own propertys right to light.
Mr G sought to claim under his current LEI policy with Company A, who referred him 
to Great Lakes who was his previous provider as it said the event took place within 
its period of cover. So, Mr G contacted Great Lakes to make a claim.
Great Lakes considered the claim but declined it. It said the policy did cover An 
infringement of your legal rights as a result of your ownership or occupation of your 
permanent place of residence. But said the policy specifically excluded any work 
done by a local authority unless it was for accidental physical damage. And as the 
dispute in question was with the council, the claim would not be covered.
So, Mr G brought his complaint to this Service. Mr G argued that Great Lakes 
exclusion shouldnt apply if it was intended to apply to council/authority works such 
as roadworks. And so, the exclusion shouldnt be applied to such an authority acting 
in the capacity of a building owner or developer. 
Our Investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the exclusion was clear and had 
been fairly applied, with no such specifications within it as Mr G had put forward. 
Mr G asked for an Ombudsmans final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Great Lakes appears to have accepted that a claim for loss of light or right to light is 
covered by this policy. But it seeks to rely on an exclusion to decline the claim.
So, Ive looked at the policy terms. The exclusion says the policy will not cover any 
claim relating to:
Work done by any government or public or local authority unless the claim is 
for accidental physical damage.
The claim in question does not relate to accidental physical damage. And its not 
disputed that the building in question has been erected by the local council. So, Im 
satisfied this claim has been fairly excluded in line with the policy terms as it relates 
to work done by the council.
Mr G has put forward that the exclusions intention may be related to works such as 
roadworks. Im not persuaded by this argument as the policy wording makes no such 
distinction. So, this hasnt changed my mind.
Mr G has also made comments about whether Company A should be responsible for 
the claim. It is not for me to comment on Company As actions within this decision, 
and given Im satisfied Great Lakes has fairly relied upon its policy exclusion, I wont 
discuss this any further. 
My final decision
For the above reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman