DRN-3554623
The complaint
Mr G complains about the advice given by a firm now known as Towergate Financial (West)
Limited (Towergate) to transfer the benefits from his preserved defined benefit (DB)
occupational pension scheme to a personal pension. He says he was told to say that he
wanted to go against their advice to get a lump sum, and as a result hes suffered a financial
loss.
What happened
Mr G met with Towergate in September 2007, following an introduction via his employer, to
discuss his pension and retirement needs.
Towergate completed a fact-find to gather information about Mr Gs circumstances and
objectives. Towergate also carried out an assessment of Mr Gs attitude to risk, which it
deemed to be balanced  a score of four on a scale of one to ten.
On 10 September 2007, Towergate advised Mr G not to transfer his pension benefits into a
personal pension. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation were:
The investment return needed to match Mr Gs DB schemes benefits was relatively high
and as such was out of line with his stated attitude to risk;
There were no compelling reasons given Mr Gs circumstances to recommend he
transfer his pension;
The generally superior security of a DB scheme met Mr Gs high priority to provide
security of his pension fund; and
The death benefits available before retirement through the DB scheme  50% of Mr Gs
pension entitlement - met his priority to provide a spouse or dependants pension upon
his death.
The same day Mr G sent Towergate a typed letter, which said that he wanted to go ahead
and transfer his DB pension into a personal pension.
He said that, while he had received good advice hed decided to take the taxable cash
lump sum (representing an enhancement to the transfer value offered by his employer) to
invest in a property development he was involved with.
On 7 November 2007 Mr G sent Towergate a further typed letter, which broadly repeated the
contents of his letter of September 2007. But in addition it said that hed received and read
the suitability report but still wished to transfer out of his DB scheme into a personal pension.
On 22 November 2007 Towergate produced a second suitability report. The report repeated
the reasons why Mr G should not transfer his pension. But it went on to say that because he
had insisted upon transferring, its recommended solution was to transfer to a personal
pension, which would provide investment choice, flexibility, and greater lump sum death
benefits.
In October 2017 Towergate wrote to Mr G to tell him that as part of some work carried out by
the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) in relation to pension transfer advice, it was carrying
out a review of some of its past pension advice, which Mr G chose to be included in. On 7 
January 2020 Towergate wrote to Mr G to say that its review of the advice he was given 
showed that he was told not to transfer his DB pension but that he knowingly acted against 
that advice. It said it wouldnt therefore be offering any redress.
Mr G referred his complaint to our service. 
I issued my provisional decision of June 2022 in which I said I was likely to uphold the 
complaint because I didnt think Mr G could reasonably be regarded as an insistent client 
and I didnt think he wouldve gone ahead if everything had happened as it should have. I 
invited both parties to let me have anything they wanted me to consider in response before I 
issued my final decision.
Mr G said he accepted my provisional decision.
Towergate said that it wouldnt be raising any objections to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint and I direct Towergate to put things 
right. My reasons are set out below. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it
is unsuitable. So, Towergate should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Gs best interests (COBS 19.1.6).
A key aspect in this case is Towergates categorisation of Mr G as an insistent client - this is
a client that wishes to take a different course of action from the one recommended
and wants the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of
insistent clients. But there were rules in the regulators Handbook, which required Towergate
to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. In
addition, COBS required Towergate to provide information that was clear, fair and not
misleading. So, Towergates recommendation had to be clear and Mr G had to have
understood the consequences of going against the recommendation.
In its first suitability report, Towergate recommended that Mr G should not transfer away
from his DB scheme. 
It said this was because the critical yield or investment return needed to match the benefits 
of his existing scheme was too high and not in line with his attitude to risk. It said an 
alternative arrangement was unlikely to produce better benefits and that it hadnt identified a 
compelling reason to transfer.
In its second suitability report, Towergate repeated its warnings that the pension transfer
was unsuitable for Mr G. The report then said that Mr G had decided he wanted to go aheadin any event on an insistent client basis. It went on to recommend an alternative solution that
provided flexible retirement benefits with an investment fund choice, which appears to have
been appropriate for Mr Gs risk profile.
This would suggest that Towergate provided two suitable recommendations to Mr G.
But Mr G says that he was guided and advised throughout the process of accessing the
cash incentive, to the point of being told what to write in the instruction letters to insist it went
ahead. He says he understands from the paperwork he signed that it looks as if he went
against the advice he was given - but he was told he had to do it this way to get the lump
sum.
Having considered all of the evidence presented, while Towergates initial suitability report
did set out that its recommendation for Mr G was not to proceed with the transfer, I think
there were weaknesses and failings in the advice process, which meant Towergate didnt act
in Mr Gs best interests. And I think its likely that Mr G understood or believed overall that
Towergate was recommending he should go ahead with the transfer.
I say this because in the first suitability report immediately underneath the summary of why
Towergate recommended Mr G should not transfer away from his DB scheme, it said that he
could go about doing it regardless, by effecting his right to transfer on an insistent client
basis. And while it said this would be against Towergates advice, it explained the steps Mr
G needed to take to do this, including writing a letter saying why he wanted to pursue this
option. Im also mindful that, when setting out Mr Gs options for his pension, the first and
second options presented to him involved him transferring his benefits out of the DB scheme
- remaining in the scheme was the third option.
I think if Towergate was confident in its advice and recommendation and it was acting in Mr
Gs best interests, it wouldnt have told him at the same time as delivering its 
recommendation how he could readily put it aside and bypass it. I think the wording and the 
emphasis placed on how Mr G could ignore Towergates recommendation was unfair to Mr 
G and wasnt in his best interest.
I dont think it was in Mr Gs best interest to go against Towergates recommendation  yet I
consider Towergate made it very easy for him to do so. I also think, given the context and
the emphasis placed on this, that Mr G could reasonably have interpreted this overall that
Towergate was recommending he go ahead and transfer.
I think it should have been clear to Towergate that Mr G had little knowledge or experience
of financial matters based on the information available at the time of the advice. For example
theres nothing recorded on the assets section of the fact-find, which suggests Mr G was an
experienced investor  in fact theres nothing to indicate he had any prior investment
experience. I think this alone shouldve put Towergate on notice that it had to be careful if it
was to take matters through the insistent client route.
Mr G says that he was guided and advised by the adviser of what to write in the insistent
client letters  he says he was told this is what he had to do to get the lump sum from his
pension.
I accept its possible Mr G was told what to write as he says. For example the second letter
appears out of context because although its dated in November 2007 it refers to Mr G only
having received the suitability report from September, which doesnt make sense. But even
if they are his own words, both letters are short and lack detail about what he understood
about the recommendation made. While I acknowledge it wasnt a requirement at the time,
given Mr Gs apparent financial inexperience, I think it wouldve been important for
Towergate to ensure he understood what he was getting into. And a good way to have donethis wouldve been to see in his own words that he understood the recommendation being
made. Im not persuaded that reference to having simply received good advice reasonably
indicates this was the case.
So Im not persuaded that Mr G was able to make an informed choice here. I also
think that given Mr Gs explanation about why he wanted to proceed  he said he wanted to
invest the lump sum in a property development - it ought to have prompted Towergate to ask
further questions.
But instead Towergate produced a second suitability report, which I think was misleading
and confused matters. I say this because, despite it repeating the recommendation not to
transfer out of the DB scheme, it then proceeded to give a positive recommendation,
advising Mr G to transfer his benefits to a personal pension and invest it in a balanced
lifestyle fund.
In order to fulfil the regulators requirements under COBS 9.2, Towergate needed to give Mr
G advice on the overall suitability of the transaction envisaged i.e. the transfer and the
choice of pension and investment. Instead, it first gave Mr G advice on the advice to transfer,
and only considered the suitability of the proposed alternative in the second suitability report
after securing Mr Gs confirmation to proceed on an insistent client basis.
So, by recommending that Mr G transfer his benefits to a particular scheme, I think it has
effectively recommended that he transfer out of his DB scheme.
If Towergate didnt think that transferring out of the DB scheme to a personal pension was in
Mr Gs best interests, it needed to ensure that it gave clear advice that the whole of the
transaction was unsuitable for him - it couldnt separate out the elements. For this reason, I
think on receipt of the second suitability report Mr G likely believed Towergate was
recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme, and it was reasonable for him to do so.
I also think that, given what Mr G said he intended to do with the lump sum from his pension,
I think this ought to have been documented in his advice paperwork so that when it delivered
its recommendation to Mr G, it was clear that Towergate didnt think it was suitable advice to
transfer from his DB scheme to a personal arrangement for what was the apparent sole
purpose of raising funds for a potential property investment.
Im not persuaded that this was a real or set objective of Mr Gs. And I think this is
likely the reason why there is no reference to it in the advice paperwork. I say this because
Mr G says that reference to him wanting to invest in a property development only came
about following a discussion with the adviser. He says a discussion took place about 
investing the lump sum if he was to take it, and that it was the adviser who planted the seed
that an investment in property might be a good idea. But Mr G says it was just thoughts and
ideas at this stage and no actual plans were made. This is contrary to what Mr Gs insistent
client letter said  this said he was already involved in a property development.
But if it was a true objective, in acting in Mr Gs best interests, I think Towergate should have
gathered more information from Mr G about his intended investment plan to better
understand the position  if only to suggest that there might be other ways he could achieve
his objective before continuing to facilitate an irreversible transaction to transfer his pension.
Im mindful that there were no specific insistent client rules in place at the time. But I
consider the rules that were in place at the time were clear that Towergate had to act withdue care and skill and in Mr Gs best interests. And by not seeking to fully understand Mr Gs
objective or to clearly communicate that there might be other things he could consider before
carrying things out  for example was there a possibility of borrowing the funds he needed
by way of a mortgage or other loan type - Im not persuaded this was acting in Mr Gs best
interest. Ultimately, I dont think he was able to make an informed choice here  it seems to
me that Mr G most likely went ahead with the transfer as he believed this was the only way
to meet his objective. And also because Towergate actually gave him a positive
recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme in the second suitability report, which I
think wouldve given Mr G the impression that Towergate agreed with his approach.
Overall and on balance, given these failings, I dont think it would be reasonable for me to
conclude the process Towergate followed meant that Mr G can truly be regarded as an
insistent client. Towergates communications overall werent clear or fair. I dont think
it acted in Mr Gs best interests. And I think it failed to act with due care and skill.
If Towergate had acted fairly and reasonably, providing a recommendation on the suitability
of the whole of the transaction envisaged at the outset, properly addressing Mr Gs objective,
I dont think Mr G wouldve insisted on going ahead with the transfer. As Ive outlined above,
I think Mr G was an inexperienced investor who didnt possess the requisite knowledge or
had the confidence to go against the advice he was given. Im also not persuaded that the
Mr Gs alleged plans for an investment in property was set in stone or something he had firm
plans for at the time, such that he would have gone ahead and transferred in any event. I
think Mr G relied solely on the advice and process Towergate employed  so if things had
happened as they should have, I dont think Mr G would have insisted on going ahead with 
the transfer.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr G, as far as possible, into
the position he would now be in but for Towergates unsuitable advice.
I consider Mr G would have most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had
been given and the correct process followed.
I therefore direct Towergate to undertake a redress calculation in line with the
regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its
Finalised Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB
pension transfers.
For clarity, because it is my understanding that Mr G couldve taken benefits from his DB
scheme at age 60 without reduction, I think compensation should be based on a retirement
age of 60.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using
the most recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the
regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Gs acceptance of the final decision.
Towergate may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr
Gs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P).
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Gs SERPS/S2P
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paidinto Mr Gs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr G as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount
must where possible be paid to Mr G within 90 days of the date Towergate receives
notification of his acceptance of any final decision. Further interest must be added to the
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of a final decision to
the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Towergate to pay Mr
G.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and direct Towergate
Financial (West) Limited to pay Mr G the compensation amount as set out in the steps
above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Towergate Financial (West) Limited to pay Mr G any interest on that amount in full, as set
out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Towergate
Financial (West) Limited to pay Mr G any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Towergate Financial (West) Limited pays Mr G the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr G.
If Mrs M accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on Towergate 
Financial (West) Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr G can accept a final
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr G may want to consider getting
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022. 
Paul FeatherstoneOmbudsman