DRN-3701027
The complaint
Ms S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money refused to change the 
name of her account. 
What happened
Last year, Ms S visited a bank branch with the intention of updating the name on her 
account. Ms S has told us she had a Deed Poll document, which was stamped by a solicitor, 
and a letter setting out her benefits entitlement with her. 
Branch staff declined Ms S request. They said the benefits letter had to be an original that 
had been posted to her. They also said the letter was out of date. Branch staff said the Deed 
Poll document wasnt stamped by a solicitor. 
Ms S complained and Virgin Money issued a final response. But Virgin Money said it couldnt 
accept an online copy of the benefits letter. Ms S went on to close her Virgin Money account. 
An investigator at this service looked at Ms S complaint. They thought Virgin Money had 
dealt with Ms S complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Ms S asked to appeal, 
so her complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms S has told us that a solicitor had stamped and verified her Deed Poll document before 
visiting the branch. Ive looked at the branch staffs recollections, as provided by Virgin 
Money. The branch staff say they dont recall that the Deed Poll document was stamped by 
a solicitor. But they also say there was another issue, the benefits letter Ms S wanted to use 
was incomplete and out of date. 
Ms S is clear in her recollections and whilst I note the branch staffs comments, I see no 
reason to doubt what shes told us. But even if I accept the Deed Poll document was 
stamped, as Ms S says, I still need to consider whether Virgin Money acted reasonably by 
refusing to accept the online benefits letter. 
Virgin Money says it does not accept online letters of this nature for verification purposes 
when completing a name change. Ms S has told us she receives letters of this nature online, 
so it wasnt possible to provide a posted copy. But there are other options for providing 
identification for verification purposes given by Virgin Money. So Ms S wouldve had other 
options to provide documents in order to change her name.
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms S but as the documents she took to branch didnt comply with 
Virgin Moneys requirements for changing a name, Im satisfied it acted fairly by declining 
her request in branch. As Im satisfied Virgin Money dealt with Ms S complaint fairly Im not 
telling it to take further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Ms S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman