DRN-2717839
The complaint
Mr R complained because he felt Towergate Financial (West) Limited trading as Towergate 
Financial (at the time trading as M2 Financial Ltd) wrongly advised him to transfer his 
defined benefit occupational pension to a personal pension.
What happened
Mr R was a member of his previous employers occupational pension scheme. Due to 
redundancies, the employer arranged for employees to be contacted by financial advisors in 
order to get advice on their pension. Mr R confirmed that hed like to be contacted in order to 
get such advice.
Mr Rs employer offered him an incentive to transfer the pension by enhancing the transfer 
value. Two transfer value reports were prepared  one was based on Mr R transferring the 
full enhanced transfer value of the pension (£82,816); and one was based on him 
transferring the basic transfer value (£47,067) and taking the enhancement (£35,749) as 
cash.
Mr R first met with one of Towergates advisors in 2007. A fact find document was 
completed, which outlined Mr Rs financial position and objectives. Of note, it recorded that:
hed been a member of his previous employers pension scheme for 18 years  and he 
didnt mind his pension staying there
the previous employers pension was his main source of retirement income so it needed 
protecting
there was no pension scheme at his current employer
he planned to retire at age 60
his attitude to risk was assessed as 3/10
his top three retirement planning priorities were (1) death benefits before retirement, (2) 
to retire early, and (3) tax-free cash at retirement  although the fact find had earlier 
recorded that tax-free cash wasnt a priority.
In January 2008 Towergate provided Mr R with a report outlining its recommendation. The 
accompanying letter said the report confirmed the advice given at the meeting to not transfer 
out of the existing scheme.
The report itself said Mr R had three options: to transfer his pension away from the 
occupational scheme and take the enhanced payment as a lump sum cash payment (which 
would be taxable); to transfer his pension away from the occupational scheme, with the 
enhanced amount being included in the transfer; or to leave his pension with the existing 
occupational scheme.
The report went on to explain that while it might be beneficial for someone in Mr Rs position 
to transfer from his existing scheme, his new pension would depend on investment returns in 
the future, which couldnt be guaranteed  which was in contrast to the existing scheme 
where Mr Rs pension income wasnt dependent upon investment returns. It also said a new 
pension would need to grow by 7.2% each year in order to match the benefits of the existing 
occupational pension; and if it didnt do so Mr R would likely be worse off in retirement than 
he would be if remained in the occupational pension.
In the body of the report Towergate twice said that if Mr R was in any doubt about 
transferring, it recommended that he remain in the occupational scheme. Later, in the 
Recommendation section, Towergate recommended that Mr R not transfer his pension 
away from his occupational scheme, because an alternative arrangement was unlikely to 
provide better retirement benefits and was likely to involve higher risk. It also said the risk 
needed in order to obtain the required growth was higher than Mr Rs attitude to risk. 
Towergate nevertheless said that if Mr R wanted to transfer he could do so on an insistent 
client basis. And it explained what he needed to do in this respect.
In February 2008 Mr R wrote to Towergate to say that hed discussed things with his wife 
and hed decided to go against the recommendation. He said hed like to transfer his pension 
and take the enhancement as cash  which hed use to invest in a property as hed rented 
for a number of years and wanted to look at buying.
A second recommendation report was issued. The accompanying letter again referred to the 
advice not to transfer. The report itself referred to the first report and said that Mr R had 
subsequently told it he wished to proceed with the transfer on an insistent client basis. It said 
that to ensure obligations are fulfilled Towergate needed to reiterate the original 
recommendation to not transfer, before it could provide an alternative option for the transfer 
to proceed. The report confirmed the original recommendation (for the same reasons as 
before); and then went on to recommend a particular personal pension. It also said 
Towergate could make the necessary arrangements.
A further meeting took place  where I understand the relevant forms were completed  and 
Mr Rs occupational pension was transferred to a private pension in May 2008.
In August 2009 Mr R wrote to Towergate saying that he wanted to take the maximum tax-
free cash from his pension as he wanted to buy a new car and holiday. He said he was in 
full-time employment and didnt need the income. Towergate issued a third suitability report, 
where it recommended that Mr R transfer his current personal pension to another provider in 
order to release the tax-free cash he wanted. The transfer took place in October 2009.
In 2019 Towergate reviewed the original advice Mr R received (as part of a wider review 
instructed by the regulator). It concluded that the process could have been better  in that it 
could have better explained that Mr R could retire under his occupational scheme at age 60 
with an unreduced pension. However, Towergate didnt think this failure affected Mr Rs 
decision to transfer1. So it didnt offer any compensation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt Mr R had 
been given many reasons why transferring wouldnt be recommended but he chose to do so 
anyway. She felt he would have transferred his pension irrespective of any advice 
Towergate gave him. Mr R disagreed with our investigators conclusion and made various 
points, including:
he didnt think he had written the letter in 2008 (which was typed) as hed never typed a 
letter in his life
he denied wanting a new car or holiday in 2009 
the advisor verbally and off the record told him to transfer
1 Towergate also referred to Mr R saying he was in part-time employment in the letter he sent in 2009. 
Mr R told us that he has never worked part-time. Towergate has confirmed to us that its reference to 
part-time employment was an error and that it should have said full-time.Towergates letter referred to a number of areas where the advice process could have 
been better.
For completeness, when Mr R first complained to us he said he didnt remember writing the 
2009 letter, and on his complaint form he said that Towergate stating that he wanted to buy 
a car and holiday was absolute rubbish. After our investigator sent him a copy of the letter 
he said he now remembered the advisor getting him to write it while he was there, telling him 
what to write.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Suitability of the transfer
Theres a dispute here about what Towergates advice was. I have concerns about the clarity 
of the recommendation (which I will comment on below); however, Towergates 
recommendation in the two reports was for Mr R to not transfer from his occupational 
pension. Mr R on the other hand said the advisor verbally recommended that he transfer.
Its impossible for me to know one way or another precisely what was discussed at the 
meetings. However, if Mr R was verbally advised to transfer, I would have expected him to 
have clarified the difference between that advice and the recommendations in the reports. 
As he didnt do so, its difficult for me  14 years later  to conclude anything other than the 
advice given was to not transfer. I think that advice was suitable. Thats because transferring 
meant Mr R giving up valuable guaranteed benefits that, given his recorded attitude to risk, 
would unlikely be replicated in a private pension due to the growth needed.
What Towergate is essentially arguing here is that Mr R was an insistent client. That term 
has been defined in recent years as someone who has received a recommendation (or 
advice), but they want to enter into a transaction that is different from that recommended, 
and they want the business to facilitate that transaction. 
At the time of the advice there was no regulatory advice or guidance in place in respect of 
insistent clients. But there was a Conduct of Business rule which required Towergate to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client. 
Towergate was allowed to transact business on an insistent client basis. However, its 
recommendation had to be clear and Mr R had to have understood the consequences of 
going against the recommendation. I have concerns over the clarity of the recommendation 
reports  in summary, Im not persuaded that the recommendation to not transfer was 
sufficiently clear and not misleading.
In the first report Towergate twice said that if Mr R had any doubts its recommendation was
that he not transfer. That, in my opinion, wasnt as clear as a simple recommendation to not 
transfer. I say that because if what Towergate said is that the recommendation to not 
transfer only applied if Mr R had doubts. So, if Mr R had no doubts, the recommendation to 
not transfer didnt apply. I also think the overall message in the Recommendation section of 
the report is mixed. It said the recommendation was to not transfer; but I think that 
recommendation was weakened as it was immediately being followed by a message that 
essentially said but if you want to transfer we can help you and heres what you need to do.
I think the second report contained similar mixed messages. First it said that Towergate 
needed to confirm its original recommendation in order to ensure it fulfilled its obligations  which to me sounds like a tick box exercise before moving on to the main purpose of the 
report (ie the transfer of the pension). Second, the recommendation was to not transfer 
because it was unsuitable; but the Recommended solution ended by recommending that 
Mr R transfer his pension into a specific personal pension and by saying if Towergate felt the 
plan was inappropriate for Mr Rs individual circumstances it wouldnt recommend it.
In fairness to Towergate the report did end by highlighting some risk warnings, saying that 
general industry advice is to not transfer out of defined benefit pensions; Mr R had chosen to 
transfer out despite Towergates advice to the contrary; and Mr R had been made aware that 
he may end up worse off if the required growth wasnt achieved. But, overall, I think the 
mixed messages in the reports effectively led Mr R down the path, and set him up, to 
transfer. 
However, failures in the advice process arent enough on their own for me to uphold the 
complaint. Thats because I dont punish or fine businesses simply for getting something 
wrong. Instead I consider the impact the wrongdoing had on the consumer. Essentially the 
issue I need to consider here is whether Mr R would have acted differently had the overall 
advice process and recommendation been as clear as I think it should have been.
My first observation is that the advice process took around seven months from the time Mr R 
first met the advisor to the time he signed the transfer and application forms. It was a further 
two months before the transfer completed. So I dont think Mr R was rushed or pressured 
into making a decision  he had time to digest the recommendation reports and to make a 
decision. Im not persuaded that Mr Rs decision to transfer his occupational pension was a 
result of any undue pressure being put on him by Towergate.
There is also the issue of whether Mr R needed or wanted the cash available. As Ive 
outlined above, by transferring Mr R had the option of taking the enhancement offered by his 
employer as a lump sum payment of nearly £36,000 (although this would have been taxed). I 
can see why that would be attractive.
I note what Mr R has said about him not writing the letter in 2008; however the copy of the 
letter Ive seen does seem to have been signed by him (the signature is certainly similar to 
the signature on other documents Ive seen  including our complaint form). The letter does 
strongly suggest that Mr R had a wish to take the money that was being offered to him. And I 
think Mr Rs desire to take the cash is supported by the fact in 2009 he decided to take 
further cash from his pension.
Mr R has been inconsistent with his recollection in respect of the 2009 letter  in that he 
initially couldnt remember it and he then remembered it once wed provided him with a copy. 
While I note his comments that the advisor told him what to write, I think theres a pattern of 
Mr R wanting to get cash from his pension there and then rather than leaving it invested for 
retirement.
There is of course nothing wrong with that  after all, the money was his. But for me when 
trying to decide this case based on events that happened many years ago, I think Mr Rs 
actions demonstrate a likelihood that even if Towergate had been clearer in its reports he 
would still have chosen to transfer and to take the cash being offered.
There is one final point I wish to make in response to an issue Mr R has raised. He said 
Towergate referred to a number of areas where the advice process could have been better, 
and it then only outlined one  the issue about retiring a 60 without a reduced pension. I 
dont know whether Towergate ought to have said it had found one area where the advice 
process could have been better, or whether there were other areas but it only referred to one of them as an example. But in considering this complaint Ive looked at the advice process 
as a whole and identified other areas  which Ive outlined above.
In any event, I dont think the outcome of this complaint turns on how many errors there were 
in the advice process. Its more on how Mr Rs decision making was affected by those errors. 
And as Ive just said, I think its most likely that he would have chosen to transfer his pension 
even if the advice process had been clear.
So to summarise my thoughts and conclusions, for the reasons outlined above:
I conclude that there were flaws in the overall advice process in respect of the 
recommendation reports Towergate produced
however, Im not persuaded that these ultimately led to Mr R proceeding any differently
as I think its most likely given the enhanced transfer value and cash incentive that he 
would have proceeded with the transfer and taken the cash as a lump sum anyway.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman