DRN-2950907
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that Revolut Ltd wouldnt provide him with information about his daily top-up 
limit.
What happened
Mr F contacted Revolut because he was trying to top-up his recently opened Revolut 
account using a bank card, but his top-up requests kept being declined. Revolut explained to 
Mr F that this was because hed already reached his daily top-up limit. Mr F asked what his 
daily top-up limit was, but the Revolut adviser explained that this information wasnt visible to 
Revolut staff and so couldnt be provided. Mr F wasnt happy about this, so he raised a 
complaint.
Revolut looked at Mr Fs complaint, but they confirmed that bank card top-up limits arent 
visible to Revolut staff and noted that Mr F was free to make a top-up of any amount by bank 
transfer if he wished to do so. Mr R wasnt satisfied with Revoluts response, so he referred 
his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They understood Mr Fs frustration, but 
they noted that an explanation into why and how Revolut calculated and implemented top-up 
limits was commercially sensitive and couldnt be disclosed to Mr F. Our investigator also 
noted that, from the information theyd been provided by Revolut, but which couldnt be 
shared with Mr F, they were satisfied that Revolut hadnt acted unreasonably and that an 
unfair outcome hadnt taken place. Because of this, our investigator didnt uphold Mr Fs 
complaint.
Mr F remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must be frustrating for Mr F to not have been given details of how 
much his account bank card top-up limit was. 
Its the position of this service that, whenever possible, a customer should be given 
informative answers by a business to reasonable requests for information that customer has 
made. 
However, it can be the case that it isnt reasonable for a business to provide a customer with 
information, if for instance its the case that the provision of that information might expose 
that business to a potential level of unreasonable and unacceptable risk.
During my review of this complaint I contacted Revolut to question and better understand the 
reasoning behind their decision to not provide information about bank card top-up limits to 
their customers. Revolut provided a detailed response and based on this response Im 
satisfied that it is reasonable for Revolut to consider that a customers bank card top-up limit 
should be viewed as commercially sensitive information and that its fair that this information 
shouldnt be provided to a customer upon request.
I realise that this will be frustrating for Mr F, but Im afraid that theres little more that I can 
disclose to him, other than only to confirm that, having been made aware by Revolut of the 
reasons why Revolut dont disclose bank card daily top-up limit amounts to their customers, 
Im satisfied that Revoluts reasons are valid and that the information is commercially 
sensitive, and therefore that it was reasonable for Mr F to not be told what his bank card 
daily top-up limit was. 
Revolut have also confirmed that these daily limits only apply to bank card top-ups and that 
Mr F, and indeed all Revolut customers, are free to top-up their accounts by any amount 
they choose via bank transfer. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr F wanted here, but it follows from the above 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Revolut to take any further action here. Id 
like to reiterate to Mr F that this service does maintain that a customer should be informed 
where reasonably possible, and that I havent arrived at my final decision here lightly but 
have only done so after careful consideration of the information provided to me.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman