DRN-4365421
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the way in which Covea Insurance plc handled a claim made on her
car insurance policy (the policy), including the amount its settled her claim for.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision in August 2023 explaining why I was intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
I intended to find that Covea had fairly provided Mrs H with a fair market value for her car 
after shed made a claim on the policy for damage caused to it. However, I did think Covea 
couldve better handled aspects of her claim and I explained why I intended to direct it to pay 
Mrs H £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
An extract of my provisional decision is set out below.
.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Covea has a regulatory obligation to treat customers fairly. It also has an obligation to handle
insurance claims promptly and fairly.
The relevant terms and conditions of the policy
The policy terms provide cover for loss or damage to the car, and its accessories, caused
by accidental damage.
The terms also reflect that Covea:
can pay or replace whats damaged if this is more cost effective than repairing it.
wont pay more than the market value of the car at the time of loss.
Market value means: the cost of replacing the car with another of the same make,
specification, model, age, mileage and condition as the car immediately before the loss or
damage happened.
The car means: the vehicle specified in the Certificate of Motor Insurance by registration
number.
Accessories are defined as: additional or supplementary parts of the car not directly related
to its function as a vehicle, whilst in or on the car or held in a locked private garage. 
Accessories do not include trailers, personal belongings, mobile telephones, audio,
navigation or entertainment equipment.
Did Covea fairly treat the car as a total loss and provide a fair valuation?
In the absence of any further evidence to the contrary, I think Covea has fairly relied on the
engineers report dated February 2022 when concluding that the car was a total loss.
The engineers report contains photos of the damage and reflects that: the estimated cost of
reinstating the car back to its pre-accident condition as such that it is considered to be
uneconomical to repair.
After providing a lower valuation and an initial delay  which Ill go on to consider below  I
think Covea has fairly calculated the market value of the car at just over £8,800. Ill refer to
this as the valuation amount.
Im satisfied the valuation amount is in line with the available industry-recognised valuation
guides and has been valued including an electric battery.
I can understand why Mrs H says her actual loss is more than this because she had leased
her battery. And there was an outstanding balance of over £3,000 on the battery lease at the
time the car was damaged. She says it would cost around £4,000 for her to lease another
electric battery and she wouldnt have been able to buy a similar car for the valuation
amount to include the cost of leasing the battery.
But as set out above, the policy says Covea wont pay more than the market value of the car
at the time of the loss, and I dont think its acted unfairly by relying on that term here, as it
included the cost of replacing the car with one of a similar make and model with a battery.
Ive also considered whether the battery is covered separately as an accessory as defined
by the policy. But because it directly relates to the function of the car, I dont think it is.
Settling the lease agreement
The leasing company informed Covea after the car was damaged that Covea could dispose
of the battery. However, it did require the balance of the leasing agreement to be settled in
one lump sum.
Covea paid that lump sum directly to the leasing company, deducting it from the valuation
amount  which along with the policy excess (that it was entitled to deduct)  reduced the
settlement amount Covea offered to Mrs H to around £5,856 (the settlement amount).
Covea informed our Service when responding to Mrs Hs complaint that the correct process
had been followed, as any finance owed is deducted from the valuation amount.
The policy terms say that if the car is the subject of a hire purchase agreement or leasing
agreement, Covea may, in the event of the cars total loss or destruction, pay the hire
purchase or leasing company directly for the loss or damage to the car. But here, the car
wasnt subject to a leasing on hire agreement; only the electric battery was.
However, Im satisfied that I dont need to make a finding about whether Covea reasonably
settled the balance for the electric battery under the lease agreement  or whether the
valuation amount ought to have been paid to Mrs H for her to settle the balance of the
lease agreement (or indeed to retain the electric battery if she was able to under the terms of
the lease, for use in a similar car).
Thats because, either way, Mrs H wouldve been responsible for paying off the balance
remaining on the lease arrangement for the battery  whether that was paid directly by
Covea from the valuation amount or by Mrs H directly. Further, in an email to our investigator dated 25 October 2022, Mrs H said that shed asked 
Covea to settle the lease. So, it seems this was settled upon Mrs Hs instruction, and with 
her agreement.
Other issues
Mrs H is also unhappy because Covea didnt settle the battery lease until October 2022. As
such she kept paying monthly for the battery under the lease to avoid the risk defaulting on
payment, and negatively impacting her credit history. Mrs H says she paid almost £400
under the lease since the car was written off by Covea, which shed like reimbursement for.
However, whilst there was a delay in Covea settling the amount remaining on the lease, Mrs
Hs monthly payments were reducing the outstanding balance to be paid. And although I
accept this caused her some unnecessary worry and inconvenience, I dont think shes lost
out financially. Thats because if the outstanding amount on the lease had been settled
earlier, the balance of the lease wouldve been higher. And its that higher amount which
would have been deducted from the valuation amount  thereby reducing any settlement
amount she wouldve been entitled to.
In its final response letter dated October 2022, Covea accepts that it didnt log Mrs Hs
complaint when it should have. And that it didnt make an interim payment of the valuation
amount to her. It apologised and offered to pay her compensation in the sum of £100.
In addition, Covea offered to pay Mrs H around £319 to represent simple interest at a rate of
8% per annum on:
the settlement amount from 22 April 2022 (the date of her complaint) to 25 October
2022 (around £230); and 
the amount left on lease for the electric battery from 22 April 2022 to the date on 
which the battery lease was settled by Covea, 3 October 2022 (around £89).
Ill refer to these as the interest amounts.
Im satisfied that the interest amounts fairly compensate Mrs H for the time she was without
the settlement sum.
Covea asked Mrs H for her bank details to arrange an interim payment. Mrs H didnt provide
her bank details until March 2023, and then Covea promptly made payment as Id
reasonably expect it to have done. But Ive got no compelling reason to conclude that had
Covea been provided with Mrs Hs bank details in October 2022, as requested, it wouldnt
have promptly made payment then too. So, I dont think it would be fair for them to extend
the period over which Covea ought to pay interest to Mrs H to March 2023, when the
settlement amount was paid.
However, Im not persuaded that £100 reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience
experienced by Mrs H because of the way in which Covea handled her claim, and the delays
it caused.
The claim was made at the start of 2022. It looks like Covea initially relied on the engineers
report to calculate the market value, in the region of £6,000. I can understand why Mrs H
disagreed with that valuation. That figure was around £2,000 less than what shed paid for
the car only a few months before. Mrs H provided evidence to refute the valuation and it took
several months for Covea to provide a market value in line with the available industry-
recognised valuation guides, which was almost £3,000 more than the initial market valuationCovea offered for the car.
Its not clear why Covea didnt consider the available industry-recognised valuation guides at
the outset as it did later in 2022. Im satisfied failing to do so caused unnecessary worry and
inconvenience for Mrs H at an already difficult time. Im satisfied that compensation in the
sum of £350 more fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience she experienced.

I invited both parties to provide any information in response to my provisional decision for me 
to consider. I received no reply. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything further for me to consider in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings.
So, for this reason, and for reasons set out in my provisional decision (an extract of which is 
set out above and forms part of this final decision), I partially uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
Putting things right
I understand that Covea has paid the settlement amount to Mrs H together with the interest
amounts and £100 compensation.
So, I direct it to pay additional compensation in the sum of £250 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to put things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman