DRN-2883366
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained about the service they received from Nationwide Building 
Society when they wanted to arrange a mortgage to buy a new property.
  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here.
Our investigator didnt uphold the main thrust of the complaint, but she did feel Nationwides 
offer of £100 compensation wasnt enough; she felt £200 was more appropriate.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept her findings and so it has been passed to me to decide.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs M wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to 
what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not 
considered it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right 
outcome.
I understand our investigators findings were disappointing. Its the nature of what we do that 
we generally have to find in favour of one party or the other. Our findings are based on 
consideration of all the facts and all the submissions made by both parties. We look at what 
happened and decide whether, bearing in mind any relevant law, regulations, and good 
industry practice, the lender acted fairly and reasonably.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Its not the role of this service to decide whether the advertising for a particular product met 
the regulatory requirements in place at the time. That is the role of the regulator. This means 
I cant ask Nationwide to change its practices generally around the advertising of the later life 
products. I need to decide whether Mr and Mrs M were treated fairly.
At the time in question Nationwide wasnt able to offer its Later Life mortgages to people like 
Mr and Mrs M who wanted to buy a new property. That applied to all applicants, and so 
Mr and Mrs M havent been treated any differently from any other customers in the same 
situation. Nationwide is allowed to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Nationwide 
makes in respect of what those criteria are, whether it should lend at any particular time and 
if so, on what terms are clearly discretionary matters for Nationwides own commercial 
judgement that I would not interfere with.
Im satisfied Nationwide wasnt offering Later Life mortgages at that time so Mr and Mrs M 
couldnt have had one, however much it may have suited their circumstances. That left them 
with the options to:
use their savings/investments to buy the property,
arrange a normal mortgage with Nationwide,
arrange a mortgage with a different lender, or
not move house.
Mr and Mrs M have said that the fourth option  not moving house  wasnt an option, so Ive 
excluded that.
Nationwide looked at arranging a mortgage from its core range for Mr and Mrs M but they 
didnt make a full application. On Friday 14 August 2020 an appointment was booked for Mr 
and Mrs M to obtain an agreement in principle. That meeting took place on Monday 17 
August and in that an agreement in principle was given for a mortgage of up to £31,000. The 
adviser emailed Mr and Mrs M the same day to confirm shed booked the full appointment 
meeting for Thursday 3 September and gave Mr and Mrs M a list of the documents theyd 
need to provide for that. Mr and Mrs M provided the documents later that day, but then Mr 
and Mrs M didnt proceed to the full application.
Mr and Mrs M have said that the process was slow, but I dont agree. Even in normal times  
outside of a pandemic  I wouldnt say that timescale was unduly long. Mr and Mrs M have 
no way of knowing, if theyd attended the full application meeting on 3 September, that 
Nationwide wouldnt have had a mortgage offer in place in time for them to complete on the 
new-build property they were buying. Instead they decided not to try, and buy the property 
using their savings/investments instead. That was their choice, but that means what flowed 
from that (in that they had to use more of their savings/investments than they would if theyd 
instead taken this mortgage) wasnt down to Nationwide it was due to the decision made by 
Mr and Mrs M not to apply for the mortgage. 
If Mr and Mrs M were unhappy with Nationwides timescales then they also had the option to 
apply either to another lender directly for a mortgage, or to seek advice from a mortgage 
broker who could look at the whole market to see what would suit Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances and be able to act within their tight timescales.
Mr and Mrs M have said We most certainly have lost out financially to the tune of 
£70,558.63 but thats against if theyd been able to take a Later Life mortgage. As a Later 
Life mortgage wasnt an option that was available to Mr and Mrs M at the time then thats not 
a comparison that can be made. Instead the most it could be argued that Mr and Mrs M have 
lost out on is £31,000 as thats the amount Nationwide said it was willing to lend to them 
under the agreement in principle that was issued on 17 August. And even that we cant say 
for sure as weve no way of knowing if their application would have been successful, as they 
didnt formally apply for it.
A Later Life mortgage wasnt an option, and Mr and Mrs M didnt give Nationwide a chance 
to try to get a mortgage from its core range in place for them to stop them having to use so 
much of their savings/investments to buy the new property, so I cant hold Nationwide liable 
for the loss of availability of those funds.
Nationwide  and our investigator suggested the option that Mr and Mrs M could fund the 
purchase from their savings/investments and then immediately remortgage the property to 
recoup those funds if they werent happy about losing the access to the money long term. Mr and Mrs M referred to that as nonsensical to us and is too much of a gamble to 
Nationwide and as patronising to our investigator, saying they could make those decisions 
themselves without advice from her. Im pleased to see that Mr and Mrs M are happy to 
make those decisions themselves as it seems a fairly simple solution to the issue. 
In terms of the underlying complaint Im satisfied Nationwide didnt cause the loss 
Mr and Mrs M are claiming for, but I do think it didnt handle things as well as it could have 
done. I understand Mr and Mrs M are incredibly busy and that this was a difficult time for 
them (the details of that I wont mention here to protect their privacy). I agree with our 
investigator that Nationwide gave conflicting and unclear information and gave Mr and Mrs M 
an expectation that they may be able to obtain a Later Life mortgage. It also sent a letter to 
their old address after it had been notified that theyd moved. Having considered everything I 
agree with our investigator that a further £100 on top of the £100 Nationwide previously 
offered is due for the inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that Nationwide Building Society should 
pay Mr and Mrs M £200 compensation (less any amounts already paid, if applicable).
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman