DRN-3487136
The complaint
Mr M complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier (which Ill call E).
Mr M is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In July 2018, Mr M purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr M financed the purchase through a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano that was 
repayable over ten years.
In September 2021, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ms behalf under section 75 of the Act to 
Ikano. The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the 
system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had 
induced Mr M to enter into the contract.
The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been made:
The system would be self-funding and the financial benefits would cover the monthly 
finance payments. 
Ikano explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr M or that 
there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. One of our 
adjudicators looked into what had happened and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this but provided no additional comments or information.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit.
As Mr M paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr M could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against E. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is fair in the 
circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr M and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by E as an agent of Ikano. 
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or their agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These include 
the credit agreement and contract.
The contract is a two-page document which sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and the basic price (before loan interest). Im 
satisfied that it formed a central part of the sales process (as it appears to have been 
completed and signed during the sales meeting) and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ms 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged, the 
total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
Contract
The contract set out the cost of the system on the same page as the expected first-year 
benefits of the system. 
I think the sales contract is clear that the basic price of the system was £8,900.00. I think 
Mr M wouldve understood this given he paid a £200 deposit and agreed to fund the 
remaining amount using the loan from Ikano.
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total between 
£351.11 and £501.44 based on self-consumption rates of 25% and 50% respectively. This 
figure includes FIT payments and the value of electricity savings.
Self-consumption rate is the proportion of the electricity generated by the system that Mr M 
would use himself. The cost of the system and its first-year benefits are shown on the same 
page of the contract, just above where Mr M signed, so these figures couldve been 
compared easily.
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding. The loan was repayable 
over ten years. Even without the interest being added, I think Mr M wouldve been aware that 
hed be paying at least £890 per year. This is significantly more than the highest potential 
benefit quoted of £501.44. I think the contract was an integral part of the sale and these 
figures would most likely have been discussed with Mr M. It appears the estimated benefits 
were hand-written on the contract during the sales meeting. 
So, I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve misrepresented the solar panel system 
in the way Mr M has alleged.Self-funding
Mr M may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over about 18 years if the benefit was in line with the estimate 
and remained about the same each year.
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time. So, Mr M couldve been told that the system was self-
funding over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) 
without it being a misrepresentation. But I think it is unlikely that he was told the system 
would be immediately self-funding on a monthly basis.
The CMC has suggested that Mr M wouldnt have agreed to buy the system if he was told it 
was not immediately self-funding. But, it appears he agreed to pay approximately £1,184.04 
per year in loan repayments when he was told the financial benefit of the system in the first 
year would be between £351.11 and £501.44. In doing so, he wouldve been expecting to 
make a net contribution in the first year of at least £682.60. So, I think Mr M would have 
been aware that the system would not be immediately self-funding.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr M to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman