DRN-3923259
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (Blue Motor) was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr S was supplied with a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Blue Motor. The agreement was for £16,848 with 60 monthly repayments of £280.79. At the 
time, the car was eight and a half years old and had done 86,500 miles.
Mr S said that in February 2022 there were faults and error messages in the engine 
management system, and there was a pool of water in the rear passenger footwell. He said 
he cant drive the car.
He said he contacted the dealer and they told him to submit a complaint. He said he also 
complained to Blue Motor but they didnt help him. He said he wanted to reject the car but 
Blue Motor refused. He said the dealer refused to repair the car because it thought hed 
caused the issues by driving through a flood. He said hes a professional driver and would 
never drive through a flooded area.
Blue Motor said that Mr S provided photographs of the faults in February 2022. They said 
the dealer wasnt prepared to inspect the car so they organised an independent inspection. 
The report was received in April 2022. The inspection report confirmed the presence of 
faults. It said they appeared to be long standing issues, including water ingress and 
persistent system errors. The report said that normal operation of the car wasnt possible in 
the condition it was in at that time.
Blue Motor said the dealer initially agreed to repair the car but later said that Mr S would 
have to pay for parts and it couldnt complete the repair until July 2022. 
Our investigator didnt think the car was of satisfactory quality when supplied. He based this 
on the findings from the independent report. He said that the electrical issues should be 
repaired as they werent sufficiently durable, and the water ingress was likely to have been 
present or developing at the point of sale. He said Blue Motor should arrange for the faults to 
be repaired and refund the instalments Mr S had paid from the date the car went into the 
garage until it was repaired. He also said they should pay Mr S £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience hed been caused.
Blue Motor said they accepted the investigators view and would arrange for the car to be 
repaired and compensation to be paid to Mr S.
Mr S responded saying hed had to spend £800 on another car so he could get to work. He 
said hed also had to tax and insure this car in addition to the faulty car. He said his credit 
score had been affected as he couldnt afford to make the payments on the agreement whilst 
the car was in the garage. Our investigator issued a second view, explaining why Blue Motor 
should also refund the car insurance and road fund license Mr S had paid for the 
replacement car. He also said they should amend any adverse credit data registered since 
February 2022 on Mr Ss credit file.
Blue Motor initially agreed. But they then arranged for a further independent inspection to be 
done. They said this was because the dealer had said they couldnt locate a water leak.
The second inspection was completed in October 2022. The inspection was only for the 
damp issues. But the report did highlight the presence of a number of fault codes.
The second inspection reported no signs of water ingress. It did say the rear footwell carpet 
was slightly damp to touch. The report said that there was sand in the bottom of the wheel 
area and the side compartment of the boot, so it was possible that the car may have been 
driven through standing water at some point.  It went on to say that this couldnt be 
confirmed. It concluded that the damp issue would not have been present or developing at 
the time of sale.
Our investigator considered the second report and confirmed it didnt change his opinion. He 
felt that the comments in the second report were speculative. He also noted that the report 
said that the electrical faults werent related to any water ingress, and it was these problems 
that were preventing the car from being driven.
Blue Motor said they agreed to repair the electrical faults as a gesture of goodwill. They said 
they had not been aware of all the facts when they previously agreed to our investigators 
first outcome. They said both reports together demonstrated they had no liability. So they 
said they didnt think it was fair for them to have to refund any instalments, tax, insurance or 
pay compensation to Mr S.
Because Blue Motor didnt agree with our investigator this matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Blue 
Motor are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
Fault CodesThe first inspection confirmed the presence of faults, and that these faults prevented the 
normal operation of the car. The report also said that the car wouldnt pass an MOT with 
these faults, and because it had passed an MOT in November 2021, it suggested that the 
faults werent present or developing at the time of sale.
The report is clear that these faults make the car undrivable.
The CRA says that the quality of goods includes their state and condition; and one element 
to consider is the durability of the goods  in this case that is the car that is the subject of the 
hire purchase agreement.
I wouldnt expect every component of a car to last forever  but in this case the faults have 
made the car undriveable. This car is less than nine years old, and has done less than 
90,000 miles at the time of failure. Its also a premium brand. So I wouldnt expect it to fail at 
this point, or so soon after supply. 
The error codes are related to key safety devices, including the braking system. So Im 
satisfied that the presence of these faults mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, 
because it wasnt reasonably durable.
Im pleased to note that Blue Motor have agreed to pay for the repairs required to fix these 
faults. I think thats the correct resolution to this part of Mr Ss complaint.
Water ingress
There is no dispute that theres a problem that has caused or is causing dampness in the 
rear footwell. Mr S has provided photographs that clearly show a sodden carpet. And both 
reports confirm the presence of the damp.
But the independent reports are contradictory. The first says that the source of the water is 
not obvious but the footwell shows presence of long term damp. The second report suggests 
that the damp may have been caused by the car being driven through deep standing water.
I have to consider what is more likely to have happened. And I am more persuaded by the 
findings in the first report. I say that because I find the second report to be inconclusive, and 
the findings are no more than speculative. Given that this inspection was done eight months 
after Mr S reported the presence of the damp footwell, and that this time included the 
summer period, I wouldve expected the footwell to have dried out in this time if the cause 
was due to a single incident that happened more than eight months earlier.
And I would also have expected to see dampness in more than one area if it had been 
driven through a flood.
The first report supports my conclusion. It says that despite dry pre-inspection weather in 
July 2022, the footwell showed signs of long term dampness. And it also finds that it was 
likely that the dampness was present or developing at the point of purchase.
So Im satisfied that this issue also means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and Blue 
Motor should arrange and pay for any necessary inspection and repair.
Putting things right
I understand Mr S has lost faith in the car. But the correct remedy here is for Blue Motor to 
have the opportunity to repair the car. Blue Motor should:make arrangements with Mr S for the car to be inspected and repairs carried out to 
fix the electrical faults, and to fix the issue causing the damp in the rear footwell, at 
no cost to Mr S, and without him having to pay and claim back from Blue Motor.
refund the extra insurance and road tax costs Mr S has paid for a second car to keep 
him mobile (on production of evidence of what hes paid), plus 8% simple interest per 
year from the date of each payment made to the date of settlement.
refund any monthly payments hes paid from February 2022 when he was unable to 
use the car until the date it is repaired and returned to him, plus 8% simple interest 
per year from the date of each payment made to the date of settlement.
remove any adverse data recorded for any missed payments since February 2022 
when he had no use of the car.
pay Mr S £100 for the distress and inconvenience hes had to endure to keep himself 
mobile whilst the car has been undriveable.
I think that is a fair and reasonable way to settle this matter.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd must follow 
my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman