DRN-3349613
The complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) misled about a car 
which it supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement. 
What happened
In February 2021 Mr B took a used car on hire purchase from VWFS. The sale documents 
recorded a mileage of 1,000 and that the car had been first registered in September 2020. It 
came with a two-year warranty. 
In September 2021 Mr B noticed a warning light and took the car to his local dealership. An 
oil change was carried out, in line with the manufacturers recommendation that the car be 
serviced after 12 months. 
Mr B said he had been told that the car came with a service plan, but none had been 
registered by the dealership. It offered to pay for his next service. 
Mr B says that he then reviewed the finance and sale documents and noticed that they 
recorded a mileage of 1,000. He says the car had been advertised with a mileage of only 
325. He said too that the car had been supplied with an empty fuel tank.  
Mr B complained to VWFS about the need for an oil change, the lack of a service plan, the 
fuel, and the mileage. It said that those were all matters for the dealership, but that Mr B 
could refer his complaint to this service if he wished to do so. It also offered to take the car 
back, which Mr B declined. 
Mr B did contact this service, and one of our investigators considered what had happened. 
She was not persuaded that Mr B had been misled or that there were any faults with the car. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that VWFS said that Mr Bs concerns were matters for the dealership. It is true that Mr 
Bs concerns relate in part to things which he says the dealership told him. They include, 
however, a concern about the need for an oil change; in addition, the dealership is to be 
taken as, and may in fact have been, acting as agent for VWFS. 
I turn therefore to the substance of the complaint. 
VWFS said that the warning light appeared because the car needed an oil change after 12 
months. I accept that was the case. That is a normal interval for an oil change. It did not 
indicate anything wrong with the car.
VWFS said that the 1,000 miles recorded in the documentation was the minimum that could 
be entered on the dealers systems. That explanation is plausible. Mr B has not however 
provided evidence of the actual mileage at delivery or of the advertised mileage. The only 
evidence of the mileage at delivery is the 1,000 miles on the sale documents. I am not 
persuaded therefore that Mr B was misled about the mileage. 
Mr B has not been able to provide any evidence to support his claim that the car came with 
two free services. There is no mention of that in any of the sales documents. Again, I am not 
persuaded that this was agreed. Similarly, there is no evidence to support Mr Bs assertion 
that he should have received fuel with the car, even if, as he says, he traded in his old car 
with fuel in the tank.           
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I dont require Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited to do anything more to resolve Mr Bs complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman