DRN-4475937
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy a claim made under their Park Home insurance policy has been
declined by Society of Lloyds (SoL).
Where Ive referred to SoL, this includes the underwriting syndicate which actually provides
the cover under Mr and Mrs Cs policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C insured their park home with a SoL syndicate. They use the park home for
holidays, and it isnt their main place of residence.
In December 2022 Mr and Mrs C were contacted by the estate management to inform them
that there was a significant amount of water underneath the park home, and that the estate
management had turned off the water.
Mr and Mrs C arranged for the parks usual plumber to let them know the extent of the
damage to their park home. As they were told the damage was extensive, they made a claim
to SoL.
Ultimately SoL declined the claim. Mr and Mrs Cs policy has a term which requires them to
do specific things in relation to their heating and water supply between November and
March. However, based on information provided by Mr and Mrs Cs plumber, SoL wasnt
satisfied Mr and Mrs C had complied with the policy requirement.
Mr and Mrs C complained to SoL about the claim decision and maintained that theyd
complied with the policy requirements. SoLs claim decision remained, but they said that if
Mr and Mrs C could provide a plumber report and a report from the site management then
theyd revisit matters. However, SoL recognised there were delays and communication
issues, so they paid Mr and Mrs C £200 compensation.
Mr and Mrs C remained unhappy with the claim decision and approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things but she didnt uphold the complaint. She said
SoLs hadnt sufficiently shown that Mr and Mrs C hadnt complied with the policy
requirements so she didnt think they could rely on this to decline the claim.
However, she said Mr and Mrs C hadnt shown an insured event had occurred. So, she said
SoLs request for a report from the plumber and site management wasnt unreasonable, and
in the absence of this she didnt think SoL had acted unreasonably by declining the claim.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I reached a different outcome to our investigator, so I issued a provisional decision to give 
both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial findings before I reached my final 
decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Im not minded to agree with either SoLs position 
or the different position reached by our investigator. Therefore, Im issuing a 
provisional decision to give both parties an opportunity to comment on my initial 
findings before I reach my final decision.
SoLs declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim as they say they didnt comply with a policy
requirement. Our investigator didnt think this was fair, but she also said 
Mr and Mrs C hadnt shown an insured event occurred, and the onus was on them to 
do so. I dont agree with either position, so Ill consider each separately.
Was there an insured peril?
The site management contacted Mr and Mrs C to advise theyd noticed a significant 
leak of water under the park home. Mr and Mrs C arranged for the sites plumber to 
check the extent of the damage as they were abroad at the time. The plumber found 
extensive water damage inside.
SoLs loss adjuster also visited (two months later) and noted there was extensive 
water damage. Mr and Mrs Cs plumber also explained to SoL that there were burst 
pipes, and this had led to the water damage.
Mr and Mrs Cs policy covers escape of water from burst pipes (subject to conditions 
and exclusions which Ill consider separately).
It doesnt appear to be disputed by SoL that there was an escape of water from one 
or more burst pipes. So, in principle, unlike our investigator, I think Mr and Mrs C 
have done enough to show an insured peril has occurred.
I now need to consider whether Mr and Mrs C have a valid claim for that insured 
peril, or if as SoL says, a breach of policy requirements means the claim should be 
declined.Were the policy conditions complied with?
Mr and Mrs Cs policy has the following requirement in relation to escape of water 
claims:
c) Between 1st November and 31st March both days inclusive, if the park 
home is left without an occupant for more than 48 hours you must drain down 
the entire water system as a precaution to prevent freezing and any potential 
damage this may occur. If your park home has a sealed heating system 
containing antifreeze then this does not need to be drained down but 
antifreeze levels checked annually and particularly prior to the period of 
unoccupancy. (Please refer to Draining Your Water System for Winter 
Occupancy On Page 7). In addition all water tanks must be emptied by 
leaving both hot and cold taps fully open with plugs removed throughout the 
park home.
Or
If you wish to leave the water supply turned on between 1st November and 
31st March both days inclusive, you must ensure:
The entire home benefits from a heating system being gas or oil fired 
central heating or a geothermal or full electric system (not night 
storage heaters), fitted with automatic controls and a separate 
thermostat. The system must be set to operate continuously for 24 
hours of each day (not controlled by a timing device) and the 
thermostat set to not less than 13 degrees Celsius and all internal 
doors must remain open throughout the park home and where fitted 
the loft hatch left open.
Or
If the heating system described above is installed and additionally 
fitted with a frost stat that is designed and installed to override all the 
heating controls, irrespective of their functional status, then this may 
be set to operate at no less than 4 degrees Celsius.
Before we can pay you any claim it is a requirement that you (at our request) 
provide any bills for any utilities being supplied to the insured premises at the 
time of any loss or damage resulting in an escape of water for verification by 
us.
Failure to comply with the requirements above will result in loss or damage 
resulting from escape of water or burst pipes being excluded from this 
insurance.
SoL says that Mr and Mrs C havent complied with this. This is on the basis that SoL 
say Mr and Mrs Cs plumber said the boiler was switched off when they discovered 
the escape of water damage, and the system hadnt been drained down. By contrast, 
Mr and Mrs C maintain it was on, with the frost protection stat in place, so they say 
they complied with the requirement.Mr and Mrs C have attempted to get further information from the plumber but have 
been unable to do so. But SoLs loss adjuster did speak with the plumber on more 
than one occasion about what happened. With conflicting or unclear information, I 
cant be sure with certainty exactly what happened. So, Im considering on balance, 
what I think is most likely.
If SoL is declining the claim based on a breach of condition, they need to 
demonstrate the condition was breached and was relevant to the loss. But based on 
what Ive seen, Im not minded to conclude they have. Ill explain why.
SoL says Mr and Mrs Cs plumber told them:
I have spoken with the plumber after he reattended today. He advised that 
the thermostat was calling for heating but he has found that the boiler was 
switched off.
Therefore, on the face of it, this does look like the boiler was switched off, and the 
system wasnt drained down, so the policy terms havent been complied with. 
However, there is a further note from the loss adjuster within the file which also says:
I have just spoken to the plumber, who has advised of the following: 
Engineer has advised he is unsure if the boiler is damaged or not, he has 
advised all that he has seen is the result of the leak from generalised frost 
damage, he has advised that the pipes were blown due to frost damage in 
2  3 places. There was a pipe under the boiler that was blown apart. He is 
100% certain all the damage is due to frost.
Engineer has advised that he can only comment on how he found the boiler 
after the fact, he has advised that after the new year, and at that point the 
boiler was electrically isolated, he is unsure of how it was left before, but 
when he attended site, there was no power at all to the lodge. He has advised 
that it may have been left off or switched off later. He did not touch the switch 
of the boiler on his visit. He has advised that he cant comment on when it 
was isolated, or that if the power had failed into the lodge due to water.
All he can say is when he got there is was flooded and there was no power to 
the lodge.
So, taking this into account, I dont think that first note is quite so clear in showing the 
boiler was already turned off, or consequently that the policy requirements have been 
breached.
The second note seems to indicate that when the plumber arrived at the property, 
there was no power and it was flooded. So, in my view, reference to being switched 
off could equally be due to a lack of power, rather than by the switch itself. The 
plumber also said that it may have been left off at the time or may have been 
switched off later, but they didnt know either way. Instead, there was no power and 
flooding when they visited. This to me further shows that he may have been 
referencing a lack of power on that visit, rather than being switched off by the 
physical switch. If they noted the switch itself was off at the time of their first visit, I
think theyd be able to answer that question more conclusively.Furthermore, the closing comment also says he is unsure when it was isolated, or if 
the power had failed into the lodge due to water. In my view, this further implies that 
the boiler didnt have power as far as they were aware, rather than specifically was 
turned off at the switch.
Mr and Mrs C also spoke to the plumber and let SoL know that the plumber told 
them:
On talking with the plumber we find that the boiler had been turned off at a 
switch on the wall and that this was only seen when he made a visit to the 
lodge in the last couple of weeks.
This was in March, three months post loss. And this implies that the switch being off 
wasnt noticed until a significant time after the loss occurred. So, whilst the boiler 
switch may later have been turned off, after several people had visited, including the 
loss adjuster, the plumber revisited, site management and the contents removal 
company, Im not persuaded the evidence supports that it was most likely turned off 
before the loss occurred.
What I also think is important to note here is that I dont think the fact there was an 
escape of water due to frozen pipes necessarily supports that this must mean the 
boiler was off at the time either. I say this because there were extreme temperatures 
immediately before the loss and damage was discovered.
Ive checked the weather records for the time. And immediately before the loss and 
damage was discovered, in the local area, there were temperatures as low as -11 
degrees. Given it was a park home, rather than a normal brick construction building, 
the insulation is unlikely to have been as effective in these temperatures as you 
might otherwise expect from a standard construction property. So even if the boiler 
was still in operation, its still very possible in those temperatures that the pipes still 
couldnt cope, freezing and resulting in an escape of water.
Furthermore, the fact that there was no electric when the loss was discovered could 
have been as a result of the escape of water. But it also could have been before the 
escape of water occurred, impacting on the boiler functioning effectively, along with 
the frost stat. This also could have led to the pipes freezing and bursting, even if 
before the failure of the electric the boiler was on, and even if the frost stat was in 
operation.
With the above in mind, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my
provisional decision, Im not minded to conclude SoL has shown, on balance, that
Mr and Mrs C failed to comply with the policy requirements. Consequently, Im not 
minded to conclude its fair or reasonable for SoL to rely on this to decline Mr and 
Mrs Cs escape of water claim.
Therefore, unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Ill be directing SoL to reconsider Mr and Mrs Cs claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy.
However, Ill add at this stage that my understanding is that Mr and Mrs C have had 
to destroy and dispose of the park home due to the extent of damage to it. This 
means a repair wont be possible now. Therefore, if my direction remains the same in 
my final decision (and Mr and Mrs C accept it), when considering the claim in line 
with the remaining terms, SoL would also need to explore alternative settlements with 
Mr and Mrs C.If after that Mr and Mrs C were unhappy with whatever settlement was ultimately 
offered, theyd need to raise a new complaint about that, before referring it to this 
service in line with our usual rules and timescales.
SoL paid Mr and Mrs C £200 for communication issues. But I dont think this is 
enough. For the reasons outlined, Im minded to conclude that SoL has unfairly 
declined the claim. This took time, and due to the extent of damage, this resulted in 
the park home deteriorating and ultimately having to be destroyed and disposed of.
This was Mr and Mrs Cs holiday home, which they have now lost and are no longer 
able to use. And its clear from the information that this has been very distressing for 
Mr and Mrs C. Unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my 
provisional decision, Ill also be directing SoL to pay a further £1,000 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused and the impact this has had on 
Mr and Mrs C.
So, I was minded to uphold the complaint and to direct SoL to reconsider Mr and Mrs Cs 
claim in line with the remaining policy terms and pay a further £1,000 compensation.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs C responded and said they had nothing further to add.
SoL responded but they didnt agree with the provisional decision. They said the purpose of 
the frost stat is to provide protection against extreme temperatures. They said a great deal of 
weight has been put on an unsubstantiated argument, put forward by Mr and Mrs C, that 
even if the boiler was in operation, the pipes could still burst due to the extreme 
temperatures. SoL said the extreme temperature is irrelevant as the frost stat is there to stop 
the pipes from freezing. 
SoL said the complaint must be decided on the facts and where they cannot be established 
for certain, on the balance of probabilities. They say the facts are that the damage was due 
to frost, and frost damage could only occur if the boiler frost stat failed to operate. Therefore, 
on the balance of probabilities, they say the power was off before the escape of water 
occurred, and it would not have occurred if the frost stat had kicked in.
They also said there was little effort from Mr and Mrs C to get a written report from the 
plumber. And there is no expert opinion which explains how the damage would occur if the 
boiler had been switched on.
SoL also say that an assumption has been made that a power failure had caused the boiler 
to lose power and there is no evidence to support that, and no evidence that there were 
problems or faults with the power supply during the period in question.
They said the evidence supports the decision to decline the claim on the basis Mr and Mrs C 
didnt comply with the conditions under the policy, and the onus is on 
Mr and Mrs C to demonstrate there was another reason why the frost stat failed to operate.
SoL also said Mr and Mrs C were asked to provide electricity meter readings which would 
show if the park home was drawing power during the period in question, but they havent 
done so. They maintain that the cause of the escape of water wouldnt have happened if the 
boiler had been left on with the frost stat set, so they say Mr and Mrs C have failed to comply 
with the policy conditions.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached and the responses to it. 
Having done so, my final decision remains the same as my provisional decision.
SoL says that the case needs to be decided on the balance of probabilities. As explained in 
my provisional decision, thats what Ive done.
SoL has said the purpose of the frost stat is to provide protection against extreme 
temperatures. However, Im already aware of its purpose. And whilst it is there to provide 
protection and decrease the risk of this happening, this doesnt mean that a pipe could never 
freeze or burst. And unlike SoL, I do think the extreme temperatures here are relevant. For 
example, a sudden sharp temperature drop to -11 degrees could result in a heating system 
being unable to cope and/or cause a pipe to burst.
I also explained my thoughts about the possibility of a power failure in my provisional 
decision too. SoL has said Mr and Mrs C havent provided anything to show there was power 
loss, or the park home was drawing power at the time of the loss either. However, 
Mr and Mrs C have explained the park home doesnt have smart meters, and the readings 
are taken twice a year by the management. And in any event, putting aside the readings 
would only show a six-month usage, a meter reading isnt going to show if or when there 
was a power cut specifically. So, this wouldnt show specifically if one occurred before and 
impacted on the functionality of the boiler and frost stat and that caused the escape of water, 
or power failed after the escape of water had already occurred. 
Furthermore, it is unknown exactly when the pipes burst, as it wasnt discovered until 
extensive water under the park home was noticed by the park management. But that doesnt 
mean it was noticed on the same day it happened. If for example it wasnt noticed until 
several days after the burst, then the property would have been in a saturated condition for 
several days before it was noticed, and the plumber attended. Given the temperatures at the 
time, this could also be a reason why there was frost damage. 
SoL has referred to part of what Mr and Mrs Cs engineer said, however I discussed this in 
detail in my provisional decision, so I wont revisit that in detail again here. But in summary, I 
explained if one note is read in isolation, it could be interpreted that the boiler was turned off 
at the switch. However, I also explained why, taking into account the other notes, it makes 
that note less clear overall.
With the above and my provisional decision in mind, Im not persuaded that its been shown 
by SoL, on balance, that Mr and Mrs C failed to comply with the policy requirements. 
Therefore, I dont think SoL has acted fairly or reasonably by declining the claim. 
With this in mind, Im directing SoL to reconsider Mr and Mrs Cs claim in line with the 
remaining terms of the policy. In addition, Im also directing SoL to compensate 
Mr and Mrs C an additional £1,000 for the reasons outlined in my provisional decision.My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Society of Lloyds to:
Reconsider Mr and Mrs Cs claim in line with the remaining terms of the policy
Pay Mr and Mrs C a further £1,000 compensation
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman