DRN-3428909
The complaint
Miss C complains that Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) automatically transferred a fixed
rate ISA into new fixed rate product causing a loss of interest when she closed the account.
She would like the interest refunded.
.
What happened
Miss C says she took out a fixed rate cash ISA with YBS in April 2018 with a maturity date of
30 April 2021. Miss C says she didnt get a letter advising her of her options on maturity. As
a result, she missed the deadline to access her funds without penalty, incurring a £24.37
loss of interest when she did so.
YBS said the account terms were clear on its factsheet , that it had sent a letter with maturity
options and that the loss of interest was correctly applied
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded:-
Although Miss C told us YBS didnt make her aware of the maturity date and options 
for her cash ISA I found  YBS  sent her a letter with maturity options . As this letter 
was correctly addressed, I didnt know why she didnt get this . But Miss C would also  
have had this information from the product fact sheet, her statements.
If Miss C didnt get the maturity letter, she could have contacted YBS directly to 
discuss her options, but I had no evidence she did so.
Miss C had less than a month to access her money without penalty due to the month 
of May  having two bank holidays in it. The bank holidays would have impacted on 
the actual time available for her to access her funds. But Miss C still had 19 working 
days in May to access her funds and didnt do so.
I was not persuaded that, had the months access to her funds been a month with no 
bank holidays in it , that Miss C would have accessed her funds in time to avoid 
losing interest. I thought the  most likely explanation is that she forgot to do give her 
maturity instructions not that the bank holidays prevented her from doing so
Most consumers wouldnt ordinarily expect a given noticed period to be extended to 
take  into account bank holidays unless specifically stated which wasnt the case 
here.
I didnt feel I could reasonably expect YBS to refund Miss Cs loss of interest. I 
believed it had followed its terms and conditions correctly in deducting interest. And 
that Miss Chad sufficient information to know when her account would mature and 
the timescale for accessing her funds without incurring a loss of interest
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
YBS accepted my provisional decision and provided no further information for me to 
comment on.
Miss C didnt accept my provisional decision and made some points which I have responded 
to below.
Firstly, Miss C wanted to know what evidence YBS provided to show it had sent her a 
maturity options letter. Details from YBSs system confirmed this. We usually say this is 
sufficient proof to show a letter was sent. We dont expect, or think its reasonable , to expect 
businesses to send such correspondence by registered post or other means to confirm 
receipt. 
However even if Miss C didnt get the maturity options letter, I am still of the view she had 
sufficient other information to know when her account was maturing. And I think consumers 
have some responsibility to keep track of their affairs.
Secondly Miss C wanted to know what other communications she had received about 
maturity options just prior to the maturity date. The other communications I referred to in my 
provisional decision related to initial product information and statements on the account. I 
think these gave sufficient information on the maturity date of the ISA and the process on 
maturity. 
I am not aware of any other communications sent just prior to maturity other than the 
maturity options letter. I apologise if my provisional decision wasnt clear on this matter.
Thirdly Miss C has pointed out that there is no mention in YBSs literature that the month in 
which she could access her funds without a loss of interest would be shortened if maturity 
occurred in a month with a bank holiday in it. And that a month would be either 28-31 days 
or four weeks.
I have considered Miss Cs points in relation to this matter but I am still of the view that most 
consumers wouldnt expect a period to access funds to be extended if it fell in a month with 
bank holidays in it.. Its unfortunate that in her case the month for her to access her funds 
was one in which there were two bank holidays. But I think there was still sufficient time for 
her to give YBS her instructions for her account, but she didnt do so in the timescale given 
to avoid loss of interest.
Miss C said she did call YBS on 31 May 2021. Unfortunately, YBS were unable to evidence 
that phone call. Calls are usually recorded and kept for a period. We routinely get phone 
calls to listen to when they have been made. As there was no phone evidence for me to 
listen to, I was unable to conclude that Miss C made that call.
Finally, Miss C has made the point that the issue for her isnt one of compensation more an 
issue of how her complaint was dealt with. And that she wanted an apology from YBS. 
Unfortunately,  complaint handling in itself isnt a regulated activity so not a matter on its own 
that we can investigate. 
Miss C has said she still isnt sure what the final closing balance of her account was and if 
this included the loss of interest . If Miss C still isnt clear on this, she will need to go back to 
YBS to confirm the exact figures.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint Your text here
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman