DRN-3920485
The complaint
Mr K complains about the service he received when he applied to HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) for a currency account.
What happened
In November 2022, Mr K applied to HSBC for a currency account. HSBC declined his 
application. It said this was due to adverse information on Mr Ks credit file. 
Mr K raised a complaint. He was unhappy that his application had been processed 
automatically, rather than reviewed by a person. And he was concerned about the credit 
search which HSBC had carried out. 
Mr K said hed visited a branch before applying for the account and had been told hed need 
to apply online. He said he was told that HSBC would perform a soft credit search. But Mr K 
said a hard credit search was carried out, which was recorded on his credit file. He asked 
HSBC to remove it. He said he spoke to HSBC and was told the search would be removed 
and he would receive some compensation. But, when the complaint was reviewed in full, 
HSBC didnt uphold it. It declined to remove the search or pay any compensation to Mr K.
HSBC acknowledged that the application had been assessed by its system, rather than 
manually. It said its system is robust enough to understand all the relevant information. It 
said it wasnt obliged to review the automated decision. HSBC declined to do so here, as it 
said the outcome would be the same.
HSBC said it carries out a hard search for most account applications, including currency 
accounts. It said that, as Mr K applied through online banking, he was presented with 
mandatory wording advising that a credit search would be carried out. It said that customers 
cant proceed with an application unless they agree to the credit search and that Mr K did so 
here. It said that, if Mr K didnt want the credit search to be done, he could have stopped the 
application at that point.
HSBC said its required to record credit searches and can only ask the Credit Reference 
Agencies to remove a search record if HSBC has made a mistake. It said that Mr K agreed 
to the credit search, so it hasnt made a mistake and cant remove the search record here. In 
relation to the subsequent phone call, HSBC said the agent told Mr K she couldnt remove 
the search because the complaint needed to be fully investigated.
Mr K wasnt happy with HSBCs response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
wanted the search removed from his credit file as well as an apology and compensation. He 
also wanted his application to be referred to a person rather than the automated system.
Our Investigator didnt think HSBC had made a mistake in relation to Mr Ks application. But 
Mr K didnt agree. At that stage, he provided an extract from his credit report showing that no 
searches had been carried out in the last six months. He said that no search had been 
recorded by HSBC and that HSBC had lied. He asked for the complaint to be referred to an 
Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, as some of it is here, I reach my decision 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened, in 
light of the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
There are several aspects to Mr Ks complaint. For ease of reading, Ive considered these 
under separate headings, below.
Automated decision
Mr K is unhappy that HSBCs rejection of his application was an automated decision, made 
without human intervention. He says this is prohibited by data protection legislation and that, 
in making an automated decision, HSBC has breached his statutory rights. Individuals do 
have rights in relation to automated decision making under the UK General Data Protection 
Regulation (UK GDPR). But the UK GDPR doesnt prevent businesses from using 
automated systems to make decisions.
Its not the role of this service to say whether HSBC breached legislation  that would fall to 
the regulator, in this case the Information Commissioners Office. But I dont think HSBC 
acted unfairly by making an automated decision here and, from the information available to 
me, I think Mr K consented to it at the time of his application.  
I dont think Mr K is worse off because the decision was made by an automated process. He 
spoke to an individual at HSBC to express his dissatisfaction with the decision and asked for 
a review. HSBC considered his request and responded to his comments. It declined to 
complete a manual review because the application had been declined due to adverse credit 
file data. HSBC said that a manual review would take account of the same data and so the 
result would be the same as the automated decision. I think thats a reasonable stance, so 
Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything in this respect.
Application declined
When a customer applies for an account, a business will often carry out a credit search. This 
involves looking at their credit report. I think it was reasonable for HSBC to carry out a credit 
search here. Im satisfied that it reviewed data from more than one Credit Reference Agency 
when assessing Mr Ks application. One of the Agencies held adverse information and Im 
satisfied that was the reason the application was declined.
Type of credit search
There are two types of credit search: a soft search and a hard search. A soft search doesnt 
leave a footprint on the customers credit file, so it doesnt affect their credit score. A hard 
search is visible to other lenders and could affect a customers credit score. Part of Mr Ks 
complaint is about the type of search made by HSBC here. He complained that it had carried 
out a hard search and said hed been told in the branch beforehand that only a soft search 
would be completed. Hes unhappy that HSBC doesnt have any record of this conversation. 
But I dont think its unreasonable that an over-the-counter query of the nature he has 
described wasnt noted.HSBC says that staff at the relevant branch are aware that currency accounts go through a 
full credit search. It says that the branchs standard response to queries about credit 
searches is that the online application will advise which type of search will be made.
Mr K accepts that he was told during the application process that there would be a credit 
search. But he says, in light of what hed been told in the branch, he took the statement to 
mean it would be a soft search. Ive seen the information which HSBC displays to customers 
where a hard search is required and that displayed where only a soft search is required. I 
think Mr K was shown the information for the hard search and that he agreed to this, 
enabling the application to proceed.
However, in light of evidence recently provided by Mr K, it looks as though no search was 
recorded on his credit file.
No search recorded on the credit file
One of the main elements of Mr Ks complaint was that HSBC had carried out a hard search 
which affected his credit file. He raised this when he first complained to HSBC in November 
2022 and when he referred the complaint to this service. He said that HSBC had carried out 
a hard search despite telling him it wouldnt do so. He said on the complaint form that the 
hard search had impacted his ability to obtain credit. He said hed also suffered distress, 
inconvenience and anxiety as a result of the damage the search had caused to his credit file. 
He sought compensation and the immediate removal of the search record from his credit file.
But, upon receipt of our Investigators view, Mr K got in touch to say that there is no hard 
search on his credit file and never has been. Im not sure when Mr K became aware of this 
or why he thought a hard search had been recorded if it hadnt. Nor is it clear how he was 
adversely affected in the ways he described if the search hadnt ever been recorded on his 
file. In the circumstances, I dont find that Mr K suffered any detriment. But, even if the 
search had been recorded on his credit file, I dont think that would mean HSBC had made a 
mistake or acted unfairly here, for the reasons above.
Mr K says that HSBC lied about the hard search. He now requests proof from HSBC that it 
carried out a hard search. From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that HSBC carried out a 
search at the Credit Reference Agencies when assessing Mr Ks application. As I explained 
above, I think this was a hard search and I think that was reasonable. 
I havent seen anything which explains why the search isnt showing on Mr Ks credit file. 
From the available information, I cant conclude that HSBC made a mistake. In any event, I 
understand that Mr K didnt want anything recorded on his credit file and there isnt anything 
on his credit file. So it appears this aspect of his complaint has fallen away. Im not going to 
ask HSBC to do anything about it.
Other mistakes by HSBC
Mr K says that HSBCs staff arent well trained and often make errors. He refers to a deposit 
made to his account in error, which HSBC then reversed. He says hes entitled to some 
remedy as a result. I havent seen any details about this incident. But I dont think it had 
sufficient impact to warrant compensation. And I dont find that it has any bearing on the 
issue of the account application. So, Im not going to ask HSBC to do anything about it.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman