DRN-2699908
The complaint
Mrs B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund money she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
In June 2019 Mrs B fell victim to a scam.
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to be as 
follows.
Mrs B was looking to buy a car. Shes told us that after comparing cars on a number of 
auction sites, she found one she was interested in, from a company that she thought 
specialised in repossessed vehicles.
Mrs B contacted the company and expressed an interest in buying the car and, after 
exchanging a number of emails, Mrs B agreed a price of £6,700. The company told Mrs B 
that payment for the vehicle would need to be made to an Escrow account. It explained to 
Mrs B that she would be the account holder of the temporary Escrow and it would be in her 
name. They told her it was like sending money to herself, with the money being held until 
Mrs B had the opportunity to inspect the car. Mrs Bs understanding was that, if after 
inspecting it, she was not happy with the car, her money would be released from the Escrow 
back into her bank account.
Mrs B has told us that she also carried out a search of the company through Companies 
House, shes said she did this as it was a large purchase and she hadnt heard of the 
company, so she wanted to ensure everything was above board. On checking she said she 
found that it was a legitimate company, that had been active since 2013. Alongside this she 
said she checked the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) website and conducted a Google 
search, and couldnt see any warnings for the company.
Believing everything to be genuine, on 26 June 2019, Mrs B went ahead and made a 
payment for £6,700 to the account details provided. But unknown to her at the time, she was 
dealing with fraudsters, who had cloned a legitimate companys website. Mrs B became 
suspicious when the vehicle didnt arrive. She contacted the company via the details 
provided on Companies House and got through to the legitimate company, who informed her 
they had received other similar calls about people who had been scammed and that the 
matter had been referred to the police.
Realising she had been the victim of a scam Mrs B contacted HSBC on 1 July 2019. HSBC 
has said it contacted the receiving bank (the bank who the money was sent to), but no funds 
remained.
HSBC is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. HSBC says one or more of 
those exceptions applies in this case.
HSBC looked into Mrs Bs complaint and made an offer to refund 50% of the amount Mrs B 
had lost. It said that it could have done more to protect and advise Mrs B before she made 
the payment, but thought Mrs B also could have taken more responsibility and conducted 
more checks prior to making the payment.
Mrs B then brought her complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked into 
things. Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary she didnt 
consider HSBC had been able to establish that Mrs B did not have a reasonable basis for 
believing she was making a legitimate payment. She said this because Mrs B had conducted 
research on the company before making the payment, and could see it was a legitimate 
company that had been active since 2013. She added that Mrs B had seen what she thought 
was a professional looking website and she was under the belief that the money she paid 
was being held by a third party company, which she would receive back if there was 
anything wrong with the vehicle. Overall, our investigator was persuaded this was a very 
sophisticated scam and she didnt think Mrs B ought to have done anything further to check 
the legitimacy of the company before proceeding.
HSBC disagreed strongly with our investigators findings. It didnt accept that it should be 
held liable for the entirety of the sum lost. In summary HSBC said this because;
- It strongly disagreed with our investigators position that Mrs B had a reasonable 
belief that the payment was for genuine goods and that the person with whom she 
was transacting with was legitimate. It said applying the CRM code, it didnt consider 
Mrs B had met her requisite level of care and she should share some of the 
responsibility for the loss.
- It felt Mrs B had failed to take reasonable and appropriate steps to protect herself 
from fraud and had failed to carry out adequate research, so as to appraise herself of 
an appropriate valuation for the vehicle. It added that Mrs B didnt do any checks with 
the DVLA to establish who the owner of the car was, or if there were any outstanding 
funds.
- It said Mrs B did not see the car in person before purchasing it, which it said was 
standard before purchasing a car and that Mrs B had made a full payment, rather 
than paid a deposit.
- Mrs B had made the payment through an Escrow, but had gathered no proof of this.
It concluded that Mrs B did not meet the requisite level of care  or that she was grossly 
negligent in her actions and beliefs. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, HSBC should have refunded Mrs B the full 
amount she lost. And I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case.
- I understand Mrs B has already been refunded 50% of the loss (£3,350) by HSBC. In 
the circumstances, HSBC should refund the remainder of the money she lost.
- The payment was made from Mrs Bs current account. It is not clear if or when Mrs B 
would have used the money to buy a different car. As is not clear how she would 
have used the money if HSBC had refunded it when it should have done, HSBC 
should pay interest on the remaining amount it should have refunded at 8% simple 
per year from the date it partially declined her claim to the date of payment.
I have carefully considered HSBCs representations that Mrs B did not have a reasonable 
basis for believing she was making payments to a genuine source, but they do not persuade 
me to reach a different view. In particular, Im not persuaded Mrs B failed to take the 
requisite level of care required for HSBC to choose not to reimburse under the terms of the 
CRM Code. 
In reaching my decision, Ive had regard to the scene that was set by the fraudster and the 
impact I believe this reasonably had, in all the circumstances, on Mrs Bs thoughts and 
actions. In this case Im satisfied that HSBC has not shown that Mrs B lacked a reasonable 
basis of belief. Ill explain why.
This is a particularly sophisticated scam where a legitimate dealership has been cloned by 
fraudsters. Considering she was making a large payment, Mrs B has said she wanted to 
check the company out before proceeding and so she checked the company through 
Companies House and through the FCA. I can understand why, when these checks didnt 
highlight any concerns, she proceeded in the belief she was dealing with a legitimate 
company. 
I accept in the circumstances of this case Mrs B could have potentially carried out further 
checks, for example an HPI or a DVLA check, but I dont think this would have made a 
difference in the circumstances of this case. I say this because this was a highly 
sophisticated scam where fraudsters had been able to clone a genuine company. I think with 
the level of sophistication that was in play here, its more likely than not any HPI or DVLA 
checks wouldnt have raised any alerts, as it is often the case with these types of 
sophisticated scams that fraudsters are able to provide their victims with details for legitimate 
vehicles, which have no adverse data against them.
HSBC has said Mrs B failed to appraise herself of an appropriate valuation for the vehicle. I 
can appreciate, especially with the knowledge that this later transpired to be a scam, that the 
advertised price for this particular car was below what a buyer might typically expect to pay 
for it. And I accept that a low price can be an indicator that a situation is not what it seems. 
But here Im persuaded Mrs B was given a reasonable explanation as to why the price was 
low. She thought that she was buying a car from an auction site that dealt with repossessed 
vehicles, which is why she believed she was getting it at a low price. And in the context of 
Mrs B believing, with the checks she carried out, that the whole situation was plausible, Im persuaded that it was fair and reasonable, in the circumstances of this case, for Mrs B to 
have proceeded with the payment.  
Ive also thought about whether Mrs B ought reasonably to have viewed the vehicle before 
making the payment. The distance between Mrs Bs home and where the car was located 
was almost 200 miles, so Im persuaded this was too great a distance for viewing the car to 
be realistic. And Mrs B proceeded on the understanding her payment was going to be held 
in an account in her name. Where she could readily get fully reimbursed if she didnt want 
the vehicle after inspecting it. On balance and considering the circumstances of this case, I 
think it fair and reasonable that Mrs B didnt view the vehicle and that she was reassured 
that she would get her money back if there were any problems.
Im also mindful that Mrs B made the payment, in the belief, following the checks she had 
carried out, that she was dealing with a legitimate company. Im not persuaded the average 
customer would understand that a fraudster would be able to clone a legitimate website. This 
means that a customer wouldnt be able to appreciate the risk that they might not be dealing 
with a genuine organisation, especially when they have carried out checks which suggest 
otherwise. 
Overall, for the reasons Ive explained above and in the absence of Mrs B having the 
knowledge of what these types of scam looked and felt like, I think the actions she took 
before progressing with her payment were reasonable.
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied HSBC has been able to establish that when 
Mrs B sent the payment, she did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Putting things right
The Code explains that where a customer has met their requisite level of care (which as Ive 
explained, Im satisfied was the case here) they should be refunded all of the money that 
was lost. So, I think its fair that HSBC should now;
- refund the remaining money Mrs B lost (being £3,350)
- pay interest at the simple rate of 8% per year on that amount (less any tax properly 
deductible) from the date HSBC declined Mrs Bs full claim under the CRM to the 
date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman