DRN-4403919
The complaint
Mr H complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits of a defined-benefit (DB) 
occupational pension scheme, to a type of personal pension plan arrangement. He says the 
advice, which was apparently provided around 1991 was unsuitable for him. He believes this 
has caused him a financial loss.
Marx Insurance Services Ltd is the business complained about. To keep things simple, Ill 
refer mainly to MISL.
Mr H has used a representative company to help him bring his complaint.
What happened
Mr H is complaining about the advice to transfer his armed forces pension scheme into a 
type of personal pension arrangement. Theres no real doubt that such a transfer took place. 
However, this is a very difficult complaint to get to grips with. This is because Mr H simply 
hasnt been able to provide much information at all. He also hasnt retained any 
documentation which has aided us investigating this complaint. 
Of course, I sympathise with Mr H and I understand how difficult its been to remember the 
events of such a long time ago. These alleged events are from over 30 years past and I also 
understand Mr H has more recently been suffering ill health, which Im very sorry to hear 
about. 
One of our Investigators has looked into the complaint and said he didnt think we should 
uphold it. He noted the history of Mr H bringing this complaint initially against the new 
pension provider. But this wasnt right because the firm was a provider of pensions and 
pension platforms, rather than a business which advises clients on pension transfers. 
Mr H and his adviser then raised a complaint with another body, the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS), against a different firm, but this complaint didnt succeed 
either. Faced with a further complaint to our Service (the Financial Ombudsman Service), 
this time against MISL, our Investigator didnt think MISL had provided the alleged unsuitable 
advice. And so he said we shouldnt uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Mr H still doesnt agree with this. Due to the issues remaining disputed and unresolved, Ive 
considered his complaint. Having looked carefully at everything we have, Im not upholding 
the complaint against MISL. Im sorry to disappoint Mr H.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of the matter is whether the business Mr H is complaining against is responsible for 
the unsuitable advice which he alleges. I accept that he genuinely believes the advice to 
transfer wasnt in his best interests and that it has possibly caused him an overall financial 
loss. But as Ive said, Mr H is represented in this matter and Id expect his representative to 
have the resources to bring the complaint, with supporting evidence, against the correct 
responsible business.
We know Mr H initially brought a complaint about his pension transfer against the pension 
provider, a firm Ill call Firm P. Our Service, the Financial Ombudsman Service, 
investigated this complaint and concluded it wasnt responsible for the advice to transfer. 
This was on the basis that Firm P was a pension provider, rather than an adviser, and 
wouldnt have been responsible for the advice.
As the transfer took place in around 1991 Firm P speculated that another business, a firm Ill 
call Firm DW, might have been involved in the advice although it was no longer trading. For 
this reason Mr H complained to the FSCS but it rejected the complaint on the basis that if 
Firm DW was involved, its connection with MISL might mean a complaint could be properly 
brought against MISL, for the original unsuitable pension transfer advice.
However, Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean that MISL is responsible for now 
answering Mr Hs complaint. As our investigator pointed out, within the documentation 
shared by the ceding scheme via Mr Hs representative, it seems another firm  Ill call this 
Firm H - requested authority in March 1991 to look into Mr Hs pension affairs. In my view 
this would tend to signify that Firm H was advising Mr H in some capacity. Also dated March 
1991, Mr H signed a letter of authority giving Firm H the relevant permissions. Firm H seems 
to have requested Mr Hs DB pension transfer value at around the same period. I cant see 
any similar request for pension information from either Firm DW or the business which this 
complaint refers to now, MISL.
Mr Hs representative has asked us now to decide which business to raise a complaint 
against. But Im afraid this is a matter for it to decide. My understanding is that Mr Hs 
representative substantially operates in the claims management sector and so Id expect it to 
advise Mr H using the experience and resources it has.
Of course, I do accept it can be difficult to establish exactly what has happened, particularly 
from such a long time ago. However, Im satisfied we have carried out a proportionate 
investigation into these matters on the very limited information provided to us. Mr H clearly 
has difficulty in remembering what happened and who spoke to him. And we have very little 
paperwork to refer to.
Its important here for me to be clear that in concluding MISL wasnt responsible, which is 
what I am saying is most likely here, there doesnt have to be evidence showing who was 
responsible for the advice; this isnt my role. This investigation is limited to MISLs actions 
and its alleged involvement in Mr Hs armed forces pension transfer in the early 1990s. The 
evidence is more persuasive that MISL is not responsible for that advice.
Summary
I completely accept that there is a less than clear picture here of what really went on. 
However this was over 30 years ago. There is insufficient evidence showing that Mr H was 
personally advised by MISL. Having said that, Id like to place on record that I certainly dont 
doubt Mr Hs points of complaint are genuinely and honestly held. But the more persuasive 
evidence, in my view, is of a company (MISL) that didnt advise him.
So, like our investigator, I cant hold Marx Insurance Services Ltd responsible for providing 
unsuitable advice to Mr H because I dont think it did provide him with any advice at all. 
This is a conclusion Ive had to arrive at on balance of probabilities, due to the lack of 
evidence.Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I am not upholding Mr Hs complaint that he was provided 
by unsuitable advice by Marx Insurance Services Ltd.
In view of this, Marx Insurance Services Ltd doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman