DRN-2761930
The complaint
Mr E complained that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr E took out a single Mr Lender loan as follows: 
loan start date date repaid instalmentsloan 
amounthighest 
instalment 
amount
110/03/2020 28/08/2020 3 £200.00 £114.66
One of our adjudicators investigated this loan. In summary, our adjudicator said that:
- the information Mr E had given Mr Lender about his income and expenditure showed 
that the loan shouldve been affordable for him
- it was fair for Mr Lender to have relied on the information it gathered as it had verified 
Mr Es income and his employment
- she didnt think that Mr Lender had reason to think Mr E mightve been experiencing 
underlying financial difficulty.
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. Mr E disagreed with our adjudicators 
view. Mainly he said that the checks Mr Lender did should have indicated that they should 
not have lent to him. So his complaint comes to me for a final decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used this 
approach to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender provided Mr E with a high-interest loan intended for short-term use and needed to 
make sure that it didnt provide the loan irresponsibly. In practice, this means that it should 
have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr E could repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and Mr Es income and expenditure. With this in mind, in 
the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Es complaint. Before lending to Mr E, Mr Lender 
asked Mr E for information about his financial situation, such as his monthly income and his 
outgoings, including what he was spending on other credit. Using this information, Mr Lender 
was able to see what his monthly budget typically looked like. And it worked out what he 
could afford to borrow. 
Looking at the monthly loan repayment amounts and the loan term, and the information 
Mr Lender had on record for Mr E, including what it appears Mr E told Mr Lender about his 
monthly income and what he was paying out each month and also spending on other credit, 
this didnt point to the loan being unaffordable for Mr E. After taking into account his take 
home pay and the spending it appears Mr E told Mr Lender about, Mr E still shouldve had 
more than £1,000 left over to pay for this loan. As the monthly repayments due on this loan 
were all around £100 or so (and even with deferring payments the highest repayment would 
be less than £115), this loan wouldve looked comfortably affordable for Mr E. 
Im sorry that Mr E had a problem with debt and that making the repayments on this loan 
turned out to be difficult for him. I accept that in reality Mr Es actual circumstances possibly 
werent fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the other information 
Mr Lender obtained. But wed expect Mr Lender to decide Mr Es lending application based 
on the information it was reasonably entitled to rely on at the time. 
As this was the first loan Mr E had taken out with Mr Lender, Mr E didn't have any track 
record with the lender that shouldve alerted Mr Lender to any underlying money problems. 
It wasnt an unusually large loan, given that it looks like his take home pay was around 
£3,500. And Mr E was planning to pay the loan back over just 3 months  which I think was 
a reasonably foreseeable period of time. So I think Mr Lender could reasonably rely on the 
information Mr E provided.
Its worth remembering that a lender might only see a small portion of a borrowers credit file, 
or some data might be missing or anonymised or not up to date. I also understand that not 
all payday and short term lenders report to the same credit reference agencies. So a 
lenders credit check might not show all the information someone could see (or expect to 
see) on their own credit file. I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr Lender to lend as there 
wasnt anything obvious, in the information it had, to suggest Mr E wouldnt be able to repay 
the loan in a sustainable way. I dont think proportionate checks in these circumstances 
wouldve required Mr Lender to probe any more deeply into Mr Es finances or ask Mr E to 
prove what he was declaring or check other information sources to verify what he had told 
them (or omitted to say) about his financial circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr E feels that Mr Lender didnt properly take into account the credit 
information it did obtain. But I agree with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to 
give Mr E this loan on the basis of what it knew about his financial situation at the time from 
the credit checks it did and the information he gave about his income and outgoings. 
Mr Lender allowed for Mr E needing to pay £1,153 towards his other credit  so I think that 
wouldve seemed a reasonable figure. And from what Ive seen from its checks, bearing in 
mind that borrowers applying for loans of this type often have other credit on their record and 
sometimes an impaired credit history, there wasnt anything that Id expect a reasonable 
lender to be unduly concerned about. It was early in the lending relationship and so I think 
the checks were enough for Mr Lender to agree to lend. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Mr Lender did anything wrong in deciding to lend this loan to 
Mr E. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment to Mr E. But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman