DRN-3967191
The complaint
Y complains that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited cancelled its policy.
What happened
Y had an income protection policy with L&G. Y said L&G cancelled its policy unfairly and that 
this unfairly impacted a claim brought by its director. Y would like L&G to reinstate the policy 
so its director can continue to make a claim. There are other related complaints that Ive 
considered separately to this one.   
L&G said that Y stopped paying the policy premiums. It said the last payment received was 
in December 2021. L&G said it gave Y time to bring the policy up to date and that this didnt 
happen. The policy lapsed in August 2022. It referred to the policy terms and said that 
because Y didnt pay the premiums it was able to cancel the policy after 30 days. It also 
noted Y had much longer than that to bring the payments back up to date. L&G said it 
wouldnt reinstate the policy and that there was no obligation for it to do so. L&G 
sympathised with Y because there was a lack of funds to cover the cost of the premiums as 
its director became incapacitated in January 2022 and was unable to trade since then. 
Our investigator agreed with L&G. She was satisfied it tried to engage with Y, checking the 
payment details were correct and regularly wrote to Y reminding it there were missing 
payments. She also sympathised with the circumstances surrounding this complaint but said 
that Y, as a limited company, was ultimately responsible for making sure the payments were 
made. 
Y disagreed. In summary, it said that its director was incapacitated and therefore this 
compromised its ability to trade. It said without money coming in, it was unable to fulfil its 
financial commitments. However, Y still believes L&G should effectively overlook the missed 
payments and reinstate the policy, as well as allow its directors claim to continue. And so, 
its now for me to make a final decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive also decided not to uphold it. I say that for similar reasons to those 
given by our investigator. Y was obligated to pay the policy premiums. I understand the 
reasons why it couldnt, but I dont consider L&G to have made a mistake or to have treated 
Y unfairly by cancelling the policy once it had lapsed. Ill explain why. 
To be clear, the policy terms say about paying premiums;
Paying premiums during the deferred period
You must continue to pay premiums during your deferred period and whilst we are 
processing your claim. We will tell you when you no longer need to pay premiums. We will 
return any overpaid premiums to you. If you dont continue to pay premiums during your 
deferred period you wont be able to claim a monthly benefit at the end of the deferred 
period
And;
What happens if the premium is not paid?
We are entitled to cancel the policy if any premiums are not paid within 30 days of their due 
date. If we cancel the policy your cover will end and no further premiums will be payable. We 
will not refund any premiums already paid
Ive highlighted the above terms because Ive considered L&Gs actions in conjunction with 
them. Ys last payment was in December 2021 which means L&G could have cancelled the 
policy much sooner than it did. L&G didnt cancel the policy until August 2022 and so 
although this isnt consistent with the terms, it was more beneficial for Y because it provided 
more opportunity for it to bring the missing premiums back up to date. The deferred period 
on this policy was eight weeks. The claim was brought in January 2022, so it effectively 
should have paid the premiums for the eight weeks that followed. But as Ive already said, 
this didnt happen.
Y said it was unable to do this because its director was incapacitated during that time. Y said 
it couldnt trade and therefore was in financial difficulty. I understand the argument it made 
here, but I think L&G gave an ample amount of time for Y to try and make other 
arrangements to repay the premiums. Unfortunately, Y was unable to secure other financial 
means to make those repayments, but I dont think it reasonable to hold L&G responsible for 
that. I think it responded sympathetically to Ys concerns by giving it more time to repay the 
outstanding premiums. 
Ys terms are clear that the policy will lapse if the premiums are not paid and so I dont think 
its done anything wrong by cancelling the policy. Ive also seen that L&G wrote to Y 
regularly explaining that the premiums were outstanding and that the policy would lapse 
should they not be brought up to date. Y contacted L&G in January and February to give 
updated payment details, but I note these were the same details already held by L&G. The 
attempts to collect payment were declined by Ys bank. Eventually, in March 2022, the direct 
debit was cancelled by Ys bank and so L&G were unable to collect the missing payments. 
L&G wrote to Y explaining this, but no further attempts were made by Y to repay the 
outstanding amounts. The policy remained unpaid until August when it lapsed. This 
impacted a claim that was brought by Ys director  which Ive considered separately to this 
complaint  but I dont think it fair to hold L&G responsible here for the reasons Ive 
explained. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint because I dont think L&G made an error by cancelling Ys 
policy because it had lapsed due to the premiums not being paid. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023.
 
Scott Slade
Ombudsman