DRN-3732020
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limiteds decision to turn down a storm claim under 
her home insurance policy.
All references to Ageas include its appointed agents.
What happened
Mrs H raised a claim on her home insurance policy with Ageas for damage to her property. 
She said the damage was caused by high winds during a storm which had blown down a 
section of a wall.
Ageas said it couldnt be shown that the storm was the primary or effective cause of the 
damage to the wall. It said it was more likely the wall had become damaged through natural 
wear and tear over time, and that the storm highlighted the problem. It apologised for the 
delay in communicating its decision  based on a surge in storm claims at the time.
Mrs H wasnt happy with Ageas response and referred the matter to our service. In 
summary she said:
That Ageas took too long to attend her property and then turn down her claim.
The loss adjusters reports contained inaccuracies, including placing too much weight 
on a neighbouring outbuilding which wasnt part of her claim.
Our investigator looked at everything and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They 
concluded that on balance, the evidence from Ageas loss adjuster showed wear and tear to 
the wall. So, they concluded Ageas had acted fairly in turning down the claim.
Mrs H disagreed with our investigators findings and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She added:
That the same loss adjuster returned to her property and upheld their own findings.
She didnt dispute that the wall had stood for a long time but says that it wouldnt 
have fallen on that day but for the storm.
The wall didnt have any cracks or lean to it, and the exclusion for wear and tear has 
been applied unfairly.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role isnt to determine exactly what caused the wall to fail, but rather to decide if Ageas 
decision to turn down the claim was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Ageas 
position is that it hasnt been shown that a one-off storm was the predominant cause of the 
damage being claimed for. And that the damage was due to wear and tear over time.       
Mrs Hs policy excludes damage from wear, tear and depreciation.
Im satisfied that clearly there were storm conditions around the time Mrs H claimed. And Im 
also satisfied that the damage Mrs H is claiming for is typical of damage which would be 
caused by high winds  namely the collapse of a section of the wall. And neither of these 
points is in dispute.
So, Ill focus the remainder of my decision on the final question our service asks, which is 
Was the storm the main cause of the damage?. 
To answer this question, Ive considered the two reports provided by Ageas loss adjuster, 
Mrs Hs comments, and the photos which show the wall and the damage.
Ageas loss adjuster states, The wall is over 1m high from the back with no support 
pillars...the wall is suffering from wear and tear and is acting as a support wall with no 
supporting pillars. 
And in the second report the loss adjuster states, The wall was not in good condition and 
there is [sic] multiple factors in the wall going over. The wall is boundary and at over 6ft high 
has no supports at the back. It is retaining wall for the upper garden area. It was found there 
is [sic] tree roots behind the wall. The wall was in a poor condition and in our opinion the 
proximate cause is wear and tear and gradual deterioration over a long period of time. The 
winds have brought to light an underlying issue. 
Mrs H says the swirling winds on the night of the storm were the predominant reason for it 
falling down. She says that the loss adjuster unfairly accused her of deliberately contributing 
to the loss through a lack of maintenance, and of exaggerating her claim. And she disputes 
the condition of the wall was as poor as the loss adjuster made out.
I do accept Mrs Hs point about the report inferring she either contributed to the loss or 
exaggerated the claim. I find this unnecessarily harsh, and I havent seen any evidence to 
indicate either conclusion is reasonable here. And I agree that the outbuildings condition 
isnt relevant to the outcome of the claim. But in any event, Im not persuaded these reasons 
are sufficient to overturn Ageas decision to decline the claim. 
Instead, the photos show me areas of the wall where there is a reasonable amount of moss 
growing on the lower section, there appears to be some gaps in the mortar, and overall, I 
find the loss adjusters conclusions about the condition of the wall are reasonable.
I find the evidence presented is sufficient to conclude that the damage cannot be reasonably 
attributed to a single one-off storm event. So, whilst I dont dispute that the remaining wall 
may be in reasonable condition, I am persuaded on balance that the storm highlighted an 
underlying issue, likely linked to wear and tear, as opposed to being the main cause of the 
wall collapsing. 
Ive considered Ageas took some weeks to communicate its decision to turn down the claim, 
and Mrs H chased the outcome directly. Ageas has attributed this delay to a surge in storm 
claims which followed a named storm. Having considered the overall timeline of events, I 
find Ageas apology sufficient, and I wont require it to do anything further here.
So, for these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2022.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman