DRN-2376755
The complaint
Mr F complains that ETU Forsikring A/S (which Ill refer to as ETU) declined his pet 
insurance claim. My references to ETU include its agents.
What happened
Mr F had pet insurance for his dog, insured by ETU. He claimed for the cost of vet treatment 
when his dog escaped from his home and was struck by a vehicle on the road.
ETU wouldnt pay the claim. It assessed what Mr F had said about how the accident 
happened. ETU said he hadnt taken reasonable steps to prevent the accident, as the policy 
required.
Our investigator thought ETU had fairly declined the claim.
Mr F disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
I made a provisional decision that I was intending to uphold the claim. I said:
I have to decide whether ETU fairly and reasonably declined this claim. Im intending to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain why
The policy says:
Throughout the Period of Insurance You must take all reasonable steps to maintain 
Your Pets health and to prevent Accidents, Injury, Illness and loss.
Ive listened to the call between Mr F and ETU where he described what he could remember 
about the accident. Mr F and his dog returned from a walk, he put his dog into the house and 
returned to his car in his driveway to get shopping to take into the house. Mr F told ETU he 
thought the dog safe was indoors but he slipped out. He didnt know his dog had gone until 
he heard a commotion and his dog was lying in the road being attended to by a passer-by.
ETU asked Mr F if hed closed the front door. Mr F said he couldnt remember but that his 
dog could sometimes open the door with his paw if it wasnt closed properly. He also told 
ETU that people regularly drive over 80 miles an hour on the road outside his house.
ETUs research found that the road was an A road with a speed limit of 40 miles per hour 
and Mr F didnt have a gate between his driveway and the road.
In explaining its decision ETU said that as Mr F knew his dog could open the front door and 
people regularly drive at high speeds along the road in front of his house it was reasonable 
for Mr F to take extra steps to ensure his dog was unable to escape from his home. It 
concluded that as the dog had escaped he hadnt taken reasonable steps to prevent the 
accident.
I dont think ETUs conclusion is fair in the circumstances. Wed generally say that a 
policyholder hadnt taken reasonable steps if they knew of the risk but took no steps to 
minimise the risk or took steps which they knew to be inadequate.
Im satisfied that in the call Mr F gave ETU an honest account of what happened. He knew 
the road was a risk to his dog and he cant remember if he closed the front door when he got 
the shopping from his car. But as its clear Mr F thought his dog was safe indoors I think its 
more likely than not that he would have taken reasonable steps to try to ensure his dog was 
safe.
The front door may not have been closed properly, and his dog slipped outside, but theres 
no evidence that Mr F intentionally didnt close the door properly. And as he knew the dog 
could sometimes open the door if not closed properly I think its unlikely Mr F would have 
knowingly not closed the door properly.
ETU havent persuaded me that Mr F took no steps or steps he knew to be inadequate to 
minimise the risk. Just because the dog did escape from his home doesnt mean that Mr F 
failed to take reasonable steps to try to prevent the accident.
I dont think ETU fairly and reasonably declined the claim. ETU must pay Mr Fs claim in line 
with the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mr F has already paid the vet costs then ETU 
must add interest as Ive detailed below.
Responses to my provisional decision
ETU accepted my provisional decision. Mr F didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As ETU accept my provisional decision and Ive had no response from Mr F Ive no reason 
to change my mind. For the reasons Ive given in my provisional findings and these findings 
I dont think ETU fairly and reasonably declined the claim and I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
ETU must pay Mr Fs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mr F has 
already paid the vet costs then ETU must add interest as Ive detailed below.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
I require ETU Forsikring A/S to pay Mr Fs claim in line with the remaining policy terms and 
limits. If Mr F has already paid the vet costs then interest* must be added at 8% simple a 
year from the date Mr F paid the vet to the date of settlement of the claim.
*If ETU Forsikring A/S considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from that interest it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give
Mr F a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman