DRN-1580228
 
The complaint
AXA France IARD has accepted responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill 
just refer to AXA in my decision.
Mrs B says AXA mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened 
This complaint is about a PPI policy Mrs B took out with a store card in April 2004. It was 
added to her account when she applied for the card whilst she was shopping in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
She has asked for a review so this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
Mrs B mainly said that she took the insurance out when she was at the till and she wasnt 
given enough time to make a decision about PPI.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA has given us a copy of Mrs Bs store card application. Mrs B has completed the PPI 
part of the form to indicate that she wanted to take out the cover offered. I dont know what 
may have been said about the PPI. But I think it wouldve been clear from the paperwork that 
it was up to Mrs B to say if she wanted to have PPI added on. 
If Mrs B felt she hadnt had enough time to decide if she wanted to take out the PPI she 
could've left this part of the form blank and taken out her store card without the PPI. I can 
see shes crossed through some of the other optional features that were offered on the 
application form. So I think she would've understood at the time that it was up to her say if 
she wanted to have PPI  and if shed wanted longer to think about the PPI then she didn't 
have to take it.
Mrs B signed the completed application so it seems to me that at the time she must have 
agreed with the information on the form and decided she did want to take the opportunity to 
take out the PPI. On balance, I find that Mrs B was aware the policy was available as an 
option and it was added to her account when she chose to take it out.
AXA needed to make sure it gave Mrs B enough clear information to decide if the policy was 
right for her.Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. So I need to consider if Mrs B wouldve acted differently, and not bought the policy, if 
clearer information had been provided. 
Mrs B told us that she couldnt remember her sick pay entitlement through work and she had 
no other way of making the monthly repayments on her store card if she wasnt able to work. 
  
This policy couldve paid a benefit for as long as Mrs B was off work sick or disabled. So it 
couldve paid out for longer than Mrs B was entitled to sick pay through work  and cleared 
her card balance if she wasnt well enough to go back to work. This benefit was also 
available to Mrs B in the event that she lost her job unexpectedly and became unemployed. 
So I think Mrs B couldve benefitted from having the policy if shed needed to claim.
 It doesnt look as if Mrs B was affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover. So, 
I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and limitations wouldve put 
her off taking it out. 
I dont think its likely that AXA gave Mrs B clear enough information about the costs of the 
PPI policy. But Mrs B chose to take out the policy when she didnt have to  so she seems to 
have wanted it at the time. And she indicated on the application she completed that she was 
happy to pay to have the policy as she signed next to the box where it said: Yes I would like 
to protect my Account ...Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until 
further notice. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI offered Mrs B, I think it unlikely she wouldve made 
a different decision if better information had been provided. On balance I think shed still 
have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman