The complaint
Mr W complains that British Gas Services Limited (BG) wasnt able to repair his boiler under 
his home emergency cover.
What happened
Mr W had HomeCare Four home emergency cover with BG, including boiler and central 
heating cover. He called BG to report that his boiler had stopped working and it sent out an 
engineer to investigate. The engineer wasnt able to fix the boiler on that visit and ordered 
the part needed.
Two days later, Mr W called BG again because he understood an engineer shouldve 
attended that day to fix the boiler. BG explained that it could take more than ten days for the 
part to arrive.
Mr W complained to BG because he thought it was unreasonable for it to insure products 
without having the parts available. During its investigation, BG found that parts for Mr Ws 
boiler were no longer available because the boiler was obsolete. 
Mr W bought a new boiler. When the engineer fitted it he said he didnt think the old boiler 
had been serviced because there was a leak and it was full of soot. Mr W complained to BG 
that it hadnt been fulfilling its obligations under the terms of the HomeCare policy. 
BG looked into Mr Ws complaint and offered him £500 for the distress and inconvenience of 
not having any heating. He accepted the payment on the understanding that it wouldnt 
affect consideration of his complaint. Mr W would like BG to pay him £1250, which is half the 
cost of the new boiler.
I issued a provisional decision in May 2020 explaining that I was intending to not uphold Mr 
Ws complaint.
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
While I realise Mr W will be disappointed with my decision, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
Availability of parts
BGs engineer wasnt able to repair the boiler because a part was needed. Mr W understood 
BG would attend the second appointment with the part. The engineer didnt have the part 
and still wasnt able to repair the boiler. BG confirmed the part was on order and would take 
up to 14 days to arrive. Mr W questioned how it could provide the service without having the 
DRN-1954775parts readily available. He complained that BG had serviced his boiler each year but at no 
point had it told him it might need to order parts or that there would be difficulty sourcing 
parts. 
BG provides service and repair cover for a wide range of products and I wouldnt expect it to 
have parts readily available to cover all eventualities. Nor would I expect it to arrive at the 
first appointment with anything other than generic replacement parts to complete simple 
repairs. So, I think its reasonable for BG to attend a first appointment to identify the cause of 
the problem, and order the part needed. 
Mr W doesnt think BG ever told him that it might need to order parts or have difficulty 
sourcing them. I dont agree. Ive looked at the renewal letters BG sent to him and, in a box 
displayed prominently on the renewal price page, it states the following:
Important information  parts availability
Our records show that your boiler is [make of model given].
Your boiler's manufacturer stopped making your particular model of boiler a while 
ago. They're still making the most important parts for your boiler, some other parts 
are becoming difficult to source.
This means we may not be able to fix your boiler if it breaks down, but we'll do our 
best to keep it running for as long as possible. 
In the unlikely event we can't fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back 
dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement - 
whichever's the most recent.
 
Im satisfied that BG made it clear to Mr W that it may experience problems getting the parts 
for his boiler.
Availability of insurance
BG confirmed the boiler was obsolete and it wouldnt be able to repair it. Mr W questions 
how BG can charge for insurance if it cant fix the boiler, and he thinks the service hasnt 
been available to him for seven years. Mr W says the terms of his policy state that BG will 
replace the boiler if it cant repair it, so he thinks it should cover the cost. He also says his 
engineer told him the old boiler wasnt fit for purpose so Mr W questions why BG serviced 
and approved it.
As shown in the renewal letters, BG confirmed it might struggle to get parts for Mr Ws boiler. 
He provided a copy of the terms of service and I note it says:
Spare parts
If weve agreed to cover a boiler or appliance but warned you that it might be difficult 
to find spare parts, well do what we can, within reason, to repair it.
BG wasnt aware the boiler was obsolete or that it wouldnt be able to complete any repairs 
at the point of the last policy renewal. It had completed a number of repairs in previous years 
so it was reasonable for BG to assume it could still provide cover. Therefore, I dont agree 
that the cover wasnt available to Mr W. 
Mr W asked why BG approved his boiler when his engineer told him it wasnt fit for purpose. 
BG had been able to repair it successfully in previous visits, which indicates it was working. 
However, Ive seen in its service records that it also left an at risk notice and offered to provide a quote for a new boiler. This indicates to me that BG advised Mr W about the 
condition of his boiler and that it was reasonable to continue to service and repair the boiler 
until that was no longer possible. 
While Mr W thinks the cover wasnt really available to him, Im satisfied that it was. The 
terms of service indicate that BG wouldve cancelled the policy if it was no longer able to fulfil 
its obligations:
Well try to get parts from the original manufacturer or our approved suppliers. If we 
cant get hold of the parts we need we may need to cancel your agreement (or part of 
it) unless youre eligible for a replacement.
Mr W correctly pointed out that the terms say BG will replace the boiler if it cant repair it. 
However, that only applies in certain circumstances, and Mr Ws boiler didnt meet the 
criteria. The terms are quite clear:
Boilers and controls
Whats included
A replacement for your boiler if we cant repair it and: 
oIts less than seven years old
oOr; its between seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been 
continuously covered by British Gas under either a warranty or HomeCare 
agreement
 
Mr Ws boiler was 14 years old, and he had cover with BG for seven years. Therefore, even 
if BG had installed it and hed had cover with it for the full period, it would still fall outside the 
cover because the boiler was older than the ten year limitation. The cover BG provides is for 
annual servicing and repairs, and replacing a boiler only if it fails before it has been in use for 
a reasonable time. At 14 years old, its not unreasonable to expect a boiler to be reaching 
the end of its useful life. So, Im satisfied that there was no obligation on BG to provide, or 
cover the cost of, a replacement boiler.
However, BG does say in its renewal letter that:
In the unlikely event we can't fix the boiler, you may be able to get a refund back 
dated to when you last had work done, or to when you renewed your agreement - 
whichever's the most recent.
 
I dont think this point has been considered. The policy renewed in January and I can see 
that BG completed a repair in April, which was five months before the boiler was replaced. 
Under the terms of the policy, BG cancelled the cover but I think Mr W was due a refund of 
five months payments. To put this into context, the annual cost of the policy was a little over 
£300 and included other products as well as boiler and central heating cover. BG offered Mr 
W £300 but didnt specify that it was a refund of premiums paid. He rejected that and a 
subsequent offer, but eventually accepted its third offer of £500. As the amount paid is more 
than the annual cost of the cover, I dont think BG needs to pay Mr W any more.
Customer service
Mr W complained about the poor customer service, saying that BG failed to return his calls 
when promised and it disconnected one call because it was at the end of the working day. BG wasnt able to narrow down the second appointment time to anything less than a two 
hour window, but Mr W feels it didnt try. While he was without heating, BG provided two 
heaters but Mr W says that was only after he complained, and one didnt work.
BG has not disputed that there were shortfalls in customer service and it addressed them in 
its final response letter to Mr W. I dont think its reasonable to expect BG to commit to an 
appointment at a specific time rather than a two hour window. This is because its engineer 
might reasonably be delayed travelling from one job to another or because its engineer 
needs to complete a repair before moving on to the next job. However, as BG acknowledged 
the shortfalls in keeping Mr W informed about ordering parts, and leaving him without 
heating until he complained, Im satisfied that compensation is warranted. But I think the 
amount BG has already paid is sufficient to address these shortfalls as well as the refund of 
premiums paid.
I said I was intending to not uphold the complaint
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision but neither party responded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has made any further comments or provided any further evidence for me to 
consider, I see no reason to change my provisional findings.
So my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, my final decision is 
that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 23July2020.
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman