DRN-2135121
The complaint
  This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store 
card. AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted responsibility for this complaint. So, Ill refer to 
AXA as the seller to keep things simple. 
Miss N says AXA mis-sold her the PPI policy on her store card. 
What happened
  This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out by Miss N on a store card 
in March 1997. 
Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint. AXA disagreed so the complaint 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Ns case. 
Im upholding Miss Ns complaint and Ill explain why. 
AXA needed to give Miss N clear information about the PPI before she agreed to take it. 
That included highlighting anything that could make it difficult for Miss N to make a 
successful claim. 
Miss N says she was self-employed at the time she took the PPI. Based on what shes said, 
I accept she was self-employed when she was sold the PPI.
On reading the policy terms, I think it wouldve been more difficult for Miss N to make a claim 
for unemployment than she wouldve expected. I think the terms for self-employed people 
were limiting. And I think this limitation was significant enough that AXA shouldve 
highlighted it to Miss N  and Ive seen nothing to suggest it did. 
AXA point to the credit agreement that shows Miss N had ticked a box to say she was full 
time employed. Our service has recently clarified this with Miss N and she has again 
informed us that she was self-employed at the time the policy was sold to her. She has been 
consistent about this.
If AXA had clearly drawn Miss Ns attention to this policy term, I dont think she wouldve 
wanted to go ahead with the policy. Because I think its likely she wouldve realised it 
wouldve been difficult for her to make a successful claim for unemployment. This means 
Miss N is worse off because of what AXA did wrong and so it needs to put things right. 
Putting things right
 AXA should put Miss N in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
As Miss Ns store card account is now closed:
A. AXA should find out how much Miss N would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Miss N owed when she closed her 
account and what she wouldve owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss N made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount they owe her. 
B. AXA should add simple interest (at 8% a year) on the difference between what Miss N 
wouldve owed when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund.
C. If  when AXA works out what Miss N would have owed each month without PPI  Miss 
N paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest (at 
8% a year) on the extra Miss N paid. And they should carry on paying interest until the 
point when Miss N wouldve owed AXA something on her card.
D. AXA should tell Miss N what theyve done to work out A, B and C.
E. If AXA has already repaid any commission amount to Miss N that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by AXA from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Miss N a certificate showing how much tax AXA have taken off if she asks for one. 
 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold Miss Ns complaint. AXA France IARD 
should pay Miss N compensation in line with the instructions set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 January 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman