DRN-2708170
The complaint
Mrs H complains about the administration of her ISA by J Edward Sellers & Partners Ltd, 
referred to as the business. 
In short, she says:
She doesnt feel her portfolio has been managed well.
She feels she shouldve been consulted before the business considered her attitude 
to risk and by failing to do so, it failed in its duty to assess her attitude to risk. 
Shes unhappy about the goodwill payment provided by the business, and says it 
lacks accountability. 
What happened
In 2013, Mrs Hs investment portfolio  including her stocks and shares ISA  was taken 
over by the business. She says she was led to believe that the investments would continue 
to be managed in the same way.  
In 2019, she became aware that her portfolio wasnt being managed in accordance with her 
wishes and expectations. Following discussions with her investment manager, she 
requested copies of her previous valuation summaries, annual charges and risk 
classification as she hadnt received anything about the latter two up to this point. 
Upon receipt of the information, Mrs H complained to the business, but was unhappy with its 
response. She felt the business suggesting that she lacked interest in meetings and had 
given her husband full authority to make decisions on her behalf wasnt entirely correct. 
Even though the business didnt uphold the complaint, it offered to transfer her holdings free 
of charge, and offered a refund of charges in the sum of £5,237 as a gesture of goodwill. But 
Mrs H didnt understand whether she was getting a rebate or a gesture of good will and 
didnt accept the offer. In due course, she referred her complaint to our service. 
Mrs H believes she was placed in higher risk funds without her knowledge between 2013 
and 2019, despite only being asked to fill out information relating to risk twice during that 
time. She believes she was only willing to take a lower risk and has been told that the risk on 
the valuation summaries werent an indication of her actual attitude to risk. 
Mrs H believes shes suffered a loss, and the portfolio has failed to achieve its objective and 
therefore shes entitled to greater compensation. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
The fact find documents over the years show that Mrs H was a balanced risk 
investor, which the business described as follows:
otypically someone who is more comfortable with short term fluctuations in the 
value of their investments; they will generally focus on gain as well as risk and 
are comfortable with a proportion of the portfolio being exposed to FTSE 250 
companies.
The business was entitled to make assumptions based on the available information 
about her attitude to risk.  
It wasnt unreasonable to consider a change in her attitude to risk over time. It was 
done in line with her circumstances and towards the end as she got more 
comfortable with the investment over time. 
When the business took over the investment in 2013, Mrs Hs portfolio was akin to a 
high-risk investor. In 2014, he could see the allocation of funds was more towards a 
balanced approach, and in 2015 it moved towards a more cautious approach when 
21% of all the funds were in cash, followed by a movement between cautious and 
balanced risk funds. 
In 2017, Mrs H wasnt working but was satisfied with her level of income and didnt 
need to draw on her ISA for the future. It appears from the phone call she had with 
the business that shed been taking a more active role in the management of her 
portfolio than previously. She was assessed as having a 19 score which was a 
moderate score which was a lower score than she had the previous year.  
In 2018, most of the money was placed in smaller UK listed companies. So, whilst 
riskier in the short term, it had a higher chance of seeing growth in the longer term. 
On balance, hes satisfied that Mrs H was willing to let her money sit for growth in the 
long run.
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators view. In short, she said her attitude to risk wasnt 
correct and that she  as an individual investor  shouldve been consulted before the 
business suggested that she was willing to take a greater risk. Shes concerned that shes 
been treated as a high-risk investor alongside her husband rather than a low risk investor on 
her own merits. She finds it hard to believe that shes receiving the service shes paid for 
instead the business has been acting on its own initiative without her consent. 
The investigator fails to mention the charges she received over the six years. The charges  
for the size of her portfolio  are very high. She was never told how much she was being 
charged until she requested to know in 2019. A lot of charges are as a result of transactions, 
which she questions as to whether theyre in her best interests. She says shes been 
charged over £28,000 whilst the investment has decreased by £24,000. She believes the 
percentage charges  4.5% in 2014, 8.5% in 2018 and 7.5% in 2019  didnt accurately 
reflect the portfolio value which sat around £60,000 to £70,000.  
Overall theres been a lack of transparency with the business. It has failed to effectively 
communicate with her  with only two meetings and one phone call in six years. She 
disagrees with the way her risk profile was assessed and the way her and her husbands 
ISAs were managed together rather than separately.  
Mrs H said, its not clear if the £5,237 is offered as a gesture of good will or a refund of 
charges. She doesnt feel that the business has provided her with the best advice. They 
certainly havent put her at the heart of what theyve done. 
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his 
mind. In summary, he said:
Hes satisfied Mrs H wasnt willing to take a more active role in the management of 
her portfolio. Therefore, the business liaised more with Mr H who took a more active 
role in the management of their ISAs, until Mrs H decided to get more involved in 
2017.
Theres no suggestion that Mrs H wouldve done anything differently in terms of risk, even if she was asked. Even when she took a more active role, she didnt take any 
less risk than the business.
Despite what Mrs H says, the business kept her up to date about the progress of her 
portfolio. It sent her annual statements charting the progress of her ISA. Despite this 
theres evidence of Mrs H not wanting to stay in a meeting. If Mrs H felt she wasnt 
involved enough, she couldve changed this at any point, but she didnt. 
If she didnt agree with the level of risk, she was taking she couldve changed this, 
but she didnt. 
In a call dated October 2017, Mrs H said:
oHowever, since 2017 JES has had me classed as Equity Focussed which by 
their own definition, focuses on potential gain rather than risk, and potential 
return on my investment should increase as a result of taking greater risk. A 
level that I am adamant I would not agree to had I been given all the 
information and time to consider.
The adviser explained that based on her risk assessment  completed with him  her 
attitude to risk was moderate which was lower than the equity focused approach 
which has been taken with the ISA. The adviser read both definitions and Mrs H said 
Im quite happy with the one I was at.  
He (the investigator) cant say that equity focused was wrong for Mrs H at the time 
in 2018 for someone of her holdings, and previous investment experience. 
The charges  for both dealing and management  were clearly outlined in the terms 
and conditions sent to Mrs H in 2013. These were also highlighted in the annual 
statements addressed to her.
The business has partially upheld the complaint on the basis that itd expect a 
certain level of dealing charges to have been rebated. But that was a matter for 
them. Its not something that he wouldve necessarily recommended if the business 
hadnt done so of its own volition.  
The refund offered by the business is broadly fair and reasonable. 
Mrs H disagreed with the investigator and made the following observations:
Agreeing for her husband to be the first point of call and liaising with him doesnt 
make her reluctant to be involved, and doesnt legally give him/anyone else right to 
manage her ISA. 
Offering two face to face meetings isnt a case of the business acting in her best 
interests. One of the meetings was the introductory meet and she had to leave  
having discussed her portfolio  to attend a pre-arranged appointment elsewhere. 
She received the annual statements but found it difficult to follow. She never noticed 
the charges, until 2019, when they were mentioned in the covering letter. The 
charges werent clear or transparent. She questions whether the charge of 7.5% - 
against the value of her portfolio  is appropriate, fair or reasonable. 
Is the £5,237 offered on a good will gesture still available and if it would come with a 
8% interest? She nor her IFA ever received a breakdown of her portfolio when it was 
disinvested from the business. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his mind. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be 
fair to expect the business to pay before the outcome of the decision. The business has 
however confirmed the offer will remain on the table. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, Im unable to safely 
say that her portfolio was mismanaged or that she was advised to take more risk than she 
was willing to take. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mrs Hs 
strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope they wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs H and the business, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Its not uncommon for an investors attitude to risk to change over time, often resulting in a 
lower more cautious attitude to risk. For a lot of investors this comes with age and 
(potentially) getting closer to retirement. But that doesnt mean all investors will act this way. 
For other investors, such as Mrs H, it can mean moving from a greater to a smaller risk and 
back again. I dont generally think theres anything wrong with that.
I note Mrs H had a higher attitude to risk, before her portfolio was taken over by the 
business. The first attitude to risk assessment completed by her in 2013 showed a score of 
22  on a scale of 22 to 29  which was at the lowest end of the Equity Focused category 
just before the aggressive category. By comparison in 2014 she was more towards a 
balanced risk and in 2015 towards a cautious risk, which was even lower. But by 2016 her 
risk level was again higher. 
I note that in 2017, she showed a score of 19  on a scale of 18 to 21  on the lowest end of 
the moderate scale when she was no longer working. In 2019 she says she obtained a 
score of 12 which is defensive. 
So, just because Mrs H isnt willing to take a greater risk now, doesnt automatically mean 
that it was unreasonable for her to take a greater risk when the investment started or a few 
years ago when her attitude and circumstances were likely to have been different.   
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im not persuaded that it was wrong not to 
advise her to take a lower/more cautious risk from the outset and throughout her investment. 
I dont think theres anything inherently wrong with the way that the portfolio and risk rating 
has been managed with the business deciding to expose Mrs H to different levels of risk at 
different times so that she might be able to benefit from potential growth in the market. 
I note Mrs H is concerned that her ISA wasnt dealt with separately to her husband, but it 
seems that it wasnt until 2019, that  for the first time  she made clear that she wanted her 
ISA dealt with separately to her husband. I note the business immediately took action to 
address this. I note the business says that in 2013, it was established that Mrs H and her husbands 
portfolio would be run as one, with her husband completing the annual Know Your Customer 
document, dictating the overall investment strategy. I cant see that the business would 
choose to do this of its own volition, without an express or implied agreement from Mrs H 
and her husband. I note the business says it was entirely possible to have her investment 
dealt with separately but thats not what they wanted at the time, so it acted in accordance 
with their wishes. 
Despite what Mrs H now says, on balance Im unable to safely say that she made clear that 
she wanted to take a more active role in managing her portfolio, so I dont think the business 
was wrong to not infer this from her behaviour at the outset. I note Mrs H says she had a 
pre-arranged meeting in 2013 and left after her investment was discussed, but the business 
says she left shortly after the meeting started, leaving her husband as the point of contact, 
which is what the business has continued to do. 
I dont think it was sufficiently made clear to the business that shed wanted to be treated any 
differently to the impression created at the first meeting, or that shed be playing an active 
role in managing her portfolio along with the ISA. In the circumstances, and on balance, 
based on her actions during the meeting I dont think it was unreasonable for the business to 
infer that Mr H would be dealing with her portfolio.
Im mindful of the point Mrs H makes about not filling out the attitude to risk assessment  
other than on two occasions  but like the investigator I think the business was entitled to 
make assumptions based on her circumstances and indeed part of what Mrs H was paying 
the business to do on her behalf in managing her portfolio and being led by Mr H.   
It seems the £5,237 refund was offered as a gesture of good will. I note in its FRL, the 
business said:   
During my investigation I can find no evidence that changes were made to your accounts for 
any other reason than the outcomes of the Investment Committee responding to the market 
conditions, I can also find no evidence that any charges were applied to your account over 
and above those set out in our Terms and Conditions that you received when you joined us 
in 2013 and was updated in July 2015 and all Clients were informed in writing of this. This 
includes the circa 1.3% Management fee per annum. This was agreed at the inception of the 
account. In terms of your dealing charges I do feel that, while (due to the reasons already 
discussed) changes were required, I would expect a certain level of dealing charges to be 
rebated. Considering this, I am willing to offer to reduce the charges on your account to a 
level I feel is appropriate in the circumstances (i.e. 5%) for the years in question.
Thus, I am proposing a refund of charges to the amount of £5,237.00 as a gesture of 
goodwill.
In the circumstances, I dont think the business proposal to reduce the fee  to 5% - for a 
period and refund the difference, is unreasonable. Its entitled to exercise its discretion in the 
way that it has, following consultation with the Investment Committee  so I dont think its 
decision not to award a greater rebate, as gesture of good will, is wrong. Arguably, the 
business could have decided not to rebate any or a lesser amount of the fees, but thats not 
what it chose to do. In the circumstances I dont the business is wrong not to add (8%) 
interest to this amount. 
I appreciate Mrs H doesnt agree with the way her portfolio has been managed and doesnt 
think that the charges are value for money. I note she also feels that no matter what, the 
business will always win. But be that as it may, I cant blame the business for charging fees  agreed at the outset  for services provided. A business in the reasonable exercise of its 
legitimate commercial judgement is entitled to set the rates for its services. If the fees dont 
suit a customer, they can speak to the business, like Mrs H, or go elsewhere. Im mindful 
that Mrs H transferred her ISA to another provider, and the business has agreed to do so 
free of charge.  
 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, I cant conclude that Mrs H wouldnt have been 
provided with information about the fees in 2013, or 2015 following some changes. I note the 
business says it wrote to all customers, so I think its more likely than not it also wrote to Mrs 
H about the changes to the fees. 
Despite what Mrs H says, the charges dont appear to be based on the performance of her 
investment. The two are mutually exclusive, as is common industry practice. So regardless 
of how her investment does, the business will still be due its agreed fees. 
Its likely that the political situation with Brexit and other global issues referred to by the 
business has had an impact on the portfolio. I appreciate what Mrs H says about funds her 
friends and family were invested in with a different business  and about them (purportedly) 
doing well notwithstanding the political situation globally. Be that as it may, it doesnt mean 
that her portfolio wasnt doing well because it was being mismanaged. 
I should make clear that fund performance, which is dependent on the stockmarket  and not 
something that the business has control over or can predict  isnt something that our 
service can consider. I also know nothing about the circumstances of Mrs Hs friends and 
family and Im only considering her complaint against the business so I cant pass comment 
upon what she says.  
I appreciate Mrs H will be very unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this 
complaint and give her what she wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman