DRN-2792017
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Soteria Insurance Limited T/A the Co-operative Insurance has unfairly 
increased her annual home insurance premiums from the 2015 renewal onwards. 
What happened
In July 2020, Mrs Bs son (who brings this complaint on her behalf) complained to Soteria 
about what it had been charging her for her home insurance over recent years. Mr B 
explained that his mother was elderly and vulnerable, that she had no access to the internet 
and had recently suffered a bereavement. He said to Soteria that he wanted to know how it 
calculated the changes in premium at renewal. He said hed recently obtained an online 
quote from Soteria, with more comprehensive cover, for a fraction of the cost. Mr B said he 
also wanted his mothers existing policy to be amended to include accidental damage cover 
(as included in the recent online quote) and he wanted a refund of the premiums itd 
overcharged Mrs B over the years. Mr B also said he wanted Soteria to pay Mrs B 
compensation of £150 for the upset it had caused her. 
Soteria looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt think itd behaved unfairly or unreasonably. It 
said the price of each policy was based on its assessment of the risk of Mrs B making a 
claim. It said it assessed the risk it was being asked to cover at each renewal based on the 
most recent information it had which, consequently, could result in a difference in premium 
from the previous year. Soteria also said it took the claims made by all its customers into 
account when setting the price. And it said that whilst Mr B had asked it for detailed 
information about how itd calculated his mothers premium it was unable to provide it as 
such information was commercially sensitive and confidential. 
Soteria said itd recently updated its risk models which wouldve affected the price it charged 
but, having checked Mrs Bs policy specifically, it confirmed no errors had been made in how 
itd calculated her premiums over the years. As for being able to obtain a much cheaper 
price online, Soteria said it offered new business discounts to attract new customers and it 
didnt bar its customers from getting a new business quote from it each year. Soteria said it 
wasnt always the cheapest insurer and, in its renewal invitations, it set out what the 
premium paid in the previous year was compared to the one being offered for the 
forthcoming year. And it said it encouraged its customers to shop around to make sure they 
were getting the best deal for their needs. 
Unhappy with the outcome of his mothers complaint to Soteria, Mr B complained to this 
service. Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. 
He said there was evidence that Mrs B wasnt engaging at renewal despite the significant 
increase in premiums she experienced. 
Our investigator thought the lack of engagement from Mrs B amounted to consumer inertia 
and that Soteria shouldve realised by the 2018 renewal that Mrs B wasnt shopping around 
or negotiating her renewal price. He thought Soteria shouldve made sure it was treating her 
fairly by not increasing her premium significantly. So, our investigator recommended that 
Soteria refund the difference between the 2018 premium Mrs B had paid (£391.98) and the 
price paid each year after then until the policy was cancelled in 2021. He also recommended 
that interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year be added from the date each 
premium was paid. Finally, our investigator didnt think Mrs Bs complaint was one that 
merited an award of compensation. 
Soteria disagreed with our investigators findings. It said Mrs Bs policy didnt automatically 
renew every year; only when Mrs B called to renew it did it do so. So it disagreed that Mrs B 
hadnt engaged with it for years. It repeated that itd sent out a renewal pack every year that 
encouraged her to shop around. It said when Mrs B rang to renew each year it completed a 
health check to make sure the cover still met her needs. Soteria said changes to its risk 
models impacted all its customers so Mrs B hadnt been singled out. And it said the primary 
reason for the increase in premium between 2018 and 2019 was the anticipated claims cost. 
Soteria said the premium itd charged Mrs B each year was a true reflection of the risk it was 
insuring. It refuted that it was charging based on customer tenure or inertia.
Our investigator looked at the complaint again but didnt change his mind. He said that whilst 
Mrs B had called Soteria each year to pay for her policy there was no discussion about the 
price. So, he thought that Soteria needed to ensure it didnt take advantage of her failure to 
ask about it. Our investigator said he saw no evidence that Mrs B had engaged with Soteria 
about the price she was paying. He accepted that from 2019, new transparent pricing 
information was included in the renewal pack, and that this wouldve shown the increase in 
premium on the previous (2018) policy year.
Our investigator said hed still seen no evidence about why Mrs Bs premium increased by 
over 87% in 2019. And whilst he accepted that Soteria had said the change in risk model 
that had been applied wasnt specific to Mrs B, he still thought it should be able to explain 
why the price increased as it did for Mrs B specifically. 
Soteria said it still disagreed with our investigators findings and reiterated that it did not 
increase Mrs Bs premium based on her not shopping around. It said it increased her 
premium based on its assessment of the risk it was insuring, in the same way it wouldve 
done for any of its other customers. 
Soteria asked for the complaint to be referred for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its worth setting out here the premiums Mrs B paid over the lifespan of her policy: 
Year (no.) 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Year (date) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
Premium £189.59 £228.37 £277.39 £329.13 £391.98 £734.05 £732.28
Yearly % increase 0.0% 20.5% 21.5% 18.7% 19.1% 87.3% -0.2%
Cumulative % 
increase0.0% 20.5% 46.3% 73.6% 106.8% 287% 286.2%
Its also worth setting out here that Soteria provided us with recordings of the renewal phone 
calls from 2019 and 2020, both of which Ive listened to. I understand that Soteria no longer 
had recordings of any of the other renewals. Having listened to the calls, I note that there 
was no discussion at all in either call about the price Mrs B was paying. Soteria was obliged to treat Mrs B fairly. This includes having regard to the extent with which 
she was engaging with it about the price at renewal. Ive seen no evidence that she ever 
engaged with Soteria about the price she was being charged. Having listened to the content 
of the phone calls has only reinforced my view that this was the case. I appreciate that Mrs B 
renewed her policy each year by paying her annual premium in one go over the phone. But 
her calling up to pay for her policy doesnt equate to her engaging with Soteria about the 
price. And Ive not seen any evidence of the health check Soteria claims to have carried out 
each year. Theres no evidence of it in either call, just a couple of questions from the adviser 
about whether Mrs B was happy with the cover she had and whether any of her insurance 
needs had changed. There was no discussion about the price.
 
Mrs B is in her eighties, has no email address, and no access to the internet (at one point in 
the 2019 renewal call she told Soteria that she was in her eighties and wasnt very modern) 
which would allow her to shop around for a cheaper policy. Its reasonable to think that her 
age and lack of internet access demonstrate an underlying vulnerability and barrier to 
Mrs Bs ability to shop around. 
I can see that it wasnt until Mrs Bs son, Mr B, reviewed her affairs in July 2020 that he 
discovered what shed been paying for her home insurance and how sharply the cost had 
increased. This can be seen from the above table. 
Soteria has told us that it will have applied a new customer discount to Mrs Bs policy when 
she first took it out in 2014 and that it increased Mrs Bs premiums over the next four 
renewals in order to recoup it. I dont think thats unfair. But it is the fifth renewal  in 2019  
where the premium increased by over 87% on the previous year that gives rise to concern. 
Given theres no evidence that Mrs B engaged with Soteria about the price of her policy, Id 
need to see that increase was reasonably applied to her policy in her circumstances. And Im 
not persuaded that it was. 
Soteria has explained that it calculates premiums each year with reference to its assessment 
of the risk of Mrs B making a claim, based on its own experience and outside data. It says 
that can lead to a price change. And because Mrs B hadnt made a claim through the lifetime 
of the policy it used the claims history of all its customers to determine her price, updating its 
claims models just before the 2018 renewal and passing on the increase to its customers 
over the next two years (for Mrs B thats February 2018 and February 2019). 
But of most interest has been Soterias comment in its final response letter dated 11 August 
2020 that since the last renewal term (by which I take it to mean the February 2019 renewal 
 that being the last renewal term) itd made multiple changes and updated its risk models 
which wouldve affected the price it charged. It also said thered been no mistakes made in 
the way it calculated Mrs Bs premium. 
But that doesnt explain what happened at the 2019 renewal (there were no claims for 
example). Nor does it explain why any rise in premium caused by updating its claims model 
prior to the 2018 renewal and passing it on and the next two renewals was so unevenly split. 
Most importantly though, the reasons given for the increase in premium dont explain why 
Soteria didnt treat Mrs B fairly by engaging with her about the price of her policy. Soteria 
knew that Mrs B was an 85-year-old customer. In both calls Mrs B referenced her age, 
asked for patience and clearly found the mechanics of making the payment itself difficult. I 
think its clear from the calls that there was an underlying vulnerability to Mrs B. So whilst 
Mrs B telephoned to pay for her premium she never engaged about the price she was being 
charged when she did. I think, given the requirement to treat its customers fairly, Soteria 
shouldve done more to make sure she was happy with the price she was being charged. 
But theres no evidence that it took any such steps. I can see that from the fourth renewal in 2018, Soteria complied with the regulatory 
requirement to include transparency information about the cost of the previous years 
premium alongside the renewal premium. And I can see that a statement was included in the 
renewal letter from this renewal onwards  in line with regulatory guidance  that as Mrs B 
had been with Soteria for a number of years she may get the cover she needs at a better 
price if she shopped around. During both calls, Mrs B was asked if shed received, read and 
understood her renewal documents. And both times she didnt really answer the question 
rather she said she had her documents in front of her. When asked if she was happy with 
what the documents said, Mrs B said shed been with Soteria for years and years. 
When a consumer chooses not to shop around for a policy each year, even when their policy 
has significantly increased in price, it is commonly referred to as consumer inertia. And its 
possible for a business to take advantage of this inertia to increase premiums. I appreciate 
that Soteria says it doesnt price its policies based on customer inertia or tenure and that it 
prices its policies based on the risks its insuring. But given Mrs B didnt enquire about the 
premium during the payment calls I think Soteria needed to ensure it wasnt taking 
advantage of her by failing to ask her if she was happy with the price. 
In Mrs Bs case, I think its reasonable to think that she suffered from consumer inertia (for 
the reasons Ive given) and that, at some point, the premium increases became unfair. 
Based on the evidence Ive seen, I think Soteria should have realised by 2018 that Mrs B 
wasnt shopping around for her insurance or negotiating the price at renewal each year. And 
Soteria should have made sure it was treating her fairly by not increasing the premium 
significantly just because she was continuing to renew: not when she was in her 80s, had no 
email address (or internet access) and struggled with paying over the phone. 
Obviously not all price increases are unfair  as Ive said above, if a policy is discounted to 
new customers, a business might increase the premium over subsequent years to clawback 
the initial discount. Thats not unfair. And the point when price increases for an inert 
consumer become unfair will vary from case to case. In the case of Mrs B, I feel this point is 
2018. Based on the evidence available, any further premium increases after this point  in 
reality the 2019 and 2020 renewals (the renewal not being accepted in 2021)  which arent 
due to any change in Soterias view about the risk it was insuring are, in my view, unfair. 
I dont think Soteria has been able to precisely explain why Mrs Bs price increased as it did 
after 2018. So I think, for the reasons Ive given, that the premiums Mrs B paid after 2018 
were unfairly high. That being the case, I think fair compensation would be to refund the 
difference between what Mrs B paid in 2018 and what she paid at the two subsequent 
renewals after that. 
I know that Mr B has said he wanted the policy amended to include accidental damage cover 
but as the policy wasnt renewed in 2021 its not something I need to consider here. 
Ive thought too about Mr Bs request that Soteria pay Mrs B compensation of £150 for the 
upset this situation caused but I dont think Mrs B has been caused any avoidable trouble 
and upset by Soteria beyond the need to make a complaint. So I cant reasonably require 
Soteria to pay Mrs B any compensation. 
Putting things right
To put things right, I think Soteria should:
Refund the difference between the price paid in 2018 (£391.98) and the price paid
each year from then until the policy was cancelled in February 2021.Pay Mrs B 8% simple interest per annum on the difference from the date she paid each 
subsequent annual premium until the date it settles my award. 
If Soteria considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a 
certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Soteria Insurance Limited T/A the 
Co-operative Insurance to take the steps Ive set out under the putting things right section 
above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman