DRN-4108208
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs G complain that AWP P&C SA unfairly declined their travel insurance claim.
AWP is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agent. As AWP has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agent, in 
my decision, any reference to AWP includes the actions of the agent. 
Mr C and Mrs G are joint policy holders. As the claim relates to items belonging to Mrs G, Ill 
refer mainly to her in my decision.
What happened
In late 2021, Mrs G made a claim under her travel insurance policy with AWP after her 
luggage was stolen during a train journey abroad.
AWP declined the claim. It said the policy didnt provide cover for unattended personal 
possessions. 
Mr C and Mrs G raised a complaint, but AWP maintained its position. So, they asked our 
service to consider the matter. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think it was reasonable 
for AWP to decline the claim and he thought it had taken an unreasonably long time to deal 
with it. 
The investigator recommended AWP settle the claim and pay 8% per annum simple interest 
on the settlement amount. He also recommended that AWP pay Mrs G £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators outcome. So, the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why. 
The relevant industry rules say an insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. And it 
shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The personal possessions section of the policys terms and conditions says:
WHAT YOU ARE COVERED FOR
Up to £1,750 in total for your personal possessions damaged, stolen, lost or destroyed on 
your journey.
The most we will pay for your valuables is £400 in total whether jointly owned or not. There 
is also a single article, pair or set limit of £300. 
In declining the claim, AWP has relied on an exclusion in the policys terms and conditions 
which says the policyholder is not covered for:
Personal possessions unless they are on your person, locked in the accommodation you 
are using on your journey or they are out of sight in the locked boot or covered luggage area 
of a locked motor vehicle.
Mrs G says the stolen items were placed on a rack above her head on the train. She noticed 
they were missing when she arrived at her destination and believes someone must have 
quickly taken them during the last stretch of her journey.
Mrs Gs bags werent on her person or locked away. However, I dont think it was fair for 
AWP to have applied this exclusion under the circumstances. I think Mrs G took reasonable 
steps to look after her luggage, placing them in a position nearby where she might observe 
anyone who tried to take them. Given the size of the bags, it wouldnt have been practical for 
her to have placed them on her lap. 
AWP appears to have declined Mrs Gs claim based on a strict interpretation of the policy 
wording. However, I dont think it was fair or reasonable for it to have done so. So, I think 
AWP should settle the claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. It 
should also pay interest on the settlement amount to compensate her for being deprived of 
the money.
AWP has acknowledged a delay in dealing with Mrs Gs claim, as well as her experiencing 
long wait times on the phone. It was also disappointing for Mrs G to have had her claim 
declined. So, I think it would be fair for AWP to pay Mrs G the £100 our investigator 
recommended for distress and inconvenience. 
 
Putting things right
AWP should:
Accept and settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy.
Add interest to the above at 8% simple per annum* calculated from one month after 
the date the claim was made (23 November 2021) to the date the settlement is paid.
Pay Mrs G £100 for distress and inconvenience.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP to deduct tax from this interest. AWP should give Mrs G 
a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr C and Mrs Gs complaint and direct AWP P&C 
SA to put things right by doing as Ive said above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman