DRN-3126522
The complaint
Mr M has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) refusal to take responsibility for 
all the damage hes said was caused to his car when its roadside assistance agent winched 
it up on the recovery vehicle and towed it to his home.   
What happened
Mr M broke down on the motorway and called UKIs roadside assistance company. It 
eventually agreed to send one of its roadside assistance agents to assist Mr M. When the 
agent arrived he checked the car and agreed the problem was the same as Mr M had 
suggested. He provided a quote to fix it at the roadside, but Mr M wasnt happy with this, so 
the agent agreed to tow his car home for him. Mr M has said hed already noticed the agent 
had cracked the bumper on his car when he started trying to winch it up onto the ramp of the 
recovery vehicle. Mr M has said he eventually ended up removing the bumper himself and 
his car was winched up leaving the rear bumper and exhaust only one centimetre from the 
ground. Hes also mentioned that the agent attached a tow light bar to the back of the car 
and cracked the plastic around the locking mechanism on the boot when he closed it on part 
of the bar. Mr M has then explained how on the journey home the bottom of his car was 
scraping on the road, on speed bumps and at one point the underside hit a kerb by a 
roundabout. 
Mr M complained to UKI about this damage, amongst other things. UKI resolved Mr Ms 
complaint about the other issues. And it asked him to get a report on the damage hed said 
the agent had caused to his car. Mr M found this difficult, but managed to get two estimates. 
One for £1,816.16 and one for £3,099.94. UKI decided to inspect Mr Ms car and told him it 
couldnt say when it would be able to do this due to the pandemic. Mr M wasnt happy about 
this and in the end UKI sent him a cheque for £555.86, which it said was to cover the cost of 
the damage associated with the events during his breakdown experience. But, it didnt 
explain exactly what damage it accepted responsibility for. Mr M wasnt prepared to accept 
this and told UKI to cancel the cheque. It did this and just sent him one for £25 to cover the 
cost of getting one of the estimates.  
Mr M asked us to consider his complaint. He explained his car still hadnt been repaired and 
 in the meantime  it had got damp and infested by mice.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ms complaint and recommended that UKI pay him 
the cost of repairing his car based on the lower estimate hed provided, plus an additional 
£300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience, as hed not been able to use his car 
for some time. This was on the basis that UKI hadnt provided any compelling evidence to 
back up its estimate of £555.86. 
UKI doesnt agree with the investigators assessment and has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. Its pointed out its engineer is an expert and it feels their estimate of the cost of 
repairing the damage of £555.86 is correct. And it feels the compensation its already paid to 
Mr M for distress and inconvenience is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mr Ms very detailed account of what happened alongside what UKI has said and 
what the roadside assistance agent has said. And I find Mr Ms account much more 
persuasive. So, I think it is most likely his car was damaged by what Id describe as poor 
practice by the roadside assistance agent. And I think UKI should pay for it to be repaired. 
From the estimates provided by Mr M it seems he could get this done for £1,816.16. In my 
opinion, UKI hasnt provided any compelling evidence to justify its view that it would only 
cost £555.86. Its said its engineers are used to working out this sort of thing, but it hasnt 
provided any sort of estimate or parts and pricing report to back up the figure it has come up 
with. So, Im not at all persuaded it would be fair and reasonable for Mr M to only get 
£555.86 towards the repairs. So  like our investigator - I think UKI should pay Mr M 
£1,816.16, as this is based on what looks to me like a reasonable estimate. 
I dont think UKI can be held responsible for Mr Ms cars condition deteriorating further, as it 
was for him to keep it safe. And Im not really sure why it would have got damp and infested 
with mice just because it wasnt being used. However, I can understand why he didnt want 
to use it, so I also agree with my investigator that UKI should pay a further £300 in 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr M has experienced as a result of not 
feeling able to do so. 
Putting things right
As Ive already mentioned, I think UKI should pay Mr M £1,816.16 for the repairs needed to 
his car and a further £300 in compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay him the following:
£1,816.16 for the repairs to his car; and
a further £300 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman