DRN-1924174
The complaint
Mr B complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) treated him without due care 
and consideration when he experienced financial difficulties. 
What happened
Mr B had a credit card with Halifax for many years and reported no difficulties with making 
payments until August 2016, after which time he was no longer able to make any payments 
towards the outstanding balance.  
Mr Bs father had set up a trust that Mr B said allowed him to get involved with community 
projects and to work with vulnerable individuals. Mr B said that difficulties arose with the trust 
following the death of his mother in around 2016. Mr B was placed in the unfortunate 
position of having to take the matter to court. While this matter was being dealt with by the 
courts, Mr B had no access to the trust and he said he experienced severe financial 
difficulties.  
Mr B informed Halifax of the financial difficulties he was experiencing, as well as the 
personal difficulties that caused them, in around October 2016. Halifax responded by putting 
a hold on his account and freezing interest and charges from November 2016. It also put 
Mr B in contact with its Customer Priority Team. 
Mr B and Halifax were in relatively regular contact from that point and 30-day holds were 
periodically placed on the account, such that the account was always on hold. 
Mr B told Halifax in February 2017 that he expected the court proceedings to commence in 
March 2017. And this meant he was hopeful a settlement would be reached and he would 
have access to funds in the near future. Both parties spoke again in mid-March 2017, when 
Mr B let Halifax know that he still, unfortunately, didnt have an income. For its part, Halifax 
said it told Mr B that defaulting his account was a possibility. 
Mr B phoned Halifax on 10 April 2017 and told it that he was continually getting calls and 
letters about the account and this was causing him a good deal of stress and was impacting 
negatively on his health. He reminded Halifax of his personal situation.  
Halifax applied a default to Mr Bs account on 25 April 2017. The account was also moved to 
the Recoveries Team at around the same time. Halifax moved the debt to a collection 
agency on 19 October 2018. 
Mr B complained to Halifax in January 2019. He said it had been irresponsible with the 
handling of his credit card account and the default and the passing of the debt to a collection 
agency had negatively affected his health and his credit worthiness. 
Halifax responded to Mr Bs complaint in February 2019 and didnt uphold it. It said Mr B 
explained his position to Halifax in 2016 and it applied a freeze to interest and charges, but 
told him this would not be applied indefinitely and it was possible his account could be 
moved to the Recoveries Team.  
Halifax said it appreciated there were financial pressures on Mr B because of external legal 
proceedings, but it said it had processes in place that it needed to follow when there was an 
outstanding debt. It said its terms and conditions allow it to move debts to external agencies. 
Halifax issued a second complaint response in April 2019, after Mr B wrote to one of its 
Directors. It said when a hold is placed on an account, this will usually be for 30 days. And 
once this period expires, and if there is no payment plan in place, Halifax will try to contact 
the consumer to assess the situation and to consider the next appropriate action.
Halifax said it only contacted Mr B when there were no active holds on file. It said its not 
able to put an account on hold for a long period of time pending the outcome of a court case, 
as theres no guarantee the debt will be settled once the court case has concluded. So, it 
said it followed its usual processes, due to no payment being made on the account since 
August 2016.
Halifax said it had arranged for Mr Bs account to be brought back to it from the collection 
agency and it expected its Recoveries Priority Team to be in contact with him to arrange a 
payment plan. It also said while it agreed with the earlier decision not to uphold the 
complaint, it had arranged a refund of £189.25 in interest and a further £48 in charges. 
Mr B was unhappy with the response from Halifax and so complained to this service. He said 
he felt it didnt do enough to help him and its actions made things worse. Mr B said he 
received numerous phone calls from Halifax and had to repeatedly tell his story to different 
members of staff there. He said this caused him significant stress. He said his wife asked 
Halifax to stop calling and said they would update Halifax periodically, but to no avail. Mr B 
said it made no sense that Halifax waited until the court case was almost concluded to 
withdraw its support and move the debt to the collection agency. 
Mr B said he used to have an excellent credit rating but this, and his reputation, have now 
been negatively affected. To put things right, Mr B asked for a letter of apology, for the debt 
to be written off and for compensation because of the impact this has had on his health.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. He said under rules set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority, the consumer credit sourcebook rules (CONC), a business has to treat a 
consumer going through financial hardship with due consideration and forbearance. But 
what counts as forbearance and due consideration isnt defined and its up to the business 
to decide how best to comply with this rule.
Our investigator said that from October 2016 Halifax did what it said it would do and put a 
hold on Mr Bs account each month. And Mr B wasnt charged any interest or fees on the 
outstanding balance. He said repayments werent made on the account and so arrears 
accrued. And this meant Halifax had to ensure Mr Bs credit file was an accurate reflection of 
his lending history. Our investigator said this service would usually expect a business to 
freeze an account for around 3-6 months before passing it to either the collections team or a 
third party agency. He said Halifax had no way of knowing how much longer the court case 
was going to take and he wasnt going to ask it to take any further action. 
Mr B was unhappy with what our investigator said and so this has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I am not upholding this complaint.
I should emphasise that while Ive taken note of all the arguments and comments made, 
Ive limited my response to the issues I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to 
say whether Halifax acted fairly in how it communicated with Mr B, when it defaulted Mr 
Bs account and when it passed the account to the collections team. 
Ive first of all looked at whether the actions taken by Halifax, in relation to Mr B not being 
able to make payments on his credit card account, were fair and in line with what this 
service would usually expect from a business, when a customer is facing financial 
difficulties. 
I can see that when Mr B contacted Halifax in October 2016 it put a hold on his account. And 
it stopped all interest and charges between November 2016 and October 2019. Halifax 
limited the hold on Mr Bs account to 30 days at a time and this meant the two parties had to 
communicate at the end of each hold period in order to see what next steps to take. And, 
from what I can see, Mr Bs account was on hold for over 6 months, prior to the default being 
applied in April 2017 and the account being moved to the Recoveries Team. And I can see 
that Halifax waited until October 2018 before moving the debt to a collection agency. 
Im satisfied that all of these were reasonable steps for Halifax to take. The step taken by 
Halifax to suspend interest and charges will have had a positive impact on the amount owed 
by Mr B. While I know that the application of the default has had a negative impact on Mr Bs 
credit record, its the case that Halifax has an obligation to accurately report whether its 
customers are managing the credit provided to them in line with the credit agreements they 
entered into. Halifax is also allowed to engage the services of an external agency to carry 
out collections work for them. So it was reasonable for Halifax to take the course of action it 
did.  
But the question raised by Mr B is whether his difficult personal situation and the impact this 
was having on his health should have prompted Halifax to deal with him in a different way. 
Mr B feels Halifax should have waited until the court case ended, and he found it confusing 
that it moved his account to the collections agency when the court case was so close to 
ending. I can see that Mr B also wanted Halifax to correspond with him less, as this was 
impacting on his stress levels and he asked to be able to update Halifax periodically, rather 
than have Halifax ring him on a regular basis. 
Its certainly the case that I would expect a business to deal sympathetically with a consumer 
who has told it about issues with their personal circumstances and health. And while I 
appreciate that what Mr B was going through personally had an impact on his health and 
made it all the more difficult to deal with managing the situation with Halifax, I dont agree 
that this should have led to Halifax dealing differently with Mr B on this occasion. I wouldnt 
have expected Halifax to suspend its usual processes and Im satisfied it treated Mr B fairly. 
Given the background information provided to me by Mr B, I appreciate that he and his 
family have been through a very difficult and protracted personal situation. And I know that 
Mr B feels that as this was through no fault of his own, and was outside of his control, that it 
feels all the more unfair for his credit file and his reputation to be affected. But, irrespective 
of why a situation has arisen, Halifax is obliged to report how a consumer is managing the 
credit provided to them. To put it another way, it wouldnt be fair for any business to make 
decisions about how to deal with non-payment, based on whether it considered the situation 
to be the fault of the consumer involved or not. 
Mr Bs account was defaulted around eight months after Mr B made his last payment on the 
account and six months after he reported his difficulties to Halifax. I know Mr H hoped Halifax would wait until after the court case was concluded. But Halifax had no way of 
knowing, with any certainty, when the court case might end or whether the outcome would 
be favourable to Mr B. So while I understand Mr Bs situation was difficult, I dont think that 
Halifax acted unfairly when it declined to wait for the outcome of the court case before 
defaulting the account or passing it to the collections team. And I can see that Halifax said 
the collection agency it uses has a team trained to deal with vulnerable customers. 
Looking at how Halifax corresponded with Mr B, Im satisfied that even if a consumer is 
vulnerable, a business still has an obligation to let them know what is happening with their 
account and to let them know what might happen if payments arent made. I dont think it 
was unreasonable for Halifax to want to contact Mr B regularly, which I understand it did 
each time the 30-day hold came to an end and more so before and during the application of 
the default. I can see it accepted Mr Bs authority to speak to his wife rather than to him, as 
he was unwell. So Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly in how it corresponded with Mr H. 
While I appreciate Mr Bs very difficult circumstances, and I have a great deal of sympathy 
for Mr B and his family, Im satisfied Halifax acted fairly in its dealings with him and I wont be 
asking it to take further action. 
Mr B told this service about contact he had with Halifax when it was looking into his 
complaint and how this contact led him to believe Halifax might award him compensation. He 
said he was surprised when this didnt happen. And he also mentioned a complaint letter he 
sent to a Halifax Director and complained about how Halifax dealt with this. But Im not able 
to address these issues as they fall under the heading of complaint handling. While this 
service can deal with complaints about financial products and services, we cant look at how 
businesses handle complaints.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman