DRN-4390371
Complaint
Miss H has complained about loans Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) provided to her. She says 
the loans were unaffordable.
Background
L2G initially provided Miss H with a loan for £500 in May 2021. This loan had an APR of 
1,013.2% and an 18-month term. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of £2,057.04, 
including interest, fees and charges of £1,557.04, was due to be repaid in 18 monthly 
instalments of £114.28. This loan was settled in full in October 2021.
Miss H was provided with a second loan for £800 in July 2022. This loan had an APR of 
760.9% and a term of 18 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£2,959.92, including interest, fees and charges of £2,159.92, was due to be repaid in 18 
monthly instalments of £164.44. 
One of our investigators reviewed Miss Hs complaint and he concluded that L2G didnt do 
anything wrong when providing Miss H with her loans and so didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. Miss H disagreed with the investigators assessment and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
My provisional decision of 2 October 2023
I issued a provisional decision  on 2 October 2023 - setting out why I intended to uphold 
Miss Hs complaint. I wont copy that decision in full, but I will instead provide a summary of 
my findings. 
I started by explaining that weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable 
and irresponsible lending on our website. And that I had used this approach to help me 
decide Miss Hs complaint. 
L2G needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is L2G 
needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Miss H could 
afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
I noted that L2G said it agreed to Miss Hs applications after she provided details of her 
monthly income and some information on her expenditure. It said that it cross-checked this 
against information on a credit search it carried out and all of this information showed Miss H 
could afford to make the repayments she was committing to. On the other hand, Miss H said 
she couldnt afford these loans and so shouldnt have been lent to.
Having considered the information provided, I was concerned that L2Gs own checks in the 
lead up to loan 1 showed that Miss H had had difficulties repaying credit in the form of 
multiple defaults an unsatisfied county court judgement and at least one other account being 
in an arrangement to pay. 
I was also concerned that by the time of loan 2, Miss Hs position hadnt improved much 
either. Miss H had gone on to default on at least one more account. And loan 2 was for a 
larger amount too.
Bearing in mind all of this, I was satisfied that L2G ought reasonably to have carried out 
further checks before providing either of these loans to Miss H.
I thought that further checks would have extended into finding out more about Miss Hs 
expenditure. And I also thought that if L2G had done this here, it would have seen that       
Miss H was already in a difficult financial position at the respective times and also found out 
why this was the case. I was also satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown L2G that Miss Hs existing precarious financial position was 
because she was struggling financially. 
So as reasonable and proportionate checks should have extended into finding out more 
about Miss Hs income and expenditure, I was satisfied that they would more like than not 
have shown L2G that it shouldnt have provided these loans to Miss H. 
As L2G provided Miss H with these loans notwithstanding this, it was my intention to 
conclude that it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Miss H ended up paying and was still being expected to pay interest, fees and charges on 
loans she shouldnt have been provided with in the first place. So it was my intention to issue 
a final decision finding that Miss H lost out because of what L2G did wrong when providing 
these loans and that it needed to put things right.
Responses to my provisional decision
Miss H confirmed that she accepted my provisional decision and didnt provide anything 
further to me to consider.
L2G confirmed that it accepted my provisional decision and also said that it didnt have 
anything further for me to consider. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I set out in some detail why I was intending to uphold Miss Hs complaint in my provisional 
decision of 2 October 2023. As Ive not been provided with anything further by the parties to 
consider, Ive not been persuaded to alter my conclusions. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im still upholding Miss Hs complaint and I 
remain satisfied that L2G needs to put things right. Fair compensation  what L2G needs to do to put things right for Miss H
Having thought about everything, Im satisfied that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for L2G to put things right for Miss H by:
refunding all interest, fees and charges Miss H paid on loan 1;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any refunded payments from the date they 
were made by Miss H to the date of settlement
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to loan 2 from the outset. The 
payments Miss H made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£800 originally lent. If Miss H has already repaid more than £800 then L2G should 
treat any extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Miss 
H. Should an outstanding balance remaining remain after all adjustments have been 
made, L2G can use the compensation due from loan 1 to reduce and/or clear 
whatever is left to pay on loan 2;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Miss H to the date of settlement
removing any and all adverse information it recorded about loan 1 from Miss Hs 
credit file. If, after all adjustments have been made, no outstanding balance remains 
on loan 2, L2G should also remove any adverse information it has recorded about 
this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires L2G to take off tax from this interest. L2G must give        
Miss H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above and in my provisional decision of 2 October 2023, Im 
upholding Miss Hs complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put things right in the way Ive set 
out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 November 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman