DRN-4338227
Complaint
Mr L has complained that Match the Cash Limited (Match the Cash) trading as 
www.gurantorloan.co.uk unfairly brought about an unaffordable guarantor loan for him. He 
says proper affordability checks werent carried out and if they had been it would have been 
clear that the loan was unaffordable. 
Background
Match the Cash operated the electronic system in relation to lending which led to Mr L being 
provided with a guarantor loan in August 2020. The loan was for £5,000.00. The loan had a 
36-month term and an APR of 69.1%. This meant that the total amount of £10,148.40, 
including interest and other charges of £5,148.40, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly 
instalments of just over £280.
Mr Ls complaint was reviewed by one of our investigators. He thought that Match the Cash 
didnt act unfairly when deciding to provide this loan. As Mr L disagreed with our 
investigators view, the complaint was passed to an ombudsman.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ls complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Match the Cash needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr L could afford to make the loan payments before bringing about this guarantor loan for 
him. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for checks to be less thorough  in 
terms of how much information is gathers and what is done to verify it  in the early stages of 
a lending relationship.
But we might think more needed to be done if, for example, a borrowers income was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed 
expect an operator of an electronic system in relation to lending to be able to show that it 
didnt continue to arranging loans irresponsibly.
Match the Cash enquiries into Mr Ls circumstances suggested that he was employed and 
earning around £2,600.00 a month. I also understand that Match the Cash also carried out a 
credit check which showed Mr L had had historic difficulties with credit but no current 
repayment problems and the amount that he did owe wasnt excessive in comparison to his 
income either. 
Match the Cash asked for a copy of a recent bank statement and also obtained some 
information on Mr Ls living expenses from him too. And everything gathered did suggest 
that Mr L would be able to make the repayments to his loan. 
As was Mr Ls first loan with Match the Cash, I dont think that it was unreasonable for Match 
the Cash to rely on the information provided. Furthermore, even allowing for this there 
appears to have been a reasonable margin left over to make the loan payments. And while 
Ive thought about what Mr L has said about his cash withdrawals and transfers to another 
account, as he still appeared to be meeting his existing commitments out of the account he 
provided the statement for, I dont agree that Match the Cash needed to ask for further 
information. 
I appreciate that Mr L says he was gambling and that this meant he shouldnt have been lent 
to. But even if Mr L was gambling, its clear that he took steps to conceal this by using cash 
from withdrawals and making any transactions from a different account. So I cant 
reasonably say that Match the Cash ought to have been aware of this, or that it could and/or 
should have factored this into its decision on whether to arrange this loan.
I accept that Mr L might have had difficulty making the payments to this loan and its possible 
that his circumstances did worsen and Im sorry to hear this. But Im satisfied that Match the 
Cashs check before approving this loan were proportionate. And the information gathered 
suggests that Mr L could afford the payments. 
I also think that I should explain that its only fair and reasonable for me to uphold a 
complaint in circumstances where a respondent firm did something wrong. And, in this case, 
I dont think that Match the Cash did anything wrong when bringing about Mr Ls loan. The 
key thing here is that it carried out proportionate checks which suggested the repayments 
would be affordable for him. 
Ive also seen what Mr L has said about it being unfair that he was declined for a loan for the 
same amount over a shorter term. Match the Cash has explained that this was because the 
payments Mr L would have had to make to a loan with a 24 month, rather than 36-month 
term was over £50 a month more. This is because even though Mr L would pay less interest 
over two years the amount hed have to pay each month towards the amount he borrowed 
was much higher over a term that was a third less.
So while Mr L is unhappy that he was accepted for a loan with a higher total cost, it appears 
as though Match the Cash wasnt prepared to accept the risk of Mr L having to make higher 
monthly repayments. And this was a decision it was entitled to take.
Furthermore, as Mr L continued with his application even though the increased total cost 
was detailed on the loan agreement that he signed, I can only assume that he was prepared 
to accept the loan on these terms. And while I accept that he may now regret doing so, I 
cant reasonably conclude that Match the Cash acted unfairly towards him in this regard.
So overall and having carefully thought about everything, Im satisfied that Match the Cash 
didnt treat Mr L unfairly or unreasonably when bringing about his guarantor loan. As this is 
the case and while I sympathise with Mr L as a result of any difficulties he might have gone 
on to have, Im afraid that Im not upholding his complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr L. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman