DRN-3587806
The complaint
Company K has complained about Covea Insurance plc. It isnt happy about the way they 
dealt with a claim under its commercial buildings insurance policy.  
For ease of reading any reference to Covea includes its agents.
What happened
Company K made a claim through his policy after an escape of water in his block of flats 
caused damage to his property. But when Covea considered the matter Company K wasnt 
happy about the way they dealt with the claim. It wasnt happy about the quality of repairs; 
the materials used; the manner in which the contractors treated K; that the drying wasnt 
completed properly; and that a fraudulent electrical report was produced by Covea. K 
complained to Covea and then this Service about all of this as it wanted the repairs 
undertaken to a good standard, the property rewiring and compensation. 
Our investigator looked into things for Company K and upheld the complaint. He explained 
that he couldnt look at Ks complaints about loss of rent and Coveas contractors storage of 
items at Ks property as these points were brought out of time. He went on to say that he 
was satisfied Covea had appointed the contractor that oversaw the repairs (not K) and so 
should be responsible for any errors made by the contractor. Ultimately he thought Covea 
should pay the costs K incurs in appointing their own loss adjuster or surveyor, electrician, 
and drying company to provide reports in relation to outstanding work if it is related to this 
claim. And pay for the works to be completed based on the lowest of three quotes and cover 
any loss of rent and utility bills during the repair period (plus 8% simple interest) and pay 
£500 compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
As Covea didnt agree, mainly maintaining that K appointed the contractor, the matter has 
been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Covea, but Ill explain why.
I also think its important to explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information 
provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said in this decision its not because I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the 
crux of the complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to 
reflect my informal role in deciding what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I 
dont think its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question 
raised unless its relevant to the crux of the complaint. And as outlined above a number of 
points raised by Company K have been dealt with separately under another complaint and 
were brought to this Service too late for us to consider.
Although I can understand Coveas position that K appointed the surveyor and contractor I 
agree with our investigator that Covea, in effect, appointed the contractor. I say this as the 
contractor is one that Covea consulted initially and ordinarily uses and K was told the claim 
couldnt proceed without it agreeing to use this particular contractor. 
Ive also seen some evidence that management of the claim and contractor was done 
through Covea and so I think they were acting on their behalf. And Ive seen communication, 
including in relation to Covea chasing costs from K for the contractors that suggests to me 
the contractor was acting for Covea and that Company K had no real choice in the 
appointment. And as Im satisfied the contractors were appointed by Covea I agree that they 
are responsible for the contractors actions and any poor workmanship.
Company K has raised concerns that it didnt approve the flooring, tiles, wallpaper, and other 
aspects that were chosen for the property, especially in relation to parquet flooring being 
replaced by non-parquet flooring. And I would expect these to be agreed by K and replaced 
on a like for like basis. I know Covea has offered a cash settlement (which K feels falls short 
of the actual costs) for this, but I agree with our investigator that it would be fairer to have 
these repaired and replaced. Similarly, K has raised snagging issues that werent dealt with 
and provided some evidence of poor workmanship, so it seems logical that these are 
considered at the same time.
I know Company K has suggested the electric certificate was fraudulent, but I dont agree. It 
just appears to me that the certificate was in draft form and there appears to have been 
some mistakes within the document. I say this as K has provided an earlier report that is at 
odds with aspects of this document. So, I agree it would be fair to simply gain a new valid 
certificate and report and undertake any work that could be attributed to the claim. 
K also says drying equipment wasnt put into the property after the escape of water and the 
property has been left with high moisture levels. I agree with the investigator that it is 
reasonable to think some drying out was necessary. But an expert can judge if this is 
required and see if the moisture levels are linked to this claim or not. 
Given there has been a complete breakdown in communication between Company K and 
Covea I think it makes sense to appoint independent parties to look at the position now, 
although I can understand why Covea looked to cash settle for this reason as well. But this 
seems a fairer way to approach the settlement in the particular circumstances of this case. 
So, I think Covea should allow Company K to appoint its own loss adjuster or surveyor, 
drying company, and electrician to inspect his property and report on whether any of the 
remaining damage can be attributed to this claim providing reports accordingly. If any work is 
required that is attributed to this claim then that work can be put out to tender by Company K 
and Covea can pay the cheapest of the three quotes that should be gained. Plus, I agree K 
should be paid any loss of rent and utilities incurred during this rectification period.
I agree Company K has been subjected to a fair degree of inconvenience here. All insurance 
claims can be difficult and challenging but I agree that K has been inconvenienced here and 
that £500 compensation feels fair. It was threatened with court action by the contractors and 
clearly a lot of additional evidence gathering, and work has gone into this claim over and 
above what would be considered reasonable.
Finally, I note Company K has raised concerns that council tax hasnt been covered as part 
of its losses which Covea said it would consider at a later stage, although Covea feel this shouldnt be covered now as the policy doesnt specifically say it will cover council tax. 
However, it appears to me K has incurred this cost because of ongoing delay in dealing with 
the claim so Covea should cover this. Indeed, Covea looked to pay loss of rent previously in 
acknowledgement that the work could have been undertaken earlier and because its 
contractors looked to store equipment and materials for the duration while the property 
remained unoccupied. So, it follows that Covea should pay the council tax (subject to 
reasonable proof) for the period it covered loss of rent for. Plus, it should pay 8% simple 
interest per annum from the point the cost was incurred until the date of settlement. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Covea 
Insurance plc to:
pay the costs for K to appoint its own loss adjuster/surveyor, electrician, and drying 
company to provide the required reports;
pay for any works required following these reports to be completed based on the 
lowest of three quotes;
cover any loss of rent and utility costs during the repair period;
reimburse K for council tax costs for the period Covea covered loss of rent for his 
claim;
add an additional 8% simple interest per annum to this figure from the point the costs 
were incurred until the point of settlement; and
pay £500 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman