DRN-2885264
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Capital One (Europe) plc irresponsibly increased the credit limit on her 
credit card account.
What happened
Mrs M says she was in financial difficulties but Capital One kept increasing her credit card 
account limit. She says the lending was unaffordable and irresponsible and would like 
Capital One to refund interest. Mrs M says she had payday lending at the time of the credit 
limit increases.
Capital One says it carried out appropriate checks on the increases and that Mrs M 
managed her account appropriately before the increases. It says there were three increases 
between 2014 and 2016 from a credit limit of £2,300 to £3,550.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Capital One carried out appropriate checks on the three credit limit increases and 
took into account Mrs Ms appropriate account management. And that she made appropriate 
payments and that her debt reduced. The investigator didnt think there were any defaults 
registered on Mrs Ms credit file and limited adverse information such as missed payments.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision.
Lenders and credit providers should carry out reasonable and proportionate checks on any 
lending or credit applications. Those checks will of course vary depending on the type of 
lending and the amount. This was credit limit increase rather than for example a loan or 
mortgage and so I wouldnt have expected Capital Ones checks here to have been the 
same as for that type of lending.
I can see that there were three credit limit increases from 2014 to 2016 that increased the 
credit limit from £2,300 to £3,550 which is a total of just over £1,200 over that two-year 
period. I have looked at Capital Ones records and can see that it did carry out credit checks 
on the increases and considered Mrs Ms credit file as well as her overall debt. I can also 
see that on the whole Mrs M managed her account appropriately before the increases and 
made required payments.
So, Im satisfied that Capital One did carry out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
deciding to increase the credit limits on Mrs Ms account. Im also satisfied that the decision 
wasnt irresponsible or unaffordable and that Capital One was reasonably entitled to 
consider that Mrs M managed her account appropriately. It follows that I dont think Capital 
One made a mistake or acted unfairly by approving the increases which I think Mrs M could 
have rejected. I also find that the overall increase was for a relatively modest amount and 
that its likely Mrs Ms financial problems took place after the increases. I have looked at Mrs 
Ms credit file and think at the time of the increases there wasnt any adverse information 
recorded on it that would have meant Capital One ought not to have increased the credit 
limit.
Overall, Im satisfied Capital One carried out reasonable and proportionate checks before 
increasing Mrs Ms credit limit and so I cant fairly order it to refund the interest as Mrs M 
would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 July 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman