DRN-4240627
The complaint
Mrs S complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limited (AIC) and how theyve 
handled the claim she made on her home insurance policy.
Mrs S has been represented by her daughter during the complaint process. For ease of 
reference, I will refer to any comments made, or actions taken, by either Mrs S or her 
daughter as Mrs S throughout the decision.
What happened
Mrs S held a home insurance policy, underwritten by AIC. Unfortunately, in December 2021, 
Mrs S discovered leak originating from her bathroom, which had damaged both her 
bathroom floor and her kitchen ceiling. So, she contacted AIC to make a claim on her home 
insurance policy.
AIC accepted Mrs S claim and arranged for the necessary repairs to be completed. But 
there were delays during this process. And Mrs S was unhappy with damage that had been 
caused to her property by the contractors AIC appointed, who Ill refer to as P. So, Mrs S 
raised a complaint.
Mrs S was unhappy with how long it took for the repairs to be completed, and the 
inconvenience this caused her. Mrs S also complained about the damage P caused to her 
kitchen door, and some of her bathroom tiles. So, she wanted AIC to compensate her for the 
upset shed been caused. And she wanted AIC to repair her kitchen door and replace all of 
her bathroom tiles, to ensure all of her bathroom walls remained matching as it did before.
AIC responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They accepted there were avoidable 
delays between Mrs S notifying them of the claim in December 2021, and repairs 
commencing in May 2022. So, they offered Mrs S £300 to recognise any inconvenience this 
caused. And they agreed to replace Mr S kitchen door due to the damage caused by P. But 
they didnt think they should be responsible for replacing all of Mrs S bathroom tiles as Mrs 
S didnt hold matching sets cover as part of her policy. So, to recognise the damage P 
caused, they offered to cover the costs of retiling one wall, with the other walls being Mrs S 
own responsibility to pay for. Mrs S remained unhappy with this response, so she referred 
her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. They thought the £300 AIC offered 
for the delays, alongside their agreement to replace the door, were fair responses to Mrs S 
original complaint. But they didnt think it was fair for AIC to rely on the policy terms, and the 
lack of matching sets cover, regarding the tiles as they thought the damage was caused by 
P and not claim related. So, they recommended that AIC either replace the damaged tiles 
with identical replacements or, if this wasnt possible, replace all tiles in the bathroom so Mrs 
S had a matching set throughout the room.
Mrs S accepted this recommendation. But AIC didnt. They confirmed replacing the 
damaged tiles with identical replacements wasnt possible, as the tiles were no longer 
available. But they didnt think it was fair to expect them to replace all of the bathroom tiles 
due to what they felt was one damaged tile. So, AIC offered to pay Mrs S 50% of the quote 
they obtained from P to retile all the walls in the bathroom, to recognise their acceptance that 
the tile was damaged by P, but to ensure any compensation was in their eyes proportionate.
Our investigator put this offer to Mrs S. And Mrs S rejected it. So, our investigator wrote to 
both AIC and Mrs S re-affirming their recommendation that AIC either arrange for the full 
bathroom to be retiled at their own cost or pay Mrs S a cash settlement for the equivalent 
amount for her to arrange the work herself. Mrs S again accepted this recommendation. But 
AIC didnt, as they felt retiling the entire bathroom placed Mrs S in a better financial position 
which wasnt something they thought they should be reasonably expected to do. As AIC 
continued to disagree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the reasons outlined above, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons 
as the investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the 
right outcome.
I note both AIC and Mrs S have accepted our investigators recommendation that the £300 
compensation already offered by AIC for the delays Mrs S encountered is a fair one. I note 
AIC sent Mrs S a cheque for this amount, and for the purposes of this decision I am 
assuming this cheque has been cashed. But if it hasnt, Id expect AIC to raise a new cheque 
of the same value.  I also note that both AIC and Mrs S accept that AIC have acted fairly by 
agreeing to replace the kitchen door. 
As this has been accepted by both AIC and Mrs S, Im satisfied these issues are no longer in 
dispute. So, I wont be discussing the merits of these issues in any further detail.
I also note AIC have accepted that the tiles damaged in Mrs S bathroom were damaged due 
to the actions of P, and not because of the claim she raised regarding the leak in her 
bathroom. And as P were acting as an agent of AIC, AIC remain ultimately responsible for 
Ps actions. So, Im satisfied its been accepted by AIC that they acted unfairly when 
repairing the damage related to the initial claim and again, because of this I dont intend to 
discuss the merits of this complaint in any further detail.
Instead, Ive focused on the main point that remains in dispute, which is what AIC should 
fairly do to put things right regarding the bathroom tiles.
Putting things right
Any award or direction I make is intended to place Mrs S back in the position she wouldve 
been in, had AIC acted fairly in the first place.
In this situation, regarding the bathroom tiles, had AIC acted fairly, they wouldve ensured 
the repairs completed in her bathroom as part of the insurance claim she made were 
completed without any additional damage being caused. And if that were the case, Mrs S 
wouldve been left with the repairs complete and a bathroom with a full set of matching tiles, 
at no cost to herself.
But AIC have accepted that P did damage some of Mrs S tiles. I note there is a dispute in 
the number of tiles damaged, with AIC believing it to be 1 tile while Mrs S feels it is more than that. But either way, Ive seen images which satisfy me that tiles have been damaged in 
Mrs S bathroom. And, that this damage occurred to tiles which are visible and noticeable 
within the bathroom itself. So, I dont think the number of tiles that were damaged is relevant 
on this occasion.
And both Mrs S and AIC accept that the tiles currently in Mrs S bathroom are no longer 
available to be purchased. So, a direct replacement cant be sourced and fitted to replace 
the existing tiles she has.
So, to place Mrs S back in the position she wouldve been in has AIC acted fairly, which is to 
have a bathroom with a complete matching set of tiles, I think the entire bathroom will need 
to be re-tiled with the same tile. And, as this work is necessary because of damage caused 
by P, acting as AICs agent, I think it follows that AIC should be responsible for the total cost 
of the work, to ensure Mrs S is placed back in this position without a cost to her. This follows 
our services approach to damage caused to matching sets, where a business is responsible 
for that damage.
I understand AIC wont agree with this decision. And I want to reassure AIC I have 
considered their testimony, their 50% proposal, and their reasoning behind this. And to an 
extent, I can understand why AIC would feel it is unfair for them to pay to replace all of the 
tiles in the bathroom, when only a few at most were damaged.
But crucially, AIC were the business instructed to manage the repairs, in their role as insurer 
of Mrs S insurance policy. And Mrs S took out the insurance policy with AIC to help protect 
her financially in situations where her home was damaged and needed to be repaired. So, I 
dont think its then fair for AIC to cause additional damage and expect Mrs S to be 
financially disadvantaged because of this. And if Mrs S was expected to contribute towards 
the costs of the re-tiling, I think this would be the case.
I also want to make it clear that the damage to the tiles was caused by the actions of P, 
when repairing the initial damages caused by the claim. The damage to the tiles wasnt 
caused by the insured event Mrs S claimed for when she claimed on her insurance policy. 
So, I dont think it is fair for AIC to rely on the scope of the policy Mrs S held, including 
whether it included matching sets cover, as I dont think the damage to the tiles form part of 
the insurance claim she made. So, this hasnt impacted the decision Ive reached.
So, because of the above, I am directing AIC to cover the costs of retiling Mrs S bathroom, 
based on the quote provided to them by P. This can be done by AIC arranging the works to 
be completed. Or, if Mrs S chooses, AIC should pay Mrs S a cash settlement of the 
equivalent value, for Mrs S to arrange the retiling work herself.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs S complaint about Acromas Insurance 
Company Limited and I direct them to take the following action:
Replace all of the tiles in Mrs S bathroom to ensure she has one full matching set; or
Pay Mrs S the equivalent cost as a cash settlement, so Mrs S is able to arrange this 
work herself.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2023.
 Josh Haskey
Ombudsman