DRN-1222334
 
The complaint
Mr C complains Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) mis sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy with a credit card.
 What happened
Mr C applied for a credit card over the internet in 2003. At the same time he took out a PPI 
policy to cover his credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.79 per £100 of the balance on 
Mr Cs card. A successful claim on the policy would have paid 10% of the outstanding 
balance for up to 12 months if Mr C was unable to work due to an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs complaint. Having done so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill now explain.
The policy was taken out online when Mr C was applying for a credit card. Weve seen 
screen shots of the online credit card application which Mr C would have completed at that 
time. And Im satisfied that Mr C would have needed to select the PPI option for it to have 
been added to his account. If he hadnt wanted the PPI he could have left it blank - as he 
appears to have done for another option given to take card protection.
I can also see that Mr C signed the credit agreement which was sent to him in the post. This 
agreement confirms that hed selected to take PPI. He could have asked Barclays to remove 
this option if hed changed his mind about wanting it.
So from what Ive seen, I think Mr C actively decided to take the PPI knowing he could 
choose not to do so. But I can understand why he might not recall this now, as he applied for 
his card a long time ago.
As the policy was taken out over the internet, I dont think Barclays recommended the PPI to 
Mr C. This means it didnt have to ensure that it was right for him. But it did have to make 
sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide this himself. I think its likely that the 
information Barclays gave Mr C could have been better than it was. But he chose to take out 
the PPI, so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time, I dont think better information would have changed his mind 
about taking the PPI. I say this because:It appears that Mr C was eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
 
Mr C says he was eligible for generous sick pay from his employer and didnt need 
the policy. But this policy would have paid out in addition to his sick pay and, 
potentially, for longer than it would have lasted. So I still think he would have valued 
the extra security that the policy gave him.
 
Mr C says he was applying for the card as a means of consolidating his debts. But I 
dont think that this means that the policy was unsuitable or unaffordable for him.
 
So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because:
When the policy was sold, Barclays expected to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr C about 
that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.
 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr C. 
But Barclays Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr C any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 April 2020.
Simon Furse
Ombudsman