DRN-1597501
The complaint
U (a small business) complains about the way Society of Lloyd's (SoL) handled a claim 
under its legal expenses insurance policy. 
All references to SoL, includes its agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Us policy provides access to a legal advice helpline.  U contacted the helpline as it wanted 
advice about a dispute with an employee. U went on to dismiss the employee who later 
raised a claim for unfair dismissal. 
U made a claim under the policy to cover the legal costs associated with defending the 
claim. SoL instructed one of its panel solicitors to assess it. The panel solicitors said the 
claim only had 45% prospects of success. The policy requires prospects of success to be 
greater than 50% so SoL told U it wouldnt provide cover for the claim. It did agree for the 
panel solicitors to help prepare and file a response to the claim on Us behalf.  U disagrees 
with the panel solicitors assessment, it said it followed the advice it was given by the legal 
helpline so feels the claim should be covered. U says that as cover was withdrawn the 
business had to fund the legal costs itself and there were concerns about the future of the 
business.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She explained our service cant look into the 
actions of a solicitor or the quality of advice they provide; we could only look into whether 
SoL had dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. And she 
was satisfied it had done this. 
U didnt agree. It said its complaint is about the business that sold the policy to it, it doesnt 
understand why the investigator has looked into SoLs actions when the policy is held with 
another company. It reiterates each action it took, followed advice it received from the legal 
helpline. It doesnt think its fair the claim was declined because the panel solicitors think 
another course of action should have been advised and that is what impacted the prospects 
of success assessment. 
The case has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
U may have taken out its policy with a different business, but the legal expenses insurance is 
underwritten by SoL. So SoL is responsible for the services provided by the policy and the 
decisions made on claims. 
Prospects of success is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses insurance policies - that 
any intended claim has a reasonable prospect of succeeding. U's policy is no exception it 
says a claim must always have reasonable prospects of success and defines prospects of success as "...a greater than 50% chance of the insured person successfully pursuing or 
defending the claim and, if the insured person is seeking damages or compensation, a 
greater than 50% chance of enforcing any judgement that might be obtained".
We dont think this requirement is unfair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying 
customer wouldnt want to bear the cost if advised it is unlikely to succeed. We wouldnt 
expect a legal expenses insurer to either. Where an insurer has declined funding in such a 
case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether 
the insurer has acted fairly. So long as they have got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, 
we wont generally question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously 
wrong or based on factual mistakes. 
In this case I've looked at the prospects assessment and can see the advice was from a 
suitably qualified lawyer and i don't think there are obvious errors in it.  The panel solicitors 
advice was that U's claim didnt have reasonable prospects of being successful. I appreciate 
U had sought guidance from the legal helpline. But that doesnt mean the panel solicitors 
opinion was wrong and I think SoL were entitled to rely on that opinion. 
U thinks SoL should accept the claim as it followed the advice it was given on a helpline 
which is also provided under the policy. U thinks it's unfair that advice harmed its insurance 
claim. SoL has investigated U's concern about the legal advice it received and the solicitors 
that provide the helpline have explained there were certain aspects of the case they were 
unaware of and the advice provided was limited to the information given. As the advice 
wasn't obviously wrong, I can't say SoL has done anything wrong here. 
As our investigator has explained, our service isnt able to look into complaints about 
solicitors or the quality of legal advice they provide. They have their own regulator and codes 
of conduct.
Overall having considered everything, I don't think SoL needs to do anything more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold U's complaint against Society of Lloyd's.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2020.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman