The complaint
Mr G complains about how U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance treated him 
when he was struggling to afford the monthly instalments for his car insurance policy. He 
also complains about a comment a member of Churchills staff made to him during a phone 
conversation.
What happened
Mr G had a policy with Churchill, which he was paying for by instalments. He says he 
contacted Churchill a number of times and explained his difficult personal circumstances, but 
it put him under pressure to pay and was unclear and contradictory about how much time he 
had to do so. It then cancelled his policy and instructed debt collectors. 
During a call with Churchill about his complaint, Mr G says a staff member made a comment 
which was inappropriate and offensive. Churchill apologised; it also offered to write off the 
balance outstanding under the policy (£824.44) and pay Mr G £100 compensation. 
Our investigator found Churchill had got some things wrong, but she thought it had done 
enough to compensate Mr G. She didnt recommend it do or pay any more.
Mr G considered the matter of the outstanding debt resolved, but felt £100 compensation 
wasnt enough. He said the conversation hed had with Churchills staff member had had a 
significant impact on his health.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see from Churchills records that it rescheduled payments for Mr G a number of times 
when he phoned to tell it he couldnt pay by the due date. I understand Mr Gs point about 
deadlines being moved or extended, so he didnt know where he stood. However, while it 
could have cancelled the policy sooner, I think Churchill was trying to help by giving Mr G 
more time to pay and explaining that it would cancel the policy if he didnt. It also gave Mr G 
written notice before finally cancelling the policy.
I have listened to the phone call Mr G had with Churchill, during which he says it made an 
offensive and inappropriate comment. I agree, and its clear that Mr G was upset and hurt by 
what happened. Churchill agrees as well; I note that the staff member apologised to Mr G 
several times on the call in question and a team leader apologised in writing later.
DRN-1311631I find Churchill has accepted it got things wrong. It has said sorry and offered Mr G a 
substantial amount of compensation totalling more than £900. I have carefully considered 
what Mr G has said about the impact this matter had on him  in particular, in terms of his 
mental health and self-esteem  and, while I realise this isnt the outcome Mr G was hoping 
for, I find that Churchill has done enough to put things right. In taking that view, I must bear 
in mind that its not for me, as ombudsman, to fine or punish Churchill.
In all the circumstances, I find Churchill has made a fair offer of compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that U K Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance has made a 
fair offer. To settle this complaint, it should pay Mr G £100 as it has offered - if it hasnt 
already made the payment and if Mr G accepts this decision. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Janet Millington
Ombudsman