DRN-3084369
The complaint
Mr V has complained about the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled an escape of water 
claim under his home insurance policy. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr V made a claim to AXA after discovering a leak in his ground floor 
bathroom.
In August Mr V paid the policy excess which was a requirement for work to start. The leak 
was then fixed.
AXA arranged for the bathroom to be stripped out so that the property could dry. It was 
certified to be dry in mid-November.
AXA said Mr V would have to move into alternative accommodation from 10 December for 
five weeks while the new bathroom was installed. It needed a new basin, vanity unit, wc, 
floorboards, flooring and wall tiles. It asked Mr V to choose replacement items. It rejected his 
initial choices as being of better quality than the originals.
In mid-January AXA gave Mr V an ultimatum that he either accepted one of the options 
provided by it or it would install a like for like wc and vanity unit so that he could return home 
and it would cash settle the rest of the claim. Mr V then advised AXA of his choices. It ended 
up extending the accommodation until 24 February.
Mr V complained to AXA about the way his claim had been handled. In particular he was 
unhappy about the following:
delays;
the items installed by AXA being of inferior quality to what he had before; and
he felt AXA had harassed him about choosing the items.

AXA accepted that there had been some poor service and a lack of communication. It paid 
Mr V £350 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by that. As Mr V didnt think that 
was enough, he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He 
thought AXAs offer was fair. 
As Mr V didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Awards of compensation arent intended to fine or punish a business  thats the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. Escape of water claims can be particularly drawn 
out because the property often has to be stripped and dried out before repairs can start. But 
when this service considers how much compensation to award, were looking at what trouble 
and upset the insurer has caused to its policyholder above and beyond that which wed 
normally expect to see associated with a claim of this type.
I can see that Mr V let AXA know he was willing to proceed with the claim at the end of July 
2020 but it didnt update its contractor until Mr V chased about a month later. There was 
another delay of about three weeks when AXA didnt act upon the report about the cause of 
the leak. Again it took a phone call from Mr V to get the claim back on track. This was 
unnecessarily stressful for Mr V.
Looking at a timeline of the claim from that point, I dont think there were any unnecessary 
delays on AXAs part. On the contrary it was keen to progress the claim as quickly as 
possible to minimise the accommodation costs.
Mr Vs policy is a policy of indemnity. That means AXA is obliged to put him back into the 
position he was in before the insured event (in this case, the water leak) happened. A 
policyholder isnt entitled to be put into a better position. There was a lot of correspondence 
between Mr V and AXA about the replacement items. Some of the choices Mr V sent AXA 
were definitely not like for like  for example a vanity unit that was larger than the original, 
patterned tiles rather than the plain white square ones hed had before and a WC with a soft 
close lid. It did offer to fit Mr Vs choice of tiles if he covered the additional cost which I think 
was a reasonable compromise. I also dont think it was unreasonable of AXA to refuse to 
buy these items online using links forwarded by Mr V but to want to get them from one of two 
large stores near to Mr Vs home.
Its often hard to tell from photos whether something is of inferior quality. But its clear to 
me that Mr V ended up with a vanity unit that was smaller than his original one  it only 
has one door rather than two. AXA said that was because it was the only one available at 
the time. It offered to pay Mr V for a larger vanity unit and the cost of fitting it once the right 
size became available. I think this was a reasonable offer in the circumstances. Other than 
this Im not persuaded that any other replacement items were of inferior quality to what 
was there before.
AXA had booked Mr V into alternative accommodation until 14 January 2021. In mid-
December it asked Mr V to select replacement fittings by 4 January. On 11 January it was 
still waiting for Mr V to advise his choices. So I think its understandable that it started to 
put some pressure on him as it had no alternative but to extend the accommodation for a 
few more weeks at its expense. That pressure largely took the form of saying it would fit a 
like for like wc and sink and make a cash settlement to allow Mr V time to choose his own 
replacement items and arrange for them to be fitted. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable proposal in the circumstances. The offer was put to Mr V in a business-like 
manner and I dont think it amounted to harassment, although Ive no doubt it wasnt a 
comfortable situation for Mr V to be in.
All in all, I can see that delays and some poor service on the part of AXA and its suppliers 
made this claim more stressful for Mr V than it needed to be. In addition to the delays at the 
beginning of the claim, Mr V wasnt able to escalate his complaints initially. But to its credit 
AXA recognised thered been some failings on its part and offered £350 compensation. 
Having taken all the circumstances into account I think that amount is fair and reasonable for 
the trouble and upset caused to him.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman