DRN-3862805
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Hastings Insurance Services Limited handled her accident 
claim.
What happened
In October 2019, Miss D was involved in a road traffic accident she said wasnt her fault. On 
contacting her insurer Hastings, they referred her to an accident management company. The 
accident management company managed her accident claim with the third-party insurer 
(TPI). In December 2019, the TPI accepted liability for the accident, and Miss Ds claim was 
settled.
But in early May 2021 Miss D was taken to court as liability for the accident was disputed.  
Miss D said she spoke to her solicitors as she couldnt attend the court hearing and said she 
was told her attendance wasnt needed. The courts judgement was that Miss D was liable 
for the third-party drivers repairs.  Miss D told Hastings later that month about what had 
happened.
In October 2021, Miss D said she was issued with an enforcement notice for settlement of 
the court judgement. She complained to both the accident management company and 
Hastings.
Hastings said they should have done more in May 2021 when Miss D told them about the 
court case. They said they knew the TPI had accepted liability and should have passed this 
information to the accident management company. They arranged for the payment to be 
made and offered Miss D £150 for the distress and inconvenience that had been caused.
Miss D wasnt happy with their response as she now has a court judgement which she said 
will be recorded for six years and could affect any future credit applications. She referred her 
complaint to us.
Our investigator agreed that Hastings should have done more when Miss D told them about 
the court hearing. But said Hastings had acted fairly and reasonably in settling the debt and 
compensating Miss D £150 for the distress caused.
Miss D didnt agree she said that Hastings should have prevented the court judgement being 
made against her. She asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see other parties have been involved with Miss Ds accident claim, an accident 
management company and their solicitors. The services provided by an accident 
management company arent regulated activities, so dont fall within the jurisdiction of this 
service to consider. And solicitors arent regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. So I 
wont comment about how either party has dealt with Miss Ds accident claim. And it isnt our 
role to decide who was responsible for causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. 
Instead, our role is to determine whether Hastings has acted fairly and reasonably in their 
actions with Miss D. Having done so Im satisfied Hastings has acted fairly and reasonably.  
Ill explain why.
From the evidence Ive seen Miss D accepted the services of an accident management 
company and didnt make a claim against her motor insurance policy with Hastings when 
shed her accident in October 2019.
Accident management companies offer services to someone who had been involved in a 
road traffic accident that wasnt their fault. For example, they would typically arrange a hire 
car, where needed, organise repairs, or determine the pre-accident value of the car if its
deemed non repairable and then claim these costs back from the at fault TPI. They would 
have a responsibility to mitigate any costs as the TPI wouldnt cover any costs incurred if 
they werent a result of the accident. 
The advantage to the non-fault driver is that as they dont claim against their own motor 
insurance policy. This means they dont have to pay their motor insurance policy excess and 
there isnt any impact on their no-claims discount if they have one.  If the TPI didnt accept 
liability I would expect the accident management company to refer the accident claim back to 
the insurer. But from what I can see the TPI didnt dispute that their insured driver was liable 
for the accident. And Miss Ds accident claim was settled by them.
When people are involved in road traffic accidents they often feel very strongly about who 
was or who wasnt to blame. Consumers sometime say their insurer paid too much or that 
they werent at fault (liable) in full or in part. Most motor insurance policies contain a term 
which allows the insurer to handle the claim how it sees fit. This is sometimes referred to as 
"subrogation". This term essentially gives the insurer a contractual right to settle the claim 
how it chooses. It doesnt need the agreement or consent of the policyholder. 
I can see from Hastings records, in January 2020 that Miss D told them the TPI had 
accepted liability, and Hastings as they werent handling Miss Ds accident claim referred her 
back to the accident management company. I can see from Hastings records that there was 
another note in April 2020 that showed the TPI had accepted liability. 
But the third-party driver didnt agree with how his insurer settled the accident claim from his 
perspective and so decided to take the dispute to court. The dispute was heard in early May 
2021. From Miss Ds testimony she knew about the court date and had discussed it with her 
solicitors, Miss D said it was agreed with the solicitors that she didnt need to attend. Miss D 
has shown that the court didnt agree to reschedule the hearing and so heard the case in her 
absence. As mentioned above I cant comment on the actions taken by Miss Ds solicitors.
From Hastings records while I can see they were aware that the TPI had accepted liability, I 
cant see any notes that they were aware that the third party driver (not the TPI) was 
disputing the acceptance of liability, or that there was a court date set to hear the dispute. I 
cant see Miss Ds accident claim was passed back to Hastings by the accident management 
company for them to consider liability under her motor insurance policy. So I cant say the 
court judgment came about because Hastings failed to take appropriate action (whether its 
by failing to defend the claim at trial or failing to settle it), as they didnt know about the court 
hearing until after the event.Miss D did tell Hastings that her accident was being disputed in mid-May 2021, and a few 
days later that shed found shed been held liable for the third-party drivers repairs. While  
Miss Ds accident claim was handled by an accident management company, and I cant see 
Hastingss had any court papers or information as to the disputed liability until after the court 
judgement had been made. I think they should have looked to establish what had happened 
once they became aware of the court judgement in May 2021. I would have expected them 
to try set the judgment aside or to pay the judgment and apply for a certificate of satisfaction 
or cancellation. But they would have to do this within 30 days of the judgement.
From Hastings records they werent made aware of the court judgement until Miss D told 
them about it some 16 days after the judgement was made. This would have meant 
Hastings, if theyd acted upon this information had 14 days to get the judgement set aside or 
paid. From Hastings notes I think they might have considered the accident to be equally the 
fault of both drivers - 50/50 liability. So, its most likely they would have looked to pay the 
judgement. 
Theres no evidence from Hastings records that they took any further action until Miss D 
again contacted them in September 2021 to say that enforcement action was being taken 
against her. It is only here that Hastings act to take back the accident claim and arrange 
payment for the judgement made in early May 2021. I cant see that Hastings had any court 
papers or information about the court hearing other than the judgement needed to be paid. 
I think this is evidenced by Hastings thinking the dispute had been brought by the TPI as 
they apologised to Miss D for not sending the TPIs acceptance of liability to the accident 
management company. But this wasnt the issue here as the accident management 
company had settled the matter with the TPI. it was the other driver not the TPI disputing the 
resolution to the accident. 
Ive considered whether once aware that liability was in dispute Hastings would have been 
able to pay the settlement within the 30-day timeframe. I can see that Miss D told Hastings 
about the enforcement notice on 27 September 2021. And they acted promptly to try to get 
the matter resolved. But the payment wasnt confirmed until 15 October 2021, some 19 days 
later. 
The court judgement was made on 4 May 2021, I dont think Hastings knew Miss D had 
been found liable by the judgement until 20 May 2021, some 16 days later. And I can see 
when they promptly acted upon the enforcement it took them 19 days to get the payment 
made. So, I dont think Hastings would have been able to satisfy the 30-day timeframe for 
getting the judgement settled.
I know Miss D  will be disappointed in my decision, but I cant say that Hastings are at fault 
for the court judgement against her. But I do think Hastings could have done more in May 
2021 which if they had would have prevented the distress and inconvenience, she 
experienced in receiving the enforcement order. To put things right Hastings has settled the 
judgement order and offered Miss D £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused which I 
think is reasonable.My final decision
Hastings Insurance Services Limited has settled the court judgement and offered  Miss D 
£150 for distress and inconvenience to settle this complaint. 
I think thats fair in all the circumstances, so I dont require Hastings Insurance Services 
Limited  to do anything more to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman