DRN-1999271
The complaint
This is a complaint that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold Mrs M payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a single premium PPI policy taken out with a loan in March 2002. 
The loan, and the PPI, was to be for 24 months. The loan was actually paid off in June 
2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld. Nationwide disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. When I looked at the case, I 
reached a different view. So I wrote a provisional decision to explain my thinking, and I 
asked for comments and any further evidence. I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this 
into account in deciding this case.
The adjudicator said the complaint should be upheld because there were limited 
circumstances in which Mrs M could have made an unemployment claim under the 
policy. This was because she was past state retirement age.
However, I currently have a different view on this. Nationwide has pointed out that 
the policy doesnt say cover ends when you reach state retirement age, but when 
you first receive your state pension:
All cover will endwhen You reach 65, retire or receive Your State 
Pension
And Mrs M has said that she didnt retire until 2004.
I asked the adjudicator to find out when Mrs M first claimed her pension, and whether 
she deferred it. But we didnt get a reply back.
I dont have any evidence that Mrs M was receiving her state pension before 2004, 
or that she was expecting to claim her pension during the likely lifetime of this loan. 
So I think its unlikely shed have decided against taking PPI, even if Nationwide 
had made clear this limitation in the PPI.
Ive also looked at whether there were other possible reasons why the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. But I dont currently think they apply to this case. I will explain 
why.
Mrs M says Nationwide didnt tell her shed have to pay extra for PPI, and that she 
wasnt told about the PPI. She says she didnt need it.
However this did all happen about 18 years ago and it wouldnt be surprising if 
someone didnt remember the detail of an event like this. And it wouldnt be fair to 
decide Nationwide acted wrongly in this way, unless there was reasonable evidence 
of it. And, in fact, I can see that Mrs M signed a loan form, and this does clearly set 
out that she was agreeing to a one- off premium for PPI to be added to the loan. It 
set out the cost of this, including the interest payable.
So I think its likely Mrs M would have realised what she was agreeing to, even if, not 
surprisingly, she doesnt now remember it.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs M, as being particularly suited to her 
individual needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would have been for Mrs M to decide whether it was suitable.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly point out the main things the policy didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mrs M would have been affected by any of these.
In response, Mrs Ms representatives told us she:
received her pension when she retired from work. [Mrs M] could not confirm the exact 
date of retirement but did mention it was after 1996 and before 2000.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the new information, but Ive still decided I dont have enough evidence to 
show that this PPI policy was mis-sold. 
The information that Mrs M and her representatives have been able to provide about her 
pension hasnt been as clear and consistent as I would need it to be. This isnt surprising 
given that were talking about events of twenty or so years ago. 
In her complaint form and supporting information sent to the ombudsman service, Mrs M 
makes a reference to a pension in the period 1994 to 2004. So this could mean she was in 
receipt of a pension during this period, which would have overlapped with the period of the 
loan and PPI. But she also refers to a pension in the period 1972 to 1990. So I think in fact 
these references are more likely to mean that she was paying into a pension during those 
two periods, and not that she was a receiving a pension. And she wouldnt have been 
entitled to claim the age-related state pension until 1999 anyway. 
Further Mrs M told us, when complaining, that she actually retired in 2004. The latest 
information that Mrs Ms representatives gave us (quoted above) doesnt really clarify the 
question of when Mrs M first received her pension. 
 
Overall, without stronger evidence, I dont think it would be fair to say Nationwide did 
something significantly wrong when it sold Mrs M the PPI. So, Im confirming my provisional 
decision that this policy probably wasnt mis-sold.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 October 2020.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman