DRN-4243208
The complaint
Mrs M complains that loans sold to her by NRAM Limited in 2006 and 2007 were
unaffordable and it didnt correctly assess affordability at the time they were sold.
What happened
In 2006 Mrs M took a personal loan with NRAM for £25,000. Under the terms of the loan, 
she was due to repay it making monthly payments of approximately £273 over 120 months. 
She took another personal loan with NRAM for approximately £1,000 in 2007. That loan was 
to be repaid by making monthly payments of approximately £22 for 120 months.
Mrs M says, around the time she took the loans she had spiralling debt and a total of          
32 loans and credit cards. And she borrowed in an attempt to manage her debt situation. 
She also says she suffers with her mental health and was in an abusive and controlling 
marriage at that time. She says her circumstances led to an inability to manage her financial 
situation or make complaints to lenders.
In 2016 Mrs M divorced her husband, sold her house and paid-off the NRAM loans.
However, she says she was left with nothing as all the equity from the sale was used to 
repay her debts.
Mrs M complained that NRAM didnt assess affordability adequately in a letter dated
1 June 2021, to the business she understood to be responsible for the sales. She was 
redirected a number of times and NRAM has taken responsibility for the sales. But it hasnt 
consented to us considering the merits of Mrs Ms complaint because it thinks she did so too 
late  outside the time limits explained in the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) dispute 
resolution rules. NRAM explained that in its final response letter dated 24 July 2022, though 
it should be noted that response only appears to address the sale in 2006. Ive not been 
provided with a final response letter addressing the 2007 sale.
Dissatisfied with NRAMs response, Mrs M asked us to consider her complaint. I decided 
that we do have the power to consider Mrs Ms complaint  that it wasnt out of time 
according to the rules under which we operate. And, despite Mrs M not originally 
complaining about the mis-sale of the second loan  in 2007  Im assuming NRAM is happy 
for me to consider that, given that, at our request, it has provided information about the sale 
of that loan.
The transaction statements available indicate that Mrs M didnt miss payments and 
redeemed both loans early with lump sums, in approximately 2015.
After I decided we have the power to consider the merits of Mrs Ms complaint, our 
investigator proceeded to do so. From the information available, she didnt think NRAM had 
mis-sold Mrs Ms loans, so she didnt uphold Mrs Ms complaint. Our investigator explained 
she had considered the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) and the Office of Fair Trading (OFT) 
guidance to assess whether the evidence indicated NRAM had assessed affordability as it 
should have done. Having done so, she thought NRAM hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs M didnt agree and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So, her 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To decide Mrs Ms complaint, Ive considered whether the evidence available indicates that 
NRAM carried out proportionate checks to establish affordability  meaning checks with the 
amount borrowed and the contractual monthly payment in mind. 
At the time Mrs M took out both loans there wasnt a set list of checks a lender had to 
complete. For the level of commitment Mrs M was undertaking in respect of the 2006 loan I 
think it would have been reasonable to have expected NRAM to conduct a credit check, or 
something similar, to establish whether Mrs M had experienced difficulty with the repayment 
of credit relatively recently. And I would expect NRAM to have considered Mrs Ms income 
and expenditure as well as factoring-in any foreseeable changes to income and expenditure, 
such as retirement. Had those checks given cause for concern, it may have been 
appropriate to conduct additional checks or to have declined the application. The 2007 loan 
represented a much smaller commitment so a good payment record for the 2006 loan may 
have been sufficient, along with a credit check, to ensure Mrs M wasnt running into difficulty 
elsewhere.
While I have decided that this complaint was made in time  that we do have the power to 
consider its merits  I am mindful that the evidence available may not be as complete as that 
of a more recent loan sale. So, in some instances, the evidence may indicate that NRAM 
was likely to have considered an aspect of affordability, rather than demonstrate that it did. 
Equally, evidence may indicate that NRAM ought to have had cause for concern regarding 
affordability. 
NRAM has provided copies of bank statements and pay slips it considered in respect of the 
2006 loan. The payslips appear to cover a three-month period and the bank statements 
cover a two-month period  December 2005 and January 2006. So that indicates that NRAM 
did consider income and expenditure  the payslips show regular employed income, and the 
bank statements give a relatively reliable view of expenditure. 
The bank statements  albeit for a joint account with her then husband  do show that Mrs M 
used her arranged overdraft facility but, during those months, was not up to her overdraft 
limit. The bank statements also indicate that Mrs M made regular payments to other financial 
institutions, some of which appear to have been in respect of payments for other credit. Its 
my understanding from the application, and I think it also would have been NRAMs 
understanding, that a significant amount of the loan in 2006 was to repay  consolidate  
much of that other credit. So, I think its likely that NRAM would have taken that into account 
when deciding whether the 2006 loan would be affordable. And deducted those 
commitments from the I&E when considering affordability of the loan overall moving froward.
NRAMs record of the application also refer to various data scores, specifically in relation to 
defaults and collections. I think that indicates that it conducted a credit file check with a view 
to assessing Mrs Ms credit payment history. Theres also an indication that it checked for 
county court judgements and found that there were none.With regard to the sale of the additional loan in 2007, I think it would have been reasonable 
for NRAM to assess affordability less stringently. I say that because it had relatively recently 
assessed income and expenditure and the amount borrowed  along with the contractual 
monthly repayments  was much less than the original loan, So, I think a good track record 
of payments for the 2006 loan - £273 per month  would indicate that a further £22 per 
month was likely to be affordable. 
Overall, I think the checks NRAM appear to have carried out were adequate, so I think its 
likely that NRAM satisfied itself fairly that the loan in 2006 was affordable. Ive also noted 
that the loan started in 2006, when Mrs M was approximately 42 years of age, and had a 
term of 10 years, so was due to end when Mrs M was 52. So, I dont think NRAM needed to 
be concerned about a drop in income due to retirement during the term. And I havent seen 
any evidence to indicate that it was foreseeable that Mrs Ms income was likely to decrease 
for another reason within the term of the loan.
Mrs M has explained at length her health concerns,  which I wont go into here  that she 
was in an abusive relationship around the time of taking the loans, and that shes been the 
victim of financial scams. I have thought carefully about all that shes said. I cant begin to 
understand what shes been through and the effect her experiences have had on her. 
However, I havent seen any evidence to indicate that NRAM should have been aware of her 
personal circumstances. And I havent seen anything to make me think NRAM could have 
been prompted to make enquiries in that regard, so as to include any such information in its 
lending decision. That means, while I am sorry that Mrs M has been through all that she has, 
I dont think those circumstances should have a bearing on the outcome of this case.
As I think NRAM appears to have carried out reasonable checks to assess affordability of 
both loans, I dont uphold her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint about NRAM Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Gavin Cook
Ombudsman