DRN-1741078
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) with her mortgage.  
What happened
In 2006 Mrs W took out a mortgage with Halifax. At the same time she was sold an MPPI 
policy to protect her mortgage payments. The policy wouldve covered her repayments if she 
was unable to work due to accident or sickness or if she lost his job. A successful claim on 
the policy wouldve covered repayments for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He thought the paperwork 
wouldve presented the policy as optional and that it wouldve provided a suitable benefit. 
Mrs W disagreed, so her complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint.
Mrs W was sold the policy during a meeting. Halifax had to make it clear the policy was 
optional and that Mrs W chose to take it. Mrs W says this wasnt done but she hasnt given 
much detail about why she thought this, which I think is understandable as the policy was 
sold a while ago. So to help me reach my decision Ive also looked at what the documents 
from the time show.
Halifax has given us a copy of the plan pack it says was sent to Mrs W. Within the pack is a 
letter thanking Mrs W for choosing Halifax MPPI, a demands and needs statement and 
plan summary outlining the cost for MPPI as well as instructions on how to cancel the policy.
The information recorded in these documents suggests that Mrs W spent some time 
discussing her circumstances and whether she wished to arrange cover to protect her 
mortgage payments. I think its likely Mrs W wouldve received and read the plan pack and I 
think if there hadnt been any discussion about MPPI and Mrs W hadnt agreed to take the 
policy she wouldve questioned why she received a pack confirming her PPI plan had been 
agreed. 
So I think Mrs W wouldve understood MPPI was optional and that she had it because she 
chose to take the cover.Halifax advised Mrs W to take out the MPPI. What this means is that Halifax not only had to 
provide information about MPPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mrs W could 
make an informed choice about buying MPPI. It also had to make sure that if it was to 
recommend MPPI that the policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Halifax did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy overall was a 
suitable recommendation for Mrs W for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught by 
any of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which couldve 
made it difficult to make a successful claim. 
 
At the time of the sale Mrs W says she was entitled to a good level of sick pay and 
she couldve relied on her husband to help with her mortgage payments if she was 
too sick to work or lost her job. But there is no guarantee her husband would be able 
to help and a successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work 
benefits and for potentially longer. 
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Mrs W in her circumstances 
especially considering she was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
she wouldve been interested in protecting her.  
 
There was nothing to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to her at the time. And 
if she decided she no longer wanted the policy she could cancel it. 
 
I also need to consider whether Halifax gave Mrs W information in a way which was clear, 
fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper choice about whether or not she 
wanted to take the policy out.
I can see the cost of the policy was clear from the plan pack. But I dont know if Halifax gave 
all the proper information as it shouldve. But even if there were problems with the 
information and advice, for the same reasons that the policy was suitable and based on what 
Mrs W have told us about her circumstances at the time, I think she wouldve still taken out 
the MPPI policy given the proper information. 
This means Mrs W arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Halifax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Bank of Scotland 
plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman