DRN-1529127
The complaint
Mr M disputes a debt with PRA Group (UK) Limited and feels it has treated him unfairly.
What happened
PRA says it bought this debt (relating to a credit agreement) from a credit card company in 
February 2012 and that it is for Mr M to repay. It says after it bought this debt it outsourced 
its collection to other agencies and that Mr M made monthly repayments in relation to the 
debt between early 2012 and February 2016. PRA says it then took on managing the debt 
itself and Mr M made monthly repayments to it until May 2018. 
PRA accepts that due to not having the original paperwork from the time that Mr M took out 
the credit agreement (to have the credit card account) with the credit card company, the 
agreement isnt enforceable. Nevertheless it says Mr M owes it money and that it is entitled 
to ask Mr M to pay the money back.
Mr M says that PRA has treated him unfairly. Mr M disputes the sum owed and says PRA 
isnt entitled to collect the amount it says he owes it. Mr M says PRA has been aggressive 
towards him. He wants PRA to write off the debt or reduce the balance to an amount that it 
can show he owes. And he wants £100 in compensation. PRA feels it hasnt done anything 
wrong. Mr M complained to PRA and it said it hadnt done anything wrong. Mr M disagreed, 
so he complained here. The Investigator did not agree with Mr M. As Mr M remains unhappy 
this complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
PRA and Mr M dont agree to some of the key issues here. So I can only make my decision 
based on the evidence provided to me by the parties. In short I must decide what is most 
likely to have happened. Or in other words, what happened on the balance of probabilities.
Having considered all of Mr Ms arguments Im not persuaded to uphold this complaint. I say 
this for the following reasons.
PRA has provided the account history from when it bought the account (showing Mr Ms 
many payments towards it) and information regarding that purchase. The credit card 
company has also provided its position on the matter and explains Mr M had a credit card 
account with it which it defaulted in 2009 and sold in 2012. PRA have shown it purchased 
the debt from the credit card company in 2012 and provided details of that transaction. It has 
also shown that Mr M made many payments towards the debt once it had purchased it. Mr M 
hasnt said he didnt owe the credit company and hasnt argued that PRA didnt purchase his 
debt from the credit company. He doesnt dispute that he made payments to PRA. So Im 
satisfied Mr M has a debt with PRA.
PRA has accepted and told Mr M that due to the circumstances it cannot enforce the 
agreement. And it has said it has not described this account as being enforceable. It is not 
for this service to decide on whether or not a debt is enforceable-that is for the courts. 
However this service can decide on whether it is fair and reasonable for PRA to ask Mr M to 
pay this debt and if so how much.
PRA has provided evidence from when it bought the debt from the credit card company. It 
has also provided the account history from that time until the time we asked it for these 
details. I can also see the correspondence history and the management of the account 
throughout and the payments Mr M has paid and his personal details. Mr M hasnt pointed to 
why he thinks the amount PRA says he owes is wrong. He hasnt pointed to clearing the 
debt at any time or any significant payments towards it. Having considered the evidence, on 
balance, Im satisfied Mr M owed £15,504.58 in March 2019 when he complained as PRA 
says. So I am not persuaded by what Mr M says on the amount owed and think PRA are 
entitled to ask him to repay the amount he owes it. The fact that PRA accept that it is not 
enforceable doesnt mean Mr M doesnt owe the money or that PRA cannot ask him to repay 
it.
Mr M says PRA has been aggressive towards him and acted unfairly. Ive considered the 
contact history PRA has provided, the call notes, the letters to Mr M it has provided copies of 
and its standard letters which it says it has used. From this Ive not seen any persuasive 
evidence that PRA has been aggressive towards Mr M. He hasnt pointed to any particular 
letters, calls or texts as being aggressive or unfair. And I cant see from the correspondence 
history any examples of him complaining about his treatment and I can see where he has 
called in to discuss the matter with PRA. All in all Im not persuaded Mr M has been treated 
unfairly here by PRA. And I dont think it has acted aggressively towards him.
So I dont see any reason for the debt to be written off or for PRA to cease collection activity. 
I dont think PRA need to take any further action regarding this complaint as Im not 
persuaded it has done anything wrong. Im not persuaded he has been treated unfairly by 
PRA in the circumstances. So, in short, this complaint does not succeed. 
I appreciate Mr M would rather not pay this debt and that hell be disappointed by my 
decision. However Im satisfied he owes PRA and that it is entitled to ask him to repay it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint against PRA Group (UK) 
Limited. It has nothing more to do with regard to this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 October 2020.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman