DRN-4080680
The complaint
Miss S complains that Santander UK Plc wouldnt refund payments she didnt authorise from 
her account and instead registered a default and appointed third party collection agents.
What happened
Miss S says that she had agreed to make one payment of £2,772.76 to a car rental business 
on 1 October 2021 using her debit card. But not to make six further payments on 6 
November 2021 and which came to a further £2,736.11. She said that these related to a car 
rental agreement for her ex-partner. These payments added to her overdraft and her 
account defaulted.
Santander said that it had asked Miss S for details about her dispute. And particularly on 4 
February 2022 for information about any attempted contact with the merchant. She hadnt 
responded and so the dispute couldnt be pursued. It held her responsible for the payments.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. Miss S said she had 
responded to the request from Santander using a pre-paid envelope. And she had already 
provided an initial dispute form. Miss S wouldnt reasonably know that this further response 
hadnt been received within the period allowed. And the document was an email from the 
merchant saying that it couldnt discuss the dispute because the rental agreement wasnt in 
her name. So, our investigator concluded that it was most likely she responded and that it 
would have been reasonable for Santander to do more.
Our investigator had also contacted the merchant. It wrote to say that Miss S ought to have 
been a party to the agreement even if not the driver and so she would be subject to the 
same terms and conditions. It had limited information and didnt know if she was present 
when the rental was taken out and it couldnt rule out a process failure. So, it said it would 
refund the disputed sums charged to her card on 6 November 2021. Santander said that as 
Miss S account was now closed it couldnt be re-opened to facilitate this and that she would 
need to obtain the refund. The merchant didnt respond to three further emails from our 
investigator about this which had asked whether the refund could be paid to a different 
account.
As a result, she recommended that Santander put things right on the basis that a 
chargeback would have likely succeeded. The account should be reworked to remove these 
payments. As Miss S had paid some of this debt before the account defaulted there would 
be a refund of the surplus amount due to her. She should be paid simple interest of 8% per 
annum as she was deprived of funds. The default and any adverse information should be 
removed, and she should be paid £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
That took into account that Miss S had described how the default had affected her ability to 
get credit and pay her bills and that she had borrowed money from family. She had been 
distressed by the debt collectors being appointed and their actions are temporarily on hold 
during this complaint.
Santander didnt agree to pay the refund as it was concerned that Miss S could also receive 
this from the merchant. It agreed to pay her £500 and the eight per cent simple interest. 
Santander asked for an ombudsmans review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card details. And if the payments werent 
authorised Miss S wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
Miss S raised a dispute about these payments. Santander decided to deal with this by the 
use of the chargeback scheme. It didnt receive the form it needed to pursue this further as 
set out above. 
The issue is whether Miss S consented to the payments. The merchant conceded that it 
cant show that she did and as a result agreed she should be refunded. I consider that based 
on the information there isnt a reasonable basis to find that these payments were authorised 
and for example that Miss S had agreed to the terms and conditions of an ongoing contract 
and to make any recurring payments. So, she isnt responsible for them.
The merchant isnt a party to this complaint. I cant reasonably assume what it will do and so 
that it will for example be prepared to refund Miss S other than to the card involved. It hasnt 
in any event responded to our investigator about further questions relating to this. And I have 
no information to suggest it has taken any further action. 
Santander has said that it cant facilitate a refund now that the original card and account are 
closed and the debt subject to its recoveries process. I dont consider that should reasonably 
result in a problem and risk for Miss S who can expect to be put back in the position she 
ought to have been in and for there not to be further delay. Santander may for example want 
to contact the merchant to make arrangements for the refund and in so doing mitigate the 
potential for Miss S to be unjustly enriched. But the position now is that it cant reasonably 
hold her responsible for these payments as they werent authorised. And only it can now be 
an intermediary with the merchant. So, I am going to require it to ensure that Miss S is 
refunded which doesnt rule out it arranging for that to come from the merchant and/or it 
confirming that this has already happened. I would also reasonably expect that if Miss S did 
receive the refund directly that shed repay the money owing to Santander to resolve matters 
in the way set out below.
I dont have anything to add to whats been said about the further compensation that has 
been agreed by Miss S and Santander to reflect that she was deprived of funds and that her 
account defaulted, and debt collectors were appointed. Absent these payments she would 
have more that repaid her prior overdraft.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Santander UK Plc to:
1) Arrange for the payments to be refunded to Miss S.
2) Rework the interest and charges that had been applied to the account as if these payments had never been debited.
3) Return any surplus funds it then holds to Miss S after the outstanding debt is repaid
4) Pay Miss S simple interest of eight percent per annum on the surplus funds amount 
in (3) above from 6 November 2021 to the date of settlement.
5) Remove the default and in addition any adverse credit information relating to Miss S 
for the period after these payments were applied to her account to the date of 
settlement.
6) Pay Miss S £500 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman