DRN-2562582
The complaint
Mr Ms complained about the level of the fee he was charged by Charterhouse Claims 
Limited (Charterhouse) for pursuing a claim for mis-sold payday loans  because there was 
a mistake in the offer which he  not Charterhouse  noticed.
What happened
In early 2019, Mr M appointed Charterhouse to act for him in a claim for compensation from 
a lender Ill call L for mis-selling him payday loans.  Mr M had taken out 56 loans with L over 
a four year period.  He accepted Charterhouses terms and conditions, which stated that 
they would be paid a fee equivalent to 35% of any compensation Mr M received, plus VAT in 
the event of a successful claim.
Charterhouse submitted a claim to L, which they rejected.  So Mr M agreed that 
Charterhouse should refer the matter to the Financial Ombudsman Service.  The Financial 
Ombudsman Service considered it and in April 2020 sent Charterhouse their view that L had 
been fair in providing Mr Ms first five loans.  But loans 6 onwards shouldnt have been lent.
In June 2020, Charterhouse wrote to Mr M saying:
We are pleased to advise you that L has agreed with Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) 
recommendations to part uphold your claim. As a result L has decided to make an offer of 
£1321 21. which is in line with FOS guidelines.
Mr M didnt think this was right.  So he contacted Charterhouse.  Charterhouse said theyd 
check the position with the Financial Ombudsman Service.  There was a delay while the 
Financial Ombudsman Service went back to L.  But in September 2020, the Financial 
Ombudsman Service adjudicator contacted Charterhouse to let them know that L had 
increased their offer to £12,031.16.
Mr M complained to Charterhouse that they should have realised that the first offer from the 
Financial Ombudsman Service was wrong  but the mistake was only picked up when 
Charterhouse sent him copies of the Financial Ombudsman Services view.  And he was 
unhappy that Charterhouse had sent him the email above, without advising him about it.  He 
said theyd advised him on another case, and hed expected the same to happen here. Mr M 
said he thought Charterhouse should reduce their fee to compensate him for what had gone 
wrong.
Charterhouse reviewed Mr Ms complaint.  They accepted they shouldve picked up the error 
the Financial Ombudsman Service had made in the number of loans theyd considered.  But 
they said that, once Mr M had brought it to their attention, they tried to resolve the issue.  
And Charterhouse said that it was up to Mr M whether or not to accept the offer.  They told 
him that the other matter hed mentioned was different, because it related to an offer from 
the lender, not an assessment by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
By way of apology, Charterhouse reduced Mr Ms fee by £100.
Mr M wasnt satisfied with this and brought his complaint to us.  He told us he didnt think 
Charterhouses fee was proportionate to the service he received.  And he said that, if he 
hadnt noticed the mistake, he - and Charterhouse  wouldve lost out.
Our investigator considered the complaint.  He said that Charterhouses invoice wasnt 
calculated on the basis of the service theyd provided, but on the basis the claim had been 
successful.  And he said that Charterhouse had made a mistake  but theyd recognised that 
by reducing their invoice by £100.  He didnt think they needed to do anything more.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint.  I know hell be disappointed by my 
decision.  Ill explain why Ive made it.
When Mr M instructed Charterhouse, he signed their terms and conditions.  By doing that, 
he agreed to pay them a fee equivalent to 35% of any compensation he was awarded, plus 
VAT.  His claim was successful.  So Charterhouses fee became due. 
Mr Ms told us that he thinks the fee is disproportionate.  He said he was paying for 
Charterhouses expertise.  Its clear he doesnt think he received the benefit of that expertise.
Ive thought carefully about this.  As well as setting out their fee, Charterhouses terms and 
conditions set out what they will do for people who instruct them.  They say:
1.2.1 Once we have received your completed paperwork we will investigate your claim 
by obtaining copies of all relevant documentation from your Payday Loan Lender
1.2.2 Once we receive the paperwork from your Payday Loan Lender this will be 
reviewed to see whether the loan provided was suitable given your needs and 
circumstances at the point of sale.
1.2.3 If we think your Payday Loan was mis-sold we will submit a claim to the Payday 
Loan Lender who provided this. They have 8 weeks in which to respond to this. 
(In exceptional circumstances it may take longer than this.)
1.2.4 If your claim is rejected by your Payday Loan Lender we may submit it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service (FOS) for consideration. We will ask you before 
we do this.
Charterhouse took all these steps for Mr M.  So on the face of it theyre entitled to the fee 
they told Mr M theyd charge.
Theres no dispute that Charterhouse made a mistake by not noticing that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service hadnt included all of Mr Ms loans with L in their deliberations.  Ive 
considered whether the £100 reduction theyve made to their invoice is enough to recognise 
this.
Ive looked at the impact the mistake had on Mr M.  Ive seen that, when he received the 
offer, he immediately contacted Charterhouse to tell them he thought it was wrong.  So  although hes complained he didnt get advice about the offer  Im not persuaded he 
needed any advice.  And, on that basis, it wouldnt be fair for me to decide Charterhouse 
should compensate him for not advising him.
And Ive seen that, when Mr M did contact them, Charterhouse took steps immediately to 
sort the issue out.  That did take a couple of months  but that was because Charterhouse 
had to contact the Financial Ombudsman Service, who in turn had to contact L.  
Charterhouse had no control over that.  So it wouldnt be reasonable for me to increase their 
compensation to Mr M for that reason.
And I can see that, at the end of the process, L did make Mr M an offer he accepted.  So its 
not the case that he lost out because of Charterhouses mistake.
Mistakes do unfortunately happen.  But I cant say that means Charterhouse didnt act with 
the appropriate expertise or that they should increase the amount of compensation they pay 
to Mr M.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ms complaint about Charterhouse 
Claims Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman