The complaint
The executor of the Estate of Miss D (Miss Ds Representative) is unhappy with the 
compensation AXA France IARD (AXA) has offered to settle a complaint about a mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out alongside a store card account. 
What happened
Miss D opened her store card account in December 2000 and at the same time took out a 
PPI policy, which was referred to on the application form as Account Cover. 
Miss Ds Representative has complained the PPI was mis-sold. AXA has agreed to uphold 
the complaint that the PPI was mis-sold and offered to pay £243.58 compensation after tax. 
This compensation was made up of a refund of the total PPI premiums paid plus any interest 
and charges caused on the account by the addition of the premiums to the balance. AXA 
also included compensatory interest of £17.01 before tax, for any times Miss D was out of 
pocket. The total offer was £246.98 before tax was taken off the compensatory interest. 
Miss Ds Representative isnt happy with the amount of compensation offered. 
Our adjudicator said what AXA had worked out and offered was fair. Miss Ds 
Representative remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman to consider the 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
AXA has agreed to uphold the complaint and pay compensation for the PPI that was mis-
sold. Miss Ds Representative remains unhappy about the sale and why the PPI was added 
to Miss Ds account, in addition to being unhappy with the amount of compensation. It seems 
Miss Ds representative wants more compensation than that offered because they claim the 
PPI was not agreed to and shouldnt have been added to the account.
When PPI is mis-sold the compensation paid should cover all the costs caused by the PPI 
premiums being added to an account and also some compensatory interest for any time a 
consumer is out of pocket. So this service would look at what is offered in compensation to 
check if it is correct. 
As has been explained to Mis Ds Representative, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) is 
the regulator of the financial business and responsible for imposing and fines and penalties 
DRN-1930784on a business. The Financial Ombudsman Service does not impose penalties or fines for 
wrong doing, but resolves specific complaints between parties informally, to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome.
Miss Ds Representative states the PPI was falsely applied as it was never signed up for and 
she claims the business was dishonest and the law has been broken.
I have seen the application form that was completed by Miss D at the time she applied for 
the store card account. On this form there is a section at the top headed Account Cover. 
This sets out briefly what this cover provides. That included purchase protection for 60 days 
on goods purchased in addition to accident, sickness and unemployment cover. This section 
also states the cost is one pence per pound of balance, so gives an indication of the cost. It 
goes on to say that information on the benefits, eligibility and exclusions is contained in the 
Credit Agreement provided to the customer. 
Further down the form is a box, again headed Account Cover. This clearly states to sign in 
the box only if Account Cover is required. This box also states that if the cover is selected 
the premiums will be charged to the account until further notice. I can see on the form that 
Miss D has signed in the box. So she did at the time select to take out the cover.
I can also see from the information completed on the form that it is likely Miss D wasnt 
eligible for the policy. She wasnt working and from her date of birth she was of an age 
where she was unlikely to have been within required age ranges.  Although the eligibility 
criteria is not set out on the form. 
So I think it is quite possible at the time Miss D took out her store card she wanted to take 
out the PPI and it is clear she had a choice. However insufficient information was provided at 
the time to make it clear she may not have been eligible or may not have been able to utilise 
all the benefits may have offered. Therefore, the PPI was mis-sold. And AXA has agreed the 
policy was mis-sold. 
Many PPI policies were mis-sold because of poor information being provided at the point of 
sale. But poor information does not make something unlawful. The policy should not have 
been sold to Miss D so she should not have paid the premiums and any costs caused on the 
account by adding those premiums. So, AXA now has to pay back everything Miss D paid 
for the policy to put Miss D in the position as if she never took out the policy.
AXA does not have all the statements for Miss Ds account. But it does have summary 
records about the account. It was opened in December 2000 and closed in February 2012. 
During the time the account was open Miss D made purchases totalling £1,281.89; was 
charged a total of £192.02 in card rate interest on all balances; and had £120.40 added to 
the account for the PPI premiums.
Using this data, AXA has included in the compensation its offered, the full premiums 
charged of £120.40 and it has said charges of £72.00 were caused by the PPI so has also 
refunded these. AXA has then calculated £37.57 in card rate interest was caused by the PPI 
being in the balance, so that has also been refunded as part of the compensation. 
In addition, AXA is required to pay compensatory interest at the rate of 8% simple per year 
for any time Miss D was out of pocket for the costs of the PPI. This would be whenever the 
card account was overpaid by the PPI costs so would have been in credit as a result. This 
compensatory interest has been calculated as £17.01. HM Revenue and Customs require 
that basic rate income tax is taken from this, which here is £3.40.So the total compensation offered to settle the complaint comes to £243.58 after tax. And I 
think this is fair compensation to put Miss D back in the position she would have been in if 
she had never taken out the PPI.
I have noted Miss Ds Representative referring to a charge for PPI in one month of £7. The 
records I have seen indicate that the maximum ever charged in one month was £7.92. When 
there was no balance on the account no PPI would have been charged and the minimum 
premium ever charged, when there was a balance on the account, was £0.17p. I cannot see 
anything in the evidence presented to indicate the total figures for the PPI that AXAs records 
show is incorrect and the amount Miss D paid for the PPI in premiums was more than 
£120.40 in total.
Miss Ds Representative also refers to a number of charges being applied to the account. As 
I have indicated AXA has refunded £72 of charges in its offer. This was to refund over limit 
charges caused directly by the PPI being added to the account. Not all charges were caused 
by the PPI. If Miss D paid late and incurred a charge, it is most likely that she would have 
made the payment at the same time even if there had been no PPI in the balance. So the 
PPI would not cause charges incurred for late payment.  
I hope some of this information will help reassure Miss Ds Representative that all issues 
raised have been taken into account. But the premiums paid, as shown in AXA's computer 
records for the lifetime amounts, do seem in line with what could be expected from the way 
Miss D spent on her account. 
In summary taking account of all the evidence I have seen, I think what AXA has worked out 
as the compensation for the mis-sold PPI is fair. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I am satisfied that the compensation for the mis-sold 
PPI that AXA France IARD has offered to the Estate of Miss D to settle this complaint is fair. 
So, I am not upholding this complaint that additional compensation is due.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Miss 
D to accept or reject my decision before 10August2020.
Chris Fraser
Ombudsman