DRN-3086990
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has refused to cover a claim on her credit
protection insurance policy.  
What happened
Mrs S was involved in a collision in her car with another driver. Rather than claiming on her
car insurance policy she was referred to an accident management company (AMC) as she
said she wasnt at fault for the accident.
The AMC provided Mrs S with a hire car and a credit protection insurance policy. The credit
protection insurance policy is designed to cover the hire car charges if the AMC is unable to
reclaim them back from the third party responsible for the accident.
During the course of the claim, Amtrust said Mrs S went to court and referred to the hire car
as a courtesy car. Because of this it said the AMC is unable to claim the costs back from the
third party. So Amtrust feels Mrs S has prejudiced the claim, it said the policy allows it to
exclude cover if Mrs S does something which prejudices the ability to recover the car hire
charges. Mrs M didnt think this was fair and complained. As Amtrust didnt uphold her
complaint she referred it here. She said shed been told there was no cost for the hire car
and the judge had agreed she shouldnt have to pay it. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 28 September 2021 where I said:
Amtrust has provided a copy of the terms and conditions but its not explained exactly which
terms its relying upon. So, its not possible for me to see if its applying it fairly and
reasonably. However, Ive read the terms and conditions and under the exclusions there is
one which refers to a policyholder prejudicing the claim, so Im assuming this is the term
Amtrust is referring to. The policy says:
4. Exclusions
We shall not be liable under this policy for:.
4.6 Credit agreement charges where the Insured:.
(C) wilfully or negligently prejudices the Third Party Claim and, in particular, their ability to
recover the Credit Agreement Charges from the defendant in a Third Party Claim;
Ive considered this term and Im not persuaded Amtrust is applying it in a fair and
reasonable way. I say this because Im unable to conclude that Mrs S referred to the hire car
as a courtesy car in a wilfully or negligently way. This is because to do so would be for her
to either have done so deliberately with no regard to the consequences or without taking
proper care. And Im not persuaded Amtrust has shown Mrs S did this. It therefore follows
that its not fair and reasonable for it to rely on this term to turn down the claim.
Mrs S said shes been chased for the hire car charges as Amtrust hasnt covered the claim.
Therefore, Amtrust need to pay the claim for the car hire charges, along with any associated
late fees or penalties which have been applied. Also, Mrs S has had the unnecessary
distress and inconvenience of being pursued by a debt collector for a debt she shouldnt
have been chased for. To compensate for this, Amtrust should also pay Mrs S £250 for the
unnecessary distress and inconvenience this has caused.
Amtrust and Mrs S both responded to my provisional decision and accepted it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both Amtrust and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision I see no reason to depart from 
it.   
My final decision
For the reasons explained above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Amtrust Europe Limited to pay:
Mrs Ss claim for hire car costs, along with any late fees and penalties
£250 for the distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman