DRN-3119250
The complaint
Mr K runs the business Ill refer to as L. But for this decision Ill refer to Mr K throughout as 
he has handled the claim.
Mr K is unhappy with Ageas Insurance Limited regarding the claim settlement offered after 
he was robbed. The policy is a commercial guard shop insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K and his wife were the victims of a robbery. During the robbery Mr K said a large amount 
of cash and cigarettes were stolen. He contacted Ageas to make a claim and Ageas 
appointed loss adjusters C to deal with the claim. C discussed the claim with Mr K and 
after discussions Ageas offered a smaller cash amount and said it wouldnt pay for the 
cigarettes. It said there was no written record of the full cash sum being claimed for and the 
cigarettes couldnt have been stolen at the same time as the cash. The smaller cash sum 
was based on average outlay Ageas could see Mr K had spent on purchasing cigarettes 
over the past few months. Ageas said the average amount was £2,512.02 minus £1,295.54 
for cigarettes Mr K had already bought that day left a cash offer of 1,226.48. Mr K didnt 
accept this and brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said it was clear that Ageas accepted a 
robbery had taken place. But she understood why Ageas had declined the cigarette part of 
the claim as Mr and Mrs K were unable to say how these had been stolen. Regarding the 
cash our investigator accepted that Ageas hadnt acted unreasonably when it questioned the 
amounts Mr K was claiming for and settling based on his average purchases over a period of 
time. She said Ageas expecting to see a financial trail as this was business money was 
reasonable.
Mr K remained unhappy and asked for his complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to make a decision based on whether or not I think Ageas has acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas accept that a robbery occurred. After Cs initial assessment of the claim and the lack 
of evidence detail it was decided that further information was required to try and validate the 
cash claim. I think thats reasonable especially when considering the large sum involved in 
this case.
Ageas accepted that Mr K would and did make cash purchases for stock items. Mr K was 
able to provide some detail but there was no audit trail of how he amassed such a large sum 
of cash. Further, Ageas said the records of previous purchases didnt show such large 
amounts would normally be used for purchases. So, I think it was fair for Ageas to question 
this and expect Mr K to be able to produce paperwork to back up his explanation and the 
amounts he was claiming for. Ageas also pointed out that despite on this day Mr K saying he 
was going to shop at two different places for cigarettes there wasnt really examples that this 
was his normal procedure. Ageas didnt think Mr K was able to fully explain this. It said there 
was no written record of such actions regularly taking place previously. Although it is 
perfectly plausible that Mr K did decide to take different ways of buying his stock at different 
times, I can understand why Ageas would want to question and explore that. Without details 
to show valid reasons I think Ageass approach of working back over the previous few 
months taking all of the dozen or so times Mr K had purchased cigarettes and basing the 
settlement amount on an average of this was reasonable. So, the amount of £1,226.48 is a 
fair outcome based on the financial information Ageas had to review the claim.
The stolen cigarettes that were already purchased as a bit of a mystery to all parties it 
seems. Ageas seem to accept Mr K did purchase these and has details to show this. But the 
way he and his wife have said the robbery occurred gives no indication of how anyone was 
able to steal the cigarettes. Mr K was distracted and Mrs K was involved with the thief trying 
to steal the cash. But there was no indication of a third person, no sign that anyone else was 
involved, it was accepted by Mr K that it didnt appear likely to have been the same person 
who stole the cash. In the details collected by C Mr K said, We did not see anybody else 
participate in the theft. But in terms of the claim Mr K said the cigarette stock hed just 
purchased must have been stolen.
Ageas said there was no way the thief could have stolen the money and the cigarettes as 
the items werent stored together at the time of the robbery. Despite ongoing discussions 
between the parties no agreement could be reached on what happened to the cigarettes. In 
view of this Ageas declined this part of the claim. Ageas also said it was unclear why Mr K 
was making two separate purchases of cigarettes from two different suppliers. It said that 
Mr K had said he could get bigger discounts at the second supplier, so it didnt understand 
why separate purchases were made and it didnt feel Mr K had been able to explain it.
I can understand how frustrating this must have been for Mr K. But I also accept that it is a 
policyholders responsibility to provide evidence of a valid claim. Ageas said in relation to this 
part of the claim It was therefore deemed that there was not adequate evidence to support 
the theft of the cigarettes. In the circumstances I think that was a reasonable outcome to 
reach as Ive seen no evidence that outweighs what Ageas has said.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Ageas Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 January 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman