DRN-3022816
The complaint
Mrs Ks complained that SN Marketing Services Limited, trading as My PPI Refund (SN) 
have charged her for claiming refunds of payment protection insurance (PPI) for her, even 
though shed not instructed them to make claims.
What happened
Mrs K says that, in 2019, she followed a weblink which took her to SNs website.  She 
started to complete the information which was asked for.  But she didnt feel comfortable 
providing all the details she was asked for  so she abandoned the forms.
After this, SN repeatedly tried to call Mrs K  who didnt answer their calls.  And Mrs K says 
she received letters from SN, which she threw away.
Over the following months, Mrs K received cheques from two different lenders for refunds of 
PPI.  And after that, she received invoices from SN for their fees in obtaining the refunds.
Mrs K complained to SN that they were trying to charge her for work shed not agreed to.  
She said the signature on the letter of authority SN relied upon to invoice her wasnt hers 
and mustve been forged.
SN considered her complaint and rejected it.  They said Mrs K had signed a letter of 
authority during their online signing up process.  This permitted them to contact lenders on 
her behalf and pursue claims for any PPI identified.
Mrs K wasnt satisfied with SNs response and brought her complaint to us.  Our investigator 
considered the case and didnt think SN needed to do anything differently to resolve it.  He 
noted Mrs K had started completing SNs online documents.  So he was satisfied she had 
intended to use their service.  And he noted SN had tried to call Mrs K and had written to her 
about what they were doing  but shed not replied.  He said this would have given Mrs K an 
opportunity to confirm she didnt want to instruct SN to act for her.  And on balance he was 
satisfied Mrs K had authorised SN to act for her.
Mrs K didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint.  Ill explain why.  
In this case, Ive got Mrs K telling me one thing  that she didnt agree to SN acting for her.  
And Ive got SN telling me she did.  So I have to decide, based on the evidence available, 
what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mrs K has told us she started to complete SNs documentation but didnt complete it.  Its not 
clear how much of it she filled in.  And I wouldnt expect her to be able to recall that exactly 
now.
Ive looked SNs sign up documentation.  The letters of authority (which allow SN to act) 
appear in the pack before the information Mrs K said made her uncomfortable.  So I think its 
logical that shed have completed it in that order.  And that means its likely she signed the 
letter of engagement and authorities  although I accept she doesnt recall doing so.
Im further persuaded she authorised SN to act for her because she received PPI refunds 
from two lenders, who corresponded with SN about the claims made on her behalf.  I dont 
think its likely that SN would have identified those lenders and pursued claims with them 
unless they had Mrs Ks authority to do so.
And Im satisfied that SN did try to communicate with Mrs K about the claims theyd 
submitted.  Theyve provided call logs showing their efforts to speak to her.  Mrs K has said 
she blocked the numbers.  And shes said she ignored correspondence from them.  I agree 
with our investigator that, had she not done that, she could have found out that SN were 
working for her.  
And  in the case of the contacts within the first 14 days of completing the documentation  
she could have cancelled the agreement.  But she didnt.  And that led to her recovering PPI 
from some lenders.  Mrs K confirmed to our investigator that she didnt submit any claims 
herself.  So Im satisfied the payments received were the result of SNs work.  And that 
means theyre entitled to charge Mrs K for that work.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ks complaint about SN Marketing 
Services Limited, trading as My PPI Refund.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman