DRN-4261989
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the settlement amount offered to him by Assurant General Insurance 
Limited, after he made a claim under his mobile phone and gadget insurance policy.
What happened
Mr A has explained that whilst abroad his laptop and e-reading device were stolen. As these 
were stolen Mr A made a claim under the mobile and gadget insurance policy he held 
through his packaged bank account.
Assurant considered Mr As claim and accepted it. It made an offer to settle the e-reading 
device, which Mr A was satisfied with. In terms of the laptop, Assurant made a cash 
settlement offer of £1,373.40 (minus any applicable excess). Assurant said this offer was 
based on the price Mr A originally paid for the laptop. It had used this method of settlement 
because it said it couldnt source a replacement laptop for Mr A.
Mr A was dissatisfied with the cash settlement offered. He explained this figure wouldnt 
enable him to purchase a laptop of the same specification as his original one. Mr A provided 
some context as to the purchase of his original laptop. 
In summary, he explained hed attempted to purchase a laptop through its manufacturer, but 
the laptop ordered arrived in separate pieces, rather than built as it should have been, so 
this initial purchase was returned. After numerous communications with the laptop 
manufacturer, they recommended a particular laptop to Mr A, a Lenovo Thinkpad Yoga X1, 
generation 6. The manufacturer provided a significant discount on the item, to apologise for 
the errors Mr A had experienced. Mr A purchased this laptop. So, Mr A said whilst he might 
have purchased the laptop for £1,373.40, this wasnt reflective of its actual value at the time 
of purchase.
Mr A said the settlement Assurant should be providing, in the absence of providing a 
replacement laptop of equivalent specifications, should reflect the cost of the current market 
value of the laptop.
As Mr A was dissatisfied with the cash settlement, he raised a complaint with Assurant. 
Assurant considered this but didnt change its position on the matter. It was satisfied the 
settlement it had offered for the laptop was fair. 
As Mr A remained unhappy with this, he referred his complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They noted 
that as Assurant wasnt able to replace the laptop, they needed to provide a cash settlement. 
And the investigator considered the cash settlement offered to be fair.
Mr A didnt agree. He reiterated his position on the matter. 
As Mr A didnt agree, this complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im intending on upholding this complaint. Ive explained why below.
When considering complaints such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and 
industry guidelines. The relevant rules, set up by the Financial Conduct Authority, say that 
an insurer must deal with a claim promptly and fairly. So, Ive thought about whether 
Assurant acted in line with these requirements when it offered to settle Mr As claim for his 
laptop at £1,373.40.
Ive also reviewed Mr As policy documents, to see what cover the policy provides. And I can 
see the policy does provide cover for the theft of a laptop. Assurant has accepted the claim, 
and that its covered by the policy  so I havent needed to consider this element any further.
The policy also explains how Assurant will settle a claim for a stolen laptop. It says that 
Assurant will replace the laptop with one of the same make and model, and if this isnt 
possible, it will provide Mr A with a choice of models with an equivalent specification. The 
replacement item would come from fully refurbished stock.
The policy then goes on to say that if Assurant are unable to provide a replacement item as 
above, it will contact Mr A to offer an alternative settlement. The policy doesnt detail how 
that alternative settlement will be worked out.
Assurant said it couldnt replace Mr As laptop  or replace it with a laptop with an equivalent 
specification. So, it was offering the above-mentioned alternative settlement. As above, 
Assurant doesnt detail in its policy what an alternative offer will entail. With it not detailing 
how this alternative settlement would be worked out, Ive needed to consider whether the 
alternative settlement offered by Assurant was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Having done so, Im currently not satisfied Assurants offer of £1,373.40 was fair. 
It seems to me, that a fair and reasonable alternative offer in this case, is something that 
achieves the same aim as Assurants primary settlement option in the policy  which is the 
replacement of the laptop, so the policyholder is in the same position they were in prior to 
the loss. 
That means that if a cash settlement is provided, it would be fair and reasonable for the cash 
settlement to be based on the value of an equivalent laptop, in age and specifications, at the 
time of the loss. This being so Mr A could source a laptop of equivalent specifications 
himself  or put the value of his original laptop towards an upgraded specification.
That isnt what Assurant has based its offer on. Instead, it has based its offer on the price 
Mr A paid for the item  which included a significant discount because of service issues Mr A 
had with the manufacturer. 
Assurant has said that providing Mr A with the original price he paid for the laptop puts him 
back in the position he was in before his loss. But I dont agree. Mr A had a specific laptop, 
with specific features. He no longer has this due to the theft. And Assurant hasnt shown the 
settlement it has provided would enable Mr A to purchase an equivalent laptop  of the same 
age and specifications. So, Mr A is without the laptop, and without the settlement to replace 
it. I understand that Mr A received a discount from the manufacturer when he purchased the 
laptop. And Assurant has mentioned that the policy asks for a purchase price when 
registering a device. And that may be the case. But the policy doesnt say the settlement will 
be based on that purchase price, in the absence of a replacement being sourced. And, as 
above, to truly indemnity Mr A, he would need to be provided with a settlement, in line with 
the relevant policy limits, that enables him to purchase a replacement item. 
Given the above, my provisional decision is that I intend on upholding this complaint and 
requiring Assurant General Insurance Limited to:
Provide a cash settlement for Mr As laptop, based on what it would cost him to 
source a laptop equivalent in age and specification at the time of claim. Minus any 
excess applicable under the policy.
Assurant should pay 8% interest on this cash settlement, from the date it made its 
original offer of settlement for the laptop, to the date of eventual settlement, less any 
tax properly deductible. This is to recognise the time Mr A has been without the funds 
that should have been provided to him at the point of Assurants original offer. If HM 
Revenue & Customers requires Assurant to deduct tax from this interest, Assurant 
should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for 
one. 
Mr A responded to by provisional decision and agreed to it. Assurant didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
There hasnt been any further comments or evidence from either party, to alter my findings 
on this complaint, or the reasoning for it. And so, my decision remains the same as that in 
my provisional decision, and for the same reasons.
My final decision
Given the above, final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Assurant General 
Insurance Limited to:
Provide a cash settlement for Mr As laptop, based on what it would cost him to 
source a laptop equivalent in age and specification at the time of claim. Minus any 
excess applicable under the policy.
Assurant should pay 8% interest on this cash settlement, from the date it made its 
original offer of settlement for the laptop, to the date of eventual settlement, less any 
tax properly deductible. This is to recognise the time Mr A has been without the funds 
that should have been provided to him at the point of Assurants original offer. If HM 
Revenue & Customers requires Assurant to deduct tax from this interest, Assurant 
should give Mr A a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if they ask for 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Rachel WoodsOmbudsman