DRN-3494092
The complaint
Mr P complains about the settlement Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited offered for the 
loss of his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. Mr P is a named driver 
on his wifes policy.
What happened
Mr Ps car was damaged in an incident and declared a total loss by Admiral. Admiral offered 
Mr P £8,760, less the policy excess, in settlement of the claim. But Mr P said he couldnt 
replace the car for this amount without personal loss. He thought Admiral hadnt made 
allowance for the regional variation in prices due to his location. He also thought Admiral 
hadnt taken into account the current market for second-hand cars. He thought Admiral 
should increase its offer by 10%, but he would accept a settlement of £10,000.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had offered Mr P the highest valuation provided by the trade guides we use. He thought the 
trade guides took into account regional variations to reach average UK valuations. So he 
thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable.
Mr P replied that he thought the Investigator, and Admiral, hadnt taken into account that car 
prices in his location were higher than the UK average. Mr P asked for an Ombudsmans 
review, so his complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P wants a fair settlement for the loss of the car. Mr P said he 
couldnt find a replacement car for Admirals offer without further cost to himself. But I can 
see that Mr Ps policy provides for the cars market value at the date of its loss in the case of 
total loss, not a like for like replacement. 
The Investigator has explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide 
valuations for cars but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second-hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports. 
Mr P provided examples of similar cars advertised for higher prices. But we dont find 
advertisements particularly persuasive as these are essentially asking prices and arent 
selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade guides are used as they provide evidence of 
likely retail selling prices. 
Mr P was concerned that the guides wouldnt take into account the current market for 
second-hand cars. But I can assure him that the guides are updated to reflect the likely sales 
figures at the dates of loss. 
Mr P was also concerned that the higher car prices in his location werent taken into account. 
But the Investigator has already explained that we dont make allowances for such variations 
as they are already taken into account by the trade guides when calculating national average 
prices. 
Our Investigator thought Admirals offer was fair and reasonable. So Ive checked how he 
came to this conclusion. I can see that he checked the motor trade guides we use for cars of 
the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr Ps car at the date of its loss. He 
found two valuations of £8,150 and £8,760. 
Our approach where there is an even spread of valuations is to look for the average of 
these. This was less than Admirals final offer as it had offered the highest valuation provided 
by the guides. So I cant say that Admirals offer was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont 
require it to increase this. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 August 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman