DRN-3412145
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) 
to them alongside a mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M told us that they didnt realise PPI had been sold to them alongside their 
mortgage at the point of sale. They said they didnt need cover because they had 
comprehensive life and critical illness cover and other means they could have relied on. 
They also complained about the way Lloyds handled their complaint. They said Lloyds made 
it difficult to get in contact to provide additional information and missed pre-arranged 
telephone appointments. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this and said he didnt think PPI was mis-sold. Mr and Mrs M 
disagreed with that view and the matter was passed to me to make a final decision. 
I asked our adjudicator to put the second part of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint to Lloyds about 
way it had dealt with their complaint. Lloyds agreed that it had not stuck to its agreed 
telephone appointment on one occasion. It offered to pay £25 to Mr and Mrs M in recognition 
of that service failure. 
Mr and Mrs M did not agree with Lloyds proposed settlement and requested that an 
ombudsman look at their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken that into account in deciding this case. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but I havent found PPI was mis-sold.  Im also 
satisfied that Lloyds offer to compensate them by £25 for its service failure is fair. Ill explain 
why below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
The parties agree that PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs M during a face to face meeting. I cant 
know what was said during that meeting. So, to help me decide whats most likely to have 
happened, Ive looked at what Mr and Mrs M recall about the sale. Ive also considered the 
documentation and electronic evidence thats available from the point of sale. 
The first thing Ive considered is whether Mr and Mrs M would have known the PPI was 
optional and they didnt have to take it out if they didnt want it. Mr and Mrs M told us they 
were led to believe the PPI was mandatory and their mortgage wouldnt be agreed without it. 
Looking at the contemporaneous evidence before me, I can see that the PPI policy was sold 
to them shortly after theyd taken a further advance to their mortgage. I can see that the 
initial mortgage was taken out in 1998. Funds for the further advance were then drawn down 
on 24 August 2000. PPI was then sold on 2 October 2000. 
I accept that what Mr and Mrs M told us is what they honestly recall about the sale of PPI. 
But if the policy was sold some months after the funds were drawn down for their further 
advance, I cant reasonably find they thought their mortgage wouldnt be agreed without a 
PPI policy  because theyd already had the funds. 
I can see Mr and Mrs M had to fill out an application form for the PPI policy. They were also 
sent a welcome letter shortly after the sale, along with a policy schedule. Looking at that 
paperwork, I think Mr and Mrs M would have known PPI was being sold to them, particularly 
as the sale did not take place at the same time as their mortgage.   I can see they had to 
sign a separate direct debit mandate for the PPI premium to be taken from their bank 
account. If they didnt know about the policy, I think they would have questioned what this 
new transaction was on their bank statements. The evidence before me doesnt suggest 
they did. 
With all these things in mind, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M would have known the policy wasnt 
a condition of their mortgage and they could have refused it if they didnt want it. 
Ive treated this as an advised sale. That means Lloyds had to take reasonable steps to 
make sure the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs. To help me decide whether the 
cover was suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions of the cover. 
Ive also given careful thought to what Mr and Mrs M told us about their personal 
circumstances at the relevant time. 
The PPI was set up to cover Mr M only. So, if he was off sick or lost his job, the monthly 
repayments for their mortgage would have been covered for up to 12 months for each claim. 
I understand Mr M was entitled to statutory sick pay and that he wasnt entitled to a 
contractual redundancy payment at the point of sale. I understand Mrs M was a student and 
may have been working part-time when the policy was sold. On that basis, I can see how 
PPI could have been helpful if Mr M was out of work. 
Mr and Mrs M told us they didnt need a policy because they had other means with which to 
meet their mortgage. They said they had life and critical illness cover, and that Mr M had a 
total permanent disability policy. Mr and Mrs M also said their family members would have 
been able to assist them with their mortgage repayments if there was a problem with Mr Ms 
work. 
I have thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs M told us in this regard. But the life cover 
would have only paid out in the unfortunate event of Mr Ms death. Similarly, critical illness 
cover would have paid out if Mr M was diagnosed with one of a number of very specified 
medical conditions. It would usually pay a lump sum to cover the associated additional costs 
of managing that illness. I cant reasonably say either policy offered the same cover as the 
PPI. Neither policy would have paid out in the event of redundancy or if Mr M was diagnosed 
with a less serious medical condition. I would expect a PPI claim to pay out in such 
circumstances. 
In respect of the total permanent disability cover Mr and Mrs M told us about, I can see they 
told us they couldnt make a claim on this cover until Mr M had been totally and permanently 
disabled for six months. As I said above, Mr M had statutory sick pay, so it could well have 
been the case that he and Mrs M could have had difficulty in meeting their mortgage 
repayments for the first six months of any permanent or total disability Mr M was diagnosed 
with. And to make a claim, it appears Mr M would have to be permanently and totally disabled. In other words, he would have to be deemed as unable to work again. He would 
not have been covered for acute or chronic conditions from which he could recover. PPI 
would have covered such an eventuality. 
I know Mr and Mrs M told us their family members would have been able to assist if Mr M 
lost his job. I dont at all doubt that it would have been the intention of those family members 
to help. But theres no guarantee that assistance would have been available to Mr and Mrs 
M as and when they needed it. I must stress that this borrowing was secured on their home, 
which could have been put at risk if they fell behind with their repayments. 
Ive next considered whether any of the policys exclusions or limitations would have affected 
Mr Ms ability to make a successful PPI claim. I know that Mr M had been diagnosed with 
asthma, but he told our adjudicator the condition was well-controlled. I cant reasonably say 
hed have thought he may need to make a claim for this condition. So, I dont think any of the 
exclusions around pre-existing medical conditions would have affected Mr and Mrs Ms 
decision to take the PPI policy out. I havent seen anything else that was unusual about Mr 
Ms employment circumstances that would have stopped Mr and Mrs M from being able to 
make a successful claim if they needed to. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds recommendation for Mr and Mrs M to take the PPI out was 
suitable. 
Even so, Lloyds still had to give Mr and Mrs M enough information about the cover so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. I accept it is possible 
that Lloyds didnt tell Mr and Mrs M everything it should have done about the PPI policy. But 
Ive set out above how the cover could have been helpful if Mr M was out of work. So, I cant 
find they would have acted differently if Lloyds had given them more or better information 
about the cover. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs M, but my decision is that PPI wasnt mis-sold. 
 Lloyds handling of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint 
Mr and Mrs M told us that during the course of their complaint, they received text messages 
from Lloyds to say that the person handling their complaint would call within a specified 
timeframe, but no call was received or they called at a different time when Mr and Mrs M 
were at work. They said they tried to contact the case manager but were not put through to 
him. 
Ive had the benefit of seeing Lloyds call logs in respect of Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. On 17 
September 2020, I can see the Lloyds representative initially tried to speak to them on the 
telephone, but there was no reply. A text message was then sent to say Lloyds would call 
them between 6pm and 8pm that day. Lloyds records show that it tried to contact Mr and 
Mrs M nine times on that day, and that voicemails were left. 
On 18 September 2020, Lloyds sent a text message to say that they would call again that 
day between 9.20 and 11.20. I can see that a further nine attempts were made on that day. 
Three further attempts were made on 21 September 2020, but there was no reply and so 
Lloyds issued a final response letter based upon the information it had. 
I can see Mrs M did contact Lloyds on 6 October 2020 and it is clear from that information 
that she was expecting a returned call. She called again on 6 and 24 November and then 
Lloyds sent a text message to say it would call her on 24 November 2020 between 6pm and 
8pm. The call was made early at 4.30pm, but Lloyds did call back that day at 6.55pm and 
spoke to Mr M. I can see why Mr and Mrs M would have been frustrated that they made repeated calls to 
Lloyds, but it did not respond for almost two months. It is also regrettable that Lloyds called 
them early on 25 November 2020, but I note it did contact Mr M on that same day within the 
requisite time frame. 
In deciding whether to make an award for the inconvenience Lloyds put Mr and Mrs M to, I 
need to stress that my role is not punitive. Mr and Mrs M have not alleged any financial 
losses arising from Lloyds errors. Accordingly, I am satisfied that Lloyds offer of £25 is fair 
for the inconvenience Mr and Mrs M were put to by the errors Lloyds made. 
My final decision
PPI was not mis-sold to Mr and Mrs M. But Lloyds Bank PLC must pay £25 to Mr and Mrs M 
as I have directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 June 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman