DRN-2783164
The complaint
A business, which Ill refer to as R, has complained about the advice HSBC UK Bank Plc 
(HSBC) provided in relation to them making a payment to a supplier. Mr F, who is a director 
of R, brings the complaint on Rs behalf. So Ill be referring to Mr F and his company R.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr F on behalf of R went to a branch of HSBC to make a direct payment to a 
supplier. Mr F says HSBCs staff member advised him to go to the suppliers own bank to 
make the payment. Mr F took the advice and went to a branch of the suppliers bank and 
made the payment. However, the payment to the supplier arrived a day later. As a result, the 
supplier will no longer do business with R. This meant R couldnt meet the orders they had 
with their customers resulting in a loss of business and revenue.
If HSBC had completed the instruction when Mr F went into the branch, R say there wouldnt 
have been a delay in the supplier receiving the funds. And as a result, R wouldnt have lost 
business.
Mr F on behalf of R raised a complaint with HSBC. Neither of HSBCs staff members could 
remember the event. So, HSBC reviewed CCTV footage of Mr F going into branch, where it 
evidenced Mr F handing over a piece of paper, and it being returned to him. Mr F then left 
the branch. As HSBC couldnt be certain what conversation took place between their staff 
member and Mr F, they accepted the error in good faith, paid R £500 in compensation and 
called Rs supplier to explain what had happened. 
R didnt accept HSBCs response and resolution to the complaint. R wanted compensation 
of around £100,000 due to the significant loss of business. R also wanted compensation for 
the stress and worry the situation caused, especially at such a difficult time during the 
COVID-19 pandemic. 
One of our investigators considered Rs complaint and said they agreed the remedy and 
compensation offered by HSBC was fair given the evidence R had provided to demonstrate 
their financial loss. R rejected the investigators findings and asked for a final decision. So, 
the case has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wanted to start by saying I appreciate how much of a difficult time businesses have had 
over the last 18 months. The pandemic has had a significant impact on many businesses, 
and I can only imagine how stressful and worrying it must have been, and that this 
uncertainty continues into the present day. Whilst I empathise with Rs situation, I must stick 
to the facts of the case and come to a fair and reasonable decision for all parties involved. 
R say in their complaint form to our service, that the agreement in place between them and 
the supplier was that the funds needed to be paid directly into the suppliers account by 22 
April 2020. So Mr F visited HSBC on this date to make the payment. Its not in dispute that 
Mr F, on behalf of R, visited a HSBC branch on 22 April 2020. HSBC has confirmed that the 
CCTV footage showed a conversation took place between their staff member and Mr F, and 
a piece of paper was handed back to Mr F who then left the branch. 
I havent been able to review the CCTV footage, due to the time thats passed. But Im 
satisfied from Mr Fs recollection of events, that he did attempt to make the payment on 22 
April 2020. And on balance, I think its likely, based on both parties version of events, that Mr 
Fs request to make the payment was declined by the branch staff member. I cant be sure 
why the instruction was refused, and it may have been for valid a reason. But given the 
course of action Mr F took after his visit to HSBC, I think again on balance, its likely that the 
HSBC staff member advised Mr F to visit the suppliers bank to complete the payment.
I think its fair to say further support could have been provided to Mr F, to ensure the 
payment he was trying to make reached the suppliers account that day. This was clearly 
important to Mr F and is evidenced by him visiting the suppliers bank after an unsuccessful 
trip to HSBC.
However, from the evidence on file, I cant say that HSBCs actions alone have resulted in 
the supplier refusing to do business with R. I say this because after HSBCs staff member 
declined Mr Fs payment instruction, he took the advice he was given by them to go to a 
branch of the suppliers bank. Here Mr F deposited a payment to the supplier through an 
automated machine in the branch. Mr F and the suppliers bank have both confirmed the 
payment was made by cheque.
Its standard practice that a cheque can take 3-5 working days to clear into the payees 
account. And this wasnt the method of payment agreed by the supplier and R, by Mr Fs 
own admissions. HSBC have said they take responsibility for not executing the payment 
request (which would have credited the suppliers account that day) but I am unsure the 
reasons why. However even if they unfairly declined the payment request, I dont think R has 
done enough to mitigate the losses incurred due to HSBCs error. This is because Mr F still 
chose to pay using a payment method which would take longer to credit an account than an 
electronic payment. So, despite HSBCs error, the supplier still would have continued to 
refuse doing business with R due to the reasons Ive explained, and the relationship would 
always have been severed.
 
I do think HSBC could have offered Mr F more support, considering they declined to 
complete the transfer, by advising him how to make sure the payment reached the suppliers 
account that day. But considering whats happened I think HSBC have compensated R with 
more than I would have asked them to offer for the distress and inconvenience caused and 
the impact this has had on the business. Whilst R has been impacted, the impact isnt solely 
due to HSBC. Mr F didnt go far enough to mitigate the losses of HSBCs error choosing to 
make the payment to the supplier by cheque on the date the invoice was due to be paid. 
Im satisfied HSBC have done enough to compensate R. HSBC have also tried to rebuild the 
relationship R had with their supplier following HSBCs mistake. So, I dont think HSBC need 
to pay any further compensation, and the £500 theyve already paid to R is fair.
My final decision
I know this decision will be disappointing for R, but my final decision is that Im not upholding 
this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2021.
 
Helen Giles
Ombudsman