DRN-3416895
The complaint
Mr & Mrs D complain that Santander UK PLC (Santander) blocked and closed their 
accounts.
What happened
The background of this complaint is known well to both parties, and was set out in full by our 
investigator. So, what follows is a summary overview of the main issues. Much of this 
background relates to a complaint in the name of Mr & Mrs Ds limited company, but the 
history is also relevant to Mr & Mrs Ds complaint about their personal accounts. I have 
addressed the limited companys complaint under separate cover and this decision will only 
address the complaint relating to Mr & Mrs Ds personal accounts.
Mr and Mrs D say Santander blocked their accounts in June 2020 and said it was complying 
with its legal and regulatory obligations. It then carried out a review of Mr & Mrs Ds accounts 
and raised various enquiries concerning a loan taken out by the company owned by Mr & 
Mrs D.
Mr D gave partial answers to Santanders questions, but said he wanted Santander to 
guarantee it would release the money in the account if he answered the questions. 
Santander didnt agree and, in mid-July 2020, wrote to Mr & Mrs D notifying them that it had 
decided to close their personal accounts with immediate effect.
Communications between Mr D and Santander continued in connection with the limited 
companys account, but ultimately on completing its review, Santander decided to call in the 
limited companys loan. It wrote to the limited company on 1 November 2021 to confirm the 
outcome of its investigation. It said it wasnt satisfied the companys nature of business was 
what it said it was, that the loan funds had not been used for business purposes, and that 
the limited company had borrowed in excess of 25% of its annual turnover, contrary to the 
loan scheme rules. It returned the balance in Ps and Mr & Mrs Ds accounts to Mr & Mrs D.
Mr D told our service he didnt think Santander was entitled to ask questions about the loan 
after having issued it, and he says Santander delayed in telling him the reasons for its 
actions. He also felt it was unfair for Santander to block his access to the funds in the 
account, and he is unhappy that Santanders actions mean his company is excluded from 
the loan scheme, as it cant apply for a loan elsewhere now. Mr D said Santander caused 
him distress and inconvenience and that its actions caused his company to miss out on 
business.
Before reaching her outcome, our investigator explained to Mr D that Santander was entitled 
to request further information about the loan in these circumstances, and she put 
Santanders unanswered questions to him once more. But Mr D again declined to provide 
direct answers and said some of the questions werent relevant.
Our investigator then completed her review of the complaint about the personal accounts, 
but she didnt uphold it. She explained that Santander has overriding legal and regulatory 
obligations that entitle it to review customers accounts, she was satisfied Santander had 
followed its process correctly and was entitled to block Mr & Mrs Ds accounts while it carried 
out the review, and that it had closed the accounts in line with its terms of business.
She said Santander wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its actions, and she was 
satisfied Santander had been clear in communicating the information it required from Mr D in 
relation to his company loan.
Ultimately, she found Santander had made no errors, so she didnt think it should do 
anything to put things right for Mr & Mrs D. Mr D didnt accept our investigators outcome, so 
he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
If Im to make an award in favour of Mr a&nd Mrs D, I have to be persuaded that Santander 
has acted unfairly or did something wrong. And, having looked at the evidence both parties 
have submitted, I dont think it has. Ill explain why.
The banking industry is heavily regulated and all banks in the UK have various legal and 
regulatory obligations, with which they must comply. As part of these obligations, sometimes 
banks have to block accounts while they carry out a review and gather certain documents or 
information.
Having looked at all of the evidence, Im satisfied Santander was entitled to block Mr & Mrs 
Ds accounts, and keep them blocked until they were closed. Santander has explained that it 
was acting in accordance with the terms and conditions of Mr & Mrs Ds accounts and, 
having reviewed the same, Im satisfied that it was and that it was complying with its legal 
and regulatory obligations in doing so.
Santander wasnt obliged to disclose the reasons for its review to Mr & Mrs D, so as much 
as theyd like to know, I dont believe it would be appropriate for me to compel Santander to 
disclose its rationale to Mr & Mrs D. And I cant say it treated them unfairly by withholding 
that information during the review.
Account closure
Just as a customer may close an account with a bank, a bank is entitled to close an account 
with a customer. But when it closes the account, it must do so in a way which complies with 
the terms and conditions of the account. So, Ive looked at the steps Santander took to see if 
it acted fairly.
The terms of Mr & Mrs Ds accounts, with which both Santander and Mr & Mrs D had to 
comply, say that Santander can close Mr & Mrs Ds accounts as long as it gives at least two 
months notice, or with immediate effect in certain circumstances. 
Having considered the evidence Ive been provided, Im satisfied Santander acted in 
accordance with its terms and conditions when it closed Mr & Mrs Ds accounts. And that it 
wasnt obliged to give Mr & Mrs D advance warning of its decision to close their accounts. 
That being the case, I see no basis upon which I can reasonably make an award in Mr & Mrs 
Ds favour.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman