DRN-4094097
The complaint
Mr R has submitted a mobile phone claim under a Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) and 
he is unhappy that Barclays wont deal with his complaint and that Barclays says that his 
complaint will need to be dealt with by a third-party insurer.
Mr R wants Barclays to take responsibility for this issue as he says that his contract is with 
Barclays.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and they explained  the issue Mr R has with 
his Tech Pack claim needs to be raised with the insurer or the third-party claims handler and 
that Barclays cant be held responsible for this.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicators assessment, so the matter was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, I agree 
with the conclusions that the adjudicator reached, essentially for the reasons that he gave. I 
will explain why.
The terms and conditions of the Tech Pack says:
This Policy is underwritten by [name of insurer]. [insurer] is authorised by the 
Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority
It goes on to say:
This Policy document forms the contract between You [Mr R], [third-party claims 
handler] and us. We and [third-party claims handler] agree to provide the insurance 
cover described in this Policy provided the premium is paid when due in accordance 
with the Policy.
The terms and conditions of the Tech Pack policy go on to say that if the Pack holder wishes 
to make a complaint, then they should contact the third-party claims handler if it relates to 
Your Claims or the services You have received from [third party claims handler] or contact 
the insurer if it relates to the coverage provided by this Policy, the terms and conditions of 
this Policy, or the underwriting of Your Policy.
So based on the terms and conditions of the Tech Pack, the insurance contract is in fact 
between Mr R, the third-party claims handler and the insurer  and not with Barclays, who in 
the circumstances has essentially acted as an insurance intermediary. And so it follows that 
either the insurer or the third-party claims handler are ultimately responsible for how Mr Rs 
Tech Pack claim was handled.
Because of this, it is the case, as was explained by Barclays and the adjudicator, that I cant 
reasonably hold Barclays responsible because Mr R is unhappy with how his insurance 
claim was handled. And that is the case no matter how strongly Mr R believes that Barclays 
should be held responsible.
Of course, if Mr R remains unhappy with how the claim was handled, then he will need to 
pursue his complaint against the relevant business, before our service would then be able to 
consider such a complaint.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, Im unable to hold Barclays Bank UK PLC responsible 
for the actions or omissions of the third-party claims handler or the insurer of the Tech Pack. 
It therefore follows that I am unable to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman