DRN-3100093
The complaint
Mr W says Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) failed to execute his options exercise 
instruction on 17 April 2020 (the date), so the contract he held expired worthless and he 
incurred a loss. He seeks compensation for his loss.
What happened
The instruction related to Mr Ws long options put position in Luckin Coffee Inc. (LC), at 
strike price $25, which expired on the date. This position was part of a short options spread, 
so it was coupled with a short put position in the same stock but at a higher strike price. The 
instruction was intended to exercise the long position (that is, to realise its value at the time), 
as opposed to the position expiring without being exercised and therefore expiring worthless.
Mr W submitted the instruction through the mobile trading platform. IB says it did not receive 
an exercise instruction from him on the date, so his position expired worthless. Both parties 
have referred to IBs notice about a halt in trading on the LC stock that was sent to clients. 
Mr W accepts that he received this notice on 15 April 2020. 
The notice referred to the halt in trading, to the Options Clearing Corporation (OCC)  the 
clearing house for the options contract  suspending its exercise by exception process for 
options on the stock (which was the process of automatically exercising in-the-money 
options upon expiry) and to IB applying a different process for those who wished to exercise 
their options in the stock. The notice explained this as follows:
While this announcement does not prevent you from exercising your long LK option 
contracts, it does require that you provide IBKR with affirmative instructions if you wish to do 
so. If you do not provide us with such instructions by the close of regular trading hours in 
New York on April 17, 2020, any expiring contracts will not be exercised (and will expire 
worthless, whether in-the-money at the time or not) regardless of their type or strike price. 
Instructions must be provided by this deadline via the Message Center in Client Portal.
Mr W says he had enquiries and concerns about submitting his instructions through the 
message centre and that he tried to call IB for this reason but could not get through. His 
concerns remained and because of them he did not use the message centre for his 
instruction, instead he submitted it through the mobile trading platform. IB says no instruction 
from him was received as prescribed in the notice  that is, through the message centre  so 
his position expired unexercised and it did nothing wrong in the matter. Mr W maintains that 
the mobile platform facility for the instruction was functional when he used it, so his 
instruction was successfully submitted to and received by IB. He says that the facility being 
in working order at the time meant he was entitled to rely upon it and if IB did not permit its 
use then the facility would have been blocked.
As the long put position expired worthless it no longer covered the short put position in the 
spread, so Mr W faced exposure to an uncovered loss arising from the latter being exercised 
against him. His concerns about using the message centre  and reasons for not doing so  
were/are mainly as follow:
Such messaging was not normally permitted for orders or instructions, and IBs 
notice gave no guidance on how the exercise instruction should be set out (and to 
whom it should be addressed). The notice was inherently unclear and it should not 
have been. Furthermore, response times associated with messages were usually 
poor and, at the time, IB was warning that response times would be even slower than 
usual.
There was no function in the messaging centre that confirmed submission and/or 
acceptance of an instruction.
He was unsure about whether (or not) an instruction submitted in this way would be 
irrevocable.
His reading of the notice was that it was intended for those who relied on exercise by 
exception automatically applying to the their positions upon expiry, so it did not 
necessarily follow that express instructions through the mobile platform  for those 
who actively instructed the exercising of their positions  were disallowed; especially 
as the notice did not say this and as the mobile platforms facility for this remained 
open and functional.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he considered that IBs notice made clear that circumstances 
surrounding the options contract were not normal (due to the trading halt) and made clear 
what Mr W was required to do to exercise his position in such abnormal circumstances. In 
his view, Mr W failed to do as the notice set out and IB did not receive an instruction from 
him in the way it required such instructions at the time, so IB had done nothing wrong in the 
matter. He also noted that IBs notice about the specific event was consistent with the 
provisions within its terms of service for extraordinary events. 
The investigator also made observations about the possible reason behind IBs requirement 
for instructions through the messaging centre, about opportunity Mr W had to raise his 
enquiries through the messaging centre at the time and about the cancellation of the 
instruction he placed through the mobile platform. Mr W strongly disagreed with the overall 
outcome. He gave focused responses to the investigators observations, which he 
considered (with reasons) to be misguided. In the main, he repeated and elaborated upon 
the same concerns about using the messaging centre as summarised above. He also 
argued that evidence of his instruction being received at 10:54 on the date, not being 
rejected at the time and being cancelled at 16:40 on the same date (without notice of 
cancellation to him) shows wrongdoing on IBs part.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
I consider that the supplementary observations made by the investigator were intended to 
provide context that he thought could be helpful for his findings. I understand Mr Ws 
rebuttals to those explanations, but I am not persuaded that they need to be treated further. 
The scope of his complaint is relatively limited and the key evidence within it is undisputed. 
As the investigator concluded, IBs notice was issued in abnormal circumstances and it set 
out what Mr W was required to do in order to exercise his long put position. On this basis, 
and on balance, I do not consider that IB has committed a wrongdoing in relation to his position expiring unexercised and worthless. That happened because he did not submit the 
instruction as he was required to.
The key piece of evidence is the notice that IB sent, and that Mr W received three days 
(inclusive) before the expiry of his position. As quoted above, the notice said  If you do not 
provide us with such instructions by the close of regular trading hours in New York on April 
17, 2020, any expiring contracts will not be exercised (and will expire worthless, whether in-
the-money at the time or not) regardless of their type or strike price. This made clear that an 
express instruction was required. In this respect, I acknowledge that an account holder who 
had relied on the default exercise by exception process could have been prompted to take 
this message seriously  because it asked for action that s/he would not have previously 
planned to take  but I disagree with the argument that only such accountholders were the 
audience for the notice. The notice had nothing to state or suggest this, and it made no 
distinction about who it was targeted to, it applied generally to all who held the relevant 
options contract associated with the LC stock.
The notice then said  Instructions must be provided by this deadline via the Message 
Center in Client Portal [my emphasis]
It is fair to say that the message in this sentence could not be clearer. Submission of 
instructions through the message centre was mandatory for those who wished to submit 
their exercise instructions. As such, by using the mobile platform facility Mr W knew that he 
was acting outside what IB required for exercise instructions at the time, and he knew the 
abnormal circumstances that had led to the norms no longer applying and had led to the 
unusual  as he says  process of accepting such instructions through the message centre. 
The fact that he acted outside what was required was his choice.
I understand Mr Ws argument that his actions were forced upon him because of the 
concerns and reasons he set out, but I disagree with it. He had written record of IBs notice 
requiring him to use the message centre for his instruction. The wording of the instruction 
would arguably have been obvious  given that its objective was to exercise the options 
position  and addressing it to a relevant recipient (such as the dealing desk/team, or 
equivalent or a recipient matching what was on the mobile platform) would not have been an 
unreasonable expectation. The important task was to ensure that his instruction was 
submitted in the way that he had received notice to do. If, upon doing so, his instruction was 
subsequently mishandled by IB he would have had a different case to what he presently has. 
He would have submitted his instruction as required and any mishandling thereafter could or 
would potentially have been IBs liability. Instead, he undertook full liability by not submitting 
his instruction as required.
I also do not find merit in the argument about the mobile platform facility continuing to 
function. If Mr W was not given IBs notice and if he had used the mobile platform without 
knowledge of that notice, the argument could develop weight, but that was not the case. He 
used the facility knowing it was not what IB had asked him to do so, as I said above, he 
undertook full liability. Given the circumstances, he had no grounds to expect execution of 
an instruction submitted in the wrong way. Reference to his instruction being logged in the 
morning, reference to it not being cancelled until later in the afternoon and reference to him 
not having notice that there was anything wrong (in terms of rejection or cancellation) with 
the instruction is somewhat irrelevant to the specific complaint. The instruction was wrong at 
the outset because IBs notice said how instructions must be made at the time, and use of 
the mobile platform was not what was required. With regards the alleged lack of news to    
Mr W, about its cancellation, this appears to be a different complaint that has yet to be made 
 it appears remote to the complaint about the instruction not being executed.My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman