DRN-2848115
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr N complain that Nationwide Building Society closed their Visa dispute claim 
without telling them of the time limits involved or that they needed information in writing.
What happened
Mr N purchased a closed-circuit television (CCTV) system in August 2020. The payment was 
made up of three parts. One with his Nationwide Visa card and two via bill payments. 
Approximately a month after Mr N had the CCTV installed, it stopped working. Mr N said he 
tried to contact the company who sold him the CCTV but his attempts to do so were 
unsuccessful.
Mr N raised the issue with Nationwide on the telephone. Due to how he paid for the item, 
Nationwide raised two disputes  one through a Visa dispute (for the payment made via his 
card) and another as an authorised push payments scam. The call handler explained to Mr 
N that he had 28 calendar days to supply information.
As part of the Visa dispute, Nationwide asked Mr N to send them evidence that Mr N had 
tried to resolve the dispute with the seller. They later asked Mr N for five pieces of 
information: (1) evidence of when Mr N received the CCTV, (2) proof that Mr N had tried to 
resolve this with the seller such as an email or letter, (3) something showing the date which 
he returned the item, or that the seller had refused to accept the returned item, (4) proof of 
return, such as a postal receipt and (5) a detailed description of what was wrong, not as 
described, or defective, such as dents or marks that should not be on the item. 
Mr N made a complaint to Nationwide and said he had already sent them information. 
Nationwide did not uphold his complaint. They said that although Mr N had been unable to 
contact the company to tell them the cameras do not work properly they no longer exist, 
Nationwide would require him to provide as much possible evidence to the email address he 
was provided. They also said that if he cant provide whats required then he would need to 
email Nationwide confirming this so it could be reviewed and until they received this they 
would not be able to continue with his dispute. Nationwide said they reviewed his evidence 
that Mr N had provided and it didnt explain whats wrong with the CCTV or include any 
attempt at contacting the seller to inform them of the problem. They also said it didnt include 
evidence of the date of when he received the item. So they said the evidence they received 
wasnt sufficient to continue the dispute. 
On 18 January 2021, Nationwide emailed Mr N to say that they were closing his dispute due 
to the lack of response from Mr N. 
Mrs C and Mr N brought the complaint to our service. Mr N said he wasnt aware of any 
timescales involved and that they kept asking him for information he had already sent them. 
Our investigator did not uphold Mrs C and Mr Ns complaint. She said that Nationwide had 
informed Mr N on the initial call that he had 28 calendar days to provide the invoice and all of 
the emails he sent to the business, but she couldnt evidence that Mr N had emailed the 
business to inform them there was a problem with the CCTV. She said Mr N hadnt supplied 
Nationwide with the information they requested so they couldnt proceed with his Visa 
dispute. Mr N asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator has explained to Mrs C and Mr N, we are only able to consider the Visa 
dispute as part of this complaint and not the two payments made by bill payment. This is 
because the Nationwide investigation was still ongoing when they brought their complaint to 
our service. As our investigator explained, if they wish to complain about the outcome of the 
bill payment investigation, they will need to bring this complaint to our service separately and 
as such I will only focus on the Visa dispute here.
Ive considered what Mr N has said about not being aware of the timescales involved. So 
Ive listened to the initial phone call that Mr N had with Nationwide when the dispute was 
opened to listen to what he was told. The call handler does tell Mr N that he does need to 
supply information such as the invoice and emails hes sent to the business within 28 
calendar days. So Im persuaded that he wouldve been aware that there were some 
timeframes involved in providing information.
In addition, Ive looked at an email that Nationwide have sent Mr N on 16 November 2020 
where they ask for five pieces of information that Ive described in the background to the 
complaint above. This does ask him to post the information to a Nationwide address or if he 
prefers, an email with photos and images within seven days. And they also sent the same 
email to him on 7 January 2021 with a seven day timeframe. So again, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide did clearly inform Mr N of what he needed to do and when he needed to do it by.
Ive considered what Mr N has said about how Nationwide kept asking for the same 
information. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr N has sent them the information they 
requested. Mr N has said that he sent Nationwide evidence of trying to resolve this with the 
seller at the bottom of the first invoice. But this just informs the seller that he hasnt received 
a receipt and if they could give him a call. So Im persuaded that this isnt the information 
which Nationwide requested and thats why they asked for Mr N to provide evidence that he 
had tried to resolve this with the seller. 
Mr N has said that hes tried to contact the company who sold him the CCTV but it appears 
that they are no longer in business. But he hasnt been able to show Nationwide evidence of 
emails hes sent the company trying to resolve this. And he told our investigator that no 
emails had bounced back. Ultimately, he hasnt provided Nationwide the information they 
requested within the timeframes they set. This is important as Nationwide have a limited 
timeframe to process disputes with Visa. So as Mr N was unable to provide Nationwide with 
the information they requested within timeframes set, I dont think they were unreasonable 
for closing down Mr Ns dispute. As they would be unable to resolve this through the Visa 
disputes process once the time limit expires. So it follows I wont be asking Nationwide to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2021.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman