DRN-1705601
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs H are unhappy that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has 
declined a claim they made under their home insurance policy for subsidence.
Mr H has dealt with the claim and complaint throughout, so Ill only refer to him.
What happened
In 2018, Mr H got in touch with LV because hed noticed cracking and movement throughout 
his property. LV appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the damage and arrange for 
investigations to establish the cause of the problem.
The loss adjuster said the damage had been caused by subsidence as a result of nearby 
trees causing clay shrinkage. But it said the claim for the rear extension wasnt covered by 
LVs policy because the foundation wasnt deep enough.
Mr H provided evidence of the original local authority planning approval and completion 
certificate from 1996. The loss adjuster maintained the damage was a result of defective 
design and construction of the foundation and not covered by the policy.
Mr H complained to LV. It considered the loss adjusters explanation meant the claim could 
be declined. Mr H referred his complaint to this service. Our investigator considered it should 
be upheld. He thought the certificate showed the rear extension complied with building 
regulation at the time of its construction and therefore the foundation wasnt defective.
LV disagreed. It said the foundation depth hadnt met the minimum requirements of building 
regulations. It considered this meant there must have been mistakes or omissions by the 
local authority when it issued the certificate. It also said there were other guidelines a 
competent foundation designer ought to have taken into account.
An agreement couldnt be reached, so the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Its important to clarify the scope of this complaint. At the time Mr H complained, LV had 
declined the claim for the rear extension. It was still investigating the claim for the front 
extension and the main house and hadnt decided whether to accept or decline those claims. 
Mr Hs complaint was only about LVs decision to decline the claim for the rear extension. So 
thats what Ill focus on in this decision.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence and LV accepts the rear extension has 
suffered subsidence damage. Its relied on two policy exclusions to decline this claim. In 
summary, LVs policy says it wont pay for damage caused by:
faulty design, materials or workmanship or
the failure to follow good building practice at the time of design or construction
LV considers these exclusions apply because the foundation wasnt built deep enough. The 
onus is on LV to show this is the case.
The rear extension was built in 1996. I understand Mr H bought the property in 2010 and, as 
part of that process, was provided documentation about the rear extension. This includes a 
certificate of completion from the local authority building control office. LV has said this 
certificate must have been issued in error. But it has provided no evidence from the local 
authority to support this opinion.
Part of the reason it thought this was because it said the foundation hadnt met a 750mm 
minimum depth. But at the time of construction, in 1996, the regulations didnt specify a 
minimum depth. The 750mm minimum depth became a requirement of building regulations 
in 2004  several years after the rear extension was built  so its not relevant here. The loss 
adjuster mentioned other minimum depths which depend on how shrinkable the clay soil is  
but they didnt become a requirement of building regulations until 2013. So Im not 
persuaded these are relevant here either.
The loss adjuster considered standards applied by a certain builder of new homes, N. It says 
these standards require a foundation depth of at least 1,750mm, taking into account the 
nearby trees and soil type underneath the rear extension. The foundation was 700mm deep. 
Roots were found to a depth of 1,200mm. The loss adjuster says that subsidence wouldnt 
have occurred if the foundation had been built to a depth of 1,750mm.
But I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr Hs rear extension was subject to these 
standards. The extension wasnt built as part of a new home. And theres been no 
suggestion from LV or the loss adjuster that Ns standards formed part of building 
regulations in 1996. That means there was no obligation on the builder to follow Ns 
standards. So Im not persuaded it would be fair to judge the design of the foundation 
against these standards.
The loss adjuster has said they received arborist advice which suggested the trees causing 
subsidence pre-dated the property. And that means the clay was likely to have been pre-
desiccated prior to construction. This may be so but the loss adjuster hasnt gone on to 
explain why this is relevant  whether they think this means certain regulations or guidelines 
which ought to have been taken into account havent been followed.
The rear extension was subject to building regulations. Im satisfied these are the relevant 
standards to take into account as the builder was required to follow them. The certificate, 
whilst referring to a rear extension says:
It is hereby certified that the building works described above have been inspected and so 
far as the authority has been able to ascertain the requirements of building regulations are 
satisfied.
Im satisfied the certificate is evidence the rear extension had been built in a way which met 
the requirements of building regulations and the local authority building control office. Im 
also satisfied it was reasonable for Mr H, when buying the property, to take the same view.
At the time of the damage, the rear extension had stood for over 20 years. I havent seen 
any suggestion it had suffered from previous foundation movement. I bear in mind a 
structure which has stood for that length of time without a structural problem is unlikely to have been built in a way which is faulty or which differs significantly from good building 
practice of the time.
And Im not persuaded it would be fair to say that the rear extension is faulty in design or 
failed to take into account good building practice when it has been certified as meeting 
building regulations. On the contrary, the certificate persuades me the structure was likely to 
have been built according to good building practice of the time and in line with the 
requirements of the local authority building control.
Because of this, Im not satisfied LV has shown it was fair to decline the claim for the rear 
extension. To put things right, it should now accept the claim.
  
My final decision
 I uphold this complaint.
For the reasons above, I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to accept the 
subsidence claim for the rear extension.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman