DRN-1916467
Complaint
Ms M says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France IARD 
has taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to AXA in this 
decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms M took out in 1994, when she applied for 
the card in a store.
I sent Ms M and AXA a provisional decision on 6 May 2020, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld. In that decision, I said:
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Ms Ms policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
AXA didnt recommend the policy for Ms M, so it didnt have to check it was right for her. But 
it did have to give her information about the PPI that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so 
that she could decide for herself whether it was right for her.
I cant see that AXA gave Ms M clear enough information about the policys terms for self-
employed people. And I think this wouldve mattered to Ms M.
At the time of the sale, Ms M was the director of her company. Her partner was the other 
director, and together they controlled the company. So she would most likely have been 
considered as self-employed under the terms of the policy. 
Ive looked carefully at the closest policy documents I have to the time, and it looks like the 
policy had conditions that made it harder for self-employed people to claim unemployment 
benefit  harder than Ms M wouldve reasonably expected. For example, it seems that Ms M 
would need to wind up the business or go insolvent before she could claim.
But businesses often have up and down periods, and Ms M may have found herself in a 
situation where she didnt have enough coming in to meet her reasonable costs, or where 
she had to temporarily shut down. In that sort of situation, it seems this policy wouldnt have 
covered her, despite her paying for a policy that was supposed to protect her. And I think it 
wouldve been onerous to make her permanently stop trading and close all of the business 
accounts just to claim for her store card. Such terms meant that if Ms M claimed for 
unemployment, shed never be able to get the business going again if trade improved. I think 
thats an onerous requirement, not least when compared to the terms for people who were 
not self-employed.
From the evidence, I cant see that Ms M was given clear enough information about the 
unemployment terms at the point of sale. If she had been, I think its most likely she wouldnt 
have bought the policy. So I currently think that Ms M has lost out because of the flaws in 
this sale.I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
5 June 2020. Ms M agreed with the decision and said she had nothing further to add other 
than to reiterate that she wouldnt have taken out PPI. AXA didnt respond.
What Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have sent me any new evidence or arguments. So having reconsidered the 
case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before  that its most likely this policy was mis-
sold.
Ms M asked whether our service would help her change PPI sales processes more widely. 
I should clarify that were here to resolve individual complaints, whereas its the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) who are the regulator and who oversee practices more widely. But 
I hope I can reassure Ms M that the FCA has done a lot of work in addressing how PPI was 
sold. Further, these types of policies are not really sold much anymore, and insurance sales 
practices have changed substantially since the 90s.
Putting things right
I direct AXA France IARD to put Ms M in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. That means:
A.) AXA should find out how much Ms M would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges. 
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms M owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.) AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms M would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% simple a year.
C.) If  when AXA works out what Ms M would have owed each month without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms M paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms M wouldve 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should again be 8% simple a 
year.
D.) AXA should tell Ms M what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give 
Ms M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ms complaint, and direct AXA France IARD to 
put this right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman