DRN-2389247
The complaint
Mr H is complaining about the length of time it took Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
(M&S) to refund an amount he paid for a hotel. Hes also unhappy with the amount it 
refunded. He brought the claim under S75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75).
What happened
In May 2019 Mr H paid £76.02 on his M&S credit card as a part payment towards the cost of 
purchasing a stay at a hotel  the total cost was £130. In May 2020 he wrote to M&S to ask it 
to pay the £76.02 back as he said he didnt receive the service from the hotel provider. He 
said hed spent 11 months trying to resolve it with the hotel provider, but without success. He 
also wanted it to pay him an additional £200 for the distress and inconvenience the hotel 
provider had caused him and a further £300 as a cost of sending the 12 letters hed sent to 
the hotel provider at a cost of £25 per letter. He was also seeking 8% simple interest for the 
time hed been out of pocket.
M&S responded to say that, due to the impact caused by Covid-19, it was very busy but 
would respond to him as soon as possible. However, shortly afterwards it wrote to him again 
and offered him £75 in compensation. It also said it had written off the £76.02 as a goodwill 
gesture. However M&S didnt think it needed to compensate him for the time taken to chase 
the matter up with the hotel provider.  
Mr H didnt agree with M&Ss response so he referred his complaint to this service to review.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought M&S had already refunded what it 
needed to do under the S75 claim. And she thought the £75 it had offered was fair 
compensation for any distress and inconvenience this matter had caused him. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He maintained he was entitled to claim the 
costs hed claimed for under S75. 
As Mr H didnt agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
First, Im aware I have summarised this complaint in far less detail than what Mr H has done. 
I dont mean any discourtesy by this, but it simply reflects the informal nature of this service. 
I assure Mr H, however, that Ive considered everything hes provided  including his 
reference to the various statutes hes relying upon. In this decision Ive focussed on what I 
consider to be the key points.
Mr H paid for the cost of a hotel on his M&S credit card. S75 sets out that, in certain 
circumstances, as the finance provider, M&S is jointly liable for any breach of contract or 
misrepresentation by the hotel provider. Im satisfied those circumstances apply here. 
Mr H asked M&S to refund the cost of the hotel plus additional damages. M&S says its only 
liable for the cost of the hotel. Ive now thought about whether thats fair. 
I havent been given any information as to why Mr H wasnt able to stay at the hotel. So I 
cant say whether there was a breach of contract or not. But I dont think I need to make a 
finding on this because I think M&S has already refunded everything it was required to if it is 
shown there was a breach of contract.
M&S agreed to refund the cost of the hotel within a short period of time of Mr H raising his 
S75 claim. So it has covered Mr Hs direct losses. However, Mr H is also looking for 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience the hotel provider caused him and 
compensation for his time and effort in pursuing the claim. He also says hes entitled to 
statutory damages for the delay in receiving a refund from the hotel provider.
As I said, Im looking here at what M&S should be responsible for. S75 gives Mr H a like 
claim against M&S if there has been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the hotel 
provider. So, I must give consideration to what losses Mr H would likely be able to recover in 
court against the hotel provider when considering what the like claim might look like. Im 
mindful when doing this that courts dont typically tend to make awards for non-financial 
losses such as distress and inconvenience for breach of contract apart from in limited 
circumstances (which I dont think would be likely to apply here). So I dont think M&S is 
liable for any distress and inconvenience the hotel provider may have caused him.
Its also a common principle of law that consumers cant profit from making a claim. Mr H is 
seeking payment of £25 for each letter he sent to the hotel provider in pursuing the claim  a 
total of £300. But I dont think it would have cost him £25 to send each letter. Furthermore, 
there will always be a degree of inconvenience and expense in pursuing a claim and Im not 
persuaded that hes been materially impacted by this more than I would expect. So I dont 
think it was unfair for M&S to not cover this cost.
I do agree, however, with Mr H that M&S should have considered paying 8% simple interest 
on the amount he paid for the hotel for any time he may have been out of pocket  if it was 
accepted there was a breach of contract. But I also see M&S paid a further £75 in 
compensation over and above the refund it gave. I havent seen anything to show that it 
needed to make this payment  for the reasons I set out above  so I dont think it would be 
fair to require it to pay anything further. I also note Mr H says hes entitled to compensation 
under late payment regulations, but hes not set out why he thinks these statutes apply. And 
I havent seen anything to show they do.
Finally, I note Mr H is unhappy with the way M&S handled his S75 claim and is seeking 
compensation for the number of times he says he had to write to pursue the claim. But I can 
see it responded to his claim within two weeks and agreed to refund the cost of the hotel 
plus a further £75. So I think it handled this fairly. Mr Hs unhappiness seems to be down to 
the decision it made. But, as I said above, I think its outcome was fair. So I dont think it 
needs to pay him anything further. My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint 
because Ive satisfied M&Ss decision to refund the £76.02 Mr H paid for the hotel plus a 
further £75 is a fair outcome to his S75 claim. It should pay this to him directly if it hasnt 
already done so. I make no further award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman