DRN-4213723
The complaint
Miss W has complained that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) irresponsibly lent to 
her when it provided her with an overdraft facility.
What happened
Miss W applied for an overdraft facility on her current account in August 2018. She was 
initially provided with a £500 facility. 
Over the course of the next 20 months Miss W applied to increase her limit a further 12 
times until in April 2020 it was £2,500.
 
Miss W says that Nationwide shouldnt have allowed her to increase her overdraft and that it 
didnt meet its obligations to make sure the lending was affordable for her. She complained 
to Nationwide, but it didnt uphold her complaint, so she brought it to this service.
 
Our investigator didnt think Miss Ws complaint should be upheld. Miss W disagreed, so her 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
Miss W also complained about a credit card that Nationwide provided to her, and we have 
dealt with that as a separate case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Ws complaint.
Nationwide needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss 
W could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks 
could have taken into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts, how quickly the debt was being paid off and Miss Ws income 
and expenditure. There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of 
lending itself clearly demonstrates that that the lending was unsustainable. There is no 
prescriptive list of checks a business must do. 
Nationwide has provided evidence of the results of the checks it made when it first agreed 
Miss Ws overdraft and when it agreed each increase. These showed that Miss W was 
managing her finances well. She didnt have any arrears, defaults or County Court 
Judgments and she didnt have other credit elsewhere until later in the life of the overdraft. 
When she did have other credit it was relatively low. 
I note that she appeared to have missed two consecutive payments in autumn 2019 on other 
credit but she brought her account back in order and reduced her borrowing before any 
further increases were agreed. Miss W also spent considerable periods in credit on her 
current account, indicating that she wasnt consistently reliant on her overdraft.
Based on this information I havent seen anything that might have alerted Nationwide to the 
need to do further checks. While I understand Miss W later experienced financial difficulties I 
dont think Nationwide could reasonably have foreseen these. So, I think Nationwide 
conducted reasonable and proportionate checks and I dont think Miss W lost out as a result 
of anything Nationwide did wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint, so it follows that Nationwide Building Society doesnt 
have to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman