DRN-4094231
The complaint
Mr P complains that Santander UK PLC (Santander) lent to him irresponsibly and applied a 
default to his account too late.
What happened
Mr P applied for a credit card with Santander in April 2016. The credit card was opened with 
a credit limit of £2,900 and the limit was never increased.
Mr P says that Santander shouldnt have lent to him because he couldnt afford it. He says 
Santander didnt do sufficient checks of his financial circumstances and if it had, it would 
have realised he couldnt sustainably meet the repayments on the card. He also says that 
Santander should have applied a default on his account sooner than it did and that it didnt 
offer him help when it was clear he was in financial difficulty.
Mr P asked that Santander change his default date. He also wants to be compensated for 
the unaffordable lending. While he doesnt specify what he would like to happen in relation to 
this part of his complaint, our usual approach when we uphold a complaint of this type is to 
direct that any unfair interest and charges are refunded and any negative information as a 
result of the lending be removed from the credit record.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. They didnt think Santander had done 
anything wrong when it made its lending decision or in when it applied the default to Mr Ps 
account.
Mr P disagreed. He says that he was heavily indebted and that he missed payments which 
werent recorded as such by Santander.
As Mr P didnt agree with our investigators view his complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Mr Ps complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator. I dont think 
Santander acted unfairly and lent to Mr P irresponsibly or otherwise treated him unfairly. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
Santander needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P could 
afford to repay what he was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amount, Mr Ps borrowing history and his income and expenditure. There are no set checks 
that a lender should do as long as it is able to take into account those elements I have 
mentioned.
Santander says it completed checks when opening Mr Ps account. It indicates that these 
showed that it was reasonable to lend to Mr P in the way that it did. It took into account the 
information Mr P provided in his application as well as information from a credit bureau and 
internal information. The bureau data includes information about the level of unsecured 
debts Mr P had and information about how he managed his other credit accounts. Santander 
also used data from the Office of National Statistics to model Mr Ps essential expenditure. 
Unfortunately, the data used by Santander isnt now available. This means I cant be 
satisfied it did proportionate checks. This doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mr Ps 
complaint though. I need to consider what Santander ought to have seen if it did reasonable 
and proportionate checks.
In the absence of information about what Santander saw when it did its checks, I think it is 
reasonable to rely on bank statements Mr P has provided to help show what his financial 
circumstances were at the time.
I can see from these statements that Mr Ps account was always in credit in the three 
months leading up to the lending. Mr Ps income averaged about £2,300 a month during the 
period. There is little information about Mr Ps committed expenditure as the vast majority of 
transactions are made in cash, although I can see that Mr P was making payments to 
another credit card. I cant tell what his credit limit was or what proportion of that credit he 
was using.  Mr P has also supplied his credit file which includes some entries from around 
the time he took out the credit card and I can see that he took out two other sources of 
lending very shortly before his credit card application. Again, I cant tell how much these 
were for and I think its unlikely they would have appeared on any checks by Santander 
because they were too new to have been reported to credit reference agencies by then.
On the basis of the information available to me, I cant fairly say that Santander acted 
unfairly when it gave Mr P a credit card. 
Mr P also complains that Santander took too long to default his account. Santander 
defaulted Mr Ps account in September 2018, but Mr P says it should have done so about 18 
months earlier. 
Looking at the conduct of Mr Ps account I can see that he made regular payments from the 
opening of the account until December 2016. He then made no payments at all until March 
2017 but in April 2017 he made a payment. Santander also refunded some interest and 
charges which, together with Mr Ps payment, cleared the arrears. Mr P then made no 
payment again in May 2017 before paying more than the minimum required in June 2017. 
Mr P then made regular payments until December 2017 when he stopped paying again. 
In May 2018, Mr P promised to make a payment later that month. Santander again refunded 
some charges and fees to assist with the arrears. However, Mr P didnt make the payment 
he promised to make. Santander issued a notice of default to Mr P in August 2018 
explaining that his account would be defaulted if he took no action. Having received no 
further payment, Santander defaulted Mr Ps account in September 2018. Mr P suggests that Santander ought to have defaulted his account 18 months earlier, around 
March 2017. We would normally expect a business to apply a default within three to six 
months of an account falling into arrears. I dont think it would have been reasonable for 
Santander to act as early as Mr P suggests. In April 2017 not only did Mr P make a payment 
but Santander also offered assistance by refunding some of the charges and interest 
incurred. Despite a further missed payment in May 2017 (which was made up in June 2017) 
Mr P carried on paying his account on time until December 2017 when he stopped again. 
Attempts by Santander to engage with Mr P about the arrears were generally unsuccessful. 
Mr P says he had moved address five years earlier and had informed Santander of this, but I 
havent seen any evidence to support that Santander had this information and didnt act on 
it. 
Mr P also said to Santander in April 2018 that he was abroad for four months and was 
unwell. He told Santander that he knew he was in arrears and that he needed to make a 
payment by 15 May 2018. He explained that he wouldnt be able to do this but that he would 
be able to do so by 31 May 2018. In a further telephone call about a week later, he reiterated 
that he would make a payment on 31 May. As a result, Santander didnt take steps to default 
Mr Ps account when it otherwise would have done, because Mr P had promised to make his 
payment.
However, Mr P didnt make his agreed payment. Santander wrote to Mr P advising of its 
intention to default his account but when these letters went unanswered, Santander 
defaulted Mr Ps account in September 2018, some four months following the broken 
promise to make a payment. 
I think Santander acted reasonably in the way it dealt with Mr P and his arrears. Indeed, I 
think Santander could be open to criticism if it hadnt shown Mr P the forbearance it did when 
he indicated he was going to make payments.
Mr P says that Santander didnt receive minimum payments from him at all. He says that 
direct debits were credited to his account but were later rejected and returned unpaid. Mr P 
provides undated screenshots of an unidentified account (or accounts) which he says is of 
his credit utilisation at the time. These show that it was relatively static, but it doesnt tell me 
whether this was because he wasnt making any payments or whether he was making 
payments but also then spending on the card. I think if he wasnt making any payments this 
would have meant his credit utilisation would continue to increase as charges and interest 
were applied. And the credit card statements provided by Santander do not support Mr Ps 
assertion that his direct debits were rejected.
So, on balance, on the information I have available to me, I am satisfied that Santander 
didnt do anything wrong when it waited until September 2018 to default Mr Ps account.
Overall, I dont think Santander did anything wrong when it lent to Mr P or in relation to the 
date it chose to default Mr Ps account, so I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint, so it follows that Santander UK PLC does not need to do 
anything further.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 June 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman