DRN-2136536
The complaint
Mrs T says National Westminster Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance
(PPI) policy.
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in 1997 at the same time as Mrs T applied for
a credit card. Mrs T thinks the sale took place on the phone but the bank cant confirm this. 
So I will review the sale based on the available evidence. The policy gave Mrs T accident, 
sickness and unemployment cover.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs T disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make clear the PPI was optional and Mrs T had to agree to take it out. 
Ive looked at the paperwork from the sale. On the application form there was a
separate section for PPI and Mrs T signed to confirm she wanted it. The form set out
the option to sign to decline PPI with equal prominence. So Im satisfied
NatWest made it clear to Mrs T the PPI was optional and she chose to take it out. Mrs T 
says the bank didnt tell her she could look elsewhere for other policies, but it was under no 
obligation to do so.
Mrs T says she wasnt asked if she had any existing insurance that would provide adequate 
cover. But NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs T, so it didnt have to check if it was
suitable for her. It was up to Mrs T to decide whether the policy was right for her,
bearing in mind her ability to make her credit card repayments if she was sick or lost
her job.
Mrs T says the full policy exclusions were not explained to her. I agree its possible NatWest 
didnt give Mrs T all the information about the PPI that she needed before she made her 
decision. But Mrs T chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. It seems she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations. And the policy 
was a reasonable price for the benefit it offered, and it was apparently affordable.
Mrs T says she had some savings and she was entitled to six months full pay and six 
months half pay if she was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to her work 
benefits and for up to 12 months. And it wouldve allowed her to use her savings to cover 
other living expenses whilst not working  or to keep them intact for her future needs. The 
PPI also offered redundancy cover for up to 12 months. It would have allowed her to protect 
any lump sum redundancy payment from her employer giving increased financial stability at 
an already difficult time. Mrs Ts representative argues her job was very stable, but the PPI 
was there to protect her against any change in her employment circumstances.
So based on her circumstances at the time of the sale and the terms of the policy, I think it 
unlikely Mrs T wouldve made a different decision if better information had been provided.
But NatWest will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T because: 
NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs T about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mrs T, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in 
this case.
What the business needs to do
NatWest has to pay back to Mrs T any commission and profit share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. NatWest should also pay back to Mrs T any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
NatWest should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs T the difference 
between what Mrs T owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit share it 
got hadnt been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. NatWest should also pay Mrs T 8%* simple 
interest (15% before April 1993) if she paid off their credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs T can claim back the tax if she doesnt 
pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs T any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman