DRN-4366131
The complaint
Mr T complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt do enough to protect him from the financial harm 
caused by an investment scam company, or to help him recover the money once hed 
reported the scam to it.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
On 5 October 2022, Mr T received a message on WhatsApp from a woman who Ill refer to 
as the scammer. She appeared to have the wrong number but asked Mr T if he wanted to 
be friends and asked him to communicate with her via Telegram.
Mr T became friendly with the scammer, and she suggested he could make money by 
investing in cryptocurrency. She told him shed made a lot of money because she knew 
when to buy and sell the cryptocurrency and that he could make up to 10% profit per day on 
his investment. She advised him to open an account with Monzo and a cryptocurrency 
exchange company. She also sent him a link to an investment company Ill refer to as C 
and told him to open an account, which required him to submit a copy of his ID. 
The scammer advised Mr T to first purchase cryptocurrency through the cryptocurrency 
exchange company and then load it onto an online wallet. Between 13 October 2022 and 1 
December 2022, he made multiple payments to two cryptocurrency exchange companies 
totalling £71,321.96 via faster payment and his Monzo debit card. During the scam period he 
received withdrawals totalling £791.56.
On 13 October, Mr T paid £50 from his Monzo account to the cryptocurrency exchange 
before transferring the funds to C. He made a profit of £15, which he thought was 
reasonable and over the coming weeks he made multiple payments funded by savings and 
four loans he took out on advice from the scammer. The scammer told him the loans could 
be paid off using profits from the investment and he was reassured by the fact he could see 
profits on the trading platform and was able to make small withdrawals.
When Mr T decided he wanted to make a withdrawal, he was told hed need to pay 15% of 
his profits to release the funds. Mr T said he couldnt afford to pay this, but the scammer told 
him shed pay the remaining amount and he could then pay her back. On 16 November 
2022, Mr T received an email telling him further deposits were required to release funds and 
he realised hed been the victim of a scam when he was unable to make any more payments 
and he eventually lost contact with the scammer.
Mr T reported the scam to Monzo explaining the scammer told him banks didnt like dealing 
with cryptocurrency, so he ignored the pop-up warnings because he could see his profits 
and he had no reason to believe it was a scam.
Monzo said it had tried to seek recovery of the funds, but no funds remained in the 
beneficiary account. And it was unable to provide a refund because the payments from Mr 
Ts Monzo account werent the scam payments, so it would expect the cryptocurrency 
exchange to investigate. It said it had executed the payments in accordance with Mr Ts 
instructions and he had received warnings before making the payments. Specifically, when 
he made the first payment, he was presented with a new payee warning screen which he 
confirmed he had read and wanted to continue. 
It said there was no evidence Mr T had done a reasonable due diligence as he didnt meet 
the scammer or any representative from C. And he should have realised the investment was 
a scam because he was being given investment advice by someone he met through 
WhatsApp, the returns were unrealistic, and he was told to ignore warnings from the bank.
Mr T wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service with the assistance of a 
representative. He explained he sent over 20 payments totalling £70,236 without any 
intervention from Monzo, except for a general pop-up warning asking if he was sure he 
wanted to make the payments, which wasnt effective because there was no scam warning. 
He explained he wasnt an experienced investor, and he thought the investment was 
genuine as he was able to make small withdrawals and he trusted the scammer was acting 
in his best interests. He said the payments were concerning because hed recently opened 
the account, and hed made large payments to a cryptocurrency merchant, which Monzo 
should have identified as unusual.
The representative said Monzo should have intervened on 13 October 2022 when Mr T paid 
£945 to the cryptocurrency exchange. It said there were multiple red flags including the fact 
he was making large payments to a high-risk cryptocurrency merchant. And the activity 
matched known fraud trends such as making an initial small payment and loans coming into 
the account which were immediately dispersed.
The representative said Monzo should have contacted Mr T and asked probing questions 
around why he was making the payment, how he found out about the investment company, 
whether hed researched the company, whether hed checked the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) register, whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, whether hed 
received any withdrawals and whether hed done any research or read any reviews. And as 
Mr T wasnt prompted to give false answers, Monzo would have been able to identify he was 
falling victim to a scam and provide a tailored warning, which would have reduced the risk of 
financial harm or stopped the scam entirely.
The representative explained that the account was opened for the investment, so there was 
no account history compare the payments with. But as soon as the account was opened, Mr 
T moved large sums of money in and out of the account, which should have indicated 
something untoward was happening. 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She said the payments followed a 
pattern of spending which was typical of an investment scam. She explained the first two 
payments were low value, but the third payment of £10,000 was paid out after Mr T paid 
£25,000 into the account, which was suspicious and should have triggered an intervention. 
At this point she thought Monzo should have contacted Mr T and asked questions about the 
purpose of the payment and whether there was a broker or account manager helping him 
in the background. It should also have asked what checks hed done, whether he had a 
trading account, whether he had been able to successfully withdraw funds and whether the 
investment opportunity was linked to a prominent individual.
She noted Mr T wasnt given a cover story, so she was satisfied hed have said he was 
being advised by someone hed met via WhatsApp, which would have indicated to Monzo the investment was probably a scam. Monzo could then have explained how investment 
scams work, which could have prevented the scam. So, she thought it should refund the 
money Mr T had lost from the third payment onwards, less the withdrawals hed received.
Following further comments from Monzo, our investigator explained she was satisfied Mr T 
should have done some basic checks on C as he was investing such large sums of money, 
and had he done so, hed have found negative reviews which pre-dated the payments. She 
noted the scammer had contacted Mr T out of the blue and he that should have performed 
some simple due diligence which could have minimised his loss. So, she recommended the 
settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
Mr T has indicated that he would be happy with a refund of £34,767.70 plus interest, but 
Monzo maintains it isnt liable to refund any money because he didnt do reasonable due 
diligence and there is nothing in the CRM code that states it should share liability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons.  
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr T says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances, but the CRM code didnt apply in this case because 
the payments were to an account in Mr Ts own name.
Im satisfied Mr T authorised the payments for the purposes of the of the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 (the Regulations), in force at the time. So, although he didnt intend the 
money to go to scammers, under the Regulations, and under the terms and conditions of his 
bank account, Mr T is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am satisfied this was a scam. But, 
although Mr T didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did authorise the disputed 
payments. Monzo is expected to process payments and withdrawals that a customer 
authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the victim of a scam, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them even though they 
authorised the payment.
Prevention
Ive also thought about whether Monzo could have done more to prevent the scam from 
occurring altogether. Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive 
seen, the payments were made to a genuine cryptocurrency exchange company. However, 
Monzo had an obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I need to consider whether it ought to have intervened to warn Mr T when he 
tried to make the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id 
expect Monzo to intervene with a view to protecting Mr T from financial harm due to fraud. 
The payments didnt flag as suspicious on Monzos systems. Ive considered the nature of 
the payments in the context of whether they were unusual or uncharacteristic of how Mr T 
normally ran his account and I think they were. This was a newly opened account so there 
was no account history to compare the payments with. And Mr T was paying a legitimate 
cryptocurrency exchange, so the nature of the merchant wasnt concerning. But, while the 
first two payments were low value, the third payment which took place on 15 October 2022 
was for £10,000 and followed a payment into the account of £25,000. So, this was a high 
value payment to a cryptocurrency merchant following a large payment into the account, 
which is a known indicator for fraud, so Im satisfied it should have triggered an intervention 
from Monzo.
At this point Monzo should have contacted Mr T and asked him some questions around the 
purpose of the payment including how he learned about the investment opportunity, whether 
there was a third party involved, whether hed been told to download AnyDesk software, 
whether hed been promised unrealistic returns, whether hed been allowed to make small 
withdrawals and whether hed been told to make an onwards payment from the 
cryptocurrency exchange. 
There is no evidence Mr T had been told to lie to the bank and so I think hed have told it 
about C and that hed been told he could make 10% profit per day on the investment. And 
hed probably have told it hed started with an initial investment of £50 and that hed been 
told to transfer the cryptocurrency to C from the cryptocurrency exchange, which would have 
been enough information for Monzo to have identified this was probably a scam.
Monzo should then discussed with Mr T the nature of the checks hed undertaken and given 
some advice on additional due diligence. It should also have warned him about the risks 
associated with the investment and explained that scammers often tell their victims to make 
onwards payments from cryptocurrency exchanges and that there were red flags present 
which indicated the investment was a scam.  
There were no warnings about C on either the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) or 
International Organisation of Securities Commissions (IOCSO) websites which would have 
alerted Mr T to the fact this was a scam. But I havent seen any evidence that Mr T was keen 
to take risks and he didnt have a history of high-risk investing. So, even though he ignored a 
warning from Monzo on the scammers advice when he set up the new payee, I dont 
consider that warning would have been sufficient on 15 October 2022 and I think that if hed 
had a tailored, robust, clear warning from Monzo that the investment was probably a scam, 
its likely hed have chosen not to go ahead with the investment.
Because of this, I think Monzo missed an opportunity to intervene in circumstances which 
might have prevented Mr Ts loss. Consequently, Im satisfied it should refund the money he 
lost from the third payment onwards.
Contributory negligence
Theres a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their decisions and 
conduct suitable due diligence, and, in the circumstances, I dont think Mr T did enough to 
check the investment was genuine before making the payments. 
Mr T was acting on advice from someone hed never met who had contacted him via 
WhatsApp in suspicious circumstances. And even though in recent years instances of individuals making large amounts of money by trading in cryptocurrency have been highly 
publicised, he was promised unrealistic returns, which should reasonably have caused him 
to stop and think about what he was doing.  
I accept Mr T hadnt invested in cryptocurrency before and so this was an area with which he 
was unfamiliar. But he took out four loans on the advice of someone hed never met and who 
told him she had put £10,000 into his trading account, which was implausible. So, even 
though I accept this was a sophisticated scam and that Mr T had trusted the scammer, I 
think he went ahead with the investment despite some very clear warning signs and that he 
should have done more checks before deciding to go ahead with the investment. 
Consequently, I think the settlement should be reduced by 50% for contributory negligence.
Compensation
In the circumstances, I dont think Mr T is entitled to any compensation from Monzo.
My final decision
My final decision is that Monzo Bank Ltd should: 
refund £69,535.40.
this settlement should be reduced by 50% to reflect contributory negligence.
pay simple interest at the rate from the originating loan accounts on the loan amounts 
per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of settlement.
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, on the remaining funds from the respective dates 
of loss to the date of settlement.
*If Monzo Bank Ltd deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should 
provide Mr T with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman