DRN-3227320
The complaint
Mr S complains about Link Financial Outsourcing Limiteds actions when trying to recover a 
debt he disputed. 
What happened
Link purchased a credit card debt in Mr S name from another business (A) in 2019. In 
January 2021 Link traced Mr S to his address and wrote to him to request repayment of the 
outstanding balance. In February 2021 Link was advised Mr S wasnt aware of the account 
and believed the debt to be fraudulent. Link agreed to revert to A for comment. Mr S also 
contacted A to raise concerns that hed been the victim of fraud. 
A responded to Link and sent documents relating to the debt. Despite raising a dispute, A 
didnt notify Link that Mr S wasnt the borrower. Link said it still considered Mr S to be the 
borrower but said it could contact A to pursue the dispute. 
Mr S referred the matter back to A but says Link continued to contact him for payment which 
caused a lot of upset. 
Ultimately, A agreed to buy the debt back from Link in August 2021. Mr S says that Link sent 
him another collections letter in September 2021, despite no longer owning the debt. 
Mr S referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Overall, the 
investigator didnt think Link had treated Mr S unfairly. But the investigator said that during 
May and June 2021 Link shouldve continued to suspend collections activity to allow A to 
respond to the dispute Mr S had raised. The recommended Link pay Mr S £100 to for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mr S agreed but said his acceptance was contingent on receiving the payment within seven 
days. Link confirmed payment on the sixth day following Mr S acceptance but said it could 
take up to five working days for the payment to be received. Mr S then asked to appeal, so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Once Link was aware Mr S disputed the debt it was seeking to recover was his it needed to 
look into whether it was contacting the right person. The rules say collections activity should 
be suspended until its established the right person is being pursued. I can see that when 
Mr S first raised his concerns in February 2021 Link agreed to raise a dispute and stopped 
collections activity. 
A went on to forward documents and information to Link that indicated Mr S was liable for 
the debt. Once A responded to Link I think it was reasonable for it to consider starting 
collections activity. I can see Link issued a response to Mr S dispute and explained he could 
continue to discuss the debt with A. Mr S responded in the middle of May 2021 and said he 
was continuing to pursue the dispute but Link didnt place a hold on the collections activities. 
So Mr S received some contact from Link. 
Link received follow up information from A in the middle of June 2020. A didnt accept it Mr S 
wasnt the original borrower. As Ive said above, Link shouldve suspended collections 
activity during until A confirmed its position. So I can see there was a period of around a 
month where the account wasnt on hold. Link has agreed to pay Mr S £100 to apologise 
and Im satisfied that figure fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to him. 
Link went on to call Mr S in July 2021, but I dont think that was unreasonable. At this stage, 
A hadnt withdrawn the debt or said Mr S wasnt liable for it. I note that A agreed to buy the 
debt back in August 2021, but it didnt say Mr S wasnt the borrower in its final response. 
Mr S told us he received a letter from Link in September 2021. But no copy has been 
supplied and Link says it has no record of sending a letter to Mr S on the date in question. 
Links contact notes show Mr S called it in September 2021 and was promised a call back 
that didnt happen. Ive taken this into account.
Whilst I agree there were some service issues and a period of around a month when Mr S 
account shouldve been on hold but wasnt, I think the agreement from Link to pay Mr S is a 
fair way to resolve his complaint. In my view, that figure reflects the impact of the above 
issues on Mr S and is fair in all the circumstances. So Im going to uphold Mr S complaint on 
tell Link to pay him £100 if it hasnt done so already. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct Link Financial Outsourcing Limited to 
pay Mr S £100 (less any compensation already paid).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman