DRN-3986156
The complaint
Miss W1 and Miss W2 complain about the way that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited handled 
claims they made on a private medical insurance policy.
Miss W1 and Miss W2 are represented by Mr W.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I havent set these 
out in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key events.
Miss W1 and Miss W2 were both insured under a personal private medical insurance policy. 
The policy had been sold by a broker. 
In September 2021, Miss W1 had a consultation with an online GP service. The GP 
diagnosed her with a condition which was specifically excluded by the policy terms and so 
AXA turned down her claim. 
Mr W complained about AXAs decision on Miss W1s behalf, as he considered the policy 
wording was unclear and he was unhappy with its claims decision. AXA issued a final 
response to that complaint on 16 September 2021, which set out the policy exclusion AXA 
had relied upon. AXA authorised an initial consultation with a psychiatrist for Miss W1. The 
letter said that if Miss W1 or Mr W remained unhappy with AXAs position, they could bring a 
complaint to this service within six months of the date of the letter. 
In February 2022, Mr W made a further complaint about the way AXA had handled Miss 
W1s claim. He considered that due to AXAs errors, Miss W1 had only had one consultation 
during the 2021-22 policy year. This meant that Miss W1 would be charged an excess of 
£250 for both the 2021-22 and 2022-23 policy years. 
AXA looked into Miss W1s complaint. It agreed to refund the excess for the 2021-22 policy 
year and it waived the excess due for the new policy year. This meant AXA had waived a 
total of £500.
Subsequently, in May 2022, Miss W2 needed to make a claim due to anxiety. However, 
there were some delays in an assessment being completed by the provider. Miss W2 didnt 
undergo an assessment until mid-June 2022. Mr W was unhappy with the delays Miss W2 
experienced and the impact on her health. So he contacted AXA to make a new complaint.
AXA acknowledged that its provider hadnt handled Miss W2s claim as well as it couldve 
done. It hadnt made it clear at the outset that Miss W2 could undergo an assessment at that 
point. And when Mr W had complained, the matter hadnt been immediately escalated to the 
provider. It accepted this had compounded things when Miss W2 had been looking for 
support. So it sent Miss W2 £500 compensation to reflect its poor service.
Miss W1 and Miss W2 remained unhappy with AXAs responses to their complaints and so, 
in August 2022, Mr W asked us to look into them. He felt hed been mis-sold the policy and 
that AXA should refund the premiums hed paid for the cover. He also felt Miss W1 should 
be compensated for lost wages, which he attributed to the original misdiagnosis by the 
online GP.
Our investigator didnt think we had the power to look into Miss W1 concerns about the 
clarity of the policy wording, nor the original misdiagnosis. Thats because both of those 
complaint points had been addressed by AXA in its initial final response letter of 16 
September 2021. Mr W hadnt brought the complaint to us within six months of the date of 
that letter and AXA didnt consent to us looking into those points. So under our rules, she 
didnt think we had jurisdiction to consider those particular issues.
The investigator then considered the complaints Mr W had made on Miss W1 and Miss W2s 
behalf in February and May 2022. She felt that overall, while AXA hadnt handled the claims 
as well as it couldve done, its waiver of the excesses and offer of compensation was fair.
Mr W disagreed on Miss W1 and Miss W2s behalf. He felt the September 2021 letter only 
addressed Miss W1s initial misdiagnosis. He considered the waters had been muddied by 
the separation of responsibilities between AXA, the broker and the online GP provider. He 
didnt think AXA had fairly considered Miss W1s lost wages or the impact of the claims 
handling on both Miss W1 and Miss W2. He felt the compensation AXA had already offered 
was totally inadequate. He said that at that point, he would accept £15,000 to fund future 
ongoing care.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Miss W1 and Miss W2, Ive decided not to 
uphold their complaints and Ill explain why.
At the outset, Id like to reassure Mr W that while Ive summarised the background to this 
complaint and his detailed submissions to us, Ive carefully considered all hes said and sent 
us. Within this decision though, I havent commented on each point hes raised and nor do 
our rules require me to. Instead, Ive focused on what I consider to be the key issues.
First, I must make clear the parameters of this decision. I will only be considering how AXA 
handled Miss W1 and Miss W2s claims. Whilst I understand Mr W feels the policy was mis-
sold to him, the contract was sold by a broker, which is a legally separate entity. As such, 
AXA isnt responsible for the way the policy was sold. And neither is AXA responsible for any 
diagnosis which was made by a third-party GP. AXAs responsibility in this case was to 
assess the claims, in line with the policy terms.
Next, I need to consider whether I have the power to look into the whole of Miss W1s 
complaint. AXA has raised concerns that parts of the complaint may have been referred 
more than six months after it issued its final response  which would mean that those 
complaint points had been brought out of time.
I understand Mr W is dissatisfied by the diagnosis Miss W1 was originally given, AXAs initial 
claims decision and the clarity of the policy wording. But its important to explain that I can 
only consider the merits of a complaint in circumstances where I have jurisdiction to review 
things under the rules which govern us. The rules about time limits and whether our service can look into the merits of a complaint 
are set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook under DISP 2.8.2. This says, that 
unless the financial business consents:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service:
1. more than six months after the date on which the respondent sent the complainant 
its final response, redress determination or summary resolution communication.
Ive seen a copy of the final response letter AXA sent to Mr W on 16 September 2021, which 
related to Miss W1s claim. This letter refers to the initial decline of Miss W1s claim; AXAs 
authorisation for Miss W1 to have a consultation with a specialist, apologises that the 
relevant exclusion wasnt pointed out to Mr W, and went on to detail the exclusion and where 
it could be found.
In line with the regulators rules, AXA included referral rights to this service at the foot of the 
letter and made it clear that if Mr W wasnt happy with the complaint outcome, hed need to 
complain to us within six months of that letter. Six months from 16 September 2021 was 16 
March 2022. However, Mr W didnt bring these complaint points to us until August 2022. So I 
find that these particular complaint points were made out of time. 
In some circumstances, I can look at a complaint outside of the time limits if I feel the delay 
in bringing it to us was down to exceptional circumstances. But I dont think thats the case 
here. I say that because Mr W was corresponding with AXA in February 2022 and so I think 
he could have contacted us within the relevant time limits. This means then that I find I dont 
have jurisdiction to consider Mr Ws complaint points about:
AXAs initial decision to turn down the claim;
Whether it delayed authorising a specialist;
The policy wording.
Ill now turn to consider the complaint points I can consider. Namely, whether AXA handled 
Miss W1s and Miss W2s claims fairly in February and May 2022. 
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. So 
Ive considered, amongst other things, the terms of Miss W1 and Miss W2s policies and the 
circumstances of their claims, to decide whether AXA treated them fairly. 
Miss W1s claim
As Ive set out above, AXA agreed to cover the cost of Miss W1 seeing a specialist in 
September 2021 for a consultation. It appears that as a result of that consultation, further 
treatment was authorised by AXA. 
Miss W1 was concerned as she felt that her treatment would unfairly straddle two policy 
years and that accordingly, shed need to pay two excesses. Mr W was also concerned that 
Miss W1s treatment would be unfairly caught by applicable policy limits.
AXA looked into these concerns. It agreed to refund the excess Miss W1 had paid during the 
2021-22 policy year and it agreed to waive the excess which would apply during the 
following policy year. This meant a total waiver of £500. In my view, this was a very fair 
response from AXA. And like the investigator, I too have seen no evidence that Miss W1s 
treatment was limited in any way because of the application of policy limits, or because of the claim straddling two policy years. So I think AXA has already dealt with this complaint 
point fairly and reasonably. I dont think it would be reasonable or proportionate for me to 
direct AXA to pay Miss W1 compensation to reflect any lost earnings here, when I think it 
looked into and settled Miss W1s complaint promptly and appropriately.
Miss W2s claim
Its clear, both from AXAs notes and from Mr Ws testimony, that Miss W2 was going 
through a difficult time and required support. Its also clear that Miss W2 requested support 
from AXAs provider on 17 May 2022. But when the provider called her back, it didnt make it 
clear that she could undergo an assessment there and then. Instead, Mr W made a 
complaint on Miss W2s behalf about the lack of support  especially given Miss W2 
unfortunately went on to suffer a panic attack. AXAs provider didnt complete the 
assessment with Miss W2 until mid-June 2022  around a month after she first asked for 
support.
I dont doubt how upsetting Miss W2 mustve found it when she couldnt access assessment 
when she first got in touch with AXAs provider. AXA accepts that it didnt provide Miss W2 
with the service it should have done and that its provider couldve explained things more 
clearly. I think Miss W2 was caused unnecessary trouble and upset by AXAs handling of her 
claim and so I think its appropriate that it paid her compensation to reflect the likely impact 
of its errors.
In my view, £500 compensation is a fair amount of compensation, based on the specific 
circumstances of this complaint. It appears to be a proportionate award to reflect the fact that 
Miss W2 was unable to access support for around a month and the impact Mr W has told us 
that delay had on her condition. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to direct 
AXA to pay anything more for this particular error, given the relevant timeframe and the fact 
it took appropriate steps to investigate Mr Ws concerns in a timely way.
Overall then, whilst I was sorry to hear of the circumstances leading to Miss W1 and Miss 
W2s claims and I appreciate they were both upset and inconvenienced by AXAs errors, I 
think it has put things right fairly for them both. This means Im not directing AXA to do 
anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W1 and Miss 
W2 to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman