DRN-4212814
The complaint
Mr A complains American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) unfairly charged him 
interest after he made a payment to his credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
Mr A has made a number of points about ongoing concerns he has with the way AESEL 
manage his account. However, my decision can on only focus on the issue complained 
about that took place in March 2023.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, for these reasons:
Mr A made his payment for his credit card account on the due date. This fell on a 
Sunday, so the payment wasnt processed until the next working day. As the 
payment was applied to Mr As account after the due date, he was charged interest. 
For me to determine if AESEL treated Mr A fairly, Ive had to review his statements 
and terms and conditions of his account.
The terms and conditions of Mr As account explain the payment due date will fall at 
least 25 days after the statement date. Having reviewed the statement in question, 
Ive seen the due date was within that time frame. 
The terms and conditions also explain that payments made outside business hours 
will be processed the next business day. As Mr A made his payment on a Sunday, 
I dont consider AESEL treated him unfairly by processing his payment when they 
did, because they did so in line with the terms and conditions of his account.
Mr A has told us about his personal circumstances and explained they impact his 
memory. Hes said AESEL didnt do enough to support him. Im sorry to hear Mr A 
feels he didnt get the support he needs from AESEL. However, Ive not seen any 
evidence that shows AESEL were aware of his vulnerabilities before his March 2023 
payment. As AESEL werent aware, they werent given the opportunity to discuss 
what support he needs. 
Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr A wasnt given access to his 
statement in enough time to allow him to make the March 2023 payment before the 
due date. Given the points I mentioned above, I cant agree that AESELs actions are 
the sole reason Mr A made his payment when he did. In turn, I wont be asking 
AESEL to refund the interest applied to Mr As account.
As AESEL is now aware of Mr As vulnerabilities, I would encourage both parties to 
discuss what support he may need to help prevent something like this happening in 
the future.
I know Mr A will be disappointed with the outcome, but for the reasons above, Im not asking 
AESEL to do anything to put things right. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr As complaint about American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman