DRN-3458455
The complaint
Mr G complains Revolut Ltd unfairly blocked his account following his fraud claim about two 
payments he didnt recognise. He also says they unfairly returned the balance in his account 
to previous payers to his account. He wants the payments refunded and his balance 
returned.
What happened
Our investigator covered the background facts of Mr Gs complaint adequately. I find no 
need to repeat everything they said in full. But in summary:
Mr G held a Revolut account. In November 2020 he contacted Revolut to dispute two 
payments to the same payee. He said he didnt make the payments and didnt know 
who the payee was. Revolut investigated the matter and decided to block the 
account to carry out a review.
Mr G contacted Revolut via their online chat throughout the time his account was 
blocked. He wanted them to allow him to transfer his funds elsewhere and to know 
what was happening about his fraud claim. He also asked for wider information about 
Revolut and for personal information they held about him. He concluded Revolut had 
unlawfully taken his money.
Revolut completed their review in January 2021. They decided not to refund the two 
payments Mr G disputed, to close the account immediately and to return the balance 
they held to previous payers to his account.
During the time Mr Gs complaint has been with our service Revolut made an offer of 
£20 to resolve the complaint without an admission of liability. Mr G refused the offer, 
so our investigator went on to consider the merits of his complaint.
Our investigator decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. They concluded:
Revolut didnt need to refund the payments Mr G had raised as fraud. The evidence 
on file indicated he likely consented to the payments. This was because:
oRevoluts system records indicated his mobile phone was used to make the 
payments and whoever made them would have needed to know Mr Gs 
Revolut passcode.
oMr Gs communication with Revolut inferred that he had disposed of his old 
mobile phone when the payments were made, but he told our service he still 
used that phone at that time. It wasnt clear why he didnt correct Revolut on 
this point.
oThe person who received the payments made a small payment to Mr G in 
December 2020. This was very unusual if Mr G did not know who this person 
was. It was also unusual that the alleged fraudster didnt try to take any more 
money from Mr Gs account.
Revolut could block Mr Gs account to carry out a review. Their decision was made in 
line with their legal and regulatory obligations and wasnt unfair.
Revolut could close Mr Gs account in accordance with Revoluts terms and 
conditions. They had closed Mr Gs account immediately and based on the reasons 
they provided to our service their decision was reasonable.
Revolut had returned the balance in his account to source. He should contact the 
owners of the accounts to where the funds were returned if he believes hes entitled 
to the funds.
Mr G disagreed with the outcome our investigator reached. He asked for a final decision, so 
his complaint has been given to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint. Ill explain why:
Generally, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) Revolut should 
refund payments their customer didnt agree to. I cant know for certain whether Mr G 
consented to the payments, so I must decide whether I think its more or less likely 
that he did.
On balance Im persuaded Mr G likely agreed to the payments he subsequently raised as 
fraud. I say this because: 
oSomeone needed access to both Mr Gs mobile phone and his unique 
passcode on his Revolut app. Revolut have provided persuasive evidence 
that this is how the payments were made. Mr G says no-one else had access 
to his phone and he never gave anyone access to his Revolut security details. 
oThe person who received the payments didnt try to spend any more of the 
funds in Mr Gs account when they had ample opportunity to do so. They also 
made a later smaller payment to Mr Gs account. I dont find this points to the 
payments being the result of fraud.
So, in the absence of another more plausible explanation as to how the payments were 
made, I find its more likely that Mr G made the payments himself.
Revolut have important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when 
providing accounts to customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply 
when an account is opened. They can broadly be summarized as a responsibility to 
protect persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
Revolut will review accounts to comply with their responsibilities. And, its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to accounts to conduct a review - doing 
so helps prevent potential financial loss or harm. Im satisfied Revolut acted 
reasonably by blocking Mr Gs account and they didnt need to allow him to move the 
account funds elsewhere.
Revolut decided to return the funds in the account back to the accounts of previous 
payers into the account. Based on all the information available to me Im satisfied 
their actions were reasonable. Mr G said he doesnt recognise one of the payers. So, 
presumably he would also recognise that he has no claim on the large amount of 
funds paid into his account from that payer in September 2020 which totaled nearly 
£11,500. I do not find Revolut stole Mr Gs money.
Revolut has the commercial discretion to close customer accounts. Here, they closed 
Mr Gs accounts with immediate effect. I have considered the terms and conditions 
applicable to closing an account immediately, and I find Revolut reasonably applied 
them in the circumstances of Mr G.
My final decision
I have decided not to uphold Mr Gs complaint for the reasons I have given above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman