DRN-3304119
The complaint
Miss L complains through her representative that AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent her money on 
a high interest loan which she was unable to afford to repay.
What happened
AvantCredit issued a loan to Miss L on 4 June 2016 for £4,500, payable over 36 months at 
the rate of £200 a month. The loan was repaid on 2 August 2017. 
Miss L says that at the time of the loan being issued she was struggling financially and 
had a poor credit history and that her monthly expenditure on essential bills, living expenses 
and other credit commitments exceeded her monthly income. She believes that AvantCredit 
irresponsibly lent the monies to her without carrying out a proper check of her finances.
AvantCredit said that its affordability assessment concluded that the loan was affordable and 
sustainable based on her financial circumstances.
AvantCredit carried out a detailed credit check, assessed the information contained in 
Miss Ls application form and independently verified Miss Ls income.
Ms Ls representative provided an up to date credit report.
Our adjudicator said that AvantCredit had carried out proportionate checks and that she 
didnt think there was anything in the information it gathered which meant it shouldnt have 
lent to Miss L. She hadnt seen anything which suggested AvantCredit wouldve concluded 
that she wouldnt have been able to sustainably make the repayments needed for the loan. 
Miss L didnt agree and the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including all the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice - on our website. 
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss L would be able to repay the loan in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Miss L would have been able to do so?
The rules and regulations in place required AvantCredit to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment of Miss Ls ability to make the repayments under this agreement. 
This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower-focused  so AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the loan would be sustainable. In practice this meant that AvantCredit had to 
ensure that making the repayments on the loan wouldnt cause Miss L undue difficulty or 
significant adverse consequences. That means she should have been able to meet 
repayments out of normal income without having to borrow to meet the repayments, without 
failing to make any other payment she had a contractual or statutory obligation to make and 
without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on her financial situation.
In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back - it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Miss L. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application.
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount/type/cost of credit they are seeking. Even 
for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different applications.
I think that such a check ought generally to have been more thorough:
The lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income).
The higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
a higher repayment from a particular level of income).
The greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during which a 
customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal 
that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
I am sorry to see that Miss L has got into financial difficulties in recent years. But I do have to 
look at the information AvantCredit had at the time of her applying for and being given the 
loan.
The information on Miss Ls credit record showed that she had three credit cards with a 
combined balance of nearly £2,950. That said, she had been making regular payments 
toward those cards. She also had two mail order accounts with a combined balance of £433. 
Taking the details of her payments from her 2016 credit report I calculate that she was 
paying around £105 a month for her credit cards and £30 for her mail order accounts. She 
didnt have any other outstanding loans on her record. She had an overdraft of around £565, 
so presumably would have been looking to make some repayments towards that.
Miss L had a monthly income at the time of about £1,400. Taking into account her rent and 
other expenses totalling £800, this would have left a disposable income of over £450 from 
which to pay the loan instalments. She paid off the loan in full in August 2017, and no other 
loans appear on her record in respect of that final payment.
Ive noted Miss Ls statement that her then monthly expenditure exceeded her income. All I 
can say is that she would have needed to give full disclosure of her circumstances when 
applying for the loan, as some credit may not appear on her record. I think AvantCredit 
carried out proportionate checks. Those checks didnt in my view highlight the need for any 
further checks. I think AvantCredit fairly assessed that the loan was affordable to her, and that it made a fair lending decision.   
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman