DRN-4085154
The complaint
Mr S complained that his claim for accidental damage to his sofa was unfairly declined by 
UK General Insurance Limited (UKGI) under his furniture protection plan and he thought 
the level of customer service was poor.
What happened
Mr S made a claim when he accidentally tripped and fell onto his sofa. His fall caused the 
top bar across the back of the sofa to break. 
On reviewing the claim, UKGI decided to decline it as the circumstances werent covered by 
the policy. It said accidental damage was covered  but not for accidents causing structural 
damage. Mr S said this was unfair as his policy was for accidental and structural protection.
Mr S was also unhappy with the delays with his claim, and he said UKGI didnt engage with 
him on his complaint. He said he sent them numerous bits of correspondence which werent 
replied to. Mr S wants his sofa repaired, his premium refunded and compensation.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. He thought UKGI had declined the 
claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. He didnt think UKGI had done 
anything wrong. He said he couldnt consider the poor service as he said this was outside of 
our services jurisdiction. Mr S disagreed, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 31 March 2023. I said:
The cause of the damage is unchallenged  it happened during an accidental fall. I also 
think its clear what part of the sofa was damaged  the top bar of the sofa.
UKGI didnt accept the claim as it said it wasnt covered by the terms and conditions  it has 
explained to Mr S the policy wording where accidents are covered on fabric / leather 
furniture, caused by rips, tears, burns, scuffs, scratches and punctures. However, as Mr S 
circumstances fell outside of this it declined the claim.
Mr S also thought the policy should cover him under the structural defects clause. UKGI 
explained this section is solely for structural defects and not because of damage caused by 
an accident. Mr S thinks this is unreasonable as the clause includes defects to frames 
caused by breakage or becoming warped.
Unfortunately, Im going to disappoint Mr S as I dont think the policy does cover him for the 
circumstances he set out when he made his claim. I understand Mr S bought a policy that 
was called UPHOLSTERY FABRIC STAINS, ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE & STRUCTURE on 
the insurance certificate. So, I can see why he may have thought he was covered for 
accidental damage to the structure of his sofa. However, I can see the certificate is clear that 
Mr S is indemnified in accordance with the terms and conditions.
I dont think Mr S circumstances have met the terms of the policy. A defect is an 
imperfection in the sofa  it isnt accidental damage. I appreciate Mr S thinks the sofa is 
defective as it broke. However, I dont agree. A sofa is designed for sitting on and not for 
falling on. I havent seen any evidence to show the sofa doesnt meet its purpose.
I think the policy is clear in its intention that accidental damage is covered where the fabric of 
the sofa is damaged. The main purpose of the policy is to cover rips or stains (e.g., where 
someone has spilt something or maybe left something sharp on the sofa causing a tear). 
Therefore, I think UKGI have been fair in declining the claim, as I dont think the claim is 
covered by the policy. So, I dont uphold this aspect of the complaint. 
I appreciate Mr S was disappointed UKGI didnt inspect the sofa, but I dont think it needed 
to. I think it was supplied with the necessary information to be able to decide the claim 
without inspecting the damage.
Mr S also complained about the customer service he received. He initially raised a complaint 
in March, but it was August before he received a final response. I can see Mr S sent several 
emails to UKGI trying to raise his concerns and hes felt that UKGI hasnt responded. UKGI 
said emails received from Mr S were blank and it thought Mr S hadnt received some of its 
own replies. UKGI said I cannot comment on any technical issues surrounding your email 
account.
I dont think UKGI have been reasonable in dealing with the complaint. Its not totally clear 
what has caused the problem with the communication between the parties. But I do feel that 
UKGI have brushed it under the carpet. I think UKGI couldve issued a final response earlier 
or telephoned Mr S if emails it received from him were blank. 
For the avoidance of doubt, I dont think better communication wouldve changed the 
outcome of this claim. However, I do think UKGIs failing has drawn out this process for Mr S 
and wasted his time. So, I uphold this part of the complaint. For the distress and 
inconvenience caused, I intend to award £100 in compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
UKGI agreed with my provisional decision and accepted it. It didnt have anything further to 
add.
Mr S didnt respond to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As no new information has been provided, I see no reason to change my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. I require UK General Insurance Limited pay Mr 
S:
£100 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 May 2023.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman