DRN-2322116
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with how CMC Spreadbet Plc handled one of his trades and has wider 
concerns about his spread betting account.
What happened
Mr K opened a trading account with CMC in 2012. Because of the products on offer, part of 
the online application process required Mr K to complete an appropriateness assessment. 
Amongst other things, the assessment gathered relevant information from Mr K in order to 
see whether he had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks 
involved. Mr K passed the assessment and his account was opened. He says he didnt use 
the account much after 2012. 
Earlier this year, Mr K wanted to trade again. CMC say he completed an annual review on 
10 March, but Mr K disputes this was done. 
Late on 15 March, Mr K opened a £2 per point Brent Oil buy bet. At the time, the underlying 
was trading at just over $32 a barrel. Thinking the price would rise, Mr K planned to take 
profit at around $35 a barrel.
Mr K says he tried to close his position around an hour and a half later, in the early hours of 
the morning on 16 March. He says hed have been around £170 in profit then. But due to an 
issue with CMCs app on his phone, he wasnt able to. 
During the day on 16, 17 and 18 March, Mr K made changes to level at which he would take 
profit from the trade  this reduced from the $35 figure, down to $33, $32 and $31. 
At 4:26pm on 18 March, Mr K called CMC  he said he was having trouble using their app 
and couldnt amend his position nor could he fund his account. The adviser couldnt see any 
technical issues had been reported, but flagged his concerns with the relevant team. She 
offered to amend Mr Ks position but he declined. She also offered to fund his account over 
the phone but Mr Ks card was declined. Mr K made some comments around his disbelief 
that Brent Oil was trading so low. 
At 4:46pm, Mr K closed his position  hed lost just over £1,300. At 4:53pm, he called CMC 
to withdraw the remaining cash on account. He again commented on the loss hed just 
incurred and his surprise at the price. 
At 6:12pm, Mr K called CMC again. This time, he said hed spoken to his bank about the 
money hed lost and that theyd suggested he get in touch  he said he didnt really 
understand what hed been doing as while he appreciated the concepts, he didnt realise 
things could move against him so quickly. He also said he wasnt in a position where he 
could afford to lose money. The staff member asked if hed like his account closed, but Mr K 
said he was instead looking for some compensation. 
CMC treated what hed said as a complaint, but they didnt agree they were at fault for his 
losses. They said there hadnt been any technical issues, so they couldnt see Mr K would 
have been prevented from closing his position. Despite this, they said he ought to have used 
the web based platform or called them if there had been a problem executing trades on their 
app.
They also noted that when Mr K first called them on 18 March, he didnt initially mention 
anything about wanting to close his position or having trouble in doing so. Instead, the 
conversations were around amending the position and funding the account despite there 
being no margin call. So they didnt agree thered been a problem with closing the trade for 
which they ought to be responsible for. CMC added that the account was execution-only and 
Mr Ks appropriateness for this sort of trading had been assessed from the outset. But given 
what they had learned of his situation, they were going to close his account.
Unhappy with this, Mr K asked for our help. He told us he was a vulnerable customer and 
couldnt afford to lose money  at the time of the trade in question, he was financially 
unstable and unemployed. He also said it was wrong of CMC to allow him to fund his 
account with a credit card. Regarding the trade, he said that shortly after opening it hed 
decided he didnt fully understand CMCs system and didnt want so much of his money 
exposed to one trade. But the trade wouldnt close on the platform, and CMC hadnt helped 
him with this.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened, but he didnt think CMC had done 
anything wrong. He said, in summary:
when opening the account, Mr K had told CMC he had experience trading shares as 
well as spread betting and CFDs  so it was fair for them to allow him to open an 
account and begin trading
the annual review completed in March confirmed Mr K was employed, earning money 
and had savings
CMC werent to know when he lost his job, but when they did hear more about Mr Ks 
situation and understood his circumstances they closed the account
it wasnt necessarily a problem hed used his credit card to deposit funds
losing money on trades wasnt enough for CMC to recognise Mr K was in financial 
difficulty or might have had a gambling problem 
and regarding the Brent Oil trade, he didnt think Mr K had been trying to close it as 
early as he said he had  thats because it was amended several times and the call 
recordings didnt reveal this was his intention either  so he didnt think CMC had 
done anything wrong here either
Mr K didnt agree  he said he hadnt completed the review in March and that the figures for 
his income, savings and investments werent right. He also felt that CMC hadnt ensured 
their rules around funding had been followed. As this didnt change our investigators mind, 
the matter was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and while I recognise this will be very disappointing for Mr K, I agree with 
what our investigator said for similar reasons. 
opening of the accountCMC say they didnt give advice to Mr K, instead the relationship was formed on an 
execution-only basis. From what Ive seen, including CMCs terms of business, Im satisfied 
this was the case. As a result, CMC werent under an obligation to determine if the account 
was suitable for Mr K. But as a regulated firm, they were however required to check that the 
account was appropriate for him  the conduct of business (COBS) section within the 
regulators handbook is whats relevant here.
COBS 10 required CMC to assess Mr Ks appropriateness for opening a spread betting 
account. To do this, they needed to gather relevant information from Mr K in order to decide 
whether he had the necessary knowledge and experience to understand the risks involved. 
Looking at the answers Mr K provided, I can see that he was employed, earned £35,000 a 
year and had £10,000 in savings. And with regards to his investment experience, he said he 
traded shares regularly, dealt in spread bets and contracts for differences occasionally and 
traded other derivatives rarely. The answers given passed CMCs appropriateness 
assessment and he was deemed eligible to open the account. 
CMC needed to check that Mr K had relevant knowledge or experience to understand the 
risks involved in spread betting. And given his answers to their questions, I am satisfied that 
the account opened in 2012 was properly assessed as appropriate for him. I appreciate Mr K 
now says that he didnt understand what was happening to his money, but it was fair for 
CMC to rely on the answers he provided and for him to establish his comfort and confidence 
in trading thereafter. 
appropriateness thereafter and using credit
Mr K says that he lost his job earlier this year, so this sort of trading wasnt something he 
ought to have been doing. He says his financial situation means hes a vulnerable customer 
and CMC shouldnt have let him fund his account with £2,000 from his credit card. 
CMC told us Mr K completed an annual review on 10 March. Mr K disputes this happened, 
along with the figures provided. But Ive reviewed what CMC have on file and can see that 
Mr Ks details were indeed updated on 10 March. Whats recorded was that he was 
employed and earning between €25,000 and €59,999 and had savings and investments 
worth between €60,000 and €119,000. 
I dont see any reason to dispute these details and I think it was fair for CMC to rely on what 
Mr K told them. So I dont think CMC ought to have prevented Mr K from trading at that 
point. 
I also dont think CMC ought to have intervened when Mr K used his credit card to add funds 
to his spread betting account. I take his point in that the Gambling Commission rules now 
prevent this from happening, in the hope of protecting vulnerable gamblers from putting 
more money at risk than they can afford to. But as our investigator said, CMCs regulators 
rules arent the same for this sort of account. 
CMCs risk warning applicable at the time did say You should not finance your Betswith 
us on credit. But given the differing rules, it was for Mr K to follow this guidance, rather than 
for CMC to refuse to accept the funds. It is often that individuals may use a credit card rather 
than a debit card, yet they are still spending money within the limits of whats affordable for 
them. So it isnt automatically the case that spending money, or funding an account, using a 
credit card ought not to be allowed. Mr K should only have put money at risk he could afford 
to lose. 
the Brent Oil positionI can see from the trade history that Mr K opened his Brent Oil position at 11:35pm on 
15 March 2020. Just under an hour later, at 12:24am, he amended his take profit order from 
$35.40 to $35.30. He then says he tried to close the position around 1am. Of course, theres 
no record of this on the trade history given the technical problems Mr K says he had.
But from all Ive seen, Im not persuaded Mr K did have the intention to close the trade when 
he says he did. He amended his take profit order seven times on 16 March. He also 
amended his stop loss that day too. On 17 March, he amended his take profit order another 
six times. And another three times on 18 March too. 
So Im not persuaded Mr K was looking to close the position early on 16 March  he 
amended his take profit order at 12:24am and again at 6:36am that day. I think if hed had an 
issue with closing the position and still wanted to, its not unreasonable to have expected to 
see him reach out to CMC for help first thing in the morning  I cant see that he did. He kept 
his position open for three days, making multiple changes to it. It wasnt until his call to CMC 
after hed closed the position that he raised the concerns brought to us now. 
I sympathise with Mr Ks position  I can see hes lost money and I dont underestimate his 
strength of feeling about his complaint. But his losses flow from his speculation on the oil 
price during an incredibly volatile time. His comments on the call recordings highlight his 
disbelief at the prices he was seeing  quite simply, the impact of the pandemic affected oil 
demand, and therefore oil prices, more than he thought it would. So while I appreciate this 
was a very disappointing trade for Mr K, his losses are attributable to movements in the 
underlying market, not CMC. So for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont think Mr Ks 
losses are something for which CMC ought fairly and reasonably to be held responsible for.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman