DRN-2793002
The complaint
Ms G complains about her insurance broker, Clegg Gifford & Co Limited (CG) under her 
motor insurance policy. Her complaint is about how CG provided documents from a third 
party insurer (M) in connection with a claim Ms G was making against M.
This decision only relates to Ms Gs complaint against CG. It does not consider Ms Gs claim 
against M or Ms Gs data subject request, as that is not within the remit of this service.
What happened
Ms G was involved in an accident with a third party in 2016 and subsequently made a claim 
against M as the third partys insurer. As part of this, Ms G made a Data Subject Request for 
information from M. In response, in 2020, CG forwarded documentation from M to Ms G. As 
this contained personal information, CG sent a separate email from M containing the 
password to access the documentation. When they did this, CG said that if Ms G had any 
problems opening the documentation, she should contact them.
Ms G was unable to access the documentation, believing that the data file provided (in pdf 
format) was empty. Ms G was also concerned by a virus warning and associated notification 
that she received when CG sent her the documentation. Ms G was also concerned that CG 
were acting jointly with M to harm her computer files and thereby adversely affect her claim.
Ms G then complained to this service. The main points of her complaint were that CG 
had withheld the original documentation from her, which might have helped her case. 
She was also concerned that the password information forwarded by CG may have 
contained a virus that could have been activated should she attempt to use the 
password, which could corrupt information she held regarding her claim against M. 
Ms G asked for the original documentation and compensation for the distress she 
suffered, as well as compensation should her claim be unsuccessful.
When our investigator contacted CG, they said that while Ms G had previously complained 
to them on other issues, she hadnt complained about their communication to her in 2020. 
CG then considered Ms Gs concerns as a complaint but rejected it. CG said that they had 
sent a copy of the documentation and password from M to their Compliance Team, who 
were able to access the document successfully and received no virus warning alert. CG also 
said that they were unable to locate the original (date stamped) documentation from M, so 
only the copy documentation was available. CG also concluded that they had responded to 
Ms Gs requests for documentation in an appropriate and timely way.
Our investigator then considered Ms Gs complaint to this service but didnt uphold it.  
The investigator concluded that it was standard practice to send information of a 
personal or sensitive nature in a secure format, such as password protection. CG had 
provided the documentation and password from M, the password being specific to Ms 
G. The description of the documentation sent also indicated that it wasnt an empty 
document. CG had also acted reasonably in offering to help Ms G if she had any 
problems opening the documentation.
Ms G disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether CG has acted fairly towards Ms G.
The main elements of Ms Gs complaint are that CG didnt provide her with the original 
documentation that she requested. Also, that they provided documentation that was empty 
and which triggered a virus alert warning when she received it.
On the first element, I can see from the email exchange that CG were not able to locate the 
original documents provided to them by M. But I can also see that CG requested them 
directly from M and that, in their absence, CG supplied copies of the documentation. Ive 
seen the documentation provided by M, relating to Ms Gs claim, and theres nothing that 
isnt what I would expect to see where a claim is being assessed. I think its also relevant to 
note that Ms Gs claim is against M, as the insurer of the third party in the accident that Ms G 
was involved with. CG are Ms Gs broker and act as agents for Ms Gs own insurer. They 
arent agents of M.
 
Taking all these points into account, I dont think CG acted unfairly or unreasonably in the 
way they responded to Ms Gs request.
On the second element, its reasonable for documentation that may contain sensitive or 
personal information to be subject to appropriate safeguards to mitigate the risk of 
unauthorised disclosure or breach of data protection or other legal and regulatory 
requirements. Password protection of such sensitive documents is common practice and I 
think this is both understandable and reasonable. Ive also noted CGs clear statement when 
forwarding the documentation that if Ms G had any problems opening the documentation, 
she should contact them. So, Ive concluded CG acted fairly and reasonably.
 
While I appreciate Ms Gs concerns about a potential virus, Ive noted that the message she 
received  which would most likely been generated by anti-virus software on her computer  
states that the document could not be scanned. This may be because it was password 
protected, but in any event it didnt mean that the document (or password) contained a virus. 
As CG were simply forwarding the documentation from M as Ms G had requested (so would 
have been expecting) I dont think Ms G had reasonable grounds to think that CG were (as 
she put it) acting jointly with M to harm her computer and her claim.
Based on these considerations, Ive concluded that CG acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
provided the documentation to Ms G.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman