DRN-2772678
The complaint
Mr M complains about the poor service he received from Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) following damage to a cooker hob. He doesnt believe the compensation offered is 
enough.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his protection policy when a glass hob was broken in his daughters 
property. The policy was in his name and Mr M spent a lot of time trying to get things sorted 
out. The hob was written off and Mr M was offered a number of replacements but none of 
them were suitable. Mr M said he spent a lot of time waiting for engineers to arrive and D&G 
shouldve been aware what was needed before they placed any orders.
Mr M said his family were without a hob for about three months. Hes happy with the cash 
settlement offered when a replacement couldnt be found. But Mr M doesnt think the 
compensation offered is enough for the lack of communication and time its taken to sort 
things out.
D&G said itd upheld Mr Ms complaint. The appliance had been written off and a 
replacement was due to be installed just over a week later. But there were problems 
sourcing a hob that fitted in the ceramic worktop and after a number of attempts D&G had 
offered a cash settlement of just under £800 plus a further £90 refund as the installation 
couldnt take place. D&G could see Mr M was unhappy with the service hed received. It 
offered a further £160 compensation and apologised for the amount of time hed spent 
dealing with the matter. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with D&Gs response. So he contacted our service and our investigator 
looked into the matter. She could understand Mr Ms frustration for the unsatisfactory 
customer experience hed been through. Hed been inconvenienced by wasted engineer 
visits and a lengthy claim process. But she felt the offer of £160 compensation was a fair 
outcome. It reflected the amount of time itd taken to get a resolution. And she wouldnt be 
asking D&G to do anything more. 
Mr M didnt agree. He felt his daughter should be compensated too. And the award should 
be higher. So hes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ms frustration. He had a protection policy for his hob which offered 
repairs by expert engineers or a replacement if it couldnt be fixed. But when he reported that 
the hob had been damaged D&G were unable to sort things out quickly.
When a like-for-like replacement cant be sourced its not unusual for the insurer to offer a 
similar model. And Mr Ms policy says, in these circumstances, we will arrange to replace 
your product with one of a same or similar make and technical specification.
Ive listened to the calls between Mr M and D&G and I can see D&G tried to arrange a 
similar model. Unfortunately it was difficult to find one that matched and had the same sort of 
touch control. D&G offered various models including upgraded hobs for Mr M to choose 
from. But it didnt have any control over installation options when trying to source a 
replacement. Unfortunately the lockdown was making it difficult for D&G to obtain certain 
products and arrange their installation.
D&G also tried to see if the broken hob could be repaired  even though an engineer had 
already said the appliance was a total loss. And that meant Mr M spent more time waiting for 
all-day appointments.
Its clear Mr M was expecting D&G to source a suitable replacement so it mustve been very 
frustrating when he was asked if he would accept a cash settlement only a few days after 
being asked to give D&G some time to look around.
When a replacement model was found the engineer who came to fit it had concerns about 
the distance to the range hood. It had to be a specific distance above the cooker top to avoid 
a risk of fire. So the engineer wasnt able to fit the new device.
When it became clear it wouldnt be able to find a suitable replacement D&G offered a cash 
settlement of £799 and refunded the installation fee Mr M had already paid in anticipation 
that a new hob would be fitted. Mr M has accepted the settlement although he says he had 
to chase to get the refunded fee.
I can see Mr M has already been offered compensation for the earlier delays in getting a 
replacement hob. As that has been dealt with under a separate complaint I cant consider it 
here. But I can see D&G has offered a further £160 compensation for the inconvenience in 
relation to this complaint.
I realise Mr Ms family were greatly inconvenienced by the loss of their cooking hob for 
around four months. But unfortunately I can only tell a business to pay compensation for 
trouble and upset experienced by its customer  not by a third party. So while I acknowledge 
how difficult it mustve been for Mr Ms daughter I cant ask D&G to compensate her for any 
inconvenience she was put through. I can only look at the inconvenience Mr M has 
experienced as D&Gs customer.
From listening to the calls its clear D&G was trying to find a suitable replacement and 
arrange installation during a difficult period. But I dont underestimate the time and trouble 
Mr M has put into trying to get a replacement installed for his daughter. He made a number 
of sometimes lengthy calls and waited for engineers to make failed attempts to resolve the 
problem. And it mustve been very frustrating process.
I know Mr M doesnt think the additional £160 offered by D&G is enough for the trouble, 
worry and inconvenience he was caused. But taking everything into account, including the 
sort of awards our service makes, I think thats a fair and reasonable amount in the 
circumstances. I dont think D&G needs to do more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 May 2021.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman