DRN-2853930
The complaint
Mr L complains about two loans he received from Loans 2 Go Limited. Mr L has complained 
using a claims management company (CMC), but for ease Ill refer mainly to Mr L.
What happened
Mr L applied for and was given the following loans by Loans 2 Go:
Date Amount Term Repayments Total payable
Loan 1 4 February 2019 £750 18 months £171.42 £3,085.56
Loan 2 1 November 2019 £1,000 18 months £228.56 £4,114.08
Mr L says Loans 2 Go didnt properly assess his ability to repay the loans and lent to him 
irresponsibly. He believes the interest charged on the loans is irresponsible and has 
prevented him from doing day to day things. 
Loans 2 Go said it conducted credit checks and validated Mr Ls income and expenditure for 
each application. It concluded that the loans had been affordable for him. It said interest had 
been charged in accordance with the terms of the loan. Loans 2 Go rejected his complaint 
but offered  on a goodwill basis  to write off a balance of £1,083.54 and close Loan 2 with 
nothing left to pay.
Mr L didnt agree with Loans 2 Go or accept its offer, so he referred his complaint to us. One 
of our investigators looked into it. She said that while Loans 2 Go had carried out reasonable 
checks as its required to do, it didnt reach a fair lending decision. She said Loans 2 Go 
should have refused to lend to Mr L based on the checks it carried out. She explained to 
both parties how she felt things should be put right. 
Mr l accepted what our investigator said, but Loans 2 Go didnt. It said Mr Ls credit report 
was on the whole very positive. It said there was some adverse information, but it would 
expect that given the type of lending it provides. For this reason, it felt it had no reason to 
carry out any further checks. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website  
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered 
this approach when deciding this complaint.
Loans 2 Go needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it 
didnt lend to Mr L irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order 
to decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did Loans 2 Go carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr L was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? 
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
The checks are not about Loans 2 Go assessing the likelihood of it being repaid, but it had to 
consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr L. There is no set list of checks that it had 
to do, but it could take into account several different things such as the amount and length of 
the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments, any existing relationship the borrower has 
with it and the overall circumstances of the borrower. 
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where:
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Did Loans 2 Go carry out reasonable and proportionate checks?
Looking at the amount and length of the loans (£1,000 or less for 18 months) it would be 
easy to think that proportionate checks would be fairly low level. But the cost of credit here is 
very high  with Mr L being asked to repay four times what he borrowed once interest is 
applied. So it seems to me that Loans 2 Go was obliged to pay close attention to information 
it obtained as it carried out its checks to ensure there was no detriment to Mr L.
Loans 2 Go has said it verified Mr Ls income and expenditure using online tools and 
checked his credit file. Its checks led it to change Mr Ls declared figures for his income and 
expenditure to less favourable amounts  in other words it used a lower figure for his income 
and a higher figure for his expenditure.
On the face of it, I think Loans 2 Go carried out sufficient checks on Mr Ls application. But 
Im not persuaded that it thought carefully enough about the information it obtained to reach 
a fair decision to lend.
Did Loans 2 Go make a fair lending decision?
The rules lenders must follow are set out by the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct 
Authority, in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). When Loans 1 and 2 were agreed, 
CONC 5.2A.22 said a lender should have regard to information of which it is aware at the 
time of the creditworthiness assessment, that may indicate the customer is in or is likely to 
experience financial difficulties.For Loan 1, Mr L declared an income of £1,400 and outgoings of just £140. Using its 
verification tool, Loans 2 Go changed these figures to £1,202.60 and £891.08 which left a 
monthly disposable income of £310.80 with a repayment amount of £171.42. 
For Loan 2, Mr L declared income of £1,800 and expenditure of £370. Again Loans 2 Go 
changed these figures and used £1,482.72 as income and calculated his expenditure as 
£1,245.48. This left a monthly disposable income of £237.24 with a repayment amount of 
£228.56. 
It hasnt given any detail about what it included in Mr Ls expenditure that hed missed out, 
nor has it explained the discrepancy in his declared income compared to the figures it used. 
So I can see why Loans 2 Go felt the loans were affordable on a purely pounds and pence 
basis  albeit the margin for error was extremely tight for Loan 2. 
Loans 2 Go has said Mr Ls credit file was reasonably positive although there was some 
adverse information. Its true to say there are no defaults or judgements recorded against 
Mr L for Loan 1, but I think there are signs of financial strain showing on his report. 
In the credit file Loans 2 Go reviewed for Loan 1, its evident that Mr L was routinely using 
short term credit loans to make ends meet. In the six months leading up to Loan 1 hed taken 
six loans. He was in an arrangement to pay on one loan taken in August 2018 having very 
quickly fallen into three months arrears. Hed recently missed payments on his credit card 
which was at its limit. 
I think these circumstances and consideration of how tight his budget appeared to be, ought 
to have led Loans 2 Go to refuse to lend Loan 1 to Mr L as it seems to me that he was either 
in, or very likely to fall into, financial difficulties. It follows that I dont think it reached a fair 
decision to lend Loan 1 to Mr L.
Nine months later when Mr L applied for Loan 2, his credit file showed a default of £2,571. 
Mr L had failed to make any of the first three repayments to Loan 1 which led to Loans 2 Go 
issuing a formal demand and registering this default against him. It was still showing as 
outstanding at the time of his application for Loan 2. In the same nine-month period, Mr L 
had continued to take short term loans from other providers, some of which had also fallen 
into arrears. Again, it seems clear he was either in, or very likely to fall into, financial 
difficulties. 
His budget for Loan 2 appeared very tight indeed  just £8 or so per month surplus. 
Together with the circumstances Ive mentioned above, I think Loans to Go ought to have 
refused to lend to Mr L. Again, I dont think it reached a fair decision to lend Loan 2 to Mr L.
Did Loans 2 Go act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in some other way?
Ive carefully read, listened to and thought about all the evidence provided by each party to 
this complaint. Mr L has said he felt the interest charged was too high. But from what Ive 
seen, it was charged in accordance with the agreement he reached with Loans 2 Go, so I 
cant say it was unfair for it to be charged at that rate. I dont think Loans 2 Go has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr L in this regard. But I do think it should have refused to 
lend to Mr L, so I am upholding his complaint about the loans.
Putting things right
When I find that a business has done something wrong, Id normally direct that business to 
put the complainant in the position they would be in now if the mistake it made hadnt 
happened, as far as is reasonably practical. In this case, that would mean putting Mr L in the position he would be in now if he hadnt been given the loans. But Mr L was given the loans 
and has used the money.
So, I think Loans 2 Go should:
Calculate the total amount Mr L received from Loans 2 Go and deduct from that 
figure the repayments hes made to each loan. 
oIf this results in Mr L having repaid more than he received, any overpayments 
should be refunded to him. Interest at a rate of 8% simple per year should be 
added to any overpayments from the date they were made until the date of 
settlement*.
oIf the calculation means theres still a balance for Mr L to pay, Loans 2 Go 
should let Mr L know how much is outstanding and reach a suitable, 
affordable payment plan with him. I remind Loans 2 Go of its obligation to 
treat customers fairly. 
Remove any negative information recorded on Mr Ls credit file regarding each loan. 
*If Loans 2 Go considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr L how much its taken off. It should also give Mr L a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint. Loans 2 Go Limited should put 
matters right as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman