DRN-2476421
The complaint
Miss Ns complaint is that she updated her address with Ikano Bank AB (publ) but after this it 
sent a letter to her at her previous address. She says this caused her embarrassment and 
inconvenience as she had to explain the situation to the new owner.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. 
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss N updated her address with Ikano Bank on 28 September 2019. Ikano Bank 
sent Miss N a letter after this date to her old address which it said happened due to a 
system error. As a mistake had been made I said that Miss N needed to be put back 
in the position she would have been had the mistake not happened.
Ikano Bank confirmed that all correspondence would go to Miss Ns current address 
and so I accepted this put her in the position she would have been had a mistake 
with her address not been made.
I said that we do not expect a business to pay compensation every time an error has 
been made and this issue appeared to be a one-off. I noted that Ikano Bank had 
apologised but tin this case I thought compensation should be paid. Miss N explained 
that the mistake caused her problems with the new owner of her old house and that 
she needed to visit her old address and spend time explaining the situation. This was 
an unnecessary inconvenience as she had updated her address correctly. 
Because of the upset and inconvenience Miss N was caused I found it reasonable 
that Ikano Bank pay her £50 compensation
Ikano Bank accepted my provisional decision. Miss N didnt provide any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A mistake was made when Ikano Bank sent a letter to Miss N at her old address. This was a 
one-off issue and I accept that the issue has been resolved and correspondence would be 
sent to Miss Ns correct address. However, the letter being sent to Miss Ns old address 
resulted in her needing to visit the new owner and explain the situation. This was an 
inconvenience and caused her distress. Therefore, as I set out in my provisional decision I 
find that compensation should be paid, and I find £50 is reasonable. As this has been 
accepted by Ikano Bank and no further information was provided by Miss N my final decision 
is that £50 should be paid.
Putting things right 
Ikano Bank AB (publ) should, as it has agreed, pay Miss N £50 compensation for the upset it 
caused by sending her a letter at her old address.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman