DRN-3223946
The complaint
Miss D complains that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) will not allow 
her to cash in her annuity with it.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint and my provisional findings in a provisional 
decision. This is included below and forms part of this decision:
Miss D had an Additional Voluntary Contributions (AVC) plan through an employer. In 2013 Miss D 
enquired about taking her benefits. She had previously enquired about taking her benefits as a cash-
lump sum (or getting a return of fund) but due to the value of her policy and the value of her other 
pensions she was unable to do this and Prudential explained this at the time.
It was explained that to take her benefits at the time, Miss D would need to take out an annuity. Miss 
D decided to do this, after taking her benefits she receives an annuity of just under £40 a year.
More recently, Miss D approached Prudential again to ask if she could cash in her pension. Prudential 
said legislation did allow annuities valued under £10,000 to be cashed in but this was at providers 
discretion and it had chosen not to offer this.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Miss D was unable to take her AVC as a cash lump sum in 2013. I can see that Prudential and Miss D 
discussed this at the time and she also raised a complaint with the Pensions Ombudsman about her 
AVC. The Pensions Advisory Service also looked into Miss Ds wish to have her AVC paid as a lump 
sum. But it said unless her policy dropped in value, her options were likely to be restricted and she 
wouldnt be able to take it as a lump sum. It also appears that Prudential looked into her options and 
to see whether she could have her fund returned to her at the time but due to the values involved she 
was unable to have this option. So Miss D wasnt entitled under legislation to have a lump sum paid 
when she took her benefits. Therefore Ive looked into whether she ought to be allowed now to have 
her annuity cashed in and a lump sum paid instead.
Relevant considerations
DISP 3.6.4 R says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account the relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
What are the regulations about cashing-in or commutation?
Various bits of legislation have helped form the current legislation that allow annuities to be 
cashed in. These include:
The Finance Act 2004 Section 164
The Finance Act 2004 Section 273B
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171
- reg. 11 De minimis rule for pension schemes
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 
reg. 11A (inserted on 6/4/12)
Finance Act 2014 Section 42 Pension flexibility: taking low-value pension rights as lump 
sum
As a result of the above, the legislation in regard to commutation payments now reads:
Registered Pension Schemes (Authorised Payments) Regulations 2009/1171 .
PART 2 COMMUTATION PAYMENTS
reg. 11A
(1) A payment to a member by a pension scheme which is not a public service pension 
scheme or an occupational pension scheme in respect of an arrangement under that 
scheme if
(a)the member has reached normal minimum pension age or the ill-health condition is 
met (see paragraph 1 of Schedule 28) ;
(b)the payment does not exceed £10,000 ;
(c)the payment extinguishes the member's entitlement to benefits under the 
arrangement;
The Finance Act which allowed providers/schemes to over-ride the rules of the scheme and make 
payments that otherwise previously wouldnt have been allowed (which now includes cashing-in of 
annuities)  was a permissive over-ride. What this means is the schemes are allowed to make 
these payments if they wish to do so  it isnt mandatory legislation.
So in essence what the legislation says is a person in Miss Ds position doesnt have a right to 
commute their pension pot to a cash lump sum. However, if a provider wants to offer this it can, but 
only up to a limit of £10,000.
What are the relevant regulatory rules and guidance? 
COBS 2.1 Acting honestly, fairly and professionally
The client's best interests rule
COBS 2.1.1R (1) A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
Principles for Businesses
PRIN 2.1.1R The Principles
6 Customers' interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat 
them fairly.
Guidance to firms:
FCA Alert to firms: Fair Treatment of Customers 12/05/2015
All firms must be able to show consistently that fair treatment of customers is at the heart of their 
business model.
Taken together, all of this means in essence that firms must take the best interests of their customers into account in the actions they take. However, this doesnt mean that it should act in 
the interest of a single (or a small group of) customer(s) which would be at the expense of other 
customers. Nor to act in a particular customers interest without consideration of other factors or 
wider implications.
Im aware of no other codes of practice that would apply here, other than the legislation and 
regulatory rules Ive referred to above. However Ive also considered:
-What would have been good industry practice at the relevant time? Im aware some 
providers have allowed commutation of small annuities in the past.
-Contractual and other legal matters. Im aware that in some annuity contracts, there 
may be ownership issues (it may be subject to a separate contractual/legal 
arrangement with another party) or other lives attached to the annuity that could cause 
issues with commutation.
-Practical matters. For example, an annuity is a life-long insurance contract that is not 
designed to be cashed in. For that reason, it is often backed by long-term less liquid 
investments that may be more difficult to value or sell; and doing so might negatively 
affect the pricing of annuities for other customers.
The key questions that I need to consider in deciding what is fair and reasonable in this 
case
1. Does Prudential have discretion to commute Miss Ds annuity as requested? For 
example:
-Is the value under £10,000?
-Is Miss D the legal owner of the annuity?
-Is Prudential the other contracting party or has it been re-insured?
2. If Prudential is free to commute the annuity, would it have been in Miss Ds best 
interests to allow commutation? For example:
-Would it expose her to the risk of financial difficulty in the future?
-Would it affect other income that she relies on - such as state benefits being 
reduced due to the commutation payment?
3. If Prudential was free to grant Miss Ds request to commute the annuity and doing 
so would have been in her best interest, was it fair and reasonable for Prudential to 
refuse? In other words, did it exercise its discretion in a fair and reasonable way?
My findings in light of the above considerations
Prudential hasnt made any specific arguments in relation to this case as to why it isnt free to 
allow Miss D to cash-in the annuity. So I am proceeding on the basis that it does have discretion 
to commute her annuity.
Its also not provided any information specific to Miss D to show that she would be worse off if she 
were to commute the annuity to a cash lump sum. Having considered what Miss Ds told us and 
the value of her annuity, which is paying her just £40 a year, I agree the annuity is so small that it 
doesnt appear to provide any meaningful income on which she relies. And a cash lump sum in 
place, even if relatively small, would most likely benefit her more than the annuity. I also note this 
is what Miss D has said she preferred to do at the outset (i.e. take her whole pension as a cash 
lump sum) had that been possible at the time. For these reasons, and subject to the lump sum 
value (which hasnt been determined), Ive proceeded also on the basis that it would be in Miss Ds 
personal interest to encash the annuity.
This case therefore comes down to whether Prudential fairly took into account Miss Ds interests 
(and that of its wider customer base) when it chose not to exercise its discretion to allow Miss D to cash-in her annuity.
Prudential has told us it is unwilling at this point in time to offer a cash in value to Miss D, 
essentially because the annuity product wasnt designed to be cashed in, so it would be difficult 
to offer that option now without incurring significant cost and inconvenience  and possibly to 
the detriment of other customers. It made a number of points about this, for example:
-Offering commutation to Miss D simply because the annuity is small means it would 
have to offer the same option to all customers with small annuities. Otherwise, it wouldnt 
be treating its customers consistently (and therefore fairly). It doesnt have the systems 
and processes in place to facilitate significant numbers of commutations.
-Without appropriate processes and checks, customers could be exposed to the risk of 
poor outcomes.
-Designing an appropriate framework to allow a commutation option would require 
significant time, planning and regulator engagement (and presumably cost).
-Annuities are long-term commitments, backed by long-term and illiquid assets, so 
cash values arent easily realised.
Having thought about this very carefully, I think Prudentials points are fair ones. I dont think 
Prudential simply disregarded Miss Ds interests in this case. Its position is based on its 
considerations of what allowing commutation could mean for its customers and business model 
more widely.
It seems to me that Prudential could avoid many of the challenges it has raised if it were to treat 
Miss Ds case as exceptional. The cost and impact in this one case would be small for a business 
the size of Prudential. However, I acknowledge Prudentials difficulty here. Im not persuaded 
there is reason in Miss Ds case to treat her differently to other customers with small annuities. 
(Its my understanding that is a significant portion of customers.)
Ive kept in mind that Miss D would probably be better off with a cash lump sum and the 
annuity isnt useful to her. Ive balanced this against the fact that commutation wasnt 
something Miss D had a right to. And while Prudential was free to allow her request, Im 
satisfied it did have other legitimate interests to weigh up, including the way the annuity 
product was designed, the impact on Prudentials existing systems and processes, the 
interests of its customers more widely and the potential cost.
On balance, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Miss Ds request. 
It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Miss D in line with other customers.
I can understand Miss Ds strength of feeling that she would be better off with the cash lump sum 
than the annuity. And Im sorry to hear of the difficulties she is facing with her health and finances. 
But we are an impartial service and we have to take into account the relevant legislation, rules, 
good industry practice and the fairness of our decisions to both sides of the dispute.
We have seen that some providers are looking into their stance on cashing-in annuities and Im 
aware that some businesses have previously offered cash values to customers. If in the future 
Prudential changes its position on cashing in annuities or legislation changes, its possible Miss D 
may benefit from such a change. But I cannot fairly say Prudential must change its position at 
present, in the circumstances Ive considered in this decision.
I appreciate Miss D will be disappointed with this but for the reasons explained I am not 
intending to uphold her complaint.
Miss D responded and made a number of points relating to the original sale of the 
AVCs. But this isnt something I can consider in this decision  the complaint brought 
to the service by Miss D and answered by Prudentials was its refusal to allow Miss D 
to cash in her pension and the sale of the annuity. If Miss D is unhappy with the sale 
of her AVC and she holds Prudential responsible, she will need to complain to it first about that. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from the findings reached in my provisional 
decision. And so my final decision remains the same and as set out above.
In summary, I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Prudential to decline Miss Ds 
request. It acted in line with the contract and the rules and treated Miss D in line with other 
customers.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in my provisional decision, I do not uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Simon Hollingshead
Ombudsman