DRN-3886303
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy with how U K Insurance Limited (trading as Direct Line) responded following 
his claim on his legal expenses insurance.
What happened
Mr L has an inheritance dispute. U K Insurance initially agreed to cover this dispute and 
appointed a firm of solicitors Ill call S1 to act for him. 
Mr L told S1 that he had seen a copy of his fathers will before his fathers death and his 
father had left a specific property to him. S1 undertook a search at HM Land Registry. The 
search showed that the registered owner of the property wasnt Mr Ls father but was 
someone S1 believed to Mr Ls stepbrother. The search also showed that the property had 
been purchased in 2018 two years before Mr Ls fathers death. S1 searched the 
government website to see if a Grant of Probate had been obtained. At the time of the 
search it appears no Grant of Probate had been obtained. S1 explained that on the basis of 
the evidence that he currently had he didnt think there were reasonable prospects of Mr Ls 
claim succeeding. He did, however, say that if Mr L provided any further evidence he would 
be happy to look again at the claim.
Mr L believes that the information needed to support his claim can be obtained from another 
firm of solicitors (Ill call S2). He complained that U K Insurance had agreed to approach S2. 
He also complained that S1 had refused to write to S2 to try and get the information that was 
relevant to the claim. S1 refused to do this as they said it was a fishing exercise.
The investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought it was reasonable 
of U K Insurance to rely on the assessment of S1. She thought it was  under the terms of 
the policy - the responsibility of Mr L to provide the evidence and therefore U K Insurance 
wasnt acting unreasonably when it declined to fund S1 to approach S2 for information.
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view. He said that evidence has been submitted and 
that her view is one-sided in favour of U K Insurance. He says that a dispute has been 
brought against him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L has brought other complaints to this service. So, to be clear the complaint being 
considered in this decision is the one that resulted in the final response letters dated 10 
February 2022 and 6 April 2022. I also want to be clear that this decision relates only to the 
actions of U K Insurance. In particular I do not have the power to make any decision 
regarding a firm of solicitors.
In common with many LEI policies Mr Ls policy requires that a claim has a reasonable 
prospect of success. S1 has carried out an assessment of the prospects of success and 
concluded based on the evidence he had seen that the claim didnt have reasonable 
prospects. I think the explanation given for why the claim didnt have reasonable prospects 
of success was clear and logical and so I think it was reasonable of U K Insurance to 
withdraw cover at this point. S1 made it clear that if Mr L could provide any further 
information about the inheritance claim he would look at the assessment of prospects of 
success again.
 
Mr L wanted U K Insurance or S1 to approach S2 for information to support his inheritance 
case. The evidence that S1 had obtained already suggested that the property Mr L thought 
he was going to inherit had been purchased prior to Mr Ls fathers death by another person 
presumed to be Mr Ls stepbrother. I think given the facts as they appeared to S1 and U K 
Insurance it wasnt unreasonable of U K Insurance to decline to agree to do any further work 
unless Mr L provided further evidence.
Mr L didnt agree with the investigators opinion. He said he didnt need to provide a will as a 
dispute was being brought against him. He has provided me with one page of a letter from 
S2. Although I dont have the whole letter I cant see that this refers to any action against 
him. It also doesnt seem to be about the complaint that resulted in the final response letters 
of 10 February 2022 and 6 April 2022 as it refers to an expression of dissatisfaction made by 
Mr L on his mothers behalf about the way S2 was acting for her. In any event S1 has 
already said he would look at any further evidence provided by Mr L and so if he has further 
evidence he should provide it to S1. I cannot see that U K Insurance has done anything 
wrong.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
Nicola Wood
Ombudsman