DRN-3410267
The complaint
Mr Ls complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) blocked his bank account. And when 
he went to the branch to get the block removed, BOS wouldnt accept his driving licence as a 
valid identification (ID) document.
What happened
In early 2021, Mr Ls card was declined in a shop. He found out this was because BOS had 
blocked the account due to suspicions of fraud. Mr L tried to have the block removed over 
the phone. When this was unsuccessful, he went to his local branch.
At the branch, Mr L was asked for photo ID. The only ID he had on him was his photo driving 
licence, which had an expiry date in 2020. BOS wouldnt accept the licence as valid 
identification because they said it wasnt current. And they said Mr L became abusive when 
they told him this.
Shortly after his visit to the branch, Mr L received a letter from BOS advising him theyd be 
closing his account in three months time due to his behaviour towards the branch staff.
Mr L complained to BOS about what had happened and denied he abused the banks staff. 
He requested CCTV footage which he said would prove that was the case.
BOS investigated but didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. They apologised for his frustration 
about their security procedures, but explained they have a responsibility to protect their 
customers accounts from fraud. They repeated Mr Ls driving licence wasnt valid ID 
because it had expired. And that their branch staff had found him abusive. But they said they 
couldnt disclose CCTV footage.
Mr L wasnt satisfied with BOSs response and brought his complaint to us. He repeated he 
wasnt abusive and that the CCTV footage would confirm this. And he said BOS were wrong 
to say his driving licence wasnt valid, because DVLA had automatically extended licences 
which expired during 2020 because of the Covid 19 pandemic.
Our investigator considered the complaint and concluded BOS didnt need to do any more to 
resolve it. He reviewed BOSs terms and conditions and confirmed they allow BOS to block 
accounts if they identify unusual activity. And he thought it was reasonable for BOS to 
require current ID to remove the block.
The investigator said a bank doesnt have to provide services to a customer - but they 
shouldnt stop doing so without any warning. He noted that BOS had written to Mr L giving 
him notice his account would be closed  which he thought was fair.
I didnt agree with the investigators view. So I made a provisional decision.  I agreed with 
the investigator that BOS had acted in line with their terms and conditions when they closed 
Mr Ls account.  And I agreed that it was reasonable for them to block the account if they 
identified unusual activity  and to do security checks before lifting the block.
But I didnt think it was fair for BOS to refuse Mr Ls licence as proof of identity.  DVLAs 
website confirmed that his licence was automatically extended due to the pandemic  so it 
was valid when he went to the bank.  I provisionally decided BOS should pay Mr L £150 
compensation for the distress that clearly caused him.
BOS agreed with my provisional decision.  Mr L responded, asking if I had asked for and 
reviewed the CCTV footage of his visit to the bank.
The matters now been passed back to me to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint for the reasons I set out in my provisional 
decision, which I summarised above.
Neither party has challenged my decision that BOS should have accepted Mr Ls driving 
licence as valid ID.  Nor have they commented on what I said about the need to make fraud 
checks. So thats my final decision on those parts of his complaint.
Mr L maintains he wasnt abusive towards the banks staff and that the banks CCTV footage 
will prove this.  
As I said in my provisional decision, I havent seen the footage.  Nor have I requested it, 
because I dont think it will assist me in considering this point.  
As I explained, CCTV doesnt have sound.  It may show Mr L wasnt physically abusive.  But 
it wouldnt prove that he wasnt verbally so.  Without sound, Im left with two opposing 
opinions about Mr Ls behaviour with no supporting evidence for either.  
In the absence of anything more, I dont think its fair for me to say BOS shouldnt have 
concluded Mr L was abusive to their staff.  And, as my provisional decision said, BOSs 
terms and conditions allow them to close a customers account if the customer is abusive.  
So I dont think they did anything wrong here.
Putting things right
I provisionally decided that Mr L should receive £150 compensation for the distress BOS 
caused him when they refused to recognise his driving licence as valid ID.   Mr L said this 
was the last of several occasions in the previous months his account had been blocked and 
hed had to get the block removed.  On that basis, he thought the compensation should be 
higher.
I thought about this.  But, as I explained in my provisional decision, Mr L didnt complain to 
BOS about those instances  he complained about what happened during his one visit to the 
branch in early 2021.  So thats the only instance I can look at.
And in relation to that one instance, Ive not seen anything to change my view that £150 is a 
reasonable amount of compensation for BOS to pay Mr L.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
and directing them to pay him £150 compensation.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman