DRN-4099332
The complaint
Mr H complains that Curve UK Limited blocked his account. He says he has been asked to 
provide information unfairly. He says Curve UK Limited are discriminating against him. He 
would like his account unblocked an apology and compensation.
What happened
Mr H has an account with Curve.
Curve carried out a review and asked Mr H for information to verify his identity and carry out 
Know your customer review. They sent an email to Mr Hs email address on 17 May 2022. 
They didnt receive a reply from Mr H, so they blocked his account on 6 June 2022. Mr H told 
us he doesnt use that email address frequently, so he missed the email. He noticed his 
account had stopped working on 27 July 2022. Curve told Mr H they had sent him an email 
on 17 May requesting he upload documents as these werent uploaded the card was 
blocked.
Mr H has told us he is concerned about the security of his documents and doesnt want to 
upload his personal documents.
Mr H complained to Curve. As he was unhappy with their response he complained to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She thought Curve hadnt done anything 
wrong when they sent the request for information to Mr Hs e mail address as it was an 
address that both parties had agreed on for correspondence. She said Curve were entitled 
to ask for the information they had asked for in order to comply with their legal and 
regulatory obligations. The investigator looked and thought Curve hadnt treated Mr H 
unfairly because of his race and they hadnt discriminated against him because of asking for 
this information.  She confirmed that Curve could ask Mr H for the documents they needed, 
and it was their process to require Mr H to upload the documents. She explained as a 
service we couldnt interfere with Curves internal process.
Mr H was unhappy with the view. He said he thought Curve could ask for information but the 
reason he had been asked for information was unfair and unjustified.  He said he still thought 
he had been discriminated against and he thought our service was biased because we 
hadnt agreed there was discrimination. He said he wasnt happy to upload personal 
documents. He said there was nothing in the terms that suggested the documents needed to 
be provided through their app. He was concerned with security and wanted us or Curve to 
guarantee the security of his documents and that they wouldnt be stolen or misused. Mr H 
thought Curve could contact his bank and check the information with them. He also thought 
Curve should be able to verify his documents at their London office.
The investigator replied and said she didnt think Curve had discriminated against Mr H. She 
thought the terms and conditions allowed Curve to ask for the documents and their process 
was to require the documents to be uploaded electronic. She said our service couldnt 
interfere with that process. She said it wasnt our role to guarantee the security of his 
documents. She thought that in asking for the information Curve were complying with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. 
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by setting out some context for the review of Mr Hs account. UK legislation places 
extensive obligations on regulated financial businesses. Financial institutions must establish 
the purpose and intended nature of transactions as well as the origin of funds, and there 
may be penalties if they dont. This applies to both new and existing relationships. These 
obligations override all other obligations. I am satisfied Curve were complying with these 
obligations when they reviewed Mr Hs account and requested the information from him. 
Curve have said that they require Mr H to provide this information in order to comply with 
their legal and regulatory obligations.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the account and Im satisfied that Curve can ask 
for the information and can block an account if this information isnt provided. So, Im 
satisfied that Curve are entitled to ask for this information and block the account if it isnt 
provided.
Mr H has said that he doesnt want to upload his documents because he is concerned about 
security. I appreciate Mr Hs concerns here., however this service cant demand that Curve 
change their processes because Mr H has security concerns.
I know Mr H thinks that Curve could just contact his bank to verify his identity, or they could 
allow him to bring his documents into Curves London office. But again, Curve are entitled to 
decide how they run their business and they have decided to require their customers to 
upload documents onto the app. This service cant say that Curve should change its 
business model, so I dont think Curve have acted unfairly in requiring Mr H to upload his 
documents to the app.
Mr H has mentioned that the reason why he is being asked to provide these documents is 
discriminatory and he has been singled out for unfair and unjustified treatment.
While I appreciate this is his perspective, it is not my role to decide whether discrimination 
has taken place as a matter of law  only the courts have the power to decide this. However, 
I can make a finding on whether Curve has treated Mr H unfairly. To do that, Id need to 
decide if other customers with similar circumstances, would be treated the same way.
While I cant make a finding on discrimination, I have considered the relevant law in relation to 
what Mr H has said when deciding what I think is the fair and reasonable outcome. Part of this 
has meant considering the provisions of The Equality Act 2010. But after doing so Ive not 
seen evidence to indicate Curves behaviour towards Mr H was improper or unfair.
Mr H has suggested our service is biased because we havent found that there was 
discrimination in the way Mr H was treated and that we have sided with Curve. Ive already 
said that I havent found any evidence that Mr H has been treated unfairly because of his 
race nor was he treated unfairly in being asked to provide the documents that have been 
requested by Curve. Whilst I do recognise his concern, as an ombudsman service our approach is to consider 
what both parties say and then reach our own independent conclusions on that evidence. 
That is what the investigator has done in this complaint and that is what I am doing now. If 
Mr H does not agree with my decision, he does not have to accept it. If he does not accept 
this final decision, he will be free to continue to pursue his concerns by other means should 
he wish to do so. I cannot, however, advise him on how to go about doing that.
Because I am satisfied that Curve are entitled to ask for the information they need to comply 
with their legal and regulatory obligations I will not be directing them to unblock Mr Hs 
account. I dont think they have acted unfairly in the way they have treated Mr H, so I wont 
be awarding compensation. 
I accept that Curve agreed with Mr H that they could have provided a better service and 
there were some delays in replying to his chat messages. However, I dont think this affected 
the block on the account as Mr H said he wouldnt be providing the information that was 
needed as he was unhappy with uploading documents on the app.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman