DRN-2258730
The complaint
Miss S complains that HSBC UK Bank PLC trading as First Direct didnt tell her theyd made 
her account dormant.
What happened
Miss S had an account with HSBC, which she hadnt used since April 2015. On 2 May 2020 
Miss S tried to log in to her account but was unable to access HSBCs online banking facility. 
She phoned HSBC - their representative helped Miss S access online banking. 
After successfully logging in, Miss S became concerned because she couldnt see her 
account. Miss S phoned HSBC again and was told her account was dormant  it was then 
updated so she could see it online.
Miss S complained to HSBC that their representative should have told her the account was 
dormant the first time she rang. HSBC apologised and credited £25 to Miss Ss account. 
Miss S didnt feel £25 was enough to compensate her for the distress shed been caused.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are no rules about when an account should be made dormant - HSBC can set their 
own policy on how to deal with accounts that have been inactive for a long time. But banks 
must tell customers before making accounts dormant, so customers know how to access 
their money.
HSBC have provided a copy of a letter dated 23 April 2016  this was sent to Miss S when 
her account had been inactive for over a year. The letter warned Miss S that access to her 
account would be restricted unless she made a transaction or got in touch with HSBC. I can 
see the letter was sent to the correct address, so I cant say that HSBC did anything wrong 
here. 
HSBC have also provided a copy of a letter dated 23 April 2020 - this was sent to Miss S 
after 5 years inactivity on her account. The letter said HSBC participate in the Government 
scheme that makes use of money from inactive accounts. It warned Miss S that her account 
may be included in the scheme if she didnt use it or get in touch with HSBC. 
For these reasons I cant agree that HSBC didnt tell Miss S her account was dormant. 
Miss S says HSBCs representative should have told her the account was dormant the first 
time she phoned on 2 May 2020. I can appreciate Miss Ss concern when she logged in to 
online banking - thinking her money had disappeared. However, the problem was resolved 
the second time she called HSBC that day. 
In considering the impact this had, Ive taken into account the information HSBC had already 
provided in their letters to Miss S. HSBC have apologised for Miss S having to call again and 
credited her £25 in compensation for the inconvenience caused. I think this is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained here, my final decision is that the apology and compensation 
offered to Miss S is fair, so I wont be asking HSBC UK Bank PLC to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman