DRN-3563872
The complaint
Mrs S, on behalf of Mr Ss estate, is seeking to recover approximately £13,500 from Barclays 
Bank UK PLC (Barclays) that Mr S lost as the result of a third party scam prior to his death. 
Barclays say they are not liable for the loss because Mr S unwittingly authorised the 
payments himself. They said they could not reasonably have intervened or done more to 
recoup the money from the receiving bank.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont go into every detail of 
what happened here. But in summary, Mr S was the victim of a scam. Mr and Mrs S were 
seeking legal assistance regarding a disability benefits matter. They were recommended a 
solicitor by a friend and customer, and the solicitor said he worked for a local firm they were 
aware of. He corresponded with them, met them in person and offered to represent them for 
free. He filed relevant paperwork and represented them in court and guided them through 
the process and court result. They were happy with his work  and even recommended him 
to friends. 
A short time later, Mr and Mrs S sought his help again with another matter relating to 
inheritance. They decided to secure the same solicitors services again, and he agreed but 
said they would need to pay his fees this time. So, in May 2019, Mr S made two faster 
payments of £7,500 each from his Barclays account to the solicitor on the same day. The 
service they received quickly went downhill  they struggled to speak to the solicitor, he kept 
asking for further funds for strange reasons, he didnt confirm if he or another lawyer would 
be representing them in court, and he would not send them case related documentation. 
After this went on for some time, Mr and Mrs S grew concerned and reported the matter to 
Barclays and the police. The police investigation showed that the man was not actually a 
qualified solicitor. They said he had most likely stolen the funds they sent him and that he 
likely had not completed any of the work they had paid him for. 
Sadly, Mr S passed away during this time, so his wife continued the complaint with Barclays 
on behalf of his estate. She complained that Barclays should have done more to protect Mr 
S from the scam, and more to attempt to recover the funds once they had been notified of 
the scam. 
Barclays declined to refund the losses. They said they contacted Mr S about the second 
payment of £7,500 as it had flagged on their systems as unusual and out of character for his 
account. They accepted they could have asked more probing questions at this point but said 
they didnt think this would have prevented the payment being put through. They also said 
they acted correctly in trying to recoup the lost funds  they contacted the receiving bank at 
the earliest opportunity and were able to recoup £1,500 of the losses which was returned 
with interest. 
Mrs S remained unhappy, so she came to this service. One of our investigators looked into 
what happened and didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. This was because they 
thought that even if Barclays had asked more probing questions about the payments, it was 
most likely the scam would not have been uncovered, so Mr S would have gone ahead with 
them anyway. And they agreed that Barclays had acted correctly in contacting the receiving 
bank once they were aware Mr S had been the victim of a scam. Mrs S didnt agree. She 
provided detailed replies to our view but in summary she said: 
Barclays didnt warn their client that the transactions were flagged up by them as 
suspicious or unusual activity and were being paid to a new payee, nor warn him to 
check that the person they were paying was genuine. They should have done more 
to safeguard Mr S from financial harm. 
Mr S had received scam phone calls shortly before these payments which he had 
immediately reported to Barclays, so they should have been aware that he was at 
risk of scammers. Additionally  as pensioners  they were at a higher risk of fraud 
and scams. 
The claim that more questioning would not have prevented the scam was baseless 
and made false assumptions. The fact that they reported the scam calls to Barclays a 
fortnight prior to these payments shows how security conscious they were, and so if 
Barclays had warned them about these payments then Mr S would not have made 
them. 
If they had simply told them to confirm the payment with the solicitors firm, rather 
than the solicitor, the scam could have been prevented. 
Barclays didnt return the funds they got from the receiving bank until late in 2020, 
when they could have returned them in June 2019. They didnt tell Mr or Mrs S, or 
the police they had recouped any funds during that time. This led to delays in the 
police investigating the matter. 
This didnt change our investigators opinion on the matter, so the dispute has been passed 
to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S were the victims of a cruel and callous fraud. I was so saddened to hear of 
what they were put through. I can tell from the evidence that we have that this has had a 
profound and significant impact on Mrs S, whilst she has also had to cope with the loss of 
her husband. So, Id like to start by offering my condolences, and my sympathies for what 
she has been put through. 
My role here is to assess Barclays actions against what they should have done  and 
having done so, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold Barclays liable for 
the losses. So, having considered everything, I am unable to uphold Mrs Ss complaint on 
behalf of Mr Ss estate. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for Mrs S, but I dont 
think I can fairly say that Barclays should reimburse the estate for the money that left Mr Ss 
account and was lost to the scammers. Ill explain why.
It is not in dispute that Mr S authorised the scam payments himself. He was duped by the 
scammer into believing he was sending the funds to a qualified solicitor to work on his 
behalf. And so, I accept that the payment was authorised even though Mr S was the victim 
of a sophisticated scam. So, although he did not intend the money to go to a fraudster, 
under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, Mr S is presumed liable for the loss in the 
first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to be good industry practice at the time, I consider Barclays 
should fairly and reasonably:Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
This means that particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances in which a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
So, I consider as a matter of good practice, Barclays should have been on the lookout for 
unusual and out of character transactions. Ive looked at the activity that took place on Mr 
Ss account and think the second payment of £7,500 was unusual and out of character for 
the account. I say the second payment rather than the first, as whilst the first payment was 
large at £7,500, there had been a significantly higher genuine payment made in the month 
before these transactions  of £30,000. But I think the fact a second identical value payment 
was made to a new payee on the same day looked sufficiently unusual and out of character 
to have put Barclays on notice that Mr S could be at risk of fraud or financial harm. 
Due to the unusual nature of the payment, the relevant law, regulations and good industry 
practice required Barclays to question Mr S about the transaction and the reasons for 
making it before they agreed to process it on his behalf. I understand both parties think that 
Barclays should have done more here to probe Mr S about the purpose and legitimacy of the 
payments when they spoke to him at the time. I would have expected such questioning to 
have asked Mr S things like who he was making the payment to, why he was making the 
payment to them, how he learned of the solicitor, whether they came recommended, 
whether he had met the solicitor before, and how he was given the account details to 
transfer the sums to. 
We will never be totally sure what would have happened if Barclays had asked additional 
questions of Mr S, so I have to decide what I think was most likely to have happened if they 
had done so, based on the evidence we have, and on the balance of probabilities. I see no 
reason to suggest Mr S would have told them anything other than what he believed to be 
true  that he was sending the money to a solicitor, whom he had: 
been recommended;
met in person before;
engaged his services previously on another matter; and
asked to do some further work for him, and this is what he was sending the payment 
in relation to. 
I would also expect he would have confirmed that the solicitor gave him the payment details, 
and that the solicitor worked for a well-known local firm. So I have to think about whether this 
information ought reasonably to have led Barclays to believe Mr S could be at risk of fraud or 
financial harm  such that they could have advised Mr S and prevented the payment being 
made. The type of scam Mr and Mrs S fell victim to does not have the common hallmarks of 
an impersonation scam. Whilst impersonation scams are common  these are often done 
remotely, with no work being completed on customers behalf. So it does not have the hallmarks of more common impersonation scams that Barclays would be aware of. Further, 
Mr and Mrs S had a pre-existing relationship with the solicitor who, at the point of the 
payments, had acted as a seemingly competent legal professional might so on their other 
case. And so, I dont think any of the likely answers to the questions Barclays should have 
asked would have highlighted that Mr and Mrs S may be falling victim to a scam. So, I am 
afraid that whilst I do think Barclays should have done more here  I dont think it would have 
prevented the loss. As such, I wont be asking Barclays to refund either of the £7,500 
payments. 
Ive also considered the actions of Barclays in relation to the recovery of the funds from the 
receiving bank. Barclays notified the receiving bank in a timely manner in June 2019  they 
contacted them on the same day that they were notified of the scam. Barclays chased the 
receiving bank 20 days later  as I would expect them to do - and the receiving bank asked 
for more time to investigate what happened. Mrs S says that Barclays had the remaining 
funds returned in 2019  but the first record of them I can find in Barclays evidence of the 
funds is in October 2020, when they were recovered from the receiving bank and Barclays 
returned the funds to Mrs S. Barclays have been unable to confirm the exact date they were 
returned  so the delay may have been entirely or only in part caused by the receiving bank. 
But either way I think Barclays acted fairly in paying 8% simple interest in recognition of the 
time the estate was deprived of the money  and this is in line with what I would have asked 
them to do if the delays were at their end, so I wont require them to do anything further.  
In summary, I understand that Mrs S believes Barclays should have gone further and should 
have helped Mr S do sufficient checks to learn that the solicitor was not legitimate  but I am 
afraid I dont agree. I would not expect Barclays to be able to identify every scam  and this 
is more difficult when it is a more unique scam. I would expect them to look out for the 
hallmarks of scams and recognise these red flags, but I am not persuaded these red flags 
existed in this case. I would also expect them to advise their customers about the type of 
checks they can do themselves, and the risks involved in sending large sums of money  
and I dont think if they had done this, the outcome would have been any different. So, whilst 
I dont doubt that Mr S was the victim of a cruel and callous scam  it is ultimately the 
scammers who are at fault here, and I do not find that it would be fair and reasonable to ask 
Barclays to refund Mr Ss estates losses. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays need do nothing further in relation to this complaint, as it is 
not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Katherine Jones
Ombudsman