DRN-4470106
The complaint
Ms A complains British Gas Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim she made on her 
homecare policy.
What happened
In Spring 2023, Ms A made a claim on her homecare policy for a leak from a pipe. British 
Gas attended the property but then declined the claim. It said Ms As property was a 
commercial property, and as such the repair was excluded under the policy. It also cancelled 
the policy for the same reason.
Ms A complained, she said shed held the policy for a number of years and British Gas had 
attended other call outs. She said the property wasnt a commercial property, it provided 
assisted living for vulnerable adults. She said if it was cancelling her policy then she wanted 
a refund of the premiums paid.
British Gas didnt change its position on the claim, but it refunded three months worth of 
premiums. It said this refund was for premiums paid since the last successful claim was 
made on the policy. Unhappy with its response, Ms A complained to this service.
Our investigator thought British Gas had acted reasonably in declining the claim. He said as 
Ms A rented the property out to a company, it was fair it was considered commercial. He 
also didnt think British Gas needed to refund any more premiums since Ms A had had the 
benefit of the cover, even when she shouldnt have done. 
Ms A asked for an ombudsman to consider the case, so the matter has come to me to 
decide.
Ive already told both partied that I intend to reach a different outcome to that of our 
investigator. I said having read the policy, I dont consider British Gas has acted fairly in 
cancelling the policy or declining the claim. 
I said it appears British Gas has relied on the following exclusion to decline the claim:
Domestic use
Your product only includes cover for your property if it is used for normal day-today living 
purposes, including use for home office or activities of a domestic nature, including renting,  
and not where the main purpose of the property is for commercial purposes
I said whilst British Gas has said the property is used for commercial purposes there is no 
definition of that term. And having looked at what the property is used for, Ms A has shown it 
is used for assisted living. I said I consider this to be activities of a domestic nature and 
therefore not caught by this exclusion. 
So I said that British Gas should reimburse Ms A what she paid for the work to be done, 
which was £560. I also set out that as British Gas had unfairly cancelled the policy, it should 
remove any record of it cancelling that policy from internal and external databases. Having a 
cancelled policy can have implications on future policies, so by removing it from any 
databases, it removes the need for Ms A to declare shes had a policy cancelled by a 
business when taking out future insurance. 
In addition, I said given Im asking British Gas to pay the claim, it means it doesnt need to 
refund the three months worth of premiums that it had done to Ms A. As otherwise Ms A 
would benefit from a pay out under the policy, whilst also receiving a refund for the policy. So 
I said British Gas could deduct any refund of premiums made from the settlement amount. 
Ms A accepted the above but said she should receive compensation for having the policy 
unfairly cancelled, and she said shed like the policy reinstated. 
British Gas said included in Ms As invoice was work to treat and repaint a wall. It said under 
the policy this wouldnt have been covered, so it should be able to deduct this amount from 
the settlement. 
In response to British Gas comments, I said whilst the redecorating wouldnt be covered 
under the policy, I also consider British Gas should have carried out this repair as part of the 
claim. And Ms A would now have do go back to the contactor [who carried out the work in 
August] to ask them to strip out the costs for the painting and repair of the damaged wall. 
This would put her to more inconvenience, which she wouldn't have had to do if British Gas 
had carried out the repair. I also don't think this would be a significant cost in relation to the 
damage that would be covered under the policy. So I consider the fair and reasonable 
outcome in this case would be for the full invoice to be paid.
I also said British Gas should reinstate the policy. It said this wasnt possible to reinstate the 
policy, but it could set her up with another policy which she could then cancel at any time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed everything again, Im satisfied British Gas acted unfairly in declining the 
claim and cancelling the policy, for the same reasons as set out above. 
Based on what Ive said above, I think the fair and reasonable outcome is that British Gas 
pays for all of Ms As invoice of £560. And as Ms A has been without these funds for a 
number of months, British Gas should add 8% simple interest onto any payment from the 
date the of the invoice until the date of settlement. 
However, British Gas can deduct from this amount any refund it gave for the premiums paid 
in April, May and June 2023. For the reasons set out above Ms A cant benefit from a policy 
that she didnt pay for. 
British Gas has said it isnt possible to restart the same policy on its systems. I accept that 
might be the case. But her policy should have run until May 2024. So British Gas needs to 
put Ms A back in the position she would have been in had it not unfairly cancelled her policy. 
So it must offer Ms A a policy at the same price and terms as she would have had at the 
point of cancellation. British Gas has explained that new policy could be cancelled at any 
point, if she still wanted it to end in May 2024 for any reason.
Finally, as it follows that I dont think British Gas cancelled the policy fairly, I still consider it 
should remove any record of it cancelling that policy from internal and external databases. 
So Ms A doesnt need to declare a cancelled policy when taking out any future insurance.Ms A asked if Id consider compensation for the worry and inconvenience that cancelling the 
policy has caused her. I do consider it would be inconvenient for her to have had to arrange 
her own repair, and have a policy cancelled. So in addition to the above, British Gas should 
pay £100 compensation to recognise the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I direct British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Refund Ms A for the invoice she paid, less any amount its already refunded to her for 
premiums paid
Add 8% simple interest on that amount from the date of the invoice, until the date of 
settlement.*
Remove any record of it cancelling the policy from its internal and external 
databases. 
Contact Ms A to set up a policy at the same price and on the same terms as she had 
at the point her policy was cancelled.
Pay Ms A £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Ms A how much its taken off. It should 
also give Ms A a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman