DRN-2735254
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) caused delays in 
issuing a structural survey on their rental property following their claim under their landlords 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs G made a claim on their landlords insurance policy after a third-party vehicle 
had bumped into their rental property. RSA appointed their specialists to assess and report 
on the damage to the property. Mr and Mrs G were concerned about the structural integrity 
of their property, so RSA shared photographs of the damage to get the opinion of their 
surveyors. RSA said their surveyors confirmed that that the amount of damage sustained to 
the property was minor and a structural survey wasnt necessary.
After a complaint was raised, RSA acknowledged that the opinion had been based on 
photographic evidence only and they said a surveyor was required to visit the property to 
compile a structural survey. The survey did not highlight any structural concerns with the 
property. RSA then arranged for the repairs to take place.
Mr and Mrs G were not happy with the delays in obtaining a structural report as it meant they 
were unable to reassure their tenants residing in the property that it was safe. Mr and Mrs G 
say they want to transfer the properties they have insured with RSA to another insurer, so 
they want RSA to release them from their current policies without any charge. They would 
also like the excess they have paid refunded and his tenant compensated for the 
inconvenience.
Our investigator reviewed the case and her view was not to uphold the complaint as she 
thought RSA had dealt with Mr and Mrs Gs complaint fairly and had responded to the 
complaint by completing a structural survey. They disagreed as they felt RSA didnt fully 
consider the poor customer service they received and the emails, calls and complaint that 
they had to make to resolve their issues, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 3 March 2021. I said: 
In my decision, I will only be able to consider the actions and impacts on Mr and Mrs G. 
They had asked that their tenant to be compensated for his inconvenience. The Financial 
Ombudsman Service is bound by the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) rules covering 
complaints. Unfortunately, under these rules as the policy wasnt taken out by the tenant, so 
I cant look at this aspect of the complaint.
The central issue to this case is the delay in the structural survey being completed and the 
impact that this had on Mr and Mrs G. RSA originally said a structural report on the property 
wasnt necessary and I can understand why they came to this conclusion. When I have 
reviewed the photographs of the damage, it does appear to be small. RSA have appointed 
their specialists and surveyor which is normal for this kind of case. I dont know whether it 
was right for their opinion to be based only on photographic evidence. However, I dont need 
to as RSA said themselves later that a surveyor should have been sent out to visit the 
property. Therefore, as RSA did cause delay to the process here and created inconvenience 
for Mr and Mrs G in having to push for a surveyor to be sent out, I am going to uphold this 
complaint in part and award £100 for their trouble and upset and for the delay in the report. I 
dont think there were any further impacts on Mr and Mrs G, as the damage to their rental 
property was minor.
Mr and Mrs G have asked for the excess on their policy to be waived and for them to be 
freed from their existing contracts with RSA. I dont think this is proportionate compensation 
to what RSA have done wrong and therefore, I dont think this is reasonable. I think the 
award I have already made is fair for what RSA have done wrong. The policy excess is a 
contractual commitment that Mr and Mrs G signed up to when they accepted their policy and 
they should still be bound by these terms. In looking at RSAs response to the complaint, I 
think they have dealt with this fairly and they have resolved the issue with the structural 
survey and the other points they make are fair. Therefore, its also not reasonable to expect 
RSA to free Mr and Mrs G from other contractual policies they have agreed with RSA.
In conclusion, I think RSA has responded fairly to the complaint in most part, but I am going 
to uphold it in part as I think they should have provided some compensation for the 
inconvenience caused.
Responses to my provisional decision
RSA reviewed the decision and said they didnt have anything further to add.
Mr and Mrs G said they thought the compensation awarded should be higher to reflect more 
of the effort and distress caused to them. 
Mr and Mrs G also asked, Is it not incorrect practice for unqualified RSA staff members to 
make structural statements from photographs?
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision. I think the compensation is fair for the circumstances of the complaint.
In response to Mr and Mrs Gs question, as I set out in my decision I dont know whether it 
was right for their opinion to be based only on photographic evidence. However, I dont need 
to as RSA said themselves later that a surveyor should have been sent out to visit the 
property.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.
I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to:
Pay £100 for trouble and upset for the inconvenience and delay caused to Mr and 
Mrs GUnder the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman