DRN-3218929
The complaint
G complain about the handling of their buy to let mortgage accounts by their relationship 
manager at Mortgage Express and ask that he be removed. They want Mortgage Express to 
explain the relationship between various parties involved in managing their mortgage 
accounts and those of a related company.
What happened
G has some buy to let mortgages with Mortgage Express (ME). In around February 2021 G 
raised concerns with ME about a data breach by their ME relationship manager (RM). G felt 
information their RM gave them when they were discussing their mortgages in around June 
2020 breached data protection legislation. G asked ME to remove their RM from handling 
their account. 
G also asked ME to explain the relationship between various parties involved in managing 
their mortgage accounts and those of a related company. G was concerned their RM had 
access to information about their related companys mortgage accounts with another lender.
ME refused to remove their RM from Gs account. They said theyd previously responded to 
Gs concerns about their RM having access to other information and wouldnt respond again 
unless G provided further details about their concerns. They provided further information 
about how the parties G had asked about were related to one another.
G werent satisfied with MEs response, so they brought their complaint to this service. G 
provided some additional information while our investigator was looking into things, which 
ME considered. But they didnt change their outcome. Our investigator didnt uphold Gs 
complaint. So, Ive reviewed everything afresh to come to a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision only addresses the specific complaints ME responded to in their letters dated 
17 February 2021 and 2 September 2021. I understand G have concerns about the handling 
of their mortgage account that go beyond the issues in this complaint. If they wish to pursue 
those, they will need to raise them with ME before this service is able to consider them.
Its up to ME which of their staff they ask to manage their customer relationships. I can only 
consider whether ME have treated G fairly and reasonably bearing in mind, for example, the 
principles set out in the Financial Conduct Authority handbook. So, I wont ask ME to remove 
Gs RM. 
ME have explained the structure of the organisation in which ME mortgages are managed 
means the same individuals can access both Gs mortgage accounts and those of Gs 
related company with another lender. But theyve acknowledged their staff shouldnt be 
discussing accounts with different clients in calls, emails or letters.
Gs provided emails to evidence that information was wrongly shared by their RM. Theres 
no evidence to suggest any personal information that would identify a living person was 
disclosed by ME to anyone. The information ME disclosed was about, broadly, mortgage 
account numbers assigned to loans in the name of Gs related company when a new lender 
took them on, and who to contact to discuss the accounts. Im not persuaded theres been a 
breach of data protection legislation.
I think the RM should have checked the authority of Gs representative to receive information 
before disclosing it. And Id expect ME to take care to ensure they arent sharing information 
and breaching confidentiality requirements in relation to Gs mortgages going forward. But, 
theres no evidence G has suffered any loss. And I think MEs explanation about what 
happened, and the steps taken to provide feedback to the RM, were enough to resolve 
things. 
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I know G will be disappointed, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman