DRN-2829096
The complaint
Mr B says Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat lent to him irresponsibly. He says that 
Cashfloat failed to carry out proper affordability checks. Mr B Says that if it had done these it 
wouldnt have lent to him. 
  
What happened
This complaint is about four payday loans Cashfloat provided to Mr B between March and 
October 2017.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamount 
borrowedinstalments 
(monthly)date repaid
1 20/03/2017 £200 2 25/05/2017
2 31/05/2017 £400 3 08/06/2017
3 20/08/2017 £300 2 18/09/2017
4 21/10/2017 £500 4 23/02/2018
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She didnt think that Cashfloat was acting 
incorrectly when it approved loan 1. But she thought that the information it had showed that it 
shouldnt have approved loans 2 to 4. This is because Mr B had other short-term lending and 
so he wouldnt be able to repay this borrowing sustainably. 
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that: 
Mr B had a high income and the credit reference agency data that Cashfloat had 
showed that he was managing his existing commitments. 
The checks it made also showed that the overall amount of debt he had was not high 
and didnt materially increase over the lending period. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr B 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and Ive explained why below.
Mr B didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loan 1. Because of this, I dont think 
there is any ongoing disagreement about this loan. So, I wont be making a decision about it. 
But it was part of the borrowing relationship Mr B had with Cashfloat. So, it is something I will 
take into account when considering the other loans he took.
I think its reasonable to say the information that Cashfloat obtained at the time of sale 
showed that it was likely that Mr B had some financial problems. I dont think it supports 
Cashfloats view that Mr B was managing to keep on top of things. The amount he had 
borrowed, and the number of loans Mr B had taken, both increased. And he was slightly over 
his credit limits by loan 2. This information Cashfloat had also showed that Mr B had at least 
three other short-term loans. 
And a proportionate check wouldve confirmed this. The information that Mr B has supplied 
shows that in reality he had at least six other short term, or high cost, credit accounts. And 
he was borrowing and repaying a significant amount to these. So, he wouldnt have been 
able to repay any further borrowing sustainably, that is without borrowing again from other 
sources. 
I think that Cashfloat wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate checks.  
I think that Cashfloat shouldnt have given loan 2 to 4 to Mr B and I think hes lost out as a 
result of this. So Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about loans 2 to 4.
  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Cashfloat should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it stopped lending to Mr B from loan 2, as Im satisfied it ought to 
have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr B may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr B in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr B would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Cashfloats liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Cashfloat shouldnt have given Mr B loans 2 to 4.
A) Cashfloat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr B towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Cashfloat should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Cashfloat should pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D) Cashfloat should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
relation to loans 2 to 4. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to deduct tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
should give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax Cashfloat has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Western Circle Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman