DRN-3260295
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that Astrenska Insurance Limited has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs T booked a package holiday abroad through a travel provider Ill 
call H. They paid a deposit of £775, with the remaining balance of around £4487 due by 17 
April 2020. Mr and Mrs T were due to travel abroad on 10 July 2020 and return on 21 July 
2020. On 4 March 2020, Mr and Mrs T took out a single trip travel insurance policy through a 
broker to cover the planned trip. The policy was underwritten by Astrenska.
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. And 
on 17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO) advised 
against all but essential travel abroad.
Mr and Mrs T got in touch with H to look into cancelling their holiday and obtaining a refund 
of their deposit. They say H advised them to pay the remaining holiday balance and to wait 
and see what happened. However, Mr and Mrs T were worried about taking this course of 
action as they were concerned that H might go into liquidation. So on 27 April 2020, they 
chose to cancel the holiday. While H refunded £25 of their deposit, they were out of pocket 
for the remainder of it. So they made a cancellation claim on their travel insurance policy.
Astrenska turned down Mr and Mrs Ts claim. It concluded that the claim was down to Mr 
and Mrs Ts disinclination to travel, which was specifically excluded by the policy terms. So it 
said the claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs T were unhappy with Astrenskas decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ts complaint should be upheld. She noted that the 
policy terms specifically excluded costs which a policyholder could recover from elsewhere. 
In this case, as Mr and Mrs T had booked a package holiday, she felt that the Package 
Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (PTR) would apply to their trip 
booking. These effectively meant that if H had had to cancel the holiday due to Covid-19, it 
wouldve been responsible for refunding Mr and Mrs Ts costs. So she felt that if Mr and Mrs 
T had paid the full trip balance, they wouldve been able to recover their costs from H in the 
event it had to cancel their holiday. And she also considered that it was fair for Astrenska to 
conclude that the reason Mr and Mrs T chose to cancel their trip was specifically excluded 
by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed. They said the cancellation section of the policy included cover for 
holiday cancellation because of a pandemic. In this case, theyd cancelled their holiday due 
to Covid-19, because of the FCDO advice and because H wouldnt refund their deposit 
costs. Theyd taken out travel insurance to cover circumstances such as these and they 
were now at a loss.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs T, I think it was fair for Astrenska 
to turn down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ts policy and the circumstances of their claim to decide whether 
Astrenska treated Mr and Mrs T fairly.        
Ive first considered the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ts policy, as these form the 
basis of their contract with Astrenska. The cancellation section says that Astrenska covers 
cancellation which is caused by one of the following specific, listed events:
1. the death or disablement by bodily injury, illness or being subject to quarantine of:
a. you; or
b. an immediate relative of yours, or
c. a travelling companion; or
d. any person you are intending to travel to or stay with; or
e. a close business associate of yours; or
2. you or a travelling companion discovering that you/they are pregnant after the date of 
issue of this policy or the date the trip was booked (whichever was the later), if the booked 
return date is within 12 weeks (16 weeks for a multiple birth) of the expected date of delivery,
or complications of pregnancy; or
3. you or a travelling companion being called for jury service or as a witness (but not as an
expert witness or where your employment would normally require you to attend court) in
a court of law; or
4. you being made redundant and you qualify for redundancy payment under the current
legislation; or
5. your home being made uninhabitable or place of business being made unusable 
(including if your presence is required by the policy in connection with such events), up to 7 
days before the commencement of your trip; or
6. your passport, or the passport of your travelling companion being stolen during the seven 
days before your departure date; or
7. a government directive prohibiting all travel to the country or area you were planning to 
visit, as a result of a natural disaster (e.g. earthquake, fire, flood, hurricane or epidemic).
Theres no dispute in this case that on 17 March 2020, the FCDO advised against all but 
essential travel abroad due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I also appreciate that at the point this 
advice was given, there was no specified end date. So I can understand why Mr and Mrs T 
wouldve been concerned as to how the pandemic could affect their planned trip, which was 
due to take place broadly 12 weeks later.
However, the policy terms also set out a list of things which Astrenska specifically excludes 
from cover. One of these is:
any costs recoverable from another source.I think the totality of the policy terms make it clear that Astrenska will only pay cancellation 
claims if a policyholder cant recover their costs from elsewhere. 
The available evidence suggests that Mr and Mrs Ts holiday was booked as a package 
holiday through H. Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be a holiday 
contract that includes two or more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of 
the same trip. The travel provider is liable for the performance of these services. Mr and Mrs 
T told us that they booked both their flights and accommodation through H. So I think the trip 
could be fairly treated as a package holiday. 
The PTR provide protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say 
that the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be 
provided. I accept that Mr and Mrs T cancelled their holiday before paying the main balance 
and that therefore, H wasnt in a position to fulfil the terms of the booking contract. 
However, at the point Mr and Mrs T were due to travel, on 10 July 2020, the FCDO was still 
advising against all but essential travel to their destination. And I think this means that Mr 
and Mrs Ts package holiday through H would likely have had to have been cancelled by the 
relevant travel providers and the booking contract couldnt have been fulfilled. If this had 
been the case, H wouldve been liable under the PTR to refund all of the money Mr and Mrs 
T had paid for their trip, including both the deposit and the balance. This means their losses 
wouldve been legally recoverable from H and there wouldve been no costs to claim on their 
travel insurance policy. As Mr and Mrs T chose to cancel their trip in April 2020 though, 
without paying the balance, despite Hs suggestion that they should pay the balance and 
wait and see what happened, I think they prejudiced Astrenskas position. 
While I can understand why Mr and Mrs T chose to cancel the trip when they did, I think by 
choosing to cancel the holiday in April 2020, Mr and Mrs T put Astrenska in a worse position 
than it would otherwise have been than if theyd paid the balance and been entitled to a 
refund from H under the PTR. And on this basis, I find it was fair for Astrenska to turn down 
their claim.
Id add too that while the FCDO was advising against all but essential travel at the point Mr 
and Mrs T decided to cancel the trip, their departure date was some weeks away. And they 
sought specific guidance from H about what steps they should take. I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs T had concerns that if they paid the balance and H went into liquidation, then 
theyd lose all of their money. But it seems to me that these concerns were at least a 
significant factor in Mr and Mrs T deciding to cancel at the point they did so, rather than 
waiting to see what the FCDO advice was nearer to the time. And this simply isnt an event 
which is covered by the cancellation section of the policy. Instead, I think it was fair for 
Astrenska to conclude that Mr and Mrs T didnt want to pay the balance because of the risk 
of losing their money if H became insolvent. I dont think then that it was unreasonable for 
Astrenska to conclude here that these circumstances were caught by the specific term 
excluding cancellation cover for claims caused by a policyholders disinclination to travel.
Overall, whilst I sympathise with Mr and Mrs Ts position, I find it was fair and reasonable for 
Astrenska to turn down their claim.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 March 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman