DRN-3595226
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank wont reimburse 
him a deposit he paid for a holiday that didnt go ahead during the Covid 19 pandemic.
What happened
Mr C had booked a package holiday involving flights and a cruise. The holiday was arranged 
by a travel agent (B) with the package organiser and supplier (V). Mr C paid a deposit of 
£700 using his Tesco Bank credit card.
The holiday was scheduled to take place in October 2020, with Mr C due to pay the holiday 
balance by 17 July 2020. Unfortunately, in March 2020 V had to suspend its cruise 
operations due to the pandemic. The initial suspension was put in place until May 2020, but 
by early July V still hadnt resumed operations. In light of the uncertainty V offered its 
customers vouchers against future holidays.
Mr C contacted B about the likelihood of the holiday going ahead. He was understandably 
concerned about the idea of paying the balance when it appeared unlikely that the holiday 
would take place. B sent V an email to say that Mr C wanted to cancel the booking and 
receive a voucher, although Mr C says he didnt cancel. After some delay V issued 
vouchers, valid for up to two years. However, Mr C became increasingly dissatisfied with the 
situation and, when B rejected his request for a cash refund, approached Tesco Bank to see 
if he could get his money back.
Tesco Bank said it attempted to raise a chargeback against B, who was the merchant that 
took the deposit payment. It gave Mr C a temporary credit of the amount in question, which it 
reversed after B submitted its defence to the claim. According to Tesco Bank, B challenged 
the claim on the basis that Mr C had cancelled the booking. Tesco Bank says it sought 
Mr Cs comments in response, but didnt hear back from him. It appears the banks records 
of Mr Cs email address hadnt been updated.
Tesco Bank says it also considered whether it was liable to Mr C under connected lender 
liability provisions set out in section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75). In 
broad terms this provides for Mr C to bring a like claim either in misrepresentation or breach 
of contract as he would be able to claim against the supplier. The bank didnt think there was 
a valid section 75 claim as Mr C hadnt paid the balance of the booking when due, and as a 
result, there was no contractual obligation from that point to provide the holiday. Tesco Bank 
also considered that this entitled B to retain Mr Cs deposit.
Mr C complained to Tesco Bank about its stance, but the bank wasnt minded to change its 
position. Mr C referred his complaint to us, and it was considered by one of our investigators. 
The investigator didnt think Tesco Bank had dealt with Mr C fairly. He noted discrepancies 
in the response it had received from B, which appeared to suggest that Mr C had cancelled 
the booking on 9 July and also that the booking was cancelled on 17 July because Mr C 
hadnt paid the balance.
The investigator considered that Tesco Bank ought to have done more to challenge what B 
had said. He also thought the booking arrangements didnt support Bs right to retain Mr Cs 
deposit. He recommended that the bank refund the £700 with interest.
Tesco Bank didnt accept the investigators recommendation. It said B had provided 
comprehensive evidence confirming Mr C had cancelled the booking, and that Mr C hadnt 
responded when Tesco Bank put that position to him. The bank expressed concern that the 
outcome the investigator reached was unfair, given that in its view the evidence was stacked 
heavily against Mr C. It asked for this review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that in considering Mr Cs claim, Tesco Bank has had 
proper regard for the fact that Mr C booked a package holiday, as confirmed on the Air 
Travel Organisers Licensing (ATOL) certificate B issued to him when he made his booking. 
There is no mention in the banks submissions of the additional rights afforded to him by the 
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 (Package Travel 
Regulations) over and above those set out in the contracts with B and V.
I would have expected this to be a material factor in the banks consideration both of the 
chargeback defence submitted by B and its own potential liability under section 75. I say this 
because Part 3, section 12 of the Package Travel Regulations has the effect that Mr C was 
entitled to terminate the contract and receive a full refund of any payments made for the 
package before it started in the event of unavoidable and extraordinary circumstances 
occurring at the place of destination or its immediate vicinity and which significantly affect (a) 
the performance of the package, or (b) the carriage of passengers to the destination.
Tesco Bank has said that there is comprehensive evidence that Mr C cancelled the booking. 
That cancellation took place on 9 July 2020, according to Bs email to V. Mr C has 
challenged this assertion, saying that he didnt cancel the booking. It may be that B 
cancelled it on Mr Cs behalf rather than acting under a direct instruction from Mr C. I dont 
consider it necessary I reach a definitive answer on this point; it is sufficient that the booking 
was cancelled for reasons other than the failure to pay the balance when due. As Ive 
previously noted, the cancellation took place before the balance payment became due (for 
completeness, Vs invoice indicates a final payment date of 2 August rather than 17 July).
At the material time, V had suspended its cruise operations due to the pandemic. It was 
unable to give any assurance that the suspension would be lifted by the time Mr C was 
scheduled to travel (and as it turned out, ended up cancelling all its cruises for the rest of 
2020 through to at least mid-2021). As I understand it, the impact of Covid 19 on operators 
ability to provide a safe environment was particularly acute in the cruise industry, which led 
to longer suspensions than in other holiday sectors.
Taking all of this into account, I see no persuasive reason why Mr C would not have been 
entitled to rely on the PTR provision to terminate the package and claim a refund of his 
deposit. It seems fairly clear that the impact of Covid 19 would amount to unavoidable and 
extraordinary circumstances occurring at the place of destination that significantly affected 
performance of the package hed booked. It was, after all, the reason that V suspended its 
operations for more than 18 months.
As such, I consider that Tesco Bank could  and should  have done more to question Bs 
chargeback response saying that Mr C was not entitled to a cash refund on the basis he had 
cancelled. That position doesnt appear to have been supported by the relevant legislation. I dont consider Tesco Bank needed Mr Cs comments in order to take that legislation into 
account. There was sufficient in what it already had from Mr C and from B to enable it to do 
so. I find that the banks position was not adversely affected by any lack of response from 
Mr C to Bs chargeback defence.
Had Tesco Bank mounted a more robust approach to the chargeback claim, I consider there 
was a good possibility of it being successful. Even if Tesco Bank decided not to progress a 
chargeback claim, its worth noting that section 12 of the PTRs is implied as a term of Mr Cs 
package contract. The banks obligations under section 75 would potentially make it liable as 
a breach of contract for failure to provide a full refund to Mr C under this provision.
It follows that Im minded to conclude there were deficiencies in the way Tesco Bank 
approached Mr Cs claim that led to him being treated unfairly and which suggest it would be 
appropriate for the bank to address his financial loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To settle it, Tesco Personal Finance PLC 
trading as Tesco Bank must, within 28 days of receiving Mr Cs acceptance of this decision, 
take the following steps:
1. pay Mr C £700, representing the deposit he paid for the package holiday
2. if Tesco Bank has charged interest on this amount to Mr Cs credit card account 
since reversing the chargeback credit, it should rework his account removing all 
associated interest and charges
3. pay Mr C interest on the amount in 1., calculated at 8% simple annually from the date 
the chargeback credit was reversed until the date it pays this settlement. If Tesco 
Bank deducts tax from the interest element of my award, it should confirm to Mr C 
that it has done so and provide him with the relevant tax deduction certificate. 
Mr C should note that acceptance of this decision will mean he will be unable to use the 
vouchers V issued.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 January 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman