DRN-4465270
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited unfairly declined his travel 
insurance claim. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties so I havent set this out again 
in detail here. Instead I have provided a summary of what happened. 
Mr B had an annual multi trip travel insurance policy with Admiral. He made a claim on it 
after abandoning his travel to a country Ill call C, where he was due to take part in a group 
based wildlife trek. 
Mr B had originally been scheduled to leave the UK on 9 March 2023 and fly to C via a 
country Ill call S. On arrival in C hed arranged to spend one night in a hotel before starting 
the group wildlife trek the following day on 10 March 2023. However, the flight to S ended up 
being delayed by just under 10 and a half hours, so Mr B chose to abandon his trip because 
he would have missed his connecting flight from S to C and found it difficult to catch up with 
the trek once it had started. 
Mr B was able to recover the costs of his flight from the airline. He claimed for both the cost 
of the one night hotel stay and the trek on his travel insurance policy, but Admiral declined 
that claim and said the circumstances of it werent covered. 
Admiral maintained that decline following a complaint from Mr B too, but accepted there had 
been some delays and communication issues so apologised for those and paid £100 
compensation. 
Unhappy with what had happened Mr B brought his complaint here. He confirmed he was no 
longer complaining about the delays and compensation matter, but did remain dissatisfied 
with the declination of his claim. 
Our investigator thought Admiral had declined the claim fairly so didnt recommend this 
complaint be upheld. Mr B disagreed and reiterated what he was claiming for. He said he 
was fully entitled to those costs and, as he was delayed by more than 24 hours for the trek 
itself, he was covered in view of the policy wording. 
Mr B also said Admiral had been able to write its policy in a way that allowed it to get out of 
paying legitimate claims. He bought the policy on the basis of it covering eventualities. 
Everyone hed spoken to couldnt believe the situation he was in, and we should have 
Admiral change its policies retrospectively. 
So as no agreement was reached the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to learn that Mr B was unable to take part in his trek as planned, but for the reasons 
Ill explain below I dont think Admiral declined his claim unreasonably:
Admiral had a responsibility to handle claims both promptly and fairly, and to not 
reject them unreasonably. The cover available to Mr B was set out in the terms and 
conditions of his policy, and the availability of the abandonment provision was 
explained within these as follows:
Abandoned international departure (outbound journey only)
We will pay you up to the policy limits shown in your policy schedule if you decide 
to abandon your trip because the departure of your pre-booked aircraft, ship or train 
is delayed by more than 24 hours (or cancelled with no alternative transport available 
within 24 hours of the scheduled departure), because of strike, industrial action, 
adverse weather conditions or mechanical breakdown. 
The departure of Mr Bs pre-booked flight wasnt delayed by more than 24 hours. It 
was delayed by just under 10.5 hours. So, although I understand why Mr B chose to 
abandon his trip, I dont think it was unreasonable of Admiral to find that the 
circumstances of this abandonment claim werent covered under the policy. 
Admiral considered whether it would be able to cover Mr Bs claim against the 
policys delayed departure provision too. But as that only paid if the insured 
eventually went on the trip, and that wasnt what had happened here, I dont think it 
was unreasonable of it to find that the claim couldnt be covered under this part of the 
policy either. 
Mr B says the wildlife trek in C was separate from his flights to C, and as he was 
delayed for more than 24 hours for the trek he should be covered. Mr B also says he 
had to cancel his trek before he could join it and points to the policys cancellation 
provision which says, this policy covers you if you have to cancel your trip before it 
starts. I understand the position Mr B has taken here and why he thinks the trek 
should be considered its own trip and subsequently covered, but the word trip is 
specifically defined within his policy as meaning:
A journey that begins and ends at your home during the period of insurance that 
is either within the UK where you have paid a fee to stay in pre-booked 
commercially-operated accommodation (more than 25 miles away from your home 
for more than two consecutive nights), or outside the UK.
So Mr Bs trip began when he left his home, and the word home is defined as, The 
UK address where you live permanently.. It wasnt when he was due to commence 
his trek and for the reasons given above I dont think Admiral unreasonably declined 
this claim.  
Mr B has asked that we direct Admiral to retrospectively change its policies. This 
service is unable to direct an insurer to rewrite its policies, but an insurer is entitled to 
choose what risks it does and does not want to cover and will underwrite its policies 
with this in mind. Mr Bs strength of feeling about Admirals position is clear, but his 
policy didnt provide cover for all eventualities. It was subject to a set of specific terms 
and conditions and here, unfortunately, the circumstances of his claim just didnt fit 
within those.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman