DRN-3844521
The complaint
Mr M complains that Coventry Building Society (CBS) automatically reinvested funds from a 
matured ISA into another ISA leading to  an early exit penalty when he transferred the funds. 
He would like to transfer his funds without penalty.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving  the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the following conclusions:-
I appreciate Mr Ms frustration in incurring a penalty when he transferred his ISA 
funds. I have seen the various pieces of correspondence CBS sent in relation to this. 
When he opened his account, the terms stated that that unless instructed otherwise 
prior to maturity funds would be automatically reinvested at maturity into another 
ISA.So Mr M would have been aware of that when he opened the account.
In its prematurity letter sent on 3 May 2022  CBS said if didnt hear back with further 
instructions it would re-invest all savings into a similar account (option A). As Mr M 
didnt go back to CBS with alternative instructions within the given timescale his 
funds were automatically transferred into another ISA as per the prematurity letter. I 
dont think CBS were wrong to do this, it had given notice of what would happen if no 
instructions were received, and none were.
CBS then sent a post maturity letter dated 7 June 2022 to confirm the reinvestment 
and this letter stated that he could withdraw his funds without penalty  during the 
cooling off period. The cooling off period was detailed in a leaflet CBS included with 
its previous  correspondence, it advised of the 21-calendar day cancellation period 
after which closure would incur a charge equal to 180 days loss of interest. I 
appreciate  Mr M says the penalty clause was hidden away but it was still within the 
information sent. And I understand he did get the correspondence CBS sent. 
However, the letter of 7 June 2022 also said he could get in touch with CBS about 
the cooling off period So, I do believe the information was available to him
I also appreciate Mr Ms situation at the time and the fact he was on holiday when 
one of CBSs letters arrived. Thats unfortunate but consumers do have to take some 
responsibility for their accounts. Mr M would have known the maturity date when he 
took out the ISA so would have been broadly aware of the timescale to decide what 
to do with the funds, and what would happen if he didnt give instructions. If he wasnt 
clear he could have contacted CBS. As I dont believe that CBS has done anything 
wrong I cant reasonably ask it to allow Mr M to transfer funds with no penalty.
My final decision
My final decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman