DRN-3576009
The complaint
This complaints about an equity release lifetime mortgage that Mrs C took out on the advice 
of an independent financial adviser (IFA). The IFA operated under a network, responsibility 
for which has been assumed by Sesame Limited. The complaint is that the lifetime mortgage 
was unsuitable and therefore mis-sold. Mrs C is represented in this complaint by Mr T. 
What happened
The facts of this case, briefly, are that Mrs C took the mortgage out in 1999; it was originally 
a joint mortgage with her husband Mr C; since his death, Mrs C has been the sole borrower 
under the mortgage. The terms of the mortgage provide that no monthly repayments are 
required. The intention is that the mortgage is repaid when the surviving borrower goes into 
full-time nursing care or after their death. It can be repaid voluntarily before either of those 
events have happened, but then an early repayment charge (ERC) is payable. 
Interest on the loan is rolled up into the outstanding balance and is compounded until the 
debt is repaid. All of this means that if the loan runs for a number of years, there can be a 
significant balance to be repaid. 
Mrs C has raised several issues about why she thinks the mortgage was unsuitable and 
therefore mis-sold: these are, in summary:
she and Mr C werent advised to consider other, cheaper options, such as using their 
savings instead;
its not fair that interest is charged on the initial value of the mortgaged property rather 
than on the amount borrowed;
the ERC payable if Mrs C were to repay the mortgage now is excessive and 
disproportionate to the amount borrowed.
A separate complaint has been brought to us against the lender, a business Ill refer to here 
as A. 
Our investigator didnt recommend this complaint be upheld; Mr T asked for the case to be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
By way of a decision dated 20 June 2022, I explained why my remit to consider this 
complaint is limited to whether the IFA supplied Mrs C and her late husband with information 
in plain language on the circumstances in which an ERC might be charged, how any ERC 
would be calculated and potentially how much it might be. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In his closing submission, Mr T explains in some detail why he considers that the description 
in the mortgage documentation of the ERC and how it works is far from clear to the average 
man on the number 48 Clapham omnibus.*
(*The quoted passage is long-standing judicial reference to what might be deemed 
reasonable for a typical person to understand.)
Ive given a great deal of thought to what Mr T has said, but I dont find his arguments about 
what he considers a lack of clarity in how the ERC is set out to be persuasive. Ill explain 
why.
The sole test for me to apply here is whether the information about the ERC was provided in 
plain language. In applying that test, I cant use as my reference point the standards that are 
in place today. I have to consider what was considered good practice at the time of the sale; 
that was in 1999, several years before mortgage regulation was introduced. 
The information the IFA provided about the ERC was in the Key Features Illustration (KFI) 
first; thats the initial document that sets out the main terms of the proposed loan. This was 
then filled out in more detail in the mortgage offer issued by the lender. Both the KFI and the 
mortgage offer were in a standard format that met the requirements of the Mortgage Code 
Compliance Board, the body whose role it was at the relevant time to monitor the activities of 
IFAs. 
Between them, the KFI and offer set out the circumstances in which an ERC would become 
payable, the variable factors that would determine how much it might be, and gave 
numerical examples of how much an eventual ERC might be. The variable nature of the 
ERC, combined with the inherent uncertainty about when (or even if) it might ever become 
payable, meant the figures, and the descriptions of them, couldnt be more specific than they 
were. They could be no more than examples for illustrative purposes.
I appreciate Mr Ts point about the reference to movements in gilt indices not being easy to 
assimilate. It is complex, I agree, but something being complex doesnt mean its not capable 
of being explained and understood. Within the context of what good practice expected of it in 
1999, Im satisfied that the IFA did all that was required of it to ensure Mrs C and her 
husband were informed about the ERC in the plainest language possible, given the nature of 
the product.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 August 2022. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman