DRN-1895924
The complaint
Mr S is complaining Brightside Insurance Services Limited (Brightside) cancelled his car 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S took out a car insurance policy through Brightside  a broker. He also entered into a 
finance agreement to pay the policys annual premium. On 27 August 2019 the insurer 
highlighted to Brightside Mr Ss direct debit paying the finance policy had been cancelled. 
Brightside then issued a seven-day cancellation notice setting out it would cancel the 
insurance policy if Mr S didnt update his direct debit details. 
On 31 August 2019 Mr S emailed Brightside to say hed been trying to call but couldnt 
contact anyone. But he said hed contact again on 2 September 2019 to set up a new direct 
debit. Mr S emailed Brightside on 2 September 2019 to say hed set up a direct debit in his 
partners name. Brightside responded to say he had until the next day to update it. 
On 3 September 2019 Brightside says it was advised Mr S hadnt provided an updated direct 
debit mandate. So it wrote to him to say it had cancelled the insurance policy. 
Mr S complained the policy had been cancelled. He said hed spoken to the finance provider 
whod told him he had until the end of the month to update the direct debit mandate. 
Brightside said it had advised Mr S on numerous occasions he needed to update his direct 
debit mandate and explained when the deadline was to do so. And it advised him that he 
needed to disclose this cancellation in the future. But it said it would waive the £25 
cancellation fee.
Mr S complained to this service about the impact this had had on him. He said hed had to 
disclose this cancellation to his insurers at a significantly inflated cost. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She said she was satisfied the policy was 
cancelled in line with the terms and conditions of the insurance policy. She said Brightside 
had confirmed it had removed any cancellation record and she thought Brightsides decision 
to waive the £25 cancellation fee was fair.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint and Ill now explain why.
I should first explain Im only considering the actions of Brightside as the insurance broker in 
this complaint. I cant comment on the actions of the insurance provider or the company that 
financed the annual premium.
As a broker Brightside was required to handle the administrative work on behalf of the 
insurer. As part of this, the insurer required Brightside to handle the cancellation process on 
its behalf.
Ive thought closely about whats happened in considering what I think was fair and 
reasonable. Mr S took out a credit agreement to pay the annual premium monthly. The direct 
debit to repay this finance agreement was cancelled. The terms of the insurance policy set 
out the policy can be cancelled if the repayments arent kept up.
However, I dont think it was fair for Brightside to start the cancellation process when it did. 
The terms of the contract say the policy can be cancelled when the finance policy is 
cancelled. But the finance policy wasnt cancelled, so I dont think it was fair to immediately 
instigate the cancelation of the policy. That said, Mr S was aware the policy was going to be 
cancelled on 3 September 2019 unless he set up a new direct debit mandate. And he could 
have mitigated his losses by updating his direct details. But he didnt do so.
So, while I do think Brightside was premature in starting the cancellation process, I think the 
main reason the policy was cancelled was because Mr S didnt update his direct debit 
details. I note he says the finance provider says he had until the end of the month to update 
his details. But this isnt something I can hold Brightside responsible for and Mr S would 
need to raise this with the finance provider directly. Brightside advised Mr S when he needed 
to update his direct debit details by and he didnt do so. And I think its treated him fairly in 
waiving the £25 cancellation fee.
I also note Brightside incorrectly told Mr S he needed to disclose the cancellation to his 
future employers. It shouldnt have said this because the cancellation was treated as the 
policy was cancelled by Mr S. But weve asked Mr S to evidence hes lost out as a result of 
this and he hasnt given us anything to show hes lost out because of anything Brightside did 
wrong. So I dont think Brightside needs to do anything to put this right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I think Brightside Insurance Services Limiteds offer to 
waive the £25 cancellation fee is fair. And I dont think it needs to do anything further to put 
things right. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman