DRN-2795055
The complaint
B, a trust, is complaining about the time taken by Financial Administration Services Limited 
(known as Fidelity) to sell the investments held within the trust and transfer out the cash 
proceeds. Mr S is the sole trustee and is bringing the complaint on behalf of B.
What happened
Mr S transferred a trust investment from another provider to Fidelity in 2013. In late 2019 he 
was looking into selling some of the investments in the trust and giving the proceeds to the 
beneficiaries. So he contacted Fidelity to ask what process he needed to follow. After 
several phone calls during which Fidelity gave Mr S some conflicting information, Fidelity 
said Mr S would need to send them the trust deed before they could release the funds. Mr S 
didnt want to provide the trust deed  hes since said he felt this would be a breach of data 
protection regulations (GDPR). He complained to Fidelity in December 2019.
Mr S phoned Fidelity again in February 2020 to discuss the possibility of selling some of the 
investments and withdrawing the funds to the trust bank account. But Fidelity again said 
theyd need the trust deed in order to do this. 
The complaint handler spoke to Mr S in April 2020 to try to resolve the complaint. They 
offered Mr S £300 to apologise for giving him incorrect information and for the time taken to 
look into the complaint. But Mr S wanted the trust to be compensated for the fall in the value 
of the trusts investments since hed first looked to sell them. 
Following further conversations, Fidelity increased their offer to £400. And they said theyd 
allow a full redemption to Mr Ss personal bank account without the trust deed. But they 
reiterated that theyd need to see the trust deed in order to pay the proceeds to the trust 
bank account. Alternatively, Fidelity offered to arrange a partial redemption to Mr Ss 
personal bank account but said they wouldnt release the rest of the holdings without a trust 
deed.
At the end of July, Mr S wrote to Fidelity formally rejecting their response to his complaint. At 
the end of this letter he added that he wanted to sell the entire trust holding and that he 
would call on the morning of the day he wanted to sell. Fidelity interpreted this as an 
instruction to sell and sold the holdings in early August.
Mr S was unhappy that Fidelity sold the trusts holdings without his instructions and 
complained again. Fidelity acknowledged that they shouldnt have done so and offered Mr S 
£100 compensation in addition to the £400 already offered to him. They also offered to 
reinstate the holdings the trust had held  but Mr S had lost confidence in Fidelity and so 
didnt want to do this.
Mr S brought both aspects of the complaint to our service. He doesnt think he should have 
been required to give Fidelity the trust deeds in order to have the funds paid to the trust bank 
account. And as Fidelity subsequently agreed to release the proceeds of the sale to his 
personal account, he doesnt understand why they couldnt have done that when he first 
wanted to sell the investments.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold it. She said businesses have 
a duty to safeguard their customers assets and this includes ensuring any proceeds from an 
account are paid to people who are legally entitled to the funds. She therefore said it was fair 
for Fidelity to ask for the trust deed which would have confirmed who was entitled to deal 
with the assets and who was entitled to receive the funds. She then said Fidelity acted fairly 
in arranging to make a payment to Mr S as an exception  though it wasnt in line with their 
usual processes.
In relation to Fidelity selling the trusts holdings without a valid instruction, our investigator 
thought Fidelitys offer to reinstate the holdings was fair as it would have put the trust in the 
position it would have been in had the error not been made. And our investigator felt that the 
£100 offered for the inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
Mr S was unhappy with our investigators view and asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. In doing so, he reiterated his concerns that providing the trust deed to Fidelity 
would have been a breach of GDPR and that there was no regulatory requirement for 
Fidelity to have a copy of the trust deed. He added that it shouldnt have taken Fidelity over 
six months to offer to pay the funds directly to him and that as a result the trust had paid 
around £140 in unnecessary fees and lost around £3,500 as a result of the reduction in 
market value of the investments over that period. Finally, he was upset that he didnt have 
the option of making a partial redemption and keeping some holdings to sell at a later date 
unless he provided the trust deed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint  for the same reasons as our 
investigator. Ill explain why. 
From what Ive seen, much of what went wrong here was because Fidelity didnt have Bs 
account set up correctly on their systems. That led to some confusion and meant some of 
Fidelitys representatives gave Mr S incorrect information. I can appreciate how frustrating 
that must have been for Mr S. 
However, Fidelity did ask Mr S for the trust deed in early December 2019 and Mr S refused 
to provide it. Im satisfied that if Mr S had provided the trust deed at that point hed have 
been able to sell the units and transfer the money to the trust bank account as he wanted. 
I appreciate Mr S didnt want to provide the trust deed and considered it would have 
breached GDPR. However, Fidelity have a duty to protect their customers assets. This 
includes making sure instructions come from someone legally authorised to provide 
instructions, and that money is transferred to people legally authorised to receive it. The trust 
deed is the legal document which sets out the trustees and beneficiaries. Whilst Mr S had 
told Fidelity he was the only trustee, only the deed would have been able to confirm this. It 
isnt my role to determine whether this would breach GDPR but Im satisfied it was a 
reasonable request from Fidelity. 
I can understand why Mr S is upset that it took Fidelity six months to offer to pay the funds 
directly to him  during that time the pandemic caused a significant reduction in the market 
value of Bs assets. I do agree that Fidelity could have handled Mr Ss complaint more 
quickly. However, their offer to pay the funds directly to Mr S was made on an exceptional 
basis  its not something theyd normally do. And Fidelity have explained they made the 
offer because by that time they thought Mr S had lost the trust deed so it seemed a 
pragmatic solution. I cant say Fidelity should have made the offer six months earlier 
because I dont think its something they needed to do at all. As Ive mentioned above, Im 
satisfied that if Mr S had provided the trust deed as requested then hed have been able to 
sell the units as and when he wanted.
I appreciate Mr S has also complained that he didnt have the option of making a partial 
redemption unless he provided the trust deed at some point in the future. But, as Ive explained, Fidelity made an exception for Mr S. Im satisfied theyve acted fairly in making 
the funds accessible to Mr S in the absence of the trust deed  and that it wouldnt be 
appropriate for Fidelity to allow multiple transfers in this way.
In respect of Fidelity selling the holdings without Mr Ss instructions, I can understand Mr Ss 
frustrations  he was trying to get the best price he could for the holdings and suddenly the 
choice was taken out of his hands. When things go wrong, we ask a business to put a 
customer back in the position theyd have been in if things hadnt gone wrong. Fidelity 
offered to do this for Mr S  but he declined. So I cant ask Fidelity to do any more here.
Fidelity have paid Mr S £500 total compensation for their errors  for the conflicting 
information given in phone calls, the delay in responding to Mr Ss complaint, and for selling 
units without Mr Ss instructions. Mr S thinks the amount should be higher and has 
mentioned the personal distress this has caused him. However, hes complaining on behalf 
of B  and so I can only consider the impact of Fidelitys errors on B. I can see Fidelitys 
errors have caused B some inconvenience  as trustee, Mr S has had to make numerous 
phone calls to clarify the situation. But Im satisfied the £500 already paid is fair 
compensation for this. 
In summary, although Fidelity have made some errors, Im satisfied B could have avoided its 
losses if Mr S had provided the trust deed  so Im not asking Fidelity to compensate B for 
the losses. Im satisfied Fidelity have acted fairly in attempting to resolve the situation.
My final decision
As Ive explained above, Im not upholding Bs complaint about Financial Administration 
Services Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 July 2021.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman