DRN-3673589
The complaint
Miss A complains that Metro Bank PLC (Metro) wont refund a payment she made after 
falling victim to a scam. 
What happened
In March 2021, Miss A and her partner were looking for a rental property. They saw a 
property advertised on a social media site that they liked and sent an enquiry, providing their 
names and email address.
Miss A was contacted by a party who Ill refer to as L. L said they were the host of the 
property, however, they were letting it through a large online company (who Ill refer to as D) 
which handles property for holiday stays and rental. Miss A was sent photos of the property, 
along with information about the cost (£880 per month), furnishings and what was included 
in the monthly rent payment. Miss A wanted to view the property but was told by L that due 
to a lack of available agents (because of Covid) she would have to pay two months rent and 
the equivalent of one months rent as a security deposit upfront  which came to £2,640. 
Having made that payment, a viewing time would be arranged so she could visit the 
property. Miss A was told that if she didnt like the property after viewing it, the full £2,640 
would be refunded. If she signed a contract to rent the property, she wouldnt have to pay 
rent for the first two months as theyd use her advance payment. Miss A was told the viewing 
booking and the payment would all be arranged through D.
Miss A raised concerns with L during their email exchange, asking if they could talk on the 
phone before making the payment, because a lot of fraud goes on. L told Miss A she 
couldnt talk to her as she worked shifts, but that Miss A should be reassured with the 
payment going via D.
On 14 April 2021 Miss A made the payment of £2,640. She was asked to make an 
international payment to Spain, which she did in a Metro branch.
After making the payment Miss A had trouble getting responses to her emails from L. On 21 
April 2021, Miss A told L that if she didnt respond she would report the fraud to her bank. As 
L didnt reply Miss A contacted Metro the same day and reported the fraud.
Metro tried to recall the international payment but were unsuccessful. They initially received 
a response from the beneficiary bank, asking for a copy of the police report  which Metro 
obtained and sent to them. Following that Metro didnt receive any further response from the 
beneficiary bank. They told Miss A that there was nothing further they could do to help her 
recover her money. 
While dealing with Metro Miss A raised a complaint about the poor service she received. 
Metro looked into her concerns and agreed that she hadnt received the level of service she 
shouldve, saying shed had to call numerous times for updates and that theyd incorrectly 
told her that the beneficiary bank had responded to say no funds remained in the account  
whereas they hadnt received a response from them. Metro offered Miss A £50 in 
compensation.
Miss A wasnt happy with Metros response, so she brought a complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into Miss As complaint and upheld it. They felt the payment of £2,640 
was unusual and out of character based on Miss As previous account conduct, therefore 
Metro shouldve intervened before processing Miss As payment. As part of that intervention 
the investigator felt Metro shouldve asked questions about the payment, and had they done 
so, the scam wouldve been uncovered and the payment couldve been prevented. The 
investigator recommended that Metro refund Miss A the full payment of £2,640, along with 
the international payment charge, and awarded interest on the refund at 8% simple interest. 
The investigator also felt that Metro should pay £150 compensation to Miss A for their 
failings and the impact they had on Miss A.
Metro disagreed with the investigators recommendation, saying:
The payment of £2,640 wasnt a large sum and wasnt out of character, as such it 
didnt trigger with them as being of concern.
They have a duty not to delay payments.
Theyd followed the payment recall route in trying to get the funds back from the 
beneficiary bank, but its on a best endeavours basis.
As Metro didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
My provisional findings
On 1 August 2022, I issued a provisional decision as I had reached a different outcome than 
the investigator had and wanted to give both parties a chance to provide any more 
comments or evidence they wanted to be considered before issuing my final decision. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im minded not to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Metro are signed up to the Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (the CRM Code). However, the CRM Code doesnt cover international payments and 
therefore cant be applied to Miss As payment. This means I dont think Metro are 
responsible for reimbursing Miss A because of any obligation under the CRM Code. 
However, there is an obligation on Metro to be on the lookout for, and to protect its 
customers from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring 
accounts and identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In 
situations where potential fraud is identified, I would expect Metro to intervene and attempt 
to prevent losses for the customer.
Should Metro have prevented Miss A from making the payment?
Having looked at Miss As previous account use, I cant see that the payment for £2,640 was 
particularly out of character or unusual. In prior months Miss A had made a cash withdrawal for £3,000, an account transfer of 
£2,000 and several faster payments for £1,000. So, Im not satisfied that the size of the 
payment shouldve been particularly concerning to Metro. And, while the payment reduced 
Miss As remaining account balance to nearly £0, this wasnt unusual and had happened in 
previous months. Also, a balance has to be struck between Metro identifying payments 
which could be fraudulent  and then responding appropriately to their concerns  and 
ensuring minimal disruption to legitimate payments.
I appreciate that the £2,640 payment was an international payment, which is a type of 
payment Miss A hadnt made previously. But Im not satisfied that by itself, the payment 
method, means I wouldve expected Metro to have had concerns and intervened.
Metro says as the payment didnt trigger with them, they didnt ask Miss A any questions 
about the payment  which I think is reasonable in these circumstances. Having considered 
everything, Im satisfied that Metro acted reasonably in following Miss As payment 
instructions without intervening or questioning her about the payment. And, on that basis, I 
cant fairly say that Metro shouldve prevented Miss A from making the payment or ask Metro 
to refund Miss A.
The level of service Miss A received
Metro have acknowledged that the level of service Miss A received wasnt at the standard 
they expect to deliver. They referred to her having to call them numerous times to get 
updates, and them giving her incorrect information about the response from the beneficiary 
bank. 
Miss A has told us that she suffered a lot of distress in this situation, and that the £2,640 
shes lost is a lot of money. She says as a result of losing this money, she became homeless 
for a period of time, having to stay with family and friends. Im very sorry to hear what Miss A 
has gone through and fully accept the impact that this has had on Miss A. However, most of 
this distress was caused by the scammer and I cant hold Metro liable for the scammers 
actions or the consequences, when I think Metro have acted reasonably in processing Miss 
As payment without intervening. Also, Metro providing a poor level of service doesnt mean 
that I can fairly hold them liable for the funds Miss A has lost. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the payment Metro have already offered of 
£50 is fair compensation for the poor service Miss A received. 
Could Metro have recovered Miss As money from the beneficiary bank?
From what Ive seen, Metro have taken appropriate steps to try and recover Miss As money 
from the beneficiary bank. Unfortunately, banks based outside the UK are not subject to our 
rules and regulations, and Metro is unable to force or require the beneficiary bank to return 
the funds. They contacted the beneficiary bank on the day Miss A raised the fraud claim, 
provided the additional information the beneficiary bank asked for, and chased the bank 
when they didnt get a response. In the circumstances Im not persuaded there is anything 
more that Metro could or can do to try and recover Miss As funds from the beneficiary bank.
I understand that this is going to be very upsetting for Miss A, but I cant fairly ask Metro to 
refund her the money shes lost. But, if it hasnt already done so, Metro should pay Miss A 
the £50 they offered for the poor service.
My provisional decision is that I dont intend to uphold this complaint against Metro Bank 
PLC.Responses to the provisional decision
Metro responded saying they had nothing further to add.
Miss As representative called us on 1 August 2022 to discuss the provisional decision and 
said they would send us an email explaining why they disagreed with the outcome. On 8 
August 2022 the investigator emailed Miss As representative, reminding them that their 
email needed to be received before 29 August 2022, which was the deadline set in the 
provisional decision for any responses.
We didnt receive a written response from Miss A or her representative. However, in the 
phone call they told us they didnt agree with the answer Id reached because:
We dont appreciate the impact this is having on them and their health as its not our 
money thats been lost.
It was clear that it was a scam.
Metro shouldve told them the account they were paying the funds to wasnt held by 
D. At the very least, Metro wouldve known whether the funds were being paid into a 
personal or business account and shouldve told them that the funds werent going to 
a business account which wouldve uncovered the scam.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to start by reassuring Miss A that I have listened to the phone call her representative 
had with the investigator after receiving the provisional decision  including the last ten 
minutes when Miss A joined the call. Its clear that the representative is very upset about 
Miss A not getting this money back. They explained that this has had a huge impact on their 
lives and wellbeing and told us about the impact on Miss As health. Miss As representative 
emphasised that they were the victims of a scam and that Metro havent met their 
obligations.
Im sorry to hear about the impact this has had on Miss A and her partner, and the additional 
money problems theyre now suffering. But, having considered what Miss As representative 
has told us, Im still not persuaded that I can fairly ask Metro to refund Miss A. 
Firstly, I dont dispute that Miss A was the victim of a scam and sent the money to a 
scammer. But being the victim of a scam doesnt automatically mean that Metro can or 
should be held liable for reimbursing her. I have to make a decision based on the rules, 
regulations and industry guidelines in place at the time Miss A made the payment, and what 
obligations there were on Metro in the circumstances of Miss As complaint. 
Miss As representative believes that Metro wouldve known whose name the beneficiary 
account was held in and whether it was a personal or business account. He feels that Metro 
shouldve checked those details against the payee details Miss A had and told her that the 
account wasnt held with D and that it wasnt going to a business account. But Metro 
wouldnt have been able to check or confirm what name the beneficiary account was actually 
held in, or what type of account it was. 
In the UK we have Confirmation of Payee (COP) which was introduced in 2020. COP means 
that if you send funds to an account with one of the UK banks who are signed up to COP, they check their accountholders details against the payee details entered on your payment 
and send a response to your bank indicating whether the details match, are a close match, 
dont match or cant be checked. 
Confirmation of Payee is not available on international payments, which is the payment   
Miss A made. And, I wouldnt expect Metro to have sought information from an international 
bank about the payees account name or account type before making the payment. I 
appreciate that Miss As representative is adamant that Metro wouldve had access to this 
information, but I havent seen anything that suggests this was or would be the case in 
respect of Miss As payment. 
In the call Miss A told us she thinks the payment was unusual and out of character. But 
having reconsidered the specifics of the payment which includes (but isnt limited to): the 
size of the payment to the scammer, the size of previous payments made on her account, 
that its a single payment and not a series of payments and that its an international payment 
-  Im still not persuaded that the payment was so unusual or out of character that I wouldve 
expected it to have concerned Metro whereby they shouldve intervened or refused to follow 
Miss As payment instructions. 
Having carefully considered everything that Miss A and her representative have said, Im 
sorry but I cant fairly ask Metro to refund Miss A the money shes lost. However, if it hasnt 
already done so, Metro should pay Miss A the £50 they offered for the poor service.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Metro Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 September 2022.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman