DRN-3205202
The complaint
Mrs H complains Santander UK plc (Santander) closed her savings account without her 
knowledge and she has never received the closing balance of the account.
What happened
Mrs H says she recently came across a building society passbook for a savings account, 
since migrated to Santander, which showed a balance of around £9,800, dating back to July 
2007. Mrs H says when she asked Santander where the funds were, she was informed the 
account had been closed in July 2010, but no further information could be provided by 
Santander to show how the balance was paid out. Mrs H says she has no recollection of any 
correspondence from Santander regarding the closure of the account and believes the 
balance still sits with Santander. Mrs H is looking for the return of the balance of the savings 
account with interest from the date of the last entry in her passbook. 
Santander says their limited records show the account was closed on 5 July 2010 at their 
Luton branch and it wouldnt have been closed as part of the dormant account process, 
given the size of the balance of the account. Santander have explained they only maintain 
records for up to six years and were unable to obtain duplicate statements post the last 
transaction in 2007. Santander says production of the passbook, isnt on its own evidence to 
say the savings account still exists, as transactions could have been made without it, 
provided suitable identification is made available. Santander says they would have expected 
annual savings account statements to have been issued while the account remained 
opened, but unfortunately their records do not go back that far, given the time that has 
passed. Santander have offered Mrs H £25 for failing to call her back, as they had promised, 
during the course of her enquiries. Santander says they have done nothing wrong here.
 
Mrs H wasnt happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt there was insufficient evidence, partly due to the time that had passed, to 
suggest Santander had incorrectly closed the savings account or marked it as dormant. The 
investigator felt the information provided by Santander indicates the savings account was 
closed at their Luton branch in 2010 where Mrs H held the savings account. The investigator 
didnt feel Santander could be expected to retain the savings accounts details since the date 
of the passbook in 2007, until it was closed in 2010, given the time that had passed. The 
investigator didnt feel the passbook was on its own sufficient evidence to suggest the 
savings account still existed.
Mrs H didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand that it would have been upsetting for Mrs H to have located a savings 
account passbook with several thousand pounds showing as available, only to be told the 
savings account had been closed over 10 years ago. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Santander had misplaced the balance of Mrs 
Hs savings account balance or allocated these monies as dormant. 
Mrs H has provided a copy of the passbook for the building society account which was 
eventually acquired by Santander some years later. The first thing to say is production of a 
passbook isnt on its own sufficient evidence to say the account must still exist. I say this 
because over time its possible passbooks can get mislaid or are unavailable at the time of a 
specific transaction, and its not uncommon for businesses like Santander to accept 
identification as a means to withdraw funds or close such accounts. Its also fair to say given 
the ownership of the savings account changed hands since the date of the passbook Mrs H 
provided, its not unreasonable to think a new passbook could have also been issued here. 
So, with that in mind I cant say this is sufficient sole evidence to support the claim the 
balance of the account must still exist somewhere. 
Unfortunately, over 13 years have passed since the date of Mrs Hs passbook, and its not 
reasonable to expect Santander to maintain records or statements going back that far. From 
the limited information available, Santander have provided evidence to this service, to 
suggest the account was closed at their Luton branch in July 2010, close to where Mrs H 
lives, so that would on balance indicate it wouldnt have formed part of a dormant account 
process and in all likelihood suggests a branch visit was involved here. 
Furthermore, Santander have informed this service that given the amount involved here, that 
would again have been outside of their dormant account procedures. What I can see is 
Santander have attempted to search for any back dated records relating to Mrs Hs savings 
account and copy statements but with only limited success, given the time that has passed.
So, with that in mind I am satisfied Santander have attempted to establish the whereabouts 
of Mrs Hs savings account balance, but sadly it could only confirm the account was closed 
in 2010 at their Luton branch. 
While Mrs H may not agree, and feels Santanders records should be able to evidence the 
transactions on her saving account prior to its closure, given the length of time that has 
passed here, there isnt any more I could realistically expect of them, in these 
circumstances. 
While Mrs H will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Santander. 
My final decisionMy final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman