DRN-3588663
The complaint
Mr Y complains Monzo Bank Ltd didnt reimburse the money he lost when he was tricked 
into paying for an item he did not receive.
What happened
Both parties accept that Mr Y was the victim of a scam after he made a faster payment of 
£1,230. He made this payment for an item of kitchenware (bundled with some accessories), 
having seen this for sale on what appeared to him at the time to be a legitimate website. 
Hed found that website as the top result when hed searched online for the item. This item 
was manufactured overseas, and then sold through a network of agents local to each 
country.
Mr Y says the price being offered was in line with what he was expecting to pay for the item, 
and the website appeared exactly as if it were that of a professional and legitimate 
ecommerce site. He discussed the item and options with whom he believed to be a 
representative of the seller, using the websites chat function.
Mr Y then selected the options he wanted and then received an invoice. This appeared as 
he expected, and included the payment details he needed to use to purchase the item.
The invoice said these payment details were for someone who was his designated sales 
agent, this being confirmed to Mr Y over the chat facility. Mr Y says this matched the agent 
based selling model he knew was used by the brand. Overall, he explains he was completely 
convinced he was dealing with a legitimate seller.
Mr Y sent the payment by Faster Payment transfer from his Monzo account. However, after 
sending the money, the seller emailed him with an implausible excuse as to why it couldnt 
fulfil his order. He made contact with the seller via their chat function but given the 
subsequent responses he began to be concerned the retailer might not have been legitimate 
and that he might have been the victim of a scam. He reported what had happened to 
Monzo, and the scam was uncovered.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code) requires firms 
to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP scams in all but a limited number 
of circumstances. Monzo isnt a signatory of the CRM Code but it has stated that it is 
committed to applying the principles set out in it. Monzo said one or more of the exceptions 
to reimbursement applies in Mr Ys case. 
Monzo didnt agree to refund Mr Y. It said it had given Mr Y a scam warning and didnt 
consider hed taken sufficient steps to verify he was paying a legitimate seller. Monzo was 
able to recover a small proportion of Mr Ys payment from the recipient bank, but Mr Y 
remained significantly out of pocket.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ys complaint and thought it ought to be upheld.
The investigator didnt believe Monzo had fairly applied the CRM Code when it was 
considering his scam claim. The investigator didnt think that Monzo had provided an 
effective warning prior to Mr Y making the payment. He didnt agree that Monzo had been 
able to establish that Mr Y made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing he 
was making a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller.
Monzo maintained its position. In summary, it said:
- Mr Y appeared to understand the risk of paying by bank transfer. 
- He should have been concerned about being asked to pay an individual rather than a 
business account - no legitimate company would work in this way.
- Had Mr Y searched online for the company name (rather than searching the product 
name or distributor name) then hed have seen someone saying this was a scam on 
a public chat forum, as well as a comment left by someone on a blog posting.
In light of this disagreement, I have been asked to make a final decision on the outcome of 
Mr Ys complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I am satisfied that:
Under the terms of the CRM Code, Monzo should have refunded the money Mr Y 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
In the circumstances Monzo should fairly and reasonably refund the money Mr Y lost.
The money was sent from Mr Ys Monzo current account. It is not clear how Mr Y 
would have used the money if Monzo had refunded it when it should have done. But 
if Monzo had refunded the money when it ought reasonably to have done, Mr Y 
would not have been deprived of it for the time he has. So, Monzo should also pay 
interest on the balance not yet refunded at a rate of 8% simple per year. This interest 
should apply from the date Monzo first declined to refund Mr Y, to the date of 
settlement.
Im satisfied that Monzo has not shown that Mr Y ignored an effective scam warning or made 
the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was paying a legitimate seller 
for a legitimate item. It follows that I am not persuaded that Monzo has been able to 
establish those exceptions to reimbursement can fairly be applied to Mr Ys claim. I will 
explain why I have reached this finding.
Mr Y has explained that when he was making the payment, he was fully convinced this was 
a legitimate purchase from a legitimate seller. He details why he believed what he did at the 
time. Im persuaded by his recollections that the website appeared, to all intents, to be 
legitimate. He was provided with an invoice that again appears legitimate and consistent with 
what might be expected of a genuine seller.
The warning Monzo says it gave Mr Y was not tailored to any particular scam type, being 
generic in nature. I do not think Monzo is arguing that this met the minimum requirements of 
being an Effective Warning as defined under the CRM Code (for the avoidance of doubt, I do 
not consider it did). So, the possible exception to reimbursement under the CRM Code 
relating to Effective Warnings, cannot fairly be applied by Monzo.The warning message did however say that the customer should Stop if: [] The offer 
sounds too good to be true. Ive thought about whether this should have led Mr Y to have 
concerns about the payment he was about to make  in other words whether by proceeding 
past it he could not have held a reasonable basis for believing he was making a legitimate 
purchase.
However, here Mr Y didnt believe the offer was too good to be true. Based on what Ive 
seen, and my own research, Im satisfied that the price and bundle he was being offered 
were not out of line with what might reasonably have been expected  it was not too good to 
be true. I dont therefore think Mr Y should reasonably have considered this related to the 
scenario he was in. 
The warning message also said to stop if You havent double-checked who youre paying. 
But Mr Y did double-check the payee details with the seller via online chat on their website. 
He also received a partial name match for the payee account. I think he was entitled to 
reasonably believe hed taken the step Monzo recommended here. I dont consider it was 
clear if Monzo meant him to have done more than this, or what that might have been. In any 
event, I dont think this means Mr Y made the payment without a reasonable basis for 
believing it was being sent to whom he believed it was.
Monzo argues that had Mr Y searched under the company name he would have found a 
blog post by a rival seller and a chat forum posting both saying the company he was buying 
from was a scam.
Of course, this wasnt a step Monzo had suggested Mr Y undertake prior to making the 
payment. But Ive considered whether, nevertheless, it was unreasonable of Mr Y to proceed 
without having taken that step here.
Mr Y explains hed found the company as the top-rated result in a search for the product. I 
dont think it unreasonable for him to believe at the time that this suggested hed found the 
legitimate website on which to purchase the item he was searching for. 
Despite this, if in what followed Mr Y should have begun to have had reasonable grounds for 
concern about the website, Id agree with Monzo that he should have carried out further 
checks on it to reassure himself before proceeding.
But having considered all that subsequently happened, Im satisfied there was nothing that 
should obviously have changed that initial belief in the legitimacy of the website  there were 
no glaring red flags here that Mr Y ignored.
Monzo points out that the payment was being made to a personal account, and it says Mr Y 
should have been concerned by this. But the seller provided Mr Y with what I consider to 
have been a plausible explanation - that this was the agent designated to provide sales and 
support to Mr Y for the purchase. Mr Y knew the sales model employed was one of 
individual sales/service agents, so he accepted this (my own research supports his 
understanding of the sales model here). 
All in all, I dont think there was anything significantly concerning that should have prompted 
Mr Y to take further steps here to verify the legitimacy of the website. Nor did Monzos 
warning message suggest he should take such steps before making the payment.
In short, taking account of all the circumstances here, on balance Im not satisfied that 
Monzo has been able to establish that Mr Y made the payment without a reasonable basis 
for believing he was paying a genuine seller for a genuine item. Neither do I find Monzo has 
established that Mr Y ignored an effective warning it gave in compliance with the CRM Code. It follows that Monzo cannot fairly apply the relevant exceptions to reimbursing Mr Y under 
the CRM Code.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Ive decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ys 
complaint about Monzo Bank Ltd. I therefore require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Mr Y:
The balance of the money lost through this scam, being the sum of £1,230 less any 
sums already reimbursed or otherwise refunded; and,
8% simple interest per year on that amount calculated from the date the bank 
originally declined Mr Ys claim until the date of settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman