DRN-3287263
The complaint
Mr O complains about a loan given to him by UK Credit Limited which he feels was 
unaffordable for him at the time. 
The complaint is brought to us by his trustee in bankruptcy who Ill refer to as X, but for ease, 
Ill refer mainly to Mr O.
What happened
In April 2018, Mr O applied for a loan with UK Credit to repay some other debts. The loan 
was for £10,000 and was to be repaid by 60 monthly instalments of £339.06. Mr O says that 
UK Credit didnt carry out enough checks to ensure the loan was affordable for him.
UK Credit looked into his complaint. It said it had carried out a credit search to establish
Mr Os creditworthiness and noted a number of defaults from 2014/15 which he said related
to a period of unemployment. It also spoke to him about a County Court Judgement (CCJ)
registered in 2016, which he said related to a debt from the same period. He was up to date
with his current credit agreements and had just started a new job. Mr O told it he was living
with family and contributed £100 a month as board. He made eight repayments on time
before settling the loan in full. UK Credit was satisfied Mr O could afford the repayments.
Mr O didnt agree with UK Credits response, so referred his complaint to us. One of our
investigators looked into it. He felt that in view of the defaults, CCJ and size of this loan,
UK Credit should have carried out further checks. He said that if it had, it might have
obtained his bank statements which showed more money going out of his account than was
going in each month. He felt this, coupled with the information on his credit file, indicated he
didnt have sufficient income to maintain the repayments on a long-term basis and may be
facing financial difficulties. He asked UK Credit to put things right for Mr O.
Mr O accepted what our investigator said, but UK Credit didnt. It said (in summary):
Mr O had only recently started work, so his bank statements didnt yet reflect his new
circumstances. But even so, they showed no signs of pressure as there were no
unpaid items and the account never went overdrawn.
It had obtained proof of his new income and asked him about his expenditure. While
this was limited, it left him with a considerable surplus.
Mr O had given reasonable explanations of the defaults and CCJs on his credit file.
As there was no agreement, the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I disagree with our investigator and dont think Mr Os complaint should be 
upheld. I issued my provisional decision saying:
Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit on our website 
including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law. Ive considered
this approach when deciding this complaint.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that it didnt 
lend to Mr O irresponsibly. I think there are key questions I need to consider in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint:
Did UK Credit carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr 
O was in a position to sustainably repay the loan? 
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time? 
Did UK Credit make a fair lending decision? 
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way?
UK Credit had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr O 
would be able to repay the loan sustainably. Its not about UK Credit assessing the likelihood 
of it being repaid, but it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on him. The fact 
that the loan was guaranteed by a third party and the potential for UK Credit to pursue the 
guarantor instead of Mr O doesnt alter or lessen the obligation.
There is no set list of checks that it had to do, but it could take into account several different 
things such as the amount and length of the loan, the amount of the monthly repayments 
and the overall circumstances of the borrower.
Taking all that into account, I think a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to 
have been more thorough where: 
a customer has a low income (because it may make it more difficult to make loan 
payments of a set amount from a low level of income); 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (because it may be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment for a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (because the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
higher, and the customer is obliged to make payments for a longer period); and 
the greater the number and frequency of loans and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (because of the risk of repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing has become or was becoming 
unsustainable).
Ive listened to the conversation Mr O had with UK Credit to process his application. It asked
him about the various defaults and the CCJ showing on his credit file and Mr O explained the
circumstances which led to each. Several were due to unemployment and others were due
to issues with a family member  all around the same time. The explanations were plausible
and while I might have asked further questions, I dont think it was wrong for UK Credit to
rely on what Mr O had said.
Mr O had provided four weekly payslips from his new job which showed he was earning in
excess of £1,900 per month. He told UK Credit his only regular outgoing (apart from the 
various debts he was planning to repay with this loan) was £100 per month he paid as 
board. This left a large monthly disposable income, so I can see why UK Credit felt he could 
comfortably afford the £339.06 payments to this loan.In the application call that I referred to earlier, Mr O said he had a child that didnt live with 
him. But there was no conversation about whether Mr O paid anything towards the childs 
upkeep which Id have expected. On balance, I think UK Credit probably should have asked 
Mr O more questions about his expenditure given that he declared just £100 per month of 
fixed expenses. It didnt for instance ask about expenditure on food, clothing, travel, 
socialising, or, as Ive mentioned, childcare or maintenance.
So Ive considered what UK Credit might have found had it asked for further evidence of
Mr Os expenditure. Hes provided his bank statements for the three months leading up to 
the loan. As UK Credit has said, the account didnt go overdrawn and there are no unpaid 
items. Mr Os wages from his new job are seen to go into the account from February 2018 
when he started the role. There are lots of payments to and from family and friends, but very 
little evident by the way of fixed outgoings. So even if UK Credit had undertaken further 
checks to verify what Mr O had told it about his expenditure, I dont think it would have found 
anything of particular concern. And the large disposable income calculated allowed for 
reasonable expenses and still left sufficient for the loan to be repaid.
Mr O explained his plan was to clear a loan he had with a different provider, a loan from a
family member hed used to pay for a professional qualification and the defaults and CCJ.
Having now got back into work he was keen to make a fresh start with his finances and have
one regular payment go out of his account making things easier to manage. This doesnt
seem unreasonable.
While I do think UK Credit should have carried out further checks regarding Mr Os ability to
repay the loan, I dont think further investigations will have led it to reach a different lending
decision. I say this due to the explanations given for the information on his credit file, the
change in circumstances and disposable income generated by Mr Os new job, and the other
information it had collected as part of the process. Overall, I dont think UK Credits decision
to lend to was unreasonable or unfair. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that UK Credit
treated him unfairly in any other way.
My provisional decision has been acknowledged by both UK Credit and X with no comment. 
In the absence of any further evidence or arguments, I have no reason to reach a conclusion 
different from that set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022. 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman