DRN-2733599
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s handling of a claim 
under their building warranty.
What happened
Below is intended to be a summary of what happened and does not therefore include a full 
timeline or list every point that has been made.
My provisional decision focuses on issues reported by Mr and Mrs H relating to roof windows 
in their property. NHBC took over responsibility for these in 2016. So, our service can 
consider events from then, up until their final response in January 2020. However, I may 
refer to events both before and after these dates, for contextual purposes, or in any event 
where there has been a continuation of issues related to the windows following the final 
response.
Mr and Mrs H have raised other issues with NHBC, one of which relates to a knocking 
noise in their plumbing. I have already provided my decision on this under a separate 
reference. Any mention of this, or other issues not related to the windows, are purely for 
contextual purposes only.
Mr and Mrs H have experienced continued issues with the windows in their property leaking 
and suffering water ingress - in particular during wet and windy conditions. The propertys 
builder had previously carried out repairs and replaced the windows, but the ingress 
continued. 
In 2016, NHBC took over responsibility for the claim relating to the windows. The windows 
were both replaced with ones from a different manufacturer. In September 2019 
Mr and Mrs H said one of the windows failed again under heavy rain. They said NHBC told 
them they couldnt help, so they contacted the manufacturer for guidance. They provided 
several photos of the window and its surrounding area, both internally and externally. The 
manufacturer responded highlighting issues regarding the flashings and the installation. 
Mr and Mrs H said they put this information, including the photos, to NHBC. Mr and Mrs H 
say they were told by NHBC the performance of the window only had to conform to their 
technical requirements  not to the manufacturers specific standard. 
NHBC agreed to repair internal damage caused by the leaking and reimbursed 
Mr and Mrs H for the cost of temporary repairs they had carried out by using a separate 
contractor to resolve the immediate issue of leaking.  But Mr and Mrs H said NHBC didnt 
address the root cause of the ingress, so it continued to occur. 
Mr and Mrs H reported further cracking to the paint and plaster work around the bathroom 
window around December 2019. From reviewing photos sent by Mr and Mrs H, NHBC said 
the cracking had been caused by shrinkage, and as this was a general maintenance issue, 
they would not be responsible for this.
Mr and Mrs H raised a complaint with NHBC. In their final response, NHBC said Mr and Mrs 
H had raised issues with the redecoration work around the window  but didnt comment on 
the ingress issues. NHBC acknowledged that when they reviewed the photos from Mr and 
Mrs H, they incorrectly believed work to have been last carried out in 2016, which is why 
they said shrinkage was responsible.  NHBC offered Mr and Mrs H £250 compensation for 
the inconvenienced caused.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with NHBCs response. So they brought their complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator recommended Mr and Mrs Hs complaint be upheld. She said from the 
information available she was persuaded there was an issue with the window. To put things 
right she recommended NHBC re-investigate the issues with the window and pay 
Mr and Mrs H £400 compensation for the inconvenience theyd experienced through all of 
their claims.
In response to our investigator, NHBC said they were aware of the reoccurrence of the 
leaking window related to several areas where the flashing has not been installed correctly. 
Mr and Mrs H remained unhappy with how NHBC had handled their claim. They said NHBC 
had failed to sufficiently deal with structural issues relating to the window, so the problems 
would continue.
Further developments
Mr and Mrs H also reported further concerns about leaking, including to the other window, 
with NHBC in February 2020. 
They said repair proposals had been requested from one of their contractors so the matter 
could be concluded.  A contractor came to inspect Mr and Mrs Hs property in July 2020, 
they said the scope of work was not adequate for work required.
The scope was amended, and work was carried out at Mr and Mrs Hs property around 
September 2020. But Mr and Mrs H have said the issues have not been resolved and 
reported further ingress to NHBC in October 2020  and NHBC reattended the property. 
Mr and Mrs H say since works have been completed, they have observed condensation in 
their roof which they believe is attributed to ventilation issues caused by the works 
completed by NHBC. 
NHBC didnt agree this was the case, they said work had been completed in a different 
section of the roof and areas of ventilation were not touched during the repairs.
The complaint then passed to me.
My provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on 17 March 2021. In my provisional findings, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.Having done so, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
The issue of ingress through the windows was first reported several years before NHBC took 
over the claim. I can see from a report produced in 2012, NHBC note the ingress was 
occurring during heavy windblown rain  and appeared to be weather related. 
NHBC replaced the windows in 2016 with a set from a different manufacturer. Although I can 
see this is confirmed in emails Ive seen from both NHBC and Mr and Mrs H from around this 
time, I havent seen any detail showing the investigation that took place at the time. So 
although the windows were replaced, I cant see what investigations NHBC carried out to 
identify the cause of the ingress at the time.
The issue of ingress reoccurred in September 2019  with what appears to be similar 
circumstances, during windblown rain and adverse weather. Given the nature of this type of 
weather, its reasonable the issues could have taken some time to present themselves. So I 
do think it appears to be a continuation of the same issues Mr and Mrs H were experiencing 
previously.  
Mr and Mrs H provided a report from the manufacturer they obtained around September 
2019. Mr and Mrs H provided several photos in and around the window in the en suite 
bathroom, as well as outside on the roof and surrounding area.  The manufacturer said they 
could see from the photos parts of the flashing hadnt been installed correctly  and this 
could be allowing water underneath, which could then be finding its way into the property.
Mr and Mrs H provided this information to NHBC. NHBC does appear to have technical 
requirements relating to flashing and prevention of moisture entering a property but havent 
provided me with any detail that persuades me they considered this in detail. I can see the 
failed repair report completed in October 2019 mentions the manufacturers opinion as parts 
of it are copied into the report. But apart from this, and the photos provided by Mr and Mrs H, 
it doesnt offer much additional detail or suggested action except a comment that says, The 
flashings and underlay together with tile installation to be inspected and re-formed as 
required".
Following this I can see NHBC carried out some work inside Mr and Mrs Hs property  
which mainly appears to be redecoration work. And I can see they reimbursed Mr and Mrs H 
for work completed by their own contractor to stop the immediate leaking. 
But I cant see any further investigation was carried out at the time to identify the root cause 
of the ingress or to confirm if there was an issue with the flashings. I think given the 
information theyd been provided, there was an opportunity for them investigate further, and 
if necessary, to put things right and ensure any repairs were lasting and effective. As a 
result, Mr and Mrs H have continued to experience continued issues with the window 
leaking. They were then incorrectly told by the NHBC that further issues around the window 
were due to shrinkage.
Based on the information available to me, I think the installation of the flashings has been 
incorrect for some time and shouldve been considered when NHBC investigated the issues 
with the windows in 2016. NHBC had a chance to address this in 2019 when the window 
leaked again, but I cant see they did this until they instructed another contractor to attend  
which didnt happen until July 2020. NHBC seem to have addressed the resulted issues 
presented by the ingress  for example damage to the plaster on the wall around the 
window, but they dont seem to have addressed the root cause of the ingress itself when 
they had the opportunity to.Mr and Mrs H have had to continuously contact NHBC to resolve issues and as the issue 
has continued reoccur, there has been no resolution between both parties. So I can fully 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs frustration.
Putting things right
The window that appears to be causing the main concern is the one in Mr and Mrs Hs en 
suite bathroom  but its more likely than not the issues reported could present themselves in 
the other window. NHBC needs to make sure a full and lasting repair is completed to both 
windows. I can see there have been several attempts to address the issues around the 
windows  and both parties are not in agreement over a number of issues during the claim. 
So I think in the circumstances, it reasonable for NHBC to provide Mr and Mrs H a choice of 
three different independent surveyors to choose from, and commission them to carry out 
investigations around the installation of the windows, produce a report to determine all 
potential causes of the ingress, and recommend next steps for a full, lasting and effective 
repair. NHBC would then need to implement these recommendations  and include any 
necessary redecoration work.
Mr and Mrs H have said repair work previously carried, in relation to the windows has 
contributed to further damage to their property. Although I have managed both parties 
expectations about matters relating to condensation reported by Mr and Mrs H being a 
separate issue. In order to bring all matters relating to the windows to a conclusion I also 
think its reasonable the independent surveyor comments on the related repairs that have 
been carried out by NHBC and the separate contractor and whether these are attributable 
to the damage and issues reported. If this is found to be the case, NHBC should put right the 
damage.
Taking everything Ive set out above into consideration, I think compensation is due. In their 
final response NHBC offered Mr and Mrs H £250 compensation. I think NHBC should 
increase this by £1,000 totalling £1,250 as I think this fairly represents the inconvenience 
theyve been caused over a prolonged period.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs H responded to say they were pleased with my provisional findings but offered 
further points for my consideration. They said the issues in high driven rain had not 
reoccurred so far and, due to personal circumstances, an independent survey wouldnt 
currently be necessary or helpful at this point. Mr and Mrs H said they would like the option 
to revisit this later.
They highlighted concerns that their current personal circumstances might prevent them 
from being awarded compensation due to NHBCs terms and conditions.
NHBC didnt agree with my provisional findings. They reiterated some of their points and 
provided further points for me to consider, including:
NHBC said it is clear they considered the comments by Velux with the actions for 
their contractor to reform the flashing as required
They said following replacing the windows in 2016 there has been no further issues 
with the other window, and only the en suite window has leaked - so they dont agree 
further repairs are required to the unaffected windowThey also said at the time of issuing their final response on 15 January 2020, no 
further leaking had been reported so they were unable to consider it at the time
Mr H and Mrs H raised concerns about damage to their property they believe was 
caused by NHBC. NHBC said they responded to this point in a separate final 
response and disagree damage to the property is subject to this complaint
NHBC disagree with my recommendation for compensation and feel it is excessive 
when compared to similar cases. They said no issues were noted with the window 
until September 2019. So there was no inconvenience in this time. They said when 
the leaking was reported to them, they responded swiftly shortly after and covered 
the cost of emergency repairs  which they werent obligated to do. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the additional points provided by both parties but having done so, it doesnt 
change my decision  or my reasoning.
When a decision is made by an ombudsman, it isnt subject to a financial businesss terms 
and conditions. But there are conditions for the decision to become binding on both parties. 
More detail explaining this is given in a separate letter to this complaint.
Following this, if Mr and Mrs H accept my decision, it will be for them to work with NHBC to 
allow them to carry out the directions Ive set out in my decision.  Its not unreasonable Mr 
and Mrs H might need some time before an independent inspection can take place - and 
NHBC should approach this with Mr and Mrs H reasonably. But Mr and Mrs H will also need 
to manage their own expectations that this cannot be something they retain a right to do 
indefinitely. 
Ive already explained to NHBC why I believe this is a complaint that we can consider  and 
provided my reasons for doing so. Mr and Mrs H wrote to NHBC In January 2020 before a 
final response was issued. They raised the installation and water ingress issues with the 
window being considered under this reference. I can also see NHBC responded shortly after 
to say Mr and Mrs Hs comments would be taken into consideration as part of their review. 
So I think NHBC have had time to consider this complaint in full and its one I can look at.
As Ive set out in my provisional findings, a failed repair report was prepared but it wasnt 
particularly detailed. The report says:
The flashings and underlay together with tile installation to be inspected (my emphasis) 
and re-formed as required. 
So while I think it does acknowledge there was a defect, I have very little in the way of 
further detail explaining when the flashings were inspected or corrected near the time  or 
whether efforts were made to do so. All I can see is redecoration was completed in 
November 2019  and Mr H and Mrs H raised concerns only redecoration work had been 
carried out following this. So while NHBC might have acknowledged the manufacturers 
comments about the flashings, Im not persuaded based on the evidence available to me, 
NHBC acted swiftly to put things rightBoth of the windows were replaced at the same time, its acknowledged that there is an 
issue with the flashings on the en suite window  so I think its reasonable to consider that if 
the issue exists on one of the windows, it potentially does on the other. And Mr and Mrs H 
shouldnt be disadvantaged by this. So if the same issue with the flashings is reported on the 
other window, its reasonable NHBC should put this right.
I have managed both parties expectations about the matters relating to condensation. 
Mr and Mrs H believe this is attributable to issues and repairs related to this complaint, 
NHBC dont agree.
So in order to bring all matters relating to the windows to a conclusion I think its reasonable 
the independent surveyor comments on the related repairs that have been carried out by 
NHBC and the separate contractor and whether these are attributable to the damage and 
issues now reported. If this is found to be the case, NHBC should put right the damage.
I understand NHBC dont agree with the compensation set out in my provisional decision  
and Ive considered their comments on this. But we arent bound by our previous decisions 
and we consider each case on its own individual facts, taking into account what we think is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, my direction for compensation remains the 
same as set out in my provisional decision  and for the same reasons.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
I direct National House-Building Council to put things right as I have set out above in my 
provisional findings.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman