DRN-1684655
 
The complaint
Ms S says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out in connection with a store card in 1996. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld, because he didnt think Ms S 
wouldve bought the policy if shed had better information about its cost and benefit. 
AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Where the evidence is incomplete, 
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my conclusions on the balance 
of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ss case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ss complaint because I think if better information about the 
policys costs and benefits had been provided by AXA, its unlikely Ms S would have taken it 
out. 
The information AXA gave Ms S about the cost and benefit wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. I say this because although Ms S may have been told the cost was £1.00 per £100 of 
the outstanding balance, I think its unlikely she wouldve been told that the premium would 
be added to her store card balance and could attract interest. I also think its unlikely that 
AXA pointed out that the benefit was actually less than 15% in real terms, as Ms S would 
have to continue paying the premium while receiving the policy benefit.
I think this would have mattered to Ms S because at the point of sale she was entitled to full 
pay from her employer if she was off sick for six months, followed by half pay for the next six 
months. Shes also told us she had savings of around £3,000. So the combination of her sick 
pay and savings means she doesnt appear to have had a strong need for the policy, given 
she had other ways to meet the store card repayments for a while without it.
I dont think Ms S would still have wanted to take out the policy if she had better understood 
its cost and limited benefit to her. So, I think Ms S has been disadvantaged as a result of 
AXAs failings in this case, because I dont think she would have taken out the policy if better 
information had been available.I've taken into account AXA's comments, including what it said about the sick pay and 
savings Ms S says she had. AXA considers Ms S should provide evidence of her employer 
benefits and savings.
But these events took place over twenty years ago. So I don't think it's reasonable to expect 
Ms S to be able to provide the evidence AXA is seeking.
I'm also mindful that Ms S's testimony about her sick pay and savings has been consistent 
since the outset of her complaint. I've also taken into account what Ms S has told me about 
her living arrangements at the time, and the nature of her employment. And having done so, 
I don't think it's unreasonable for me to accept what Ms S has said about the sick pay she 
says she was entitled to, and the saving she says she had.
So I still don't think Ms S had a strong need for the PPI, and I remain of the view that the 
complaint should be upheld.  
Putting things right
AXA should put Ms S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.  AXA should find out how much Ms S would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  
as well as any interest added to those charges.
AXA should then refund the difference between what Ms S owed when she closed her 
account and what she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms S made a successful claim under the PPI policy, AXA can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount it owes her.
B.  AXA should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms S would have owed 
when she closed her account from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year. 
C.  If  when AXA works out what Ms S would have owed each month without PPI  Ms 
S paid more than enough to clear her balance, AXA should also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Ms S would have 
owed AXA something on her store card. The interest rate should be 8% a year. 
D.  AXA should tell Ms S what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest. AXA must give Ms 
S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
 
 
 
My final decisionMy decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct AXA France IARD to pay compensation to 
Ms S in line with the instructions above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2020.
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman