DRN-3349921
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc blocked and closed his accounts. He says this 
caused him financial difficulties and he wants compensation. 
What happened
Mr S had a savings and current account with HSBC.
In  April 2020, HSBC reviewed Mr Ss accounts. Whilst it completed its review HSBC 
blocked the accounts  which meant Mr S couldnt access the funds in it. Following this 
HSBC decided to close Mr Ss accounts and gave him just over two months notice that hed 
need to make alternative banking arrangements. 
Mr S complained to HSBC about the block and closure of his accounts. The bank said it 
hadnt done anything wrong and had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Ss 
accounts and relevant regulations. 
Mr S explained due to the restriction on his accounts he wasnt able to use his bank card to 
buy things he needed and couldnt access the money in his account. He said he spoke to 
HSBC on the phone and the bank asked him lots of questions about transactions on his 
account which he found intrusive and upsetting. And when he spoke to HSBC to try and find 
out what was happening with his accounts and the reasons behind the banks actions, HSBC 
didnt provide much information. 
Mr S wasnt happy with the banks response and brought his complaint to this service. He 
explained that the whole experience had been upsetting and stressful. And he wants the 
bank to pay him compensation.
 
One of our investigators reviewed the complaint. He thought HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong when it blocked and closed Mr Ss accounts. He said theyd acted in line with their 
legal and regulatory obligations. And had treated Mr S fairly. 
Mr S disagreed. He wants HSBC to pay him compensation for the inconvenience and upset 
the block and closure of his accounts caused him. And provide a proper explanation for its 
actions. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, as the investigator has already explained, HSBC has extensive legal and regulatory 
responsibilities they must meet when providing account services to customers. And to fulfil 
these obligations they may need to review activity taking place on accounts and ask 
customers for information, for example about payments, and information about the 
individuals operating the accounts  its entitled and obliged to carry out such checks. The 
terms of Mr Ss account also permit HSBC to review an account and ask its customers for 
information. 
Having looked at all the evidence, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances 
for HSBC to block Mr Ss accounts. And ask him about certain transactions. HSBC has 
explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Im satisfied that in 
doing so HSBC were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, 
the banks actions upset Mr S and he found HSBCs questions intrusive, I cant say the bank 
treated him unfairly. 
I understand that Mr S wants HSBC to explain the reason it applied the block to his accounts 
in the first place. But HSBC doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their 
accounts. And its under no obligation to tell Mr S the reasons behind the account review and 
block, as much as hed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving 
Mr S this information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so.
I then turn to the banks decision to close the accounts. Its generally for banks to decide 
whether or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any 
particular customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually 
say that a bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had 
their account closed. As long as they reach their decisions about that in a legitimate manner, 
this service wont usually intervene. Im satisfied here that the banks decision to stop 
providing Mr S with banking facilities was reached legitimately and fairly.
Banks should, however, give reasonable notice before closing an account. Usually, that 
means 60 days notice, but it can be less  depending on the circumstances. In this case 
HSBC gave Mr S 62 days notice of its intention to close his accounts. The bank wrote to 
Mr S on 29 April 202 and told him the accounts would close. So, it was entitled to close the 
accounts as it has already done. 
In summary, its clearly caused Mr S inconvenience when he wasnt able to use his 
accounts. So understandably hes upset. And I appreciate it must have been a worrying and 
frustrating time for him. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But having 
looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I wont be telling HSBC to do 
anything else to resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman