DRN-1132370
 
The complaint
Mrs S, represented by her daughter Ms S, complains about advice given by Lloyds Bank 
PLC to invest in a High Investment Plan.
What happened
Mrs S was advised to start the plan for a 10-year term in 1994. She invested £100 per 
month in the TSB Equity Fund and when the plan matured in 2004 it returned just over 
£11,300.
Ms S made a complaint to Lloyds about the advice in 2019. It acknowledged that the 
recommendation had been too much of a commitment for Mrs S and at too high a level of 
risk. It offered to compensate her by comparing the plan's performance with that of a no-risk 
benchmark.  It calculated that she should be paid just over £8,600, which represented her 
loss, plus interest at 8% simple from maturity to date. 
Ms S didn't accept this. She felt that her mother had also experienced a great deal of stress 
in trying to maintain the unsuitable investment. She felt the compensation payment should 
be rounded up to £10,000 to reflect this. But Lloyds didn't agree. 
The complaint was referred to this service but our investigator concluded the same as 
Lloyds. She felt the compensation already offered was fair. Ms S remained of the view that 
Lloyds should pay Mrs S more than just the lost interest so the compensation would better 
reflect the disappointment and stress experienced by Mrs S.
As no agreement could be reached, the matter was referred to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the file and noted Ms S' very compelling argument for some additional 
payment to be made I suggested that Lloyds make a payment of £250 to acknowledge the 
distress Mrs S had experienced in trying to maintain the unsuitable plan. 
Lloyds accepted my suggestion. Ms S, while still of the view the amount should be more, 
was also happy to accept and appreciated that there'd been acknowledgement that Mrs S 
had been inconvenienced.
 
 
Putting things rightLloyds must pay £250 to compensate Mrs S for the trouble and upset caused by the mis-
sale of the policy. This in addition to the amount calculated for her investment loss.
(I note that Lloyds used a comparison rate of Bank of England base rate + 1% until 1 
February 1996, followed by the average fixed rate bond rate to 2004. Our usual approach for 
a no-risk comparison prior to 1996 is to use just base rate. But given in this case the 
additional amount created by the 'plus 1%' is negligible, so I see no need for Lloyds to 
amend its loss calculation.)
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Lloyds Bank 
PLC to pay compensation to Mrs S as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman