DRN-4002260
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way that Aviva Insurance Limited dealt with their claim for 
Accidental Damage and/or theft following a house move.
What happened
In May 2022, following a house move, Mr and Mrs H realised that a lot of their items had 
been damaged or went missing during the move. Mrs H reported the claim to Aviva, who 
appointed a specialist company (C) to conduct a site investigation. Mrs H was asked to draw 
up a list of items. C reported back and the claim was assigned to a company of restorers and 
also valuers. 
There were disputes about whether some items of furniture could be restored or needed to 
be replaced. Mrs H advised that the washing machine and tumble dryer were damaged. 
Aviva initially said these werent damaged in the move and Mrs H subsequently had them 
repaired under a maintenance insurance policy.
The flooring was reported as being damaged, and a report on this had to be carried out. 
Then in October 2022 Mrs H advised that she wanted a number of items to be added to the 
claim. Aviva asked C to investigate. Mrs H made a complaint about the letter written to her 
and Mr H which she said was an allegation that they had committed fraud. That complaint 
has been dealt with separately.
Mrs H complained of a lack of contact and a lack of help, she felt she had to act as her own 
loss adjuster. She complained that Aviva had initially sought to charge her two excesses and 
had never confirmed in writing that it wouldnt do so. She complained about the settlement 
for a number of items, though these have all been settled now.
On review by our Investigator, they said that Mrs H could have been kept more updated on 
the claim and that she was put to some inconvenience particularly over the progress of the 
flooring claim, and some items where Aviva wasnt offering like for like replacements. They 
proposed that Aviva pay compensation of £300.
Mrs H was unhappy that C, who she believes are fraud investigators not loss adjusters were 
involved with the claim, and that payments were issued by various companies instead of by 
Aviva. She and Mr H both have a number of health issues which she feels were not taken 
into account.
The parties reported to us that in early January 2023, all items in the claim had now been 
settled, leaving only the question of compensation to be resolved.
The matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
items settled
Mr and Mrs Hs claim has now been settled. Our Investigator did identify some delays over 
the flooring report and that some of the items being offered as replacements werent to the 
same specification, causing Mrs H more work. Otherwise Ill make no further comment on 
these.
two excesses
Mrs H complains that Aviva sought to charge her two excesses as she was making claims 
both for theft and accidental damage. It subsequently agreed that it was just one claim. It 
hasnt, as far as I can see, specifically set this out in writing to Mrs and Mrs H, but it has 
confirmed to our Investigator and hasnt charged two excesses. For Mr and Mrs Hs peace of 
mind, Ill direct Aviva to confirm that this was just one claim.
delays, poor service
Mrs H was upset about the delays and lack of contact. She is also concerned that Aviva 
appointed C, who she understands are a firm of fraud investigators, and that her claim was 
regarded as fraudulent. She further believes that, bearing in mind her and her husbands 
health issues, she had to do the job of a loss adjuster. She had to deal with three different 
companies apart from Aviva, and received payments from those companies rather than 
Aviva. It didnt appoint an overall claim handler until quite late in the day.
This was a complicated case in terms of the number of items which had to be reviewed. And 
its unusual for a removal firm to cause quite so much damage. So I think that Aviva was 
justified in appointing C to look at the claim. Im aware that C is a specialist company who. 
amongst other things, will investigate allegations of fraud, and I understand Mrs Hs 
concerns about that. Mrs Hs complained about a letter written in October 2022 to them 
which she says alleged fraud which has been dealt with as a separate complaint. At no time 
before the October letter was it alleged by Aviva that fraud had been committed. Whilst the 
removers mostly denied liability, Aviva didnt expect Mr and Mrs H to make a claim on the 
removers insurance. But its clear that in this case that C was effectively acting as a loss 
adjuster to investigate and advise Aviva about the claim and its liability.
Unfortunately as the claim involved a great number of items Mrs H was put to a lot of trouble 
in drawing up lists and providing evidence of damage. But I cant see that this could have 
been avoided. I dont think she was doing the loss adjusters job  policyholders are routinely 
asked for this type of detail in theft and damage claims. However I do think it would have 
been bewildering for Mrs H to receive contact from three different companies all of whom 
had authority to deal directly with Mr and Mrs H. I think consideration should have been 
given by Aviva to appoint an overall claims handler in the first place. Aviva has already 
confirmed to our Investigator that the claim could have been set up so all payments went 
through it. 
I understand that Mrs H had to chase around several times for updates and she could have 
been kept better updated. But bearing in mind the complexity of the claim, and that a 
substantial number of items were first notified to Aviva in October 2022, I think that the claim 
being settled by January 2023, was done within a reasonable amount of time.
Finally, as set out above Mrs Hs further complaint about a letter written to her has been 
dealt with separately. I also understand that she has lodged a further complaint with Aviva, 
which will also be dealt with separately.
compensationI understand that Mr and Mrs H do have health issues and I dont doubt that this claim must 
have been very distressing for them, would have affected them. And in having to deal with 
providing evidence, photos and lists with values would have been very stressful. However 
whilst taking these circumstances into account, I have to assess to what extent Avivas 
actions added to that. Ive noted the lack of contact at certain points, the confusion caused 
by having so many companies acting independently and the delay in dealing with the flooring 
claim. But I think Aviva did take their vulnerabilities into account when carrying out its 
investigations, and the settlement mostly reflected what Mr and Mrs H had asked for.
Talking into account our overall approach to compensation and awards we have made in 
similar cases I do think that a £300 compensation award for distress and inconvenience is 
fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
Aviva should pay £300 compensation.
It should further confirm to Mr and Mrs H that this is one claim, subject to one excess.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Aviva Insurance Limited to carry out the remedy set out 
under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman