DRN-3284300
The complaint
C Ltd, represented by Miss G, complained because HSBC UK Bank plc allowed a debit from 
C Ltds account, even though it had given instructions that this wasnt to happen.
HSBC reversed the debit, but C Ltd wasnt satisfied with the compensation which HSBC 
awarded.
What happened
C Ltd completed work for a client abroad. The client paid C Ltd in two payments, both 
through a payment processing company abroad. 
On 30 June 2020, the payment processing company notified C Ltd that the client had 
reported the two payments it had made to C Ltd as fraudulent. 
Miss G, for C Ltd, contacted the client. The client said theyd had made a mistake in 
reporting the payments to C Ltd as fraudulent. Miss G also contacted HSBC, as there was a 
direct debit on the account in favour of the payment processing company, which she didnt 
recognise. This had been set up by the payment processing company on 19 May. HSBC 
cancelled it on the day Miss G rang, 30 June.
Some weeks later, the client hadnt sorted this out with the payment processing company. 
So the payment processing company threatened to debit the disputed amount from C Ltds 
HSBC account on 28 July.
Miss G contacted HSBC and was advised to go to her local branch. On 20 July she did so, 
taking all documents with her. She told the adviser that she was worried the payment 
processing company would debit the money from C Ltds account. The adviser kept a copy 
of the documents and assured Miss G that C Ltds account wouldnt be debited.
C Ltd had further communications with the client and the payment processing company. On 
25 July, the payment processing company advised that one of the two  claims had been 
dropped  but on 28 August it advised that the claim for the other payment had been 
decided in favour of the client. Miss G has explained that she spent a great deal of time 
chasing the client abroad and the payment processing company. In one of the calls, the 
payment processing company told Miss G that it was going to try to take the disputed 
payment, which was for the equivalent of £1,003.10 sterling, from C Ltds HSBC account on 
7 September.
Miss G emailed the HSBC branch adviser on 4 September, who told her there was no 
transaction pending as far as she could see. 
Miss G checked C Ltds account and saw that there was a direct debit in favour of the 
payment processing company, which C Ltd hadnt authorised. She cancelled it, but on 7 
September the payment processing company withdrew £1,003.10 from C Ltds account.
Miss G contacted the HSBC branch adviser shed previously dealt with, but was told to call 
the main HSBC number. It took Miss G over an hour to get through. The phone adviser 
reversed the direct debit and set up a complaint for C Ltd.
In HSBCs final response to C Ltd, it said it had listened to Miss Gs June phone call, and it 
had cancelled the direct debit as shed requested. The direct debit had been reinstated by 
the payment processing company on 27 August, through the automated direct debit service 
AUDDIS. HSBC said it had added a care message to C Ltds account, requesting that no 
future direct debits should be set up for the payment processing company. It apologised, and 
said it had credited C Ltds account with £150 in view of the inconvenience.
C Ltd, represented by Miss G, wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. On the 
complaint form, Miss G said it had taken her over five days to deal with this. She said her 
main concern was that the branch adviser had taken all the details and had assured her that 
the payment processing company couldnt access C Ltds account. Miss G was also 
unhappy that after the disputed payment had gone through, the branch adviser had referred 
her to HSBCs phone line, where shed had to wait a long time for someone to deal with C 
Ltds problem. Miss G said that HSBC had broken its commitment to keep C Ltds money 
safe and said I am looking for thousands of pounds compensation rather than £150.
Our investigator didnt uphold C Ltds complaint. He noted that HSBC had reversed the 
disputed direct debit soon after it was collected, so there was no financial loss for C Ltd. He 
said that having to make a complaint or deal with a problem like this was part of the role of a 
director, and he couldnt recommend compensation. The investigator thought that HSBCs 
£150 payment, and having added a care marker to prevent further direct debits to the 
payment processing company being set up, was a fair and reasonable outcome.
C Ltd, represented by Miss G, didnt agree. She said HSBCs failings needed to be 
acknowledged. HSBC had twice reassured her that no-one could access C Ltds account, 
once by phone and once at the branch  but it had still let the disputed payment happen. 
Miss G said preparing the information for HSBC and subsequent meetings and emails took 
up time which she should have been spending on her business.
Miss G also said that the branch adviser had disappeared after the disputed transaction had 
been paid, just directing her, without apology or explanation, to HSBCs phone lines where 
shed had to wait nearly an hour. Miss G said she shouldnt have had to contact HSBC and it 
should have contacted her about the payment, to put its mistake right. Miss G said it was 
only due to her regular monitoring of the account that shed managed to get the money back.
Miss G said the situation deserves more than just £150 dumped unceremoniously into my 
account  with no apology or recognition of the time wasted. She said she felt very badly let 
down by the compensation and the way HSBC had conducted itself during its fundamental 
mistake. On behalf of C Ltd, Miss G asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I recognise that this situation, where a client and their payment processing company 
abroad tried to reclaim money it had already correctly paid, would have been difficult for C 
Ltd and Miss G as its representative. But much of this situation was to do with the client 
abroad and their payment processing company. My role is solely to look at whether HSBC 
acted fairly and reasonably towards C Ltd. The disputed payment and the direct debit
The main issue in C Ltds complaint is the fact that the disputed payment was debited 
despite the fact that C Ltd had notified HSBC that it shouldnt be paid. Ive checked the 
records, and the direct debit set up on 19 May was cancelled on 30 June. So when Miss G 
went into the branch and spoke to the adviser on 20 July, the direct debit in favour of the 
payment processing company had already been cancelled and  as the advisor told Miss G - 
there was no direct debit on the account at that point. 
But the payment processing company set it up again, again without C Ltds consent, on 27 
August. When the client, through their payment processing company, had sent the invoice 
payments to C Ltd, it had used AUDDIS. HSBC has explained that AUDDIS is automatic, 
and other than a care message added to the account, the bank cant stop direct debit 
mandates being set up. 
In HSBCs final response on 18 September, it told Miss G that it had put a care marker on 
C Ltds account. But Miss G had put HSBC on notice that there was a problem before the 
September debit. So it doesnt feel fair for HSBC just to have followed the automated 
AUDDIS procedures in those circumstances. I accept that Miss G did all she could to put 
HSBC on notice of this issue and to avoid the very situation she ended up in.
Its not clear to me whether HSBCs care marker would have prevented the direct debit 
being set up again by AUDDIS, but in any event, I consider this marker, or whatever was 
needed to block the reinstatement of the direct debit, should have been put onto C Ltds 
account earlier. It could have been done on 30 June when the first direct debit was cancelled 
from C Ltds account, and certainly from 20 July when Miss G took in all relevant documents 
and provided a full explanation of the circumstances.
I also note that the direct debit which was reinstated on 27 August would have been on the 
account when Miss G emailed the branch adviser on 4 September. She was told there was 
no transaction pending  when there was.
So I consider that HSBC didnt treat C Ltd fairly here, and should pay compensation. Ive 
discussed the amount below.
Delays in dealing with C Ltds concerns
The other main part of C Ltds complaint is that, after the disputed payment was made in 
early September, the branch adviser referred C Ltd to HSBCs phone service. I understand 
why Miss G was annoyed, because it took her a long time to get through on the phone. On 
the other hand, I consider it was reasonable for the branch adviser to refer the problem to 
the specialist headquarters team, because it had become more complex as a result of the 
payment being made. But it would have been frustrating to have to wait nearly an hour to be 
connected, especially when Miss G had already supplied very full details to the branch. 
HSBCs final response letter did apologise for the inconvenience. It also acted promptly to 
retrieve the money when it was debited in early September. I dont agree  with Miss G that 
HSBC dumped £150 compensation into C Ltds account without apology, because the final 
response letter both apologised and explained the reason for the £150. Nor do I agree that 
HSBC should have identified the payment and contacted Miss G, rather than Miss G having 
to contact HSBC. The disputed payment went through automatically through AUDDIS, and 
as a director of C Ltd, Miss G also had a responsibility to monitor the account.
CompensationTaking into account the facts that HSBC:
- didnt prevent AUDDISs reinstatement of the direct debit which AUDDIS had placed 
on the account when it credited C Ltds account, even though it knew  there was a 
dispute;
- didnt set up the care marker until 18 September, when C Ltd had reported the 
problem on 30 June;
- gave incorrect information on 4 September about there being no direct debit set up 
on the account, when there was; 
- caused inconvenience by Miss G having to phone HSBC to repeat the information 
which shed already provided in detail to the branch  and the phone call involved a 
very long wait; 
I consider compensation should be paid.
When considering the amount of compensation, the key fact is that the account holder, C 
Ltd, is a company and not an individual.  Technically, a company may be caused 
inconvenience, but cant suffer distress as a person would do. So we dont award 
compensation for distress and personal upset to a limited company, even if its directors or 
employees have experienced those impacts individually. This means that the compensation I 
award here can only be based on the inconvenience and impact on C Ltd as a company.
Miss G told us her hourly rate and how many days this issue cost her. But we dont generally 
award compensation on an hourly rate. And compensation is limited, because sadly we're all 
inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and its not unusual to experience a certain 
level of frustration and minor annoyance when dealing with businesses. But for us to make 
an award wed need to see that the impact of a business's mistake was more than what 
someone would expect to experience in everyday life.
Taking all these factors into account, I consider that £150 was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint for the inconvenience and impact of HSBCs failings on C 
Ltd.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint for additional compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman