DRN-3844179
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) avoided his motor insurance policy 
following a claim.
What happened 
Mr J took out a motor insurance policy with Ageas through an online broker. In March 2022, 
he was involved in a motor accident and a claim was made against the policy.
Ageas started to investigate the claim and then said Mr J had answered the questions they 
asked about the registered keeper of the insured car incorrectly. As Mr J said his spouse 
was the registered keeper instead of his brother. They also said they considered this to be a 
careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled them to refuse all claims and avoid the 
policy. Arrangements were also put in place for the policy premium to be refunded via the 
broker.
Mr J brought his complaint to us as he didnt think he had been treated fairly. After 
considering the complaint, the investigator didnt uphold it. He concluded Mr J had made a 
qualifying careless misrepresentation and he didnt think Ageas had done anything wrong in 
response.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator and therefore asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said he now knows the answer he gave about the registered keeper was 
incorrect. However, this was an innocent mistake as he mixed up the meaning of the word 
spouse and honestly thought it meant sibling. He never intended to mislead anyone, and 
Ageas had acknowledged this in their final response. He also said avoiding the policy was 
unfair given the serious impact of this action.
The investigators opinion remained the same. He said he appreciates the impact of Ageas 
decision, and Mr Js comments about not intending to mislead. However, as he was satisfied 
Mr J made a qualifying careless misrepresentation, he didnt think Ageas had done anything 
wrong. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as -  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Ageas thinks Mr J failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
applied for the policy online and answered the following questions: 
Are you the registered keeper of the car? 
Who is the registered keeper of the car?
As Mr J correctly answered no to the first question, he was then required to select an 
answer to the second from a drop down menu. Mr J responded by selecting the option which 
said spouse. Im satisfied this answer was incorrect as the registered keeper of the car was 
his brother.
Mr J has said he honestly believed the word spouse meant sibling, but this isnt the case. 
The Cambridge Dictionary defines the word spouse as a persons husband or wife. So, Im 
satisfied a reasonable consumer would understand it to have a clear and specific meaning. 
Mr J could also have checked the words definition before proceeding with the application if 
he was unsure. So, Im satisfied he didnt take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when he answered the above question. 
Ageas have provided our service with a copy of their underwriting criteria. This shows they 
wouldnt have offered Mr J a policy if he had provided correct information about the 
registered keeper of the car. So, this means Mr Js misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Mr J has requested to see a copy of the underwriting criteria, however, as it's commercial in 
nature I wouldnt reasonably expect Ageas to share it with him. But I can confirm that I've 
considered it carefully before reaching this decision. 
Under CIDRA, a misrepresentation can be deliberate or reckless, or careless. There is no 
category of innocent misrepresentation. Ageas have said Mr Js misrepresentation was 
careless. As this offers the most favourable outcome for Mr J ( compared to it being 
categorised as deliberate or reckless) I see no reason to interfere with this decision.
As Im satisfied Mr Js qualifying misrepresentation should be treated as careless, Ive 
looked at the actions Ageas can take in accordance with CIDRA. These include avoiding the 
policy and refusing all claims. However, they must also refund the policy premium. As this 
reflects Ageas actions here - Im satisfied they treated Mr J fairly and I dont direct them to 
do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman