DRN-3416381
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) has put a 
marker on the National Hunter and SIRA fraud prevention databases in connection with a 
mortgage application recording conflicting salary details. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage with Halifax in October 2020 and were given an offer. 
They lost this property and found another so updated their application for a new property in 
November 2020. The application was declined on 23 November 2020 due to Mrs Bs salary 
but they say no further explanation was provided. They appealed this decision and provided 
Halifax with further documentation but the appeal was declined. 
Mr and Mrs B applied for a mortgage with a different lender but this was also declined on 11 
January 2021. When Mr and Mrs B made further enquiries they discovered that Halifax had 
loaded a fraud marker due to conflicting salary details for Mrs B. 
As a result of this Mr and Mrs B complained to Halifax and further documents were 
requested from Mrs B in the form of payslips, bank statements and employment summary 
from HMRC. Mrs B provided these but Halifax rejected their complaint despite the 
documentation provided. They are unable to understand why the mortgage was offered in 
October but then declined in November despite nothing changing in relation to Mrs Bs 
employment or salary.
Mr and Mrs B say that they have been affected mentally and financially by the fraud marker 
being applied. They were near the end of their house purchase and risked losing the 
property after spending money on solicitors, surveys and searches. They wanted to 
complete the purchase before the stamp duty holiday deadline of 30 June 2021. Although 
they eventually found a new lender for the mortgage who was able to complete before the 
deadline, they also had to search for new solicitors. Mr and Mrs B say that due to the delay 
caused by Halifax they missed the deadline which meant they had to pay £7,000 in stamp 
duty which hit them hard financially.
Mr and Mrs B would like Halifax to remove the fraud markers and some of the credit 
searches from their file. They would also like compensation for the time, money and risk of 
losing the purchase of their house and the extra stress this caused.
In relation to the three hard searches on Mrs Bs credit file, Halifax said in its response to this 
issue that the first search on 20 October 2020 was done for the mortgage application and 
the second on the same date would have been if the broker made any amendment to the 
application. There was a third hard search on 25 January 2021 which was generated at the 
time Mr and Mrs B made their complaint to Halifax due to the file being reviewed. Halifax 
said that the case should have been closed once the application was declined so accepted 
that this should not have happened. It requested the removal of the third search from the 
credit file and offered £100 compensation for the inconvenience this had caused.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. Mr and Mrs B provided further information to this 
service explaining the difference between the payslips and the income received. This was 
provided to Halifax and it agreed to remove the fraud markers for Mrs B. It said that there 
were no markers applied against Mr Bs name. Halifax also offered £400 in compensation 
due to the prolonged complaint journey to have the markers removed. However, Halifax 
didnt agree to cover any consequential losses (such as the stamp duty) as it didnt feel that 
the markers had been added in error.
In relation to the stamp duty, the investigator explained that National Hunters guidance to its 
members states that a lender shouldnt decline an application solely because of a marker 
added by another member. Therefore, she couldnt say that Halifax was responsible for the 
difficulties Mr and Mrs B had in finding a different lender and she couldnt fairly ask it to 
cover the costs of the stamp duty. 
Mr and Mrs B disagree so the case has come to me to make a decision. They say that the 
issue is not that other lenders declined their applications but that Halifax placing markers 
against them with false information delayed the process. Mr and Mrs B say that if Halifax had 
removed the markers at the time  once the further documentation had been provided  they 
would not have been delayed and would not have incurred the cost of the stamp duty, extra 
solicitors costs and stress and damage this has caused. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered all the evidence and arguments, I agree with the investigator for 
broadly the same reasons and Ive explained these further below.
Fraud prevention databases play an important role in the financial services sector, allowing 
financial businesses to share information to protect themselves and their customers from 
fraud. However, its important that a marker is only applied where it can be justified. Ive 
taken this into account when looking at Mr and Mrs Bs case.
I note that Mr and Mrs B had received an offer following their mortgage application in 
October 2020. However, the new application in November 2020 was an increase from 
£277,000 to £326,000, which meant that Halifax needed to review the application and further 
documentation was required to underwrite the loan. This is when the inconsistency was 
noted with Mrs Bs salary information. I dont think it was unreasonable for Halifax to carry 
out further checks at this point as this was a fresh application and the loan was for a 
significantly higher amount.
Halifaxs concerns were based on the fact that there was a discrepancy between the income 
declared for Mrs B on the mortgage application form, her payslips and the amounts shown 
as paid in by her employer on her bank statements. Halifax went on to make further 
enquiries in relation to this and, having looked at this information, Im satisfied that Halifax 
didnt act unfairly when it initially placed the marker on the National Hunter database.
Mrs B provided an explanation for the inconsistencies between the information declared in 
the application and the bank statements which was supported by evidence to show that the 
salary on the application form was correct. I am therefore satisfied that the surrounding 
evidence indicates that the information provided by Mrs B on the application form was 
accurate. So I therefore think any fraud markers should be removed, which Halifax has 
already agreed to do. 
Halifax also agreed to remove one of the hard searches from the credit file and offered £100 
compensation for the inconvenience caused in respect of this aspect of the complaint. As it 
appears that this part of the complaint had already been resolved prior to the investigator 
considering the case I have not considered it in detail here but it is my view that this is a fair 
outcome to this part of the complaint.
Ive gone on to consider the impact of the fraud marker being applied on Mr and Mrs B. They 
say that they have been affected mentally and financially by the fraud marker being applied. 
Mr and Mrs B say that if Halifax had removed the marker at the time  once the further documentation had been provided  they would not have been delayed and would not have 
incurred the cost of the stamp duty, extra solicitors costs and stress and damage this has 
caused. 
I can appreciate that this experience would have been stressful for Mr and Mrs B as they 
had to find another lender for their new property and they felt that this had been made more 
difficult by the fraud marker placed against Mrs B by Halifax and were worried that they 
would lose the property. Mrs B has also said that she felt that the false information was a 
defamation of character and affected her reputation. 
Whilst Halifax has offered compensation for distress and inconvenience due to the 
prolonged complaint journey to have the markers removed, it has not agreed to reimburse 
the cost of the stamp duty to Mr and Mrs B. 
I have considered this and I note that the information Mr and Mrs B provided to this service 
to explain the discrepancies appears to be the same information which was sent to Halifax 
as part of their appeal. However, Halifax did not alter its findings at that stage. So I do think 
Halifax should have considered the circumstances and information provided by Mr and Mrs 
B then and removed the fraud marker earlier. However, a fraud marker added by a business 
should not be grounds for another business to decline an application  instead it should be 
grounds to conduct further checks. So I cant reasonably say that Halifax is responsible for 
other lenders declining a mortgage application  and I note that Mr and Mrs B were in fact 
able to find a new lender which approved their application and granted them the mortgage. 
In relation to any delay, Mr and Mrs B have said that they were able to find a new lender for 
the mortgage who was able to complete before the stamp duty deadline of 30 June 2021 but 
that they also had to search for a new solicitor and they ultimately missed the deadline which 
cost them £7,000. I have considered this but there are numerous variables involved in the 
purchase of a property and it can never be guaranteed that a purchase will be in a position 
to complete by a certain date. There would have been no guarantee that the purchase would 
have completed even if the fraud marker had been removed earlier, so I cant reasonably 
say that Halifax is responsible for Mr and Mrs B missing the stamp duty deadline and I wont 
be asking it to reimburse the cost of the stamp duty.
I have considered all of the factors and am of the view that Halifaxs offer to compensate Mr 
and Mrs B for the trouble and upset caused in the sum of £400 is reasonable and I feel that 
this a fair amount in all of the circumstances.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Halifax to:
Remove all fraud markers it has applied from all fraud prevention databases in 
relation to Mr and Mrs B, if it hasnt done so already. 
Pay Mr and Mrs B £400 for the trouble and upset theyve been caused (not including 
the £100 offered in respect of the credit search issue).
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 June 2022.
 
Rachel Ellis
Ombudsman