DRN-1234736
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain about what The Royal Bank of Scotland PLC plans to do to put 
things right following their complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
What happened
Mr and Mrs B arranged PPI policies alongside six loans.
The first two loans were arranged separately by Mr and Mrs B in 1997 and were repaid by a 
third loan, in joint names, in 1998. This third loan was repaid early in 1999. The fourth loan 
started in April 2001 and was repaid by the fifth loan in 2003. The fifth loan was repaid by the 
sixth loan in 2005.
Alongside each of the loans, Mr and Mrs B arranged PPI. The cost of the PPI was added to 
the amount they borrowed  and so this extra cost, plus interest, was repaid as part 
of Mr and Mrs B's loan repayments. When Mr and Mrs B repaid loans early, they'd get back 
a small refund of the cost of the PPI that was left on the loan  and they'd have to pay or 
borrow more to repay the rest of what had been added at the start to pay for the PPI.
Mr and Mrs B also complained that they'd been mis-sold PPI alongside their overdraft.
RBS investigated their complaints. RBS didn't think Mr and Mrs B had PPI alongside their 
overdraft  and so I've not looked at this as part of this decision. RBS did think the 
PPI policies alongside the loans were mis-sold, and it made offers to settle this part of 
Mr and Mrs B's complaint. Mr and Mrs B accepted these offers in January and February 
2019.
But in late 2005 both Mr and Mrs B had entered a trust deed. This is a less formal alternative 
to sequestration, and meant that Mr and Mrs B conveyed their estates to a trustee for the 
benefit of their creditors generally. The trust deed ended in 2008. RBS says that when this 
happened Mr and Mrs B didn't have to repay everything they owed it. So it wants to first take 
into account the amounts Mr and Mrs B didn't have to repay before it pays them any 
compensation.
RBS worked out that the compensation for mis-selling PPI was £12,946.57. But it says that 
the amount Mr and Mrs B didn't have to repay following the trust deed was £31,375.39. So it 
doesn't propose to pay Mr and Mrs B anything.
Mr and Mrs B didn't think RBS could do this, and so referred the complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, and thought it would be fair for RBS to deduct the 
amounts that Mr and Mrs B didn't repay following the trust deed from any compensation. 
Mr and Mrs B didn't agree. The complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs B's case.
RBS has agreed the policies were mis-sold, so I've just looked at whether what it's proposing 
to do to put things right is fair.
This ombudsman service was set up by Parliament in Part XVI of the Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). This provides for complaints against financial businesses to be 
resolved quickly and with minimum formality by an independent person.
Section 228 of the FSMA says that I must determine complaints by reference to what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the case.
The financial regulator, now called the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has also made 
rules setting out specific things I must take into account when deciding what is fair and 
reasonable. Dispute Resolution rule 3.6.4R - which can be found online in the FCA's 
handbook - says that in considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
case, I will take into account relevant law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and 
standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time.
But while I must take into account the law, I'm not bound to determine complaints in 
accordance with it. I do not need to follow the law if, in the circumstances of the complaint, it 
wouldn't be fair or reasonable to do so.
In this case, the relevant law is the law of Scotland, or Scots law. The Inner House of the 
Court of Session has very recently looked at whether PPI compensation should be paid to a 
consumer where there were sums left unpaid following the completion of a trust deed. In 
Royal Bank of Scotland v Donnelly [2019] CSIH 56 the court said that RBS couldn't deduct 
the amounts left unpaid following a trust deed from the PPI compensation it had offered, 
because those debts had been discharged  and so no longer existed  following the end of 
the trust deed.
But having taken into account all the above, I think what RBS plans to do is fair.
Where I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, I'd tell the business to put the consumer in the position they'd be in if they hadn't 
bought the policy.
Based on what I've seen, when Mr and Mrs B's trust deed ended they owed 
RBS £31,375.39. As a result of the trust deed, Mr and Mrs B don't have to repay this money. 
And RBS cannot make them repay this money  the debt no longer exists.
But RBS has now worked out that the compensation for mis-selling PPI would 
be £12,946.57. This is a lot less than the amount Mr and Mrs B didn't have to repay RBS. 
Mr and Mrs B said that they entered the trust deed when Mr B couldn't work following 
surgery. So if they hadn't bought the policy, I think they'd still have entered the trust deed. 
But they'd have owed less. And that's the position RBS's offer puts them in.
I'm mindful that the cost of these policies were added to Mr and Mrs B's loans. So I think it's 
likely that at least some of the cost of the policies were included in the amount that 
Mr and Mrs B didn't have to repay following the trust deed. It wouldn't be fair to make RBS 
pay back these amounts.Finally, I note that the only reason Mr and Mrs B would get this compensation now is 
because the trust deed had ended at the point they complained to RBS. If the trust was still 
active, RBS would clearly have been entitled to use the compensation to reduce the amount 
Mr and Mrs B owed. Or it could have paid the compensation to the trustee, for the benefit of 
the other creditors. In either case, Mr and Mrs B wouldn't have got this money directly. 
I've considered what Mr and Mrs B have said.
First, they've said that they tried to claim on the PPI, but couldn't as they were told the 
medical condition that meant Mr B took time off work was connected to one he already had 
at the time he bought the policy. They say this is the reason they ended up in the trust deed. 
I have a great deal of sympathy with the position Mr and Mrs B found themselves in and 
don't doubt they must have had a difficult time. But I'm looking at compensation for things 
that went wrong when RBS sold them the policy. RBS has agreed it shouldn't have sold the 
policy to Mr and Mrs B. If, later, the insurer refused a claim, that's something Mr and Mrs B 
needed to raise with the insurer at that time.
I've also taken into account what Mr and Mrs B have said about the trust deed. They say 
they entered the trust deed in good faith and on the understanding that their debts would be 
finished and couldn't be reopened. Mr and Mrs B feel strongly that they should be paid this 
money directly. But this doesn't change what I think is fair. 
In all the circumstances of this complaint, I think it's fair for RBS to first deduct the amounts 
Mr and Mrs B didn't repay following the trust deed from any PPI compensation.
My final decision
My decision is that what Royal Bank of Scotland plc has done to put things right is fair. I 
don't make a further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 February 2020.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman