DRN-2193295
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a Tech pack in 
2015. Mr B says they were added to his account without his consent.
What happened
Our adjudicators have looked into this already and they did not believe that Barclays acted 
incorrectly when the Tech pack was added to Mr Bs account. Mr B did not agree with this 
and therefore this complaint was referred to me to issue a decision.
This decision only relates to the Tech packs added to Mr Bs account in 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I should highlight that the Tech pack was not sold to Mr B. What actually happened 
was that Mr B had held a First Additions account for a number of years and in 2015 Barclays 
decided to change the products it offered and withdrew the First Additions account and 
replaced it with an option to have a fee free current account with an addition optional Tech 
pack.
Barclays is entitled to change the types of accounts it offers its customers and to withdraw 
certain accounts. However, when taking these actions Barclays needs to notify its customers 
and explain the changes clearly. 
Barclays has provided copies of two letters it sent to Mr B  one before it changed his 
account, and one to confirm it had been changed. I note that the letters are personally 
addressed to Mr B at his current address. The first letter, sent in September 2015, gave Mr B 
information on the upcoming changes that would be happening on his account. The second 
page of the letter gave several options, including opting out of the change and choosing to 
have a fee-free account without Tech pack. It gave Mr B the option of calling to make this 
change, or visiting a Barclays branch to do so. The second letter was sent in December 
2015. It confirmed that Mr Bs account had been changed. And again on the second page it 
highlighted that Mr B could remove the Tech pack if he wished to do so
So I think that Barclays did enough to highlight that Mr Bs account was changing from a 
First Additions account to a fee free current account with a Tech pack. And that it highlighted 
to Mr B that he could opt out of having this packs if he wished to do so. I cant see that he 
contacted Barclays to either opt out of the change, or query it. So I cant say that Barclays 
did anything wrong in relation to the changes that happened on the account or that it needs 
to refund the fees Mr B paid for the Tech pack since it was added to his account.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman