DRN-2862449
The complaint
Ms B complains that AIG Life Limited unfairly declined a death benefit claim made under a 
joint life assurance policy following the death of her husband (Mr M). 
What happened
Mr M and Ms B took out a joint life assurance policy on 22 September 2019. The sale took 
place over the phone with a broker. The policy offered a lump sum benefit in the event either 
of them died during the policy term.
As part of the application, Mr M was asked questions about his health and lifestyle. He 
disclosed he suffered from high blood pressure. But when asked In the last 5 years have 
you [] Been advised to have or had any medical investigations, scans or tests? []
Seen or been asked to see medical professionals more than once in connection with the 
same medical condition? he answered no. In relation to his raised blood pressure he was 
also asked Have you been diagnosed with an enlarged heart, other heart problems, kidney 
or bladder problems? and again answered no. Based on the answers Mr M gave, AIG 
offered him cover on standard terms and the policy started the same day.  
AIG wrote to Mr M on 25 October 2019 providing him with a copy of the questions hed been 
asked and his answers. He was asked to check the details and correct anything that was 
wrong. Mr M didnt respond. 
Mr M sadly died on 12 December 2019. Ms B later contacted AIG to submit a claim. 
  
Having obtained and considered relevant medical evidence to assess the claim, AIG 
declined it and cancelled the policy from the start. It said Mr M had failed to disclose several 
health conditions when he applied for cover. It said had it known the true state of his health it 
wouldnt have offered him cover. So it returned the premiums hed paid to Ms B and treated 
the policy as though it never existed. 
Ms B complained to our service that AIG had treated her unfairly. Shed previously 
complained to AIG about the length of time itd taken to consider the claim. She also noted 
that it had sent paperwork to a previous address, so Mr M never had a chance to check the 
answers hed given over the phone when they applied for cover. 
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. He explained that Mr M was 
under a duty to take reasonable care when he completed the application form - this meant 
answering the questions fully, accurately and to the best of his knowledge. Our investigator 
noted that the medical records showed that Mr M had suffered problems with his aorta in the 
five years before applying for cover. This had required him to be monitored closely by health 
professionals and prescribed medication to manage his condition. Our investigator 
considered Mr M should reasonably have disclosed this information in response to the clear 
questions asked. He was satisfied that had Mr M made these necessary disclosures AIG 
wouldnt have been prepared to offer him cover, so it was entitled to decline the claim and 
return the premiums paid. He acknowledged that AIG had sent the confirmation paperwork 
to a previous address, but he didnt think this made a difference. He explained that the duty 
was on Mr M to give the right answers and not on AIG to check the answers were correct.
Ms B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. She noted the policy had been 
taken out over the phone. She said by not being given a hard copy of the questions and 
answers they were not given the opportunity to highlight any discrepancies, or check the 
policy was right for them. She also noted that her and her husband were both of good 
character and would not give false information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for much the same reasons as the 
investigator. 
I realise this will come as a disappointment to Ms B, and I dont underestimate the 
significance this decision will have on her and her familys life. I dont want to add to the 
distress theyve already experienced since Mr Ms death. But for the reasons Ill explain I 
dont think AIG was unreasonable to decline the claim and I dont think Ms B has been 
treated unfairly. 
I should explain I can only consider the actions of AIG. I understand that another business 
was involved in the sale of the policy. While its not been specifically raised to date, I should 
note that any complaint or concerns about what the broker said or did when the policy was 
taken out would have to be considered by that company, separate from this complaint. 
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding approach to
cases like this. It sets out the roles and duties of the consumer and insurer when entering
into an insurance contract. CIDRA places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading), provided
the insurer has asked a clear question. If the consumer doesnt take reasonable care to
answer questions accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
Was there a misrepresentation?
Ms B told us Mr M completed the application over the phone with a broker. Ive not been 
provided with a copy of the call recording, if one exists, and so I dont know with any 
certainty what was discussed. But AIG was not directly involved in the sale, and so cant be 
held responsible if any information was omitted from the process. 
As such, Ive considered the written application that formed the basis of this contract, and 
notices contained within it. Ive assumed these were read to, or otherwise shared with Mr M. 
If they werent then this would need to be raised as a separate complaint against the broker. 
Within the application Mr M completed, he was advised of the importance of answering all 
questions personally, honestly and to the best of [his] knowledge. A note at the beginning 
of the application cautioned If you havent you risk your insurance being cancelled or risk a 
future claim being rejected or reduced. Im satisfied that AIG did enough to draw to Mr Ms 
attention to the importance of answering all questions fully and accurately, and the potential 
consequences if he didnt do so. When completing the application, Mr M answered that he hadnt had any medical 
investigations, scans or tests or seen or been asked to see medical professional more than 
once in connection with the same medical condition in the past five years. Based on his 
medical records Im satisfied these answers were incorrect. 
The medical records show that Mr M was diagnosed with an aortic dissection and an aortic 
aneurysm in the five years before he applied for cover. He was prescribed a number of 
medications and was seen multiple times by a consultant cardiologist as part of the 
conservative treatment/management of his condition  which was largely the control of his 
blood pressure. In 2018 he was also seen by a vascular registrar who discussed the 
possibility of surgery. He also underwent scans and tests. 
Given the clear questions AIG asked, I think it reasonably concluded that Mr M had 
misrepresented his health when he applied for cover. Mr Ms health conditions were recent 
enough and significant enough for him to be able to easily recall them in response to AIGs 
clear questions. As such, I can only conclude Mr M didnt take reasonable care when 
answering the questions.  
What would AIG have done differently?
Following CIDRA, the action an insurer can take depends on whether the misrepresentation 
was deemed to be careless, or deliberate or reckless.
Sadly due to the circumstances, we cant ask Mr M why he didnt disclose his health 
conditions in response to AIGs questions. But Ive seen nothing to suggest he deliberately, 
or recklessly, withheld information. He may have mistakenly believed that disclosing his 
raised blood pressure was enough to put AIG on notice about his other underlying health 
conditions, although this is pure speculation. But even if he did, CIDRA sets out that such a 
misrepresentation should be classed as careless.
CIDRA explains that where its found that a consumer has made a careless 
misrepresentation, the insurer is entitled to take the action it wouldve taken had it known the
relevant information at the point of application.
AIG has demonstrated, with relevant underwriting evidence, that had it known about Mr Ms 
medical history it wouldnt have offered him any cover. As such, it cancelled the policy from 
the start and returned the premiums Mr M paid towards cover. Its therefore put both parties 
back into the position they would have been if the policy had never existed. These steps are 
in line with CIDRA, and as such Im satisfied AIG was acting reasonably in doing so. 
Did Mr M have an opportunity to correct his answers?
Ms B has said Mr M never received a hard copy of his application, so he didnt have an 
opportunity to correct his answers. It seems a welcome letter, which included a copy of the 
application question and answers was sent to Mr M and Ms Bs previous address and was 
therefore not received. Theres a suggestion within AIGs file that a copy was also sent by 
email, but its unclear if this was correctly sent or received.
I cant see any evidence that the error relating to Mr M and Ms Bs address was specifically 
down to AIG. But even if it was, I dont think it would have made a significant impact in this 
case. Had Mr M and Ms B received the confirmation of their answers theyd have had an 
opportunity to correct their answers. Had they done so AIG would have known about Mr Ms 
relevant medical history and wouldnt have offered him cover. So while Mr M would have at 
least known he was uninsured, Ms B would be left in the same position she finds herself 
now.  Overall, while I can understand Ms Bs disappointment that shes been unable to claim
under the policy, Im satisfied AIG has acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman