DRN-3275760
The complaint
Mrs B says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
Mrs B bought the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a store card. Our adjudicator
didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Bs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
AXA had to make Mrs B aware the PPI was optional and gain her consent before adding it to 
her card. AXA has provided a copy of the paperwork available from the time of the sale. The 
application form Mrs B completed at the time had a section for PPI where the option to take 
the policy has been selected. The application form was also signed by Mrs B in agreement 
with the selections that had been made. So, I think AXA presented the policy as optional and 
Mrs B chose to take it.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. But
it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve
been. But I think she chose to take out the PPI knowing the other means she had of making 
her repayments which included some savings. But the PPI would have allowed Mrs B to 
keep her savings in place so they could be used towards other essential expenses. 
Mrs B has told us she was self-employed at the time she took the policy. But the policy didnt
make it any more difficult for a self-employed person to make a claim.
Based on what Ive seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was
affected by any of the remaining exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So, I
dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking it out.
Mrs B has told us she would not have taken the policy, but as Ive explained above, I think 
the information shows she chose to have it, so this doesnt change my decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman