DRN-2565829
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)
policy.
What happened
In 1991 Leeds Permanent Building Society sold Mr and Mrs L a PPI policy at the same time
as they applied for a mortgage. The building society later merged into Halifax and then
Bank of Scotland plc. I will refer to Bank of Scotland in this decision as it is responsible for
the complaint. Mr and Mrs L say they took out four products in this meeting. This decision 
looks solely at the sale of the PPI. 
The policy was in Mr Ls sole name and gave him accident, sickness and unemployment
cover. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint wasnt upheld. Mr and Mrs L disagreed so it
was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed 
it here.
None of the documents Mr and Mrs L signed  or samples showing what they are likely to 
have signed - at the time are available. But this is not surprising, or unreasonable, given the 
sale took place around 30 years ago. In cases like this, where the evidence is incomplete 
and there is limited information, I have to make my decision on the balance of probabilities  
that is, based on what I think what is most likely given the evidence we do have, and the 
wider circumstances.
I cant know what was discussed during the sale. Mr and Mrs L say the sale of financial 
services was very different at that time and this hasnt been considered. They had to trust 
the professional advice they were given, and it seemed that the PPI was compulsory. It was 
a time-pressured meeting and they were sold four products  no alternative was offered to 
this PPI and no advice was given to shop around. The bank says its more likely than not the 
optional nature of the PPI was verbally explained in good time before the sale was 
concluded.
Whilst I dont doubt Mr and Mrs L are giving their honest recollections of the sale, I have to
take into account how long ago it was and how that might impact what they recall. Overall,
without stronger evidence I cant fairly conclude Bank of Scotland didnt make it clear the PPI
was optional, and Mr and Mrs L didnt agree to take it out. And the bank was under no 
obligation to advise Mr and Mrs L about other PPI options in the market.
Bank of Scotland recommended the policy for Mr L to Mr and Mrs L, so it had to check it
was suitable for him. From what I know of his circumstances, I think it was. I say this
because:
Mr L was eligible for the policy and it doesnt seem he would have been affected by
any of the main limitations of the policy, such as those affecting some people with
pre-existing medical conditions or on certain types of employment contract.
Mr L says he was entitled to at least six months full pay and six months half pay if 
he was sick. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work benefits and for 
up to 12 months. It also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover which would have 
allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment giving increased stability 
at an already difficult time. 
They told us they had savings of around £2600 but the PPI would have allowed them 
to use these to cover other living expenses whilst Mr W wasnt working, or to protect 
them for their future needs. They said they also had each others income, but from 
what I know of their salaries at the time it doesnt seem that Mrs W would have been 
able to cover their mortgage and other living expenses if Mr W wasnt working. Mr W 
also had life insurance and an endowment policy, but these products offer protection 
for different purposes and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in the 
same way as PPI.
Mr and Mrs L were borrowing a large sum of money over a long term and the debt
was secured against their home. So given the serious consequences of not being
able to make their mortgage repayments, overall I think they would have found the
PPI useful if Mr W was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs L, and
it was reasonably priced for the benefit it offered.
I dont know what Bank of Scotland told Mr and Mrs L about the PPI at the time of the sale.
So its possible it didnt give them enough information about the policy. But for the same
reasons I think Mr and Mrs L would have found the PPI useful, I think that its unlikely better
information would have changed their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs L have lost out because of any problems with this sale.
Mr and Mrs L also raised that Mr L was off sick for some months, but they didnt claim 
showing they were unaware they had the PPI. Whilst this doesnt change my conclusion 
about the sale for the reason set out above, they may be able to make a retrospective claim 
and could contact the bank to investigate this.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr and Mrs Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 March 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman