DRN-4004900
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Countrywide Assured Plc hasnt paid them the funds in their 
long term care insurance policies after cancelling them.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold separate long term care insurance policies. As their complaint is about 
the same issue for both policies, and the policies are subject to the same terms and 
conditions, Ive considered them both under this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H held long term care insurance policies since 1995. They got in touch with 
Countrywide on 23 September 2022 to cancel the policies. This was because they lived 
permanently abroad, with no intention of returning to the UK. As they wouldnt be able to 
claim on the policies whilst living permanently abroad, Mr and Mrs H say it would be fair and 
reasonable for Countrywide to pay them the funds held on those policies so they could pay 
for any potential long term care needs in the future in the country they were living in.
Countrywide said the policy wasnt set up or designed to be surrendered, and the investment 
content was solely on the policy to support the cost of benefits. But the policy would remain 
in place until the units ran out and any claim would be fully considered during this time.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, she didnt think 
Countrywide had done anything wrong. She said the policy terms made it clear the 
policyholders didnt have any interest on the investment funds  rather, these were used to 
fund the policy in the event of a claim. The only situation where the funds would be paid out 
was if the policyholder died before the age of 70.
Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with our investigators findings. In short, they said theyve never 
complained that Countrywide had broken their own rules. But they dont think Countrywide 
has acted fairly considering they live outside the UK. Mrs and Mrs H also referred to their 
original complaint to our service where they explained that due to their age, they now 
couldnt replicate the cover with other insurance companies. So, the best they could do was 
to use the funds currently held in these policies to pay for care in their country of residence if 
needed. 
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mr and Mrs H say, my remit is to decide that I think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. But my role is to also be impartial, so I need to consider whats fair and 
reasonable to all parties to the complaint.
As a starting point, though, we look to see if a business has done something wrong. And as 
Mr and Mrs H have accepted, Countrywide has followed the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
As our investigator set out, the policy terms and conditions state that Units are allocated to 
your Investment Account solely for the purpose of calculating or determining premiums and 
Benefits under the Policy and you have no direct interest in any of the units. There is no 
provision in the policy for surrendering it, or for any of the investment element to be paid to 
the policyholder.
The only exception is the technical guide to the policy which says that Any residual fund will 
be returned to the policyholders estate in the event of death before age 70, provided there 
has been no claim and the policy has been in force for at least 5 years.
The policy terms state that The Policy will terminate on the death of the Insured Person, (or 
when the Maximum Benefit Period has been reached). The terms also state that If your 
Investment Account is in credit and any premiums have not been paid, your Policy will 
continue in force until there are insufficient funds to meet the cost. At this point, the policy 
will lapse with no value.
Having considered the above, I dont think Countrywide has done anything wrong in saying 
the policy cant be surrendered and the remaining fund value paid to the policyholder  there 
is no provision in the policy terms for this in Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances.
However, Mr and Mrs Hs concern is that this doesnt lead to a fair outcome, as theyre 
permanent residents of another country and they dont intend to return to the UK. But 
fundamentally, Mr and Mrs H held an insurance product and theyve said they were aware of 
the policy terms. This policy wasnt an investment product, so it was never designed to pay 
out as an investment  rather, it would pay out in the event of a successful insurance claim. I 
dont think the fact that Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances have changed mean that it would be 
fair for me to ask Countrywide to act outside of the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Mr and Mrs H have stopped paying premiums for the policy, but Countrywide has said it 
remains in force until the funds have been used up. That also means that if Mr and Mrs Hs 
circumstances change again, they could still receive a full benefit from the policy.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs H, but having considered everything, I dont think 
Countrywide has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances of their complaint. So, I 
dont think theres anything it needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman