DRN-3919103
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W have complained that Santander UK Plc declined their request to port 
(transfer) their mortgage interest rate product onto a new mortgage on another property. As 
a result, they had to take out an equity release mortgage in order to secure the purchase.
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs W would like Santander to compensate them for their 
losses.
Mr and Mrs W are represented in the complaint by their mortgage broker, but for simplicity I 
will refer for the most part to Mr and Mrs W throughout.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence 
between the parties, so there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead 
concentrate on giving the reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, 
so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs W being 
identified. However, I think it is important to set out some of the background, for clarity.
Mr and Mrs W had an interest-only mortgage with Santander, originally taken out in 2002, 
over a term due to end in May 2027. 
In April 2021 Mr and Mrs W wanted to move home. At this point there was just over six years 
remaining on the mortgage, with a balance of £215,000. Mr W was aged 63 at the time, and 
Mrs W was aged 61. Mr W was in receipt of pension income and also operated a limited 
company (which I will call MD). Mrs W was in employment.
On initially discussing porting the mortgage with Santander on 23 April 2021, it was 
explained to Mr W that this would need to be a fresh application. Mr W talked about 
extending the term, and Santander explained the maximum age limit was 70. Mr W said that 
he owned a rental property (which was mortgaged), and thought this might be sold at some 
point in the future to pay off part of the Santander mortgage. Mr W also explained that he 
was due an inheritance. Santander clarified that these were not acceptable repayment 
vehicles as they didnt meet Santanders lending policy. 
However, Mr W also said that in ten years time it was likely he and Mrs W would sell the 
property as it was remote, and he and Mrs W would want to be closer to amenities when 
they were older. Therefore, the repayment vehicle would be a sale of the property, or, if they 
did decide to stay, theyd take out an equity release mortgage to pay off the Santander 
mortgage. Santander clarified that, even for a porting application, the bank would need to 
look at affordability. 
Mr W spoke again to Santander, this time to a mortgage relationship manager. It was 
explained there was a three-stage process, the first of which Mr W had already gone through 
with an initial discussion. Stage two was this current call, where further information was 
gathered, before the application was passed on to a mortgage adviser for the third stage of 
assessing the application.
Mr W clarified that hed been on furlough from March 2020 to February 2021. He also 
explained that he had a part-time job with an estate agent, and when showing people round 
properties, hed been able to generate extra income by offering to carry out work on the 
properties. Hed set up another business for this purpose (which I will call DW), and had 
earned another £36,000 from this. So, notwithstanding that he was receiving government 
furlough money, Mr W said that, as a result of this additional work, it had been a very good 
year for him financially, with gross earnings of £88,000. However, the bank noted that in 
January 2021 a mortgage payment holiday had been requested, just for one month.
Santander clarified that an income and expenditure (I&E) might be needed. Mr W explained 
that his gross income had fallen in 2020, but had paid himself £838 per month, and £12,000 
annual dividend from MD. He said that Mrs M earned £15,400 from her employment, but had 
also received £8,000 from MD.  
Mr W said there were credit cards with total outstanding balances of £19,800, as well as two 
car loans costing £560 per month, a personal loan of £6,000 in his name and one for 
£20,000 in Mrs Ws name, with combined payments of  £1,031. Mr W said that his pensions 
paid a total of £1,380 per month, and they had the rental income surplus, and that for the 
year April 2020 to April 2021 his gross annual income (including his earnings from DW) was 
over £88,000. 
However, after reviewing the figures provided by Mr W, Santander wasnt able to proceed 
with the application. The £36,000 income through DW couldnt be taken into account, as this 
was earned through a business which hadnt been trading for long enough. The level of 
unsecured credit meant that the application couldnt proceed, but that if circumstances 
changed, such as reduced debt, the application could go ahead.
Mr W spoke to Santander a few days later (26 April 2021) explaining that hed paid all the 
unsecured debt off, and wanted to know if the application could proceed. Santander 
explained that the bank would need proof of this, because it could take 4-6 weeks for the 
credit reference agencies to update their records.  Mr W asked if the application would be 
approved, but was told that the application would still need to be assessed against the 
banks lending criteria.
During that call Mr W discussed the repayment strategy for the mortgage in six years time 
(with no mention of a term extension). Mr W said that sale of the rental property or 
inheritance was the repayment strategy, but Santander said these werent acceptable. But 
for a sale of the property, there had to be a loan-to-value ratio (LTV) of under 50%, and at 
least £250,000 equity in the property. Mr W said that his income was £56,000 and Mrs Ws 
was £26,000, and they no longer had their other credit commitments. 
Mr W discussed his self-employment, and confirmed that as an employee of MD, hed 
received COVID furlough relief from the government, but the company itself hadnt received 
any government grants. Mr W said he thought the risk to Santander of lending when he 
would guarantee to sell the property at the end of the term was very, very low.
On 28 April 2021 an application was submitted to Santander, via Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage 
broker. This showed income, dividends and pension for Mr W of £41,788 and income and 
dividends for Mrs W of £23,400. There were unsecured credit commitments of car loans £558 per month) and an unsecured loan (£76 per month). No additional income was 
declared. The application also stated that the mortgage term ended before Mr and Mrs Ws 
retirement ages, but if this was extended, it could go beyond their retirement ages.
Santander requested further information about Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances, because the 
unsecured credit theyd repaid was still showing on their credit files, resulting in a decline.  
Santander also needed information from Mr Ws company accountant about MD and DW 
and further information from the broker relating to pensions and payslips. I can see from 
Santanders notes that there was back-and-forth with the broker throughout May to obtain 
the documentation that would allow an appeal to be submitted.
Santanders notes show that when the appeal was considered on 2 June 2021, the bank 
wasnt able to assess the income because there were discrepancies in what had been 
submitted, as well as a proposed change to the mortgage term.
On 2 June 2021 Mr W spoke to Santander again. He was clearly unhappy about not being 
able to port the mortgage. Mr W reiterated his belief that the risk to Santander was low. 
Mr W confirmed that Santander had been given proof of clearance of unsecured debt. Mr W 
said that his broker had failed to provide Santander with evidence of his pensions. Mr W was 
baffled as to why Santander would not agree the application, and that he was going to take it 
to the BBC. Mr W also said that his mortgage broker had advised him to sue Santander.
Mr W said he accepted Santander was entitled to assess the application against its lending 
criteria, but still felt there was no risk to Santander. Mr W said that, after the initial decline 
had been appealed, they had come back that day (2 June 2021) and told the broker that, 
because Mr W wasnt able to provide two years accounts for his new business, this couldnt 
be taken into consideration. Mr W was very unhappy that, in order to buy their dream home, 
he and Mrs W would need to take out an equity release mortgage, which would cost them 
£12,000 a year in interest. Santander said that it would register this as a complaint.
On 2 June 2021 Santander clarified the additional information it needed, and its notes say 
Affordability to be confirmed when income has been fully confirmed and can be validated.. 
Santander left a voicemail for the broker to call back. On 10 June 2021 the decision was 
shown as pending, given that Santander was awaiting further information about income, 
pensions and business banking.
In its final response letter dated 11 June 2021, Santander clarified that it still required further 
information to enable the application to proceed. (I note that, mistakenly, Santander referred 
to Mr W being unhappy about having to pay an Early Repayment Charge (ERC). There was 
no such charge with this mortgage, but nothing turns on this; the majority of complaints 
about porting cases arise where a declined application results in an ERC.)
The broker responded to Santanders request for further information on 25 June 2021 saying 
he would liaise with Mr and Mrs W and come back to Santander. Further information was 
provided by the broker on 25 June 2021, and the application was once again back on. 
However, Santander still had concerns about various matters, and it was noted on 29 June 
2021 that Mr and Mrs W didnt want to pay the valuation fee (which theyd had previously 
paid, but which had been refunded) until the application had been agreed. 
On 30 June 2021 Mr and Mrs W sold their property and repaid their Santander mortgage. On 
2 July 2021 they completed their new purchase, using an equity release mortgage.On 3 July 2021 Santander was told by the broker that Mr and Mrs W would be raising a 
complaint (in fact, the complaint had already been raised and responded to by Santander on 
11 June 2021).
In a further final response letter sent to the broker on 26 July 2021, Santander explained that 
it had asked for further information on 10 June 2021, but didnt receive a response until two 
weeks later. Santander also clarified that the information provided throughout the application 
resulted in more questions, and that Santander was always happy to consider further 
evidence; the application was not formally closed or declined. 
Dissatisfied with Santanders response, Mr and Mrs W brought their complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. Having done so, he thought Santander should 
have allowed the mortgage product to be ported without any affordability assessment. The 
investigator asked Santander to reinstate the mortgage, paying off Mr and Mrs Ws equity 
release mortgage, including all interest, costs and fees incurred in setting up that mortgage.
Mr and Mrs W agreed with this, but then later said that they didnt want the Santander 
mortgage reinstated; rather, they would prefer to be paid a lump sum to compensate them 
for the interest that would accrue on their equity release mortgage over the remaining term 
that their Santander mortgage would run for, as well as all their fees and expenses, to 
include additional Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT).
Santander didnt agree with the investigators outcome, and so the matter was referred to me 
for a final decision.
Provisional decision of 5 January 2023 and responses
I issued a provisional decision in which I reached the following conclusions:
I have received some further information from Mr and Mrs Ws equity release 
provider and adviser about their new mortgage. (The equity release mortgage was 
arranged by a different broker from the one who submitted the mortgage application 
to Santander and this complaint to our service. For the sake of clarity, from this point 
on, I will call the equity release mortgage adviser T and the adviser who acted for 
Mr and Mrs W on the Santander application L.) 
I had also requested further information from L, including the full broker file, but he 
has declined to provide this, saying it would be too much work for him to do so. I 
have therefore reviewed the complaint based on the evidence available to me.
Ive noted some anomalies in the evidence. As I said above, Mr W told Santander 
that it was most likely he and Mrs W would sell the property at the end of the term, 
given that it was so remote. This is somewhat different from what they told T when 
they applied for their equity release mortgage. They told T that they had no intention 
of ever moving from the property. 
I also note that Mr and Mrs W were given advice about equity release mortgages by 
T on 26 May 2021  before Santander had declined the application on 2 June 2021. 
In addition, the equity release mortgage offer was issued on 10 June 2021, the date 
when Santander had told the broker what further information was needed to allow the 
application to proceed.
Mr and Mrs W explained to T that Your mortgage advisor has told you he cannot 
obtain a traditional residential mortgage for you or port your current mortgage. As already noted, by 26 May 2021 the porting application had not been declined by 
Santander. Furthermore, the broker has told us that no broker in his right mind 
would look to place the mortgage with a new lender.
After reviewing all the available information and evidence, I have reached a different 
conclusion from the investigator; I dont think the complaint should be upheld. 
Santander is entitled to set its own lending criteria. Decisions that Santander makes 
in respect of what those criteria are, its attitude to risk involved in this particular 
lending assessment, and whether it should lend and if so, on what terms are clearly 
discretionary matters for Santanders own commercial judgement that I would not 
interfere with.
Mr and Mrs Ws position is that it was unreasonable for Santander to carry out an 
affordability assessment, given that they were porting the same amount of mortgage 
onto their new property, with no increase in LTV. They say this was against the 
Mortgages and Home Finance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (MCOB), as well as 
the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) principles in relation to fair treatment of 
customers, and that it was also contrary to Santanders own loyal mover policy.
There are rules in place that cover this type of situation that I have to consider. These 
rules followed on from the FCAs Mortgage Market Review (MMR). The MMR led to a 
series of major changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. MMR rules have brought about requirements for stricter lending 
assessments, aimed to protect consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act 
more responsibly. 
The FCA recognised though that existing borrowers who wanted to make changes to 
their mortgages might have difficulties with this if they passed the tests under the old 
rules, but not under the new rules. So the FCA introduced certain rules to address 
this. 
MCOB 11.6.3 says that a lender doesnt have to carry out an affordability 
assessment if a borrower wants to vary or replace an existing mortgage and there is 
no additional borrowing, (other than for product fees) and no changes to the terms of 
the mortgage that affect affordability. 
However, the rules also allow lenders to set aside affordability checks for existing 
borrowers who arent borrowing more money or making any other material changes 
to the mortgage contract  as this was the case here. They do not say a lender must 
set them aside, but they can use their discretion to do so. If a lender does carry out 
an affordability assessment, it would then be unfair to use that assessment as a 
reason to decline the application.
So, under this rule, even where a change material to the affordability of the mortgage 
takes place, the lender can, if it chooses, waive an affordability assessment. If the 
lender decides to carry out an affordability assessment, it shouldnt use that as a 
reason to decline an application if allowing the application would otherwise be in the 
customers best interests. But the lender can take the assessment into account as 
part of its consideration of best interests.
I dont think it was unreasonable for Santander to want to carry out an affordability 
assessment, given that it was almost 20 years since the original mortgage 
application. Santander was, in my opinion, entitled to look at Mr and Mrs Ws current circumstances, rather than take it as read that their circumstances hadnt changed 
since 2002. Indeed, during one of the phone conversations, Mr W does acknowledge 
that this was reasonable.
I have seen Santanders lending criteria in relation to the loyal mover policy which 
states that the policy applies to existing borrowers wishing to sell their property and 
purchase a new one. It notes that borrowers must be applying for the same amount, 
in the same names, with no changes to their circumstances in the last 12 months or 
adverse changes that suggest affordability cannot be maintained. 
So based on this, I can see the reason why Santander initially declined the request to 
port before a formal application was submitted, on the basis of credit commitments. 
Thered been a mortgage payment holiday in January 2021, Mr W had been 
furloughed from his company, and there was a substantial amount of unsecured 
credit commitments. From what Mr W initially told Santander, there appeared to be 
insufficient acceptable and verifiable income to sustain both the mortgage and the 
credit commitments.
After the credit commitments were cleared, Santander did explain to Mr W that it 
would probably take several weeks for credit files to be updated. That appears to be 
exactly what happened, because, when Santander was reconsidering the application, 
the bank needed to see confirmation from those lenders that the debts had been paid 
off. 
I can understand why Mr W was disappointed that Santander couldnt accept his 
earnings from DW. However, Im satisfied Santander is entitled to set its own lending 
criteria around self-employed income. I think a requirement of two years trading 
accounts was reasonable; some lenders require three years accounts. Because DW 
hadnt been trading for two years, Mr W wasnt able to fulfil that criterion. This was a 
new business set up when Mr W was furloughed from MW (his main source of 
income), and so Im satisfied Santander was entitled to disregard income from such a 
new business when considering affordability.
Given that Mr W was in receipt of pensions, it was also reasonable, in my opinion, for 
Santander to want to have evidence of pension income, as well as further information 
about MDs business banking. This is particularly so where there were discrepancies 
in the figures and documents Santander had been given, which raised further 
questions. I note that those further questions were not answered. 
Santander was also entitled to query what Mr and Mrs Ws repayment strategy was. 
This had originally been a capital repayment mortgage, but was later switched to 
interest-only. Early on Santander had explained to Mr W that his preferred strategies 
of selling another property (which was itself mortgaged) or relying on a potential 
inheritance were outside the banks policy and so werent acceptable. 
In both initial discussions with Mr W and in the application there was mention of 
extending the mortgage term. This would be a change to the mortgage material to 
affordability if the lending was to extend into retirement. 
That being said, because the application didnt proceed due to the requested 
information not being provided, any potential issues around a term extension or 
repayment strategy didnt come into play. But those would have been matters that 
Santander would have been entitled to take into consideration if the bank had 
decided: either that there were no issues around affordability; or 
that (under MCOB 11.6.3) even if there were affordability issues (and I cant say if 
there were or not, as the information to allow Santander to assess this wasnt 
provided), the bank wasnt going to use those affordability issues as a reason to 
decline the application.
After Mr W complained, Im satisfied that Santander made it clear to him in its final 
response of 11 June 2021 that it was still awaiting further information to enable the 
bank to continue with the application; Santander had told the broker the same thing 
the day before. That is the day Mr and Mrs Ws equity release mortgage offer was 
issued. I dont know why the broker didnt act on this request for two weeks.
In all the circumstances, Im not persuaded that Santander acted unreasonably in 
requesting information about Mr and Mrs Ws finances, and to raise queries when the 
information provided didnt match up to what the bank had been told. I dont know if 
Santander would have disregarded any affordability issues pursuant to MCOB 11.6.3 
 because that point in the application was never reached. 
The evidence is clear that Santander didnt decline the application; rather, it was 
abandoned because Santander wasnt provided with the information it had requested 
on 10 June 2021. This was information which, I am satisfied, it was reasonable for 
the bank to request and consider. 
I dont know why Mr and Mrs W didnt complete their purchase simultaneously with 
their sale on 30 June 2021, given that theyd had a mortgage offer since 10 June 
2021. If theyd done so, theyd have avoided an increase in SDLT. But thats not 
something I can hold Santander responsible for. It was Mr and Mrs Ws choice to go 
ahead with the equity release mortgage. They had the option of continuing with the 
Santander application by providing the further information that had been requested. 
Conclusion
Overall, I dont think Santander did anything wrong. This is because:
it was reasonable for Santander to consider affordability, given that 20 years had 
passed since the mortgage was first taken out;
it was reasonable, given the discrepancies in the information provided, for 
Santander to raise further queries to enable the application to proceed;
Santander made it clear in its final response letter of 11 June 2021 that it needed 
further information to enable the bank to proceed with the application;
there was no final decline on the basis of affordability, because that point in the 
application had not been reached.
Santander had no further comments to make in response to the provisional decision.
Mr and Mrs Ws broker has made a detailed response. I will disregard any comments that 
arent relevant to the complaint, such as the brokers own opinions about Santander and the 
ombudsman service. In relation to the points that are relevant to the complaint, the broker 
has reiterated points previously made and re-submitted documents we have previously been 
sent. Hes also made further points which I summarise below.
The main points the broker makes is that he says I have accepted the application was 
declined on 2 June 2021, that he didnt receive any communication from Santander on 
10 June 2021 (and wasnt aware of it for two weeks), and that Santander should have allowed the port under its loyal mover philosophy because Mr and Mrs W were mortgage 
prisoners. The broker says that Santander disregarded documents hed already sent. The 
broker also sent us a copy of his email to Mr and Mrs W dated 27 June 2021, which I will 
refer to in more detail later.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive reviewed the file from the outset, including the further submissions made on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs W. 
Having done so, Im still of the opinion that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.
First of all, Ill explain that Mr and Mrs W were not mortgage prisoners. The FCA defines 
mortgage prisoners as borrowers who have mortgages in closed books with inactive firms 
and has identified 195,000 mortgage accounts where the borrowers could potentially benefit 
by moving to an active lender. Mr and Mrs W were not in this category, because Santander 
is an active lender. They were not, therefore, mortgage prisoners.
I dont dispute that Santander declined the application on 2 June 2021. But, as is clear from 
the timeline of events set out above, Mr and Mrs W were aware after Mr W spoke to the 
bank on 2 June 2021 that this was subject to appeal and that further information was 
required so that Santander could review the application. Santander also confirmed this in its 
final response letter of 11 June 2021. 
The letter is quite explicit about this.
On review, I can see we have not been able to evidence your income details as 
submitted by the broker with your application. We have communicated with the 
broker to advise what is required to further consider your application. However, for 
clarity we need the following items of evidence:
Evidence of your pension income from other sources as the evidence of pensions 
provided do not total the amount your broker has stated on the application.
Statements of the account used to fund your [other bank] Business Accounts.
We will also need you to repay the valuation fee, as this was refunded previously 
when the application was deemed unsuccessful.
Although leeway is given to customers who are moving their mortgage product to a 
new property, we are still required to consider affordability and any change of 
circumstances since the mortgage was taken out. On this basis there has been no 
error, but we are happy to consider further evidence if it is presented 
The broker says he never received Santanders request for further information via the portal. 
As I havent seen the brokers file (other than extracts which he believes are helpful to 
Mr and Mrs W), I cant comment on this other than to show that the request was made via 
Santander. 
But even if I am to conclude that the broker didnt receive a communication from Santander 
via the portal on 10 June 2021 (and, for clarity, I have reached no such conclusion), within a 
few days Mr and Mrs W knew what further information was needed and could have gone 
back to the broker about this. Because Ive not seen the brokers full file, I dont know whether they did or not. However, when additional information was provided to Santander on 
25 June 2021, this gave rise to further questions which, Im satisfied, Santander was entitled 
to ask.
I note that on 27 June 2021 the broker emailed Mr and Mrs W. It is worth quoting at length 
from this email, as I think it is relevant to Mr and Mrs Ws decision not to go any further with 
their Santander application.
You seem to have 2 choices (assuming for a moment that Santander offer)
1. Move out of [mortgaged property] without completing on the purchase of the 
new house (ie without taking up the lifetime deal) with completion pending the 
result of Santanders continued deliberations or
2. Continue with the plan B lifetime mortgage.
The issues with item 1, apart from the sense of uncertainty, is finding a place for [sic]  
stay and for how long  Annoying the vendor at the 11th hour, getting stung for the 
SDLT and having to find the funds. All that within 3 days! Not a solution that makes 
for a peaceful house move 
So, item 2 above seems to be the only solution and then to, as you say, lodge a 
complaint to challenge the Santander approach to this via the FOS etc.
The broker then refers to a notification received from Santander whilst he was in the course 
of writing the email to Mr and Mrs W. It contained a list of 11 queries relating to Mr Ws 
pension, business banking, credit cards, a possible furlough and other queries.
I had assumed this might have been a notification of an offer subject to valuation or 
similar but what actually follows  is the list of extra requests made as a result of 
this underwriter interview  In my opinion this helps our case in so far [sic] as it shows 
a complete disregard of any details/documents/evidence previously forwarded and 
adds to their ineptitude. The underwriter has clearly not attempted to understand the 
details that have been submitted over recent weeks.
I believe there is little point in responding to these other than, with [Mr and Mrs Ws] 
agreement, provide a general reply severely criticising the obvious lack of 
background work. Had the underwriter looked at the case properly he/she would 
have noted that these aspects had largely been resolved via numerous previous 
recent submissions. What I would like to establish (and have the last word, as it 
were) in a response is that their policy of loyal mover essentially treats the clients as 
a prisoner who is guilty until proved innocent and that their promise to help loyal 
movers is nothing more than hot air that might sound good to the ears of the FCA
Please let me now [sic] if you are happy for me to reply in such a way and I would 
suggest that you can feel free to use any of the above underwriter comments in a 
continuation of your own complaint against them. I will, this week, look to prepare a 
submission for uploading to the case file and to the broker complaints avenue but 
would prefer to do this after completion of the purchase when we have a fait 
accompli. 
In short, I do not want them to issue any form of offer that they could then claim 
to have been willing to lend but you chose to move to an alternative solution 
and therefore they have no case to answer. My angle would be based upon the 
fact that their actions/inactions have cost my client considerable provable sums following them putting obstacles in the way at every turn, such that it has been 
impossible to progress the case with them
(my emphasis)
I should explain that Santander doesnt issue mortgage offers subject to valuation. Where 
Santander says it might lend subject to valuation, this is known as a Decision in Principle. A 
Decision in Principle is an initial indication of how much Santander might be prepared to 
lend, but it is qualified by saying this is subject to meeting lending criteria, which includes a 
valuation. It is not a mortgage offer.
I think it is also clear from the above, that, even though Mr and Mrs W were aware that 
Santander was still in the process of considering their application (subject to receiving further 
information it had requested), Mr and Mrs W were instead advised to pursue the alternative 
of an equity release mortgage and complain afterwards. That was their decision to make, but 
Im not persuaded that Santander is responsible for the consequences of that decision.
In fact, Mr and Mrs W missed the SDLT deadline because they didnt complete on their 
purchase until July 2021. Thats obviously not something that involves Santander, as its a 
conveyancing matter. But its clear from the above that Mr and Mrs W were advised by their 
broker not to go ahead with their application to Santander, so that this would give them fresh 
grounds for complaint.
In all the circumstances, and taking into account the advice Mr and Mrs W were given by 
their broker, I cannot find that Santander did anything wrong. For the reasons given in my 
provisional decision, I find Santander was entitled to consider affordability, given that nearly 
20 years had passed since the mortgage had been taken out. 
Santander showed its willingness throughout to reconsider the application if the information it 
requested was provided. Im satisfied this was information Santander was legitimately 
entitled to ask for. But ultimately the application didnt proceed and the available evidence is 
persuasive that this is because Mr and Mrs W were told not to go ahead with it by their 
broker.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs W wanted. In his response to the provisional 
decision, the broker said that if the complaint wasnt upheld, he would be advising 
Mr and Mrs W to seek a judicial review. If Mr and Mrs W reject my decision this is, of course, 
an option that is open to them. Mr and Mrs W would also be free to pursue their grievances 
against Santander in court, should they wish to do so. But I would strongly suggest 
Mr and Mrs W take advice from a solicitor before embarking on any legal action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman