DRN-3718259
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with the handling and settlement of his home emergency claim under his 
British Gas Insurance Limiteds Homecare policy.
What happened
Mr M made a claim due to a leak in a property that he rents out to tenants. Not only was 
Mr Ms property damaged but a neighbour living below was also suffering water damage due 
to the leak. BG investigated and couldnt find a leak. It said the property was suffering from 
condensation due to both ventilators not working and suggested the issues might be linked 
to the chimney on the other side of the property. It also said the water might be getting 
downstairs due to damaged tiles in Mr Ms bathroom allowing water to get behind them and 
leak below.
BG maintained there were no problems and did thermal imaging tests. It said the walls were 
damp, but this wasnt where the pipes were. CCTV tests were suggested but Mr M was later 
advised by BG that these wouldnt be covered by the policy and he would have to pay for 
this himself.
Later on, despite no leaks being found water started pooling on the floor of Mr Ms property. 
BG said the water may have been coming from a pipe under the floor. Mr M was contacted 
as the leak had penetrated the neighbours fuse board downstairs and the fire brigade said 
the neighbours home was uninhabitable due to the damage caused by the leak. Soon after 
this solicitors became involved due to the issues.
In view of the mounting problems BG offered Mr M £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
caused, as there were delays in arranging the payment it increased the amount to £170.
In the end the property maintenance contractors looking after the overall building removed 
and replaced a wastepipe of Mr Ms and the leaks stopped. Mr M was charged by the 
contractors and because BG wouldnt reimburse Mr M for this cost, along with all the other 
issues, he brought a complaint to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said BG had every opportunity to investigate and 
resolve the leak. Our investigator said BG could have arranged this repair as it was aware 
this pipe could have been the cause of the leak. Not doing this added to the delay and the 
distress and inconvenience Mr M suffered. Our investigator concluded BG should pay Mr M 
his costs for the initial work the contractors did for £894.64 plus 8% interest. He also said in 
view of the issues BG should increase the compensation by a further £180, on top of the 
£170 it had previously offered, to make a total payment for this of £350. He concluded by 
confirming subject to quotes for repairing the further additional damage to the property BG 
should settle 50% of these repair costs.
Mr M accepted this. BG didnt respond and so the complaint was passed on for an 
ombudsman final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not clear about why there wasnt further action taken more quickly by BG and its 
representatives. There was a known problem, it was clearly impacting Mr Ms property, it 
was also impacting on a neighbour. There were some reasons given trying to point in other 
directions but there was a leak despite what BG said about it being something to do with the 
chimney and suggesting it was only condensation. BG is aware that removing and replacing 
the waste pipe was an option but chose not to act despite ruling out other sources as being 
the cause of the leak. Theres also policy cover for unlimited repairs to leaking waste pipes 
but BG still didnt act on this. Mr M has said the leaks have stopped since the property 
maintenance contractors has gone ahead and replaced the waste pipe.
I think its clear that BG missed opportunities here to resolve the leak even though the policy 
says it will act in this situation. In view of this I think it is fair and reasonable for BG to 
reimburse Mr M for the costs he was charged by the property maintenance contractors - 
£894.64. BG should have done this work itself and the policy covers it.
additional damage
The policy states there is cover for unlimited repairs on leaking waste pipes. The policy also 
covers accidental damage to plumbing and drainage. Because of this I do think BG needs to 
be held partly responsible for the ongoing damage caused. Mr M provided evidence of the 
condition of the property prior to the damage and this highlighted that it was in a good 
condition originally compared to the later photos after the leak. The evidence points to 
further damage to the property and the advice from BG that there was no leak was clearly 
incorrect, unfair, and unreasonable. BG should have acted regarding the waste pipe and for 
some reason that I dont think it has explained  it didnt. So, I think it is fair and reasonable 
in this case for BG to pay 50% towards the repair costs for any damage directly linked to the 
claim leak subject to invoice evidence from Mr M. I think thats fair based on the missed 
opportunities but also because the property management company did offer Mr M the option 
of its own contractors doing the work.
Solicitors costs
Despite the issues with BG Mr M did still have a responsibility to his tenants and to the 
neighbour. And although hes been clear that he was expecting BG to deal with this under 
his policy the signs were that it wasnt going to. The property management company had 
checked this with Mr M and offered to provide contractors to put the matter right. It said if 
there was no action that it would need to involve solicitors.
So, although I understand Mr Ms concerns and his wish for BG to do the work it was 
apparent at this stage that despite some investigation nothing active was happening. So, I 
think the solicitors costs could have been avoided if Mr M had allowed the property 
management contractors to do the repair when it asked to. The policy does say BG isnt 
responsible for damage caused by water leaks so there was a need to get the leak resolved 
despite the issues Mr M was facing with BG.
distress and inconvenience
Its also clear that the difficulties he encountered dealing with the claim had an impact on 
Mr M. I accept that BG realised this when it offered to pay him £170 as compensation for his 
distress and inconvenience. But that isnt enough when considering some of the parties who were contacting Mr M. This would have been a big worry to Mr M when such parties told him 
his property was causing such a problem to his neighbour that the electrics were so 
dangerous his neighbours property was uninhabitable. Other agencies were also in touch 
with Mr M asking him to resolve the leak and it was undoubtedly a very stressful situation 
with BG adamant that there was no leak. So, I think it is clear BG could and should have 
done more. The ongoing delay meant the damage was getting worse for Mr M, his tenant, 
and the neighbour. The longer it went on the more threat of legal proceedings and action 
from the other interested parties grew and increased Mr Ms distress. I think a further £180 
compensation to bring the total compensation amount to £350 is fair and reasonable based 
on the circumstances Mr M found himself in.
Mr M has said that hes never had the initial £170 from BG. But BG has confirmed to this 
service that the payment was sent to Mr M in April. BG need to check this and if theres a 
problem with the settlement getting to Mr M it will need to make another arrangement with 
him. One option might be to get bank details and pay the sum directly into Mr Ms account.
Putting things right
Pay the costs of the waste pipe repair to Mr M of £894.64.
Pay interest on this part of the award at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr M 
paid the amount to the date of this settlement.
Pay 50% of the additional damage directly linked to the leak claim subject to invoice 
evidence from Mr M.
Pay a total of £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.
My final decision
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay for the costs of the waste pipe repair to Mr M of £894.64.
Pay interest on this part of the award at a rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mr M 
paid the amount to the date of this settlement.*
Pay 50% of the additional damage directly linked to the leak claim subject to invoice 
evidence from Mr M.
Pay a total of £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M.**
*If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs M a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
**British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Mr M accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman