DRN-1580091
 
The complaint
Company M complains that errors in HSBC UK Bank Plcs systems have led to their account 
being closed.
Company Ms directors are Mr and Mrs M. Mr M has been the leading party bringing this 
complaint, so for simplicity Ill refer to him throughout most of this decision.
What happened
Mr M complained to HSBC about their actions in closing his company account after hed 
been asked to complete an online review of details relating to him, Mrs M and Company M.
HSBC replied to the complaint. They said theyd allowed Mr M more time than usual to 
complete the review, and they wouldnt change their mind about the closure of his company 
account. HSBC also explained Mr M had from June 2018, to September 2019 to complete 
the review, but hadnt done so. HSBC also set out a timeline of when they wrote to him, and 
phoned him, with no reply. Because of this, they felt it was right his account stay closed  
and didnt find theyd done anything wrong. 
Mr M replied to HSBC saying that in 2018 they froze his account claiming they hadnt 
received the business review form, but then reopened it. He added that he completed the 
review form in December 2018 and hadnt heard anything since to say there was a problem 
with it. Mr M also said hed not received any contact from HSBC about the review form, 
otherwise hed have sorted it straight away after the issues he had in 2018. And he said in 
October 2019 he logged on to HSBCs system, saw a box asking him to complete the review, 
which he did, and then his account was locked. When he logged in the next day, he says his 
account had vanished which was a problem as he had suppliers to pay. He added that he 
thought there was a problem with HSBCs system.
Mr M says this issue continued, and he contacted us around ten days after this happened, 
asking us to look into the issues hed had. He explained he had to use personal funds and 
his credit cards to pay suppliers  and hed incurred costs from his accountant. He also said 
there had been reputational damage with his suppliers and contractors whom hed never 
paid late.
HSBC provided their file to us for one of our investigators to consider. In this they said they 
stood by the decision to close the account, because Mr M had over 14 months to complete 
the review. But they accepted they didnt chase for information like they should have and 
offered Company M £100 for this.
Our investigator considered the complaint. He felt HSBC had given Mr M enough time to 
provide the information asked for, acted in line with the terms of the account  and their offer 
to him was fair.
Mr M didnt accept this, so the complaint was passed to me to decide. Before reaching my 
findings, I asked our investigator to gather some further information about Mr Ms companies 
to check it was a complaint we could consider under the rules.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having checked Company Ms status, we can consider a complaint, so Ive gone on to look 
at HSBCs actions.
It seems to me that Mr Ms main concern is that he completed the review in December 2018, 
but he then wasnt contacted to say further information was outstanding, and his account 
was closed. Ive looked at HSBCs terms and conditions for Company Ms account  and 
these allow them to ask for information and close an account if that information isnt 
received. So, Ive gone on to look at what happened in this case, to see if HSBC have acted 
fairly.
In November 2018 I can see Mr Ms account was due to be closed, but then he got in touch 
with HSBC and they delayed the account closure and told Mr M what they needed from him.
Looking at the information both parties have provided I cant see that Mr M did then 
complete the review in December 2018. The next action then is in June 2019 when HSBC 
write to Mr M and ask him to complete the review.
Ive seen a copy of this letter. Its correctly addressed, says theyve asked Mr M for this 
information on multiple occasions, and gives a deadline of 6 September 2019 to complete 
the review.
Theres nothing to show Mr M completed or tried to complete the review until 23 September 
2019  but this was too late as the deadline had already passed. So, I dont think HSBC 
have acted unfairly in closing Company Ms account.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied HSBC did enough to make Mr M aware of what 
he needed to do, and he didnt complete the review in the timescales set down.
HSBC have offered £100 compensation. This is because they didnt contact Mr M between 
November 2018 and June 2019  and because when Mr M logged into his account in 
October 2019 his account should already have been closed but instead, he was asked to 
complete the review. This caused him further problems.
The conflicting information in October 2019 would undoubtedly have been confusing for 
Mr M. And I think its poor HSBC didnt get in touch with Mr M for seven months, but I also 
think HSBC did enough to make Mr M aware he needed to complete the review, and it 
wasnt completed. Because of this, I think £100 compensation is fair.
Mr M has provided further information about the losses hes calculated this situation has 
caused him. But for the reasons Ive explained above, Im satisfied HSBC have acted fairly.
My final decision
HSBC have already made an offer to pay £100 and I think this offer is fair in all the 
circumstances. So, my decision is that HSBC Bank UK Plc should pay £100 to Company M.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M, on 
behalf of Company M, to accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020. 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman