DRN-2535517
The complaint
Mr L complains about the reduction in value of his Phoenix Life Limited pension between 
2018 and 2019. He would like to be supplied with the value(s) that he was given in 2018. 
What happened
Mr L has a pension with Phoenix that began in 1985 and had an intended retirement date in 
2012. The policy was deferred in 2012 and Mr L was sent a retirement illustration in 2017. At 
this point Mr L raised an issue about the payment of premiums since 2012. In brief, this was 
resolved by Mr L paying an additional sum of money, which was applied to the plan. 
Mr L was then provided with two pension valuations (both about £60,000) in May 2018. 
However, in 2019 the value had reduced by about £7,000 to £53,000. When Mr K queried 
that figure, Phoenix confirmed it was correct. It said that due to system errors the previous 
values were incorrect. The figure of about £53,000 was correct as of May 2019. 
Mr L then made a complaint to Phoenix. Phoenix said that the figures of 2018 were incorrect. 
It said that because of the complex payment history to the pension and its age, it has to 
calculate values manually. The values Mr L had been supplied with previously were 
automatically generated and did not reflect the correct situation. It offered £150 
compensation for its error in calculating pension values and £50 for the delay in responding 
to Mr Ls complaint. 
Mr L referred his complaint to this service and it was considered by an investigator. She did 
not believe it should be upheld.  She said that the correct plan value had been supplied in 
2019 and one of the reasons the valuation was lower was because of the Guaranteed 
Annuity Rate (GAR) applicable to the plan.
Mr L did not accept the investigators assessment. In brief he said:
He was not able to draw his pension benefits in May 2017 so he has lost two years 
pension payments.
His guaranteed pension as of May 2017 was about £60,000 so he should receive 
that as a minimum, plus a payment for distress for the period 2017 to 2019. 
He always wished to take his pension in 2017. This was delayed because of 
misinformation and delay by Phoenix with respect to a further payment to the pension 
being approved and applied  in was only in June 2017 that was agreed. And by that 
point he had missed his pension drawing date in May 2017. He then requested to 
take his pension in May 2018, but due to delays he was not able to do so. He was 
told his payments couldnt be backdated to May 2018.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in response to the investigators assessment Mr L has raised a new issue about 
not being able to take his pension benefits in 2017 and 2018. This was not raised initially as 
part of the complaint to Phoenix or included as part of his complaint to this service. As 
Phoenix has not had the opportunity to consider a complaint about that issue, Mr L should 
refer his concerns in the first instance with Phoenix. If he remains dissatisfied with Phoenixs 
response to that complaint, he can refer it to this service as a new complaint. 
In terms of the complaint made to this service, I agree with the investigator that it is more 
likely that the pension value supplied in 2019 by Phoenix is correct. I can see that there were 
particular actions taken with respect to the pension  materially the addition of a backdated 
further pension contributions  that would have meant manual valuations would need to be 
undertaken. Mr Ls policy was also more unusual in that a GAR applied. So I have no reason 
believe that Phoenix are not correct when it says that the automatic values Mr L received 
were incorrect and a manual valuation needed to be undertaken.  
Mr L is entitled to the correct value of his policy, not an incorrect policy value that supplied by 
mistake in 2018. However, it would have been disappointing to discover in 2019 that his 
benefits were significantly lower than he had thought. But Phoenix has agreed to pay a sum 
to recognise the upset caused by that  which I believe is fair in the circumstances.  
I note Mr Ls reference to the total of his pension value before his additional payment in 
2017, plus that of the further payment. I can see that he is concerned that his final pension 
value in 2019 is less than the sum of those two values. However, here, the final pension 
value can be less than the total payments made  because of the benefits that are secured 
by Mr Ls pension. Mr Ls plan has a GAR applying  a very valuable benefit where the 
policy value secures a given level of annuity payment (Mr Ls policy documents indicate a 
payment of about £90 per £1,000 of policy value). The cost of providing that benefit is 
significant and can affect the plan value. 
My final decision
I do not uphold the complaint or make any award. If Mr L wishes to accept Phoenixs offer of 
£200 and he has not already done so, he can contact it direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
David Bird
Ombudsman