DRN-4156586
The complaint
Mrs W complains that a car she acquired via a hire purchase with Volkswagen Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Audi Financial Services (VWFS) wasnt of satisfactory 
quality.
What happened
In December 2020 Mrs W entered into a four-year hire purchase agreement with VWFS for a 
new car. She paid an initial rental of £5,740 and the monthly repayments were set at 
£257.24.
In August 2022 the car suffered a fault with its gearbox and Mrs W took it to a manufacturer 
approved dealership for repair. Mrs W was unhappy at the service provided by this dealer as 
she says she was initially told the repair would take a week, but it actually took seven, they 
didnt communicate with her, and the courtesy cars provided werent like for like. The repair 
was carried out under the warranty and so at no cost to Mrs W.
The car was returned to Mrs W in October 2022, and she complained to VWFS about the 
service shed received and the delay in the repair. Mrs W also said she was concerned that 
the repair hadnt fixed the problem as the car continued to judder.
VWFS partially upheld Mrs Ws complaint. It said that it and the dealership were two different 
entities and so a complaint about the service the dealer had provided, and the quality of the 
courtesy cars would need to be directed to the repairing dealership. However, VWFS 
acknowledged Mrs W had been without the car for seven weeks and that, although kept 
mobile, there had been a loss of enjoyment. It also acknowledged that Mrs W would have 
been caused distress and inconvenience dealing with the fault. It offered Mrs W, as a 
gesture of goodwill, a total compensation payment of £350. This figure was made up of a 
reimbursement of 50% of the payments made under the agreement by Mrs W while the car 
had been repaired together with an additional £150. 
VWFS said that Mrs W should liaise with the repairing dealership about any problems with 
the car following the repair.
Mrs W was unhappy at the offer of compensation from VWFS and so didnt accept its 
gesture of goodwill. Mrs W says the car continued to judder and there were issues with the 
handbrake. And then in December 2022 Mrs W says the car nearly failed to stop in the snow 
despite the brake being applied. She called roadside assistance and it was arranged for the 
car to be returned to the supplying dealer.
Mrs W says she was unhappy at how the supplying dealer dealt with the issues with the car 
and as the dealer declined to allow her to reject the car, she agreed to sell it back to them. 
Mrs W says this has resulted in her suffering a financial loss as she didnt get her deposit 
back and had to pay for a car when she couldnt use it. Mrs W made a complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mrs Ws complaint should be upheld. She said although 
she didnt think the vehicle had been reasonably durable, the right remedy for that under the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 was repair which had taken place. Our investigator said there 
was no evidence that had been produced to show this repair had failed. 
Our investigator also said that as VWFS hadnt been aware of the events in December 2022 
it hadnt had an opportunity of investigating what had been wrong with the car at that time. 
She said she didnt think she could reasonably conclude that VWFS would have agreed to 
the car being rejected at the time the supplying dealer had purchased it from Mrs W. So, in 
all the circumstances, our investigator said she thought VWFSs offer had been fair, and she 
wouldnt ask it to do more. 
Mrs W disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said the car had developed a fault 
with its gearbox in August 2022 but even after it had been repaired it had continued to have 
issues and juddering which she had told VWFS about. It had referred her back to the 
repairing dealership. But in December 2022, when there had been snow, Mrs W said the car 
had been involved in a near miss due to its faulty braking. She said the car had then been 
taken back to the supplying dealer who had initially said it was a characteristic of the car and 
then said the car had been fixed though that wasnt the case. Mrs W said she had been 
unhappy at the supplying dealers handling of the matter. Mrs W said that she had then 
decided to sell the car back to the supplying dealer because it had an inherent problem. 
Mrs W said the car hadnt been of satisfactory quality from the point of supply and it would 
be fair for her to be reimbursed her deposit and to receive compensation.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Mrs W is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. VWFS is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement and is responsible for a complaint 
about their quality.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is an implied term that when goods are 
supplied the quality of the goods is satisfactory. The relevant law says that the quality of 
the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would 
consider satisfactory taking into account any description of the goods, price and all other 
relevant circumstances.
The relevant law also says that the quality of the goods includes their general state 
and condition, and other things like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, 
freedom from minor defects, safety, and durability can be aspects of the quality of the 
goods.
Here the car was new, so would be expected to be fault free at the point of supply 
and not to have required repairs and maintenance for some time. Ive seen that in 
August 2022 repairs were required to the cars gearbox which were carried out under 
the warranty.Ive seen that Mrs W was unhappy at how long these repairs took and that the 
courtesy cars provided by the repairing dealership werent the same as the car that 
was being supplied and didnt have working Sat Nav. She was also unhappy that the 
repairing dealer had to be chased to find out what was happening and that when the 
car was returned, a warning light had then illuminated for the brake fluid which was a 
repair she thought could have been carried out before the car had been handed back 
to her. Mrs W raised these concerns with VWFS in a complaint.
During Mrs Ws complaint to VWFS there were a number of calls between them. Mrs 
W says that during these calls she told VWFS she continued to have concerns about 
the car because it juddered. Ive seen that VWFS sent Mrs W its final response to her 
complaint in November 2022 and in that letter, it says, it is aware Mrs W was 
unhappy with the repair but that she should continue to liaise with the repairing dealer 
about that. It then offered Mrs W, as a gesture of goodwill, £350 in total for the loss of 
enjoyment and dealing with the fault. I understand this offer is still open to her to 
accept.
I agree with the view of our investigator that a car of this age (under two years) and 
mileage (around 17,500) wouldnt been expected to require the repair work that it had 
to the gearbox in August 2022. I dont think the car was as reasonably durable as a 
reasonable person would have expected. However, although the car developed a 
fault that doesnt mean that Mrs W was entitled to reject it. Under the Consumer 
Rights Act the retailer has an opportunity to carry out a repair first which is what 
happened.
I appreciate Mrs W wasnt happy about how long the repairs took in August, but this 
seems to have been due to a part having to be ordered. However, the lack of contact 
and updates from the repairing dealer isnt something that VWFS is responsible for, 
so I think it acted reasonably passing that matter to the dealer to respond to. VWFS 
also wasnt responsible for the provision or quality of a courtesy car though I think it 
acted fairly by offering Mrs W a 50% reduction on the payments that she had paid 
under the agreement during the period she wasnt able to use the car. I also think 
VWFS acted fairly by adding an additional £150 to that amount to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience caused to Mrs W dealing with the faulty car at that time.
So, I think the offer made by VWFS in its final response letter was fair. I also think 
that VWFSs response to Mrs Ws view that there could be an issue with the repair 
was reasonable. At that time there was no clear evidence what was wrong with the 
car or whether this was linked to the repair, or in fact a new issue. Mrs W needed to 
liaise with the repairing dealership or another dealership for further investigations to 
be undertaken. 
Mrs W has described events in December 2022 which led to the car being taken back 
to the supplying dealer. Mrs W didnt contact VWFS and dealt only with the supplying 
dealer. VWFS says it was unaware of any problem with the car in December. Mrs W 
says the supplying dealer at first said there was nothing wrong with the car and then 
later agreed that there was. However, there is no record of any repair work having 
been undertaken on the car by the supplying dealer in December 2022, only that Mrs 
W had raised concerns that the fault with the gearbox were still present. Ive also 
seen that the supplying dealer agreed to purchase the car from Mrs W and appears 
to have paid the expected price when doing so.
Mrs W has also complained that during the time the car was with the supplying 
retailer in December she was only provided with a courtesy car for part of it. She was 
also unhappy about the way it dealt with her. But as set out above, VWFS wouldnt be responsible for these things.
Mrs W says as the car suffered from a fault in August and that this fault continued 
and deteriorated up to December 2022 then the car must have had an inherent fault 
and was therefore of unsatisfactory condition. She says she was entitled to reject it 
and have deposit returned.  But I dont have enough evidence to reasonably make 
this conclusion. I havent seen any evidence from a garage or mechanic as to what 
was wrong with the car after the repairs in August 2022. And I would need to be 
satisfied that the repair had failed and caused the issues Mrs W experienced in 
December. On the evidence I have seen, I cant fairly say the repairs in August were 
unsuccessful, its a possibility that another issue had arisen and, if that was the case, 
then the opportunity for the retailer to repair would have applied again.
Ive seen that Mrs W didnt appreciate the difference dealing with the supplying dealer 
rather than VWFS and although Im sympathetic to that, this wouldnt mean it was fair 
to hold VWFS liable for any financial loss suffered by Mrs W when selling the car. By 
dealing only with the supplying dealer, VWFS hasnt been given a chance to 
investigate Mrs Ws complaint that the car had deteriorated and was dangerous to 
drive in December 2022. And as set out above there isnt evidence available that 
supports the car had an inherent fault.
I also dont think it would be fair to ask VWFS to make a reimbursement of the 
December 2022 payment made by Mrs W under the agreement. I appreciate the car 
was at the supplying dealership but whether there was a fault that VWFS would have 
been liable hasnt been established.
So, although I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Mrs W, Im not upholding 
her complaint. I dont have enough evidence to say that car had a manufacturing fault 
and VWFS had acted unfairly here. I think its offer made in November 2022 was fair 
and reasonable and Im not asking it to do more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman