DRN-2707619
The complaint
Mr M complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy and retained his premiums. 
What happened
Mr M took out a policy with Haven. Some months later, Haven found that the ownership of 
Mr Ms car had changed. So, as it thought Mr M no longer had any insurable interest in the 
car, it cancelled the policy. Haven thought Mr M had deliberately tried to mislead it about the 
cars ownership and that he had been reckless in not querying with DVLA communications 
about the cars ownership. So Haven thought it was entitled to retain the premiums.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought it 
was reasonable for Haven to cancel the policy as the evidence was that the cars ownership 
had changed. But he didnt think Haven had shown that Mr M had acted deliberately or 
recklessly. No claim had been made. So he thought Haven should refund the premiums from 
the date ownership of the car changed. 
Haven replied that it wanted an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Haven told us that it had cancelled Mr Ms policy because he had misrepresented that he 
was the cars owner and keeper. In that case I think the relevant law would be The 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires 
consumers to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a 
consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable 
consumer. 
But I can see that when Mr M took out his policy in February 2020 he was the cars owner 
and registered keeper. So I think Mr M took reasonable to answer Havens question about 
that correctly at the time. And so I dont think he made a misrepresentation under CIDRA 
and the remedies available to Haven under CIDRA wont apply.  
So Ive considered whether Havens acted in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
and fairly and reasonably in cancelling Mr Ms policy and retaining his premiums.
Mr M provided Haven with his V5 vehicle registration document showing that he registered 
his car in July 2019. But the police said the ownership had transferred to another person in 
May 2020. This was confirmed by the Motor Insurance Database (MID). 
This was brought to Havens attention in November 2020 and it immediately cancelled the 
policy. It said the reason was that Mr M didnt have an insurable interest in the car. Mr M 
provided a V5 to Haven, but it didnt accept this as proof of ownership and so it maintained 
its position. The MID showed another change of ownership in December 2020. 
Mr M has maintained that he owned the car, and that hed never heard of the person whose 
name was on MID as the cars owner and keeper. 
But I can see that on the V5 document, there were five previous owners whilst by December 
2020 MID showed there had been seven. This suggests two transfers of ownership had 
taken place. Mr M would also have been sent a change of ownership slip by the DVLA. So, if 
he thought he still owned the car, I think he would have raised this concern with the DVLA at 
the time. 
I can see that Mr Ms duties under his policy are set out in the General Conditions on page 
29 of the policy booklet. These include:
6. You notify Your Broker as soon as possible of any changes to the information provided in 
the proposal form or statement of fact and declaration and at each Renewal Examples of 
material changes include:

l. Changes to the information provided in the proposal form or statement of fact may result in 
amendments to Your cover or premium, for example:
iv. If You request a change which falls outside of the policy acceptance criteria, We may 
cancel Your policy in accordance with the terms set out in Section N  Cancelling Your 
policy.
I think Haven reasonably considered that a change in the cars ownership made its 
continued cover unacceptable. And so I think it fairly and reasonably cancelled the policy 
with immediate effect to protect itself and Mr M from further risk.
Haven retained the premiums Mr M had paid. It said it did this rather than refund them from 
the date of the change of ownership, as recommended by our investigator, because:
Mr M may have been charged by the police for driving whilst uninured. But this hasnt 
arisen in the six months since the cancellation, so I dont think this is a sufficient reason. 
It thought Mr M had deliberately and recklessly tried to deceive it about the cars 
ownership following the cancellation. But I think this is a remedy under CIDRA and, as 
Ive explained above, I dont think CIDRA applies in this particular case.
It thought that it would have been liable if another party had made a claim against Mr M. 
But I think this is hypothetical and no claim was made against Mr M. And, in any case, 
Mr M would have been responsible for any claim.
I cant see that Haven is entitled by the policy terms and conditions under Cancellation to 
retain the premiums when no claim has been made. And so I think Haven should fairly 
refund Mr Ms premiums from the date of the change of ownership in May 2020 until the 
policy was cancelled.
 Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to refund Mr Ms premiums from the date of the 
change of ownership in May 2020 to the date of cancellation in November 2020. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman