DRN-4452144
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund all of the money he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
In April 2023, Mr C received a text message from someone who referred to them as dad 
and said they had a new number as their old mobile number no longer worked. Mr C 
assumed the message was from his son, so replied. After a short conversation, the 
messages said they couldnt log in to their bank account because of the new phone and 
number, but had two invoices that needed to be paid today. They asked if Mr C could pay 
them and, as he believed the messages were coming from his son, Mr C agreed. 
Mr C then made two payments from his Lloyds account to the bank details the messages 
gave him, as set out below:
Date Details Amount
29 April 2023 1st bank account details £1,980
29 April 2023 2nd bank account details £1,875
Unfortunately, we now know the messages were coming from a scammer.
The scam was uncovered when the messages then asked Mr C to make a third payment. 
Lloyds blocked this third payment and Mr C became suspicious, so called his son on his old 
number. And when his son answered and said he didnt know anything about the payments, 
Mr C realised hed been the victim of a scam. He then reported the payments to Lloyds and 
asked it to refund the money he had lost.
Lloyds investigated and accepted that it could have stopped the payments as they were out 
of character for Mr C. But it also said Mr C couldve completed more checks to make sure 
the messages were genuine, and that it showed him warnings before he made the payments 
but he chose to continue. So it offered to refund 50% of the money Mr C had lost. Mr C 
wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so referred a complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint. They didnt think Lloyds had established 
that Mr C made the payments without a reasonable basis for belief that they were genuine. 
So they though Lloyds should refund the money he had lost, in full. Lloyds didnt agree with 
our investigator, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a firm is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. However, where the 
customer made the payment as a consequence of the actions of a fraudster, it may 
sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse the customer even though they 
authorised the payment.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(the CRM code). This code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victim 
of authorised push payment scams, like the one Mr C fell victim to, in all but a limited 
number of circumstances. And it is for the firm to establish that one of those exceptions to 
reimbursement applies.
Under the CRM code, a firm may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish that:
 The customer ignored an effective warning in relation to the payment being made
 The customer made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that:
o the payee was the person the customer was expecting to pay;
o the payment was for genuine goods or services; and/or
o the person or business with whom they transacted was legitimate
There are further exceptions within the CRM code, but these dont apply here.
Did Mr C ignore an effective warning in relation to the payments?
The CRM code says that an effective warning should enable a customer to understand what 
actions they need to take to address a risk and the consequences of not doing so. And it 
says that, as a minimum, an effective warning should be understandable, clear, impactful, 
timely and specific.
Lloyds has sent us a copy of the warning Mr C was shown before he made the payments, 
which said:
(Customer name), before you pay:
Are you sure this bill is genuine?
Fraudsters will pretend to be a loved one, or a company youve used.
Theyll ask you to pay into an account theyve set up to scam you.
Always talk directly to the company, or your loved one first. Make sure its really them.
Use a phone number you trust, not one form a text, email or invoice.
Find out how to stay safe from scams on our Fraud Hub.
But while this warning does mention fraudsters pretending to be a loved ones and making 
sure the person youre talking to is really the person you think youre talking to, I think it is 
too vague and broad about the risks a customer could be facing here. I dont think it is 
detailed enough about what this kind of scam could look or feel like, or does enough to help 
a customer understand the warning signs that could suggest they were the victim of a scam.
There are also several things mentioned in the warning that werent relevant to Mr Cs 
circumstances, which I think will have made the warning seem less applicable to him. And I 
dont think the warning does enough to highlight the seriousness of the possible 
consequences of sending money to a scammer, or is clear enough about the possible steps 
a customer could take to avoid this kind of scam.So I dont think the warning Mr C was shown was specific or impactful enough to be effective 
in his circumstances. And so I dont think Lloyds has established that Mr C ignored an 
effective warning in relation to the payment he made.
Did Mr C have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
These types of scams are particularly cruel and play on the trust and emotive nature of the 
relationship between a parent and their child. The initial message Mr C received referred to 
him as dad. And the instant messaging app the following messages were received through 
is the way Mr C usually communicates with his son. So I dont think it was unreasonable for 
him to assume the messages came from his son.
The messages Mr C received engaged with him in a conversation about a medical 
procedure he was due to have, asked if he was busy and expressed shame at asking for a 
favour before asking if he could make the payments. So I dont think the subject of the 
payments would have felt forced or unnatural. Ive also seen some examples of genuine 
messages Mr C received from his son, and the messages from the scammer are written in a 
similar style and tone. So I dont think there was anything in the language of the messages 
which should have suggested to Mr C that they werent coming from his son.
Mr C has also said his son is in rented accommodation at the moment and he knows rental 
prices have increased significantly recently, so it seemed reasonable to him that this could 
cause his son to struggle financially. And I dont think this was an unreasonable assumption 
for him to have made.
And so I think it was reasonable that Mr C believed the messages were coming from his son, 
and that he wanted to do what he could to help him out.
I think that there were some things about the situation which should have caused Mr C some 
concern  particularly that he was asked to make payments to two different individuals he 
didnt know. But I dont think these concerns were significant enough to overcome his initial 
trust that he was speaking to his son and his desire to help him. And I dont think they were 
significant enough to say that Mr C acted unreasonably in not carrying out any further 
checks and in still believing he was speaking to his son.
The messages also said the amounts had to be paid today, so Mr C was put under time 
pressure to make the payments quickly. And the payments were both made in just over an 
hour after the initial message Mr C received from the scammer, so there wasnt a significant 
period of time for him to stop and think about what was happening.
I also dont think the warning message Mr C was shown should have caused him significant 
concern as, for the same reasons Ive explained above, I dont think it will have seemed 
particularly relevant or impactful to him.
So I dont think Lloyds has established that Mr C didnt have a reasonable basis for belief 
when he made the payments.
Overall then, I dont think Lloyds has established that any of the exclusions to 
reimbursement under the CRM code apply here. So I think Lloyds should refund the money 
Mr C lost, in full, under the terms of the CRM code.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Refund Mr C the remaining money he lost as a result of this scam
Pay Mr C 8% simple interest on this refund, from the date it initially responded to his 
claim, until the date of settlement
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2024.
 
Alan Millward
Ombudsman