The complaint
Mr M complains that Vitality Health Limited misled him and said it would approve a claim he 
made on behalf of his daughter under his private health insurance policy. Instead, it 
confirmed it had made a mistake initially and retracted the decision.
To resolve the complaint, Mr M wants Vitality to pay for his daughters treatment, like it had 
originally confirmed it would.
What happened
Mr M has a Personal Healthcare policy with Vitality and has been a customer since 2007. 
The current cover period for the policy runs from 29 May 2019 to 28 May 2020. The policy 
includes cover for Mr Ms children.
In June 2019, Mr M contacted Vitality to make a claim on behalf of his daughter, F. He 
explained she was being referred by her GP for lack of appetite and loss of weight, as she 
was not eating due to exam stress.
During the conversation, Mr M explained that he had approached Fs GP, who had 
recommended a referral to Dr R, a consultant psychiatrist who was covered by Vitality.
Mr M then emailed the GP referral letter to Vitalitys claim handler. He asked for an 
authorisation number to approve Fs appointment with Dr R.
The claims handler replied by email informing Mr M that it could accept the claim but it could 
not fund the specific treatment Mr M had requested. This was because Mr M did not have 
mental health cover on his policy. Instead, it said it would provide cover for eight sessions of 
talking therapy, after a triage appointment by telephone with F.
Vitality further explained it had made a mistake in suggesting during the telephone call that it 
would pay a claim for F, as it could not actually do so if that treatment was required for a 
mental health condition. Because of the mistake, it agreed to honour the initial appointment 
F had undergone with Dr R, but it couldnt pay for any further treatment. However, to make a 
claim on his policy, Mr M was required to pay an excess of £250.
Mr M called Vitality again to explain that Fs condition was not related to her mental health. 
Despite this and some further ongoing emails, Vitality was not minded to change its view. It 
says that the recommended treatment proposed by Dr R was undertaken at a specific 
mental health hospital and Mr Ms policy does not cover mental health treatments. Further, 
Dr R had since sent it a medical report and this confirmed Fs condition was a mental health 
issue.
So, Mr M complained. He also made a subject access request and asked for a copy of the 
relevant call to show he was told the claim would be met.
DRN-1660613Vitality rejected the complaint. It said it could see that Mr M had not selected the Mental 
Health Cover option on his policy. As a result, the only treatment it could accept in relation to 
Mental Health was eight sessions of Talking Therapies (cognitive behavioural therapy 
(CBT)) which is covered under Core Cover on all of its policies.
Mr M lodged his complaint with this service. He said that sending F to a nutritionist did not 
amount to mental health treatment. Vitality said it had reached the right outcome in respect 
of the terms applying to Mr Ms policy. It also said it had sent Mr M a full copy of the 
information it holds about him on 15 July 2019. 
An investigator from this service considered the complaint. He believed it ought to be upheld 
because Vitality could have made it clear to Mr M that the treatment he sought was not 
provided for within his policy terms. Because of that, Mr M had paid his policy excess to 
undertake the appointment with Dr R, and he may not have otherwise done so. He therefore 
suggested that Vitality return Mr Ms policy excess to him, with interest. 
However, he disagreed with Mr M that Vitality ought to be ordered to fund the remainder of 
Fs treatment. He agreed with Vitality that the treatment was mental health treatment and 
therefore was not covered under Mr Ms policy.
Vitality accepted the investigators view. Mr M disagreed. He said he based his actions in 
paying for his daughters treatment on Vitalitys error  and therefore he had suffered a 
consequential loss. He asked for the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was very sorry to have learned of Fs situation and need for treatment. I can see that things 
have been difficult for Mr M, and he feels strongly about Vitalitys actions. I agree that it 
should have been clearer with him from the outset of his claim for F. On that basis, I agree 
with our investigators proposals.
However, I also agree with our investigator that the correct redress for this complaint does 
not include payment of the further outpatient treatment F has undergone, which Mr M has 
paid for. Ill explain my reasons for that below.
Neither party disputes that when Mr M first spoke with Vitality on 10 June 2019, he was not 
told expressly that any referral for mental health conditions relating to F were not covered by 
his policy. Nor does either party dispute that Mr M does not have mental health benefits as 
one of the options on his Vitality Personal Healthcare policy. 
Vitality was in an informed position to tell Mr M the nature of the benefits he held in greater 
detail and what options were open to him.  At the time of the telephone call, F had seen a 
GP and a referral had been made to Dr R, a consultant psychiatrist. The claims handler 
asked Mr M for a copy of the referral because at that stage it only knew that F was not eating 
and had lost weight. 
Where the parties disagree is how the error made on 10 June 2019 ought to be put right. In 
summary Mr M says that he based his subsequent actions (paying for five days of treatment 
for F in a specialist clinic) on the fact he thought this would be authorised by Vitality and that 
he takes the view that the therapy she has attended has a nutritionist approach, rather than 
a mental health one. Though I appreciate Mr Ms feelings about the matter, I dont agree with the reasoning. 
Vitality has made a mistake, and where that matter has been brought to this service as a 
complaint, I need to consider the appropriate redress. And in doing so, I must look at what 
ought to have happened, but for the mistake made. 
I dont accept that Mr M would not likely have gone on to fund the treatment (the five days F 
spent at a specialist clinic) or that he would have done anything differently  if Vitality had 
made clear during the telephone call that it could not pay for that treatment. I say that 
because Mr M has supplied us with the treatment invoices, and it took place over five days in 
September 2019, almost three months after Vitality issued a final claims outcome. 
Vitality emailed Mr M on 12 June 2019 explaining how it had confused matters initially. And it 
expressly said at that time as you do not have the Mental Health Benefit on your policy, we 
are only able to offer you up to 8 sessions with our Mental Health Partners [name of third 
party].
Vitality went on to explain how Mr M could contact that third party. He replied the following 
day and thanked Vitality for funding the sessions  but it is clear Mr M did not recognise that 
there was a different offer being put to him and not an agreement to fund any treatment 
proposed by Dr R. Vitality was not offering eight sessions of any type of treatment or therapy 
for F, because Mr M does not have mental health cover on his policy. It was instead offering 
eight talking therapy/CBT sessions with its approved third party. 
However, that same day a telephone call took place with Mr M where Vitality did explain the 
differences on his policy. By this time, a referral to Dr R had been made. But, though Mr M 
was understandably unhappy about the error, he did know that Vitality could not fund any 
mental health treatment, if Dr R went on to recommend that.
Further, Vitality did explain this difference to Mr M in its letter dated 26 June 2019 in which it 
set out the written confirmation of the final claims decision, noting how it had explored Fs 
symptoms with Mr M because:
 
To explain further, if her GP was referring her on medical grounds for loss of appetite, 
we would expect her to be referred to a gastroenterologist. Alternatively, if she was 
being referred to a psychologist, psychiatrist or a counsellor for an eating disorder, this 
would fall within the remit of mental health.  
I know Mr M has made the point that a referral for nutrition advice differs from a mental 
health referral. I dont doubt that. However, the clinic that F attended is a specialist day clinic 
for eating disorders. And eating disorders are widely recognised as mental health disorders, 
which is why they are ordinarily treated within the field of psychiatry. It follows that I do not 
consider it unreasonable for Vitality to assess any referral made on that basis by a 
consultant psychiatrist to be within the field of psychiatry, and therefore not funded as a 
mental health matter. 
In its claims outcome letter, Vitality also explained that Mr Ms policy doesnt have provisions 
to pay for nutritionist or food therapists in any event.  
That Mr M went on to pay for private treatment for F was a matter of his choosing, but it was 
clear that he knew Vitality was not liable to pay a claim for it because his policy does not 
include mental health cover as a chosen additional benefit. And it had told him expressly 
some time beforehand that the only associated claim it could permit was the eight sessions of CBT.
Vitality has done something wrong, and correct redress should be paid for the error. But, it 
doesnt follow that because it made a mistake that I must uphold the mistake and honour it 
as if Mr M did actually have mental health benefit on his policy. That is not a fair or 
reasonable approach, as Mr M had not paid for cover of that type. 
The confusion created by Vitality meant that Mr M went ahead with consulting Dr R when 
perhaps he may not have done if he had understood from the outset that any treatment of 
this nature would have to be self-funded. And because of this, he had to pay his policy 
excess of £250, with Vitality covering the remainder of the cost for Dr Rs appointment. 
So, it is right that Vitality repays that excess to Mr M as that is the actual consequential loss, 
not the treatment undertaken some months later outside of the policy terms.
Putting things right
I direct Vitality Health Limited to refund the excess of £250 that Mr M paid for the 
appointment with Dr R.
Interest should be added to the claim payment. This should be at a gross annual rate of 8% 
simple, less tax (if properly deductible), from the date Mr M paid the excess to the date of 
settlement. 
If Vitality considers it is legally obliged to deduct income tax from the interest, it must make 
the appropriate payment to HM Revenue and Customs and send tax deduction certificates to 
Mr M along with the compensation payment. If eligible, Mr M could thereafter reclaim any 
overpaid tax from HM Revenue and Customs.
I make no other award. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I direct Vitality Health Limited to pay the redress I have set out 
above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2020.
Jo Storey
Ombudsman