DRN-4208729
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, irresponsibly provided 
him with two credit cards he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In December 2003, it seems Barclays opened a credit card account for Mr P with a credit 
limit of £3,500. In October 2008, it opened another account with a credit limit of £1,000. 
In 2022, Mr P complained to Barclays that it shouldnt have opened the credit card accounts 
as they were unaffordable for him. 
Barclays refused to consider the merits of Mr Ps complaint as it said hed brought it too late 
under the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules we must follow.
Unhappy with Barclayss response, Mr P complained to this service. Our investigator felt 
Mr P hadnt brought the complaint too late and told the parties this. Since they didnt receive 
a response from Barclays, the investigator went on to consider the complaints merits. In 
doing so, the investigator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. They felt 
the credit was likely to be unaffordable for him based on the available information.       
Mr P agreed with the investigators findings, although Barclays didnt respond despite 
requests for it to do so. As such, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are gaps in the information thats still available from the time Barclays made its 
decisions to lend to Mr P. Thats partly due to the length of time thats passed since these 
events took place, and thats understandable. But its also due to the lack of submissions 
and information provided by Barclays in response to our requests. So, Ive been left to 
consider the available information and what, on balance, this shows is more likely than not to 
have happened.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
I confirm that I broadly agree with the investigators findings on Barclayss lending decisions.  
Im satisfied that good industry practice at the time (see, for example, The Banking Code) 
meant Barclays needed to assess whether it felt Mr P would be able to repay the lending 
taking into account factors such as the customers income. In summary:
I cant say for sure what Mr Ps circumstances were when he applied for the credit 
card accounts. Mr P says he was earning between £5,000 and £8,000. This ties in 
with the information included in an earlier credit card application Mr P made in 1999. 
Its reasonable to think Mr Ps income was perhaps higher by 2003 and perhaps 
higher still by 2008. Even if thats the case, the credit limits Barclays provided him 
with were relatively high in comparison at £3,500 and £1,000.
Mr P says he was struggling financially when Barclays lent to him. He says he had a 
gambling problem and I see no reason to doubt what hes said.
Evidence regarding the account opened in 2003 suggests Mr P regularly incurred 
late payment and over limit fees and charges from December 2005 onwards.   
Despite these signs that Mr P was struggling with the credit Barclays had provided 
previously, it decided to offer him a further credit card account with a significant credit 
limit of £1,000, in addition to his existing limit of £3,500. That took his combined 
credit limit for the two cards to £4,500.
The circumstances in 2003 and 2008 dont indicate to me that Mr P was able to repay the 
lending. I cant see that Barclays carried out checks that would have enabled it to make a 
reasonable assessment on that issue.
Putting things right
Barclays should put things right for Mr P from the start of the credit card accounts, albeit hes 
had the benefit of the money borrowed and so may need to repay the principal amounts. So, 
Barclays should: 
Rework both credit card account balances to ensure that all the interest, fees and 
charges applied to them from the start are removed.
If an outstanding balance remains on either account once these adjustments have 
been made, Barclays should contact Mr P to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this.
If no outstanding balance remains, any relevant adverse information should be 
removed from the credit file. 
And
 
If the refund means theres no remaining balance on either of the accounts, any extra 
should be treated as overpayments and returned to Mr P. 
And
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on any overpayments from the date they were made 
(if they were) to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Im upholding this complaint. I require Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading 
as Barclaycard, to put things right for Mr P as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman