The complaint
Mr M complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Virgin Money) 
has charged him an annual fee for his credit card account.
What happened
Mr M took out an account with Virgin Money on 28 February 2019 which had an annual 
fee. Mr M says he wanted to close his account by the anniversary date as he wanted to 
avoid another fee. Before Mr M closed his account, he was charged the second annual fee 
on 3 February 2020. Mr M asked for the fee to be refunded as hed planned to close the 
account by 28 February 2020. Virgin Money rejected this request and said the fee was 
charged correctly and at the right time.
On 16 June 2020, I sent out my provisional decision intending to uphold this complaint. In 
this I said the following:
"Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not contested that Mr M intended to close the account and avoid a second 
annual charge. So, Ive focused on whether Virgin Money acted fairly when charging the fee 
on 3 February 2020, and whether Mr M shouldve been alerted to the charge date earlier.
Alerted earlier
Virgin Money has provided call notes showing that Mr M contacted it on 16 January 2020 
to query closing the account. Ive not had the opportunity to listen to the call, but I feel the 
right thing to have done at this point would be to advise Mr M when the second yearly fee 
would be charged  or which statement it would appear on. If this had been done, Im 
convinced from what hes said, and the call notes, that Mr M wouldve closed the account 
and avoided the fee.
Had this happened, Mr Ms account wouldnt have been open, and wouldnt have 
facilitated the payment after the anniversary date.
Date of charge
Regardless of the call, its possible that charging the fee in Mr Ms February 2020 
statement wasnt reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The terms agreed to 
state:
DRN-1947404each subsequent annual card fee will be added to the account on or about the 
anniversary of the account opening date and will be required to be paid as part of your 
minimum payment
Virgin Moneys reasons for applying the charge on 3 February 2020 was so that the 
payment was due from Mr M on 23 February 2020. I can see the reason behind this, but I 
feel the terms of the account leaves open the possibility of the charge being applied in 
either February or March given that the account was opened on 28 February 2019. And I 
can understand why Mr M was surprised when he saw the charge had been added in 
early February.
Virgin Money has clarified that the charge is for the Reward Plus Card which 
provides additional Flying Club Miles (FCM) and benefits associated with the flying Club and 
is not for the servicing of the account. It also explained that the first charge was applied to Mr 
Ms 3 April 2020 statement so that it gave him time to receive the card in March and begin 
earning FCM.
Mr M had told Virgin Money in January that he intended to close the account. And 
in February  before the anniversary of the card  hed paid off his balance and moved 
his regular payments. I think it was clear that his intention was to cancel this card. On this 
basis it wouldve been reasonable to apply the fee in March 2020 at the 12 month point of Mr 
M earning his Flying Club Miles, and on or around the first anniversary of his account 
being opened. When Virgin Money had applied the annual fee Mr M had only had access to 
the benefit for 11 months. And if Virgin Money wasnt able to change the date it applied the 
fee, it wouldve been fair to refund the fee when Mr M had requested its cancellation before 
he had access to the benefit for a full 12 months.
Putting things right
I understand the reason that our investigator has reached his opinion, but I do feel that 
the further explanation Mr M has provided is persuasive. Its clear he kept the account open 
and paid money in to ensure that he wouldnt lose the benefits if he lost his complaint. As 
he wouldnt get a refund of the fee if he cancelled part way through the year.
If Virgin Money had advised Mr M about the fee date during their call on 16 January 2020 
or had waited until March to apply the FCM fee, the account wouldve been closed. 
The payment from his account after the anniversary wouldnt have been made. So, on 
agreement that Mr M closes his account, Virgin Money should refund Mr M the £160 fee hes 
paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have agreed with the provisional decision, which is detailed above and forms 
part of this decision, I uphold this complaint for the same reasons.
Putting things right
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must refund Mr M's annual fee of £160.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must refund Mr M 
£160.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman