DRN-3680034
The complaint
Mrs D, through her representatives, complains that Retirement Direct Limited (RDL)
negligently advised her to transfer her defined benefit (DB) pension scheme to a personal
pension. She says she has lost out as a result.
What happened
In 2005, Mrs D responded to an advert by RDL about the possibility to release cash from her
pension from age 50. Mrs D completed a Confidential Financial Information Form (CFIF)
over the phone on 16 May and spoke again to RDL on 20 May. She had recently turned 50.
RDL reviewed her pension and provided her with advice. She subsequently transferred her
non-protected rights to a Section 32 buyout plan from which she took tax free cash of around
£22,000 and a small annuity immediately and her protected rights into a personal pension
which she could access at age 60.
In 2021 she complained about the advice given to her. Her representatives say she should
have remained in the DB scheme. RDL rejected the complaint and raised time limit
arguments.
I issued a provisional decision explaining that I though Mrs D had complained in time. RDL
disagreed with my decision but agreed to this service looking into the complaint in order not
to delay matters further. I subsequently considered the merits of Mrs Ds complaint and 
issued provisional findings explaining I was intending to not uphold it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Provisional findings
In my provisional decision I said the following: 
Mrs D called RDL in April 2005 responding to an advert about Pension Unlocking. She
signed RDLs terms of business and a letter of authority so they could obtain details from her
DB scheme. After all details had been gathered, RDL called Mrs D on 16 May and a CFIF
was completed over the phone recording Mrs Ds personal circumstances.
To the question how much cash do you need Mrs Ds answer was recorded as what there
is to enjoy it now and improve current standard of living. As for the reasons why she needed
this money now, Mrs D said:
An awful lot of people that I worked with at [her employer] have died before retirement age
and this has changed my outlook on life. I would rather have any money to enjoy now whilst
in a position to do so.
A call back was arranged for 20 May to discuss the advisers analysis. The call note from 20 
May says:
Called client, discussed NRD benefits at 65 and death benefits prior to retirement and how
they would assist in providing a good RI [retirement income]. We discussed Short Term
objectives (which arent an objective at all really) to enjoy while able to as lots of friends etc
dying. I said that a pension is for retirement and if she goes ahead it is based on a knee jerk
reaction and probably a decision she lives to regret in the future.  I explained the loss of
RI said I cannot recommend this course of action. She should discuss with her husband and
think about it.
Records show Mrs D called back the same day to say she had discussed it with her husband
and wanted RDL to continue.
On 24 May RDL sent Mrs D their suitability report. Mrs D was also sent a copy of her CFIF to
allow her to review the answers she had given. She signed it confirming that the information
in the form was a fair summary of the details provided to RDL and that she understood
taking a lump sum prior to her normal retirement age would reduce the pension she would
expect to receive at her normal retirement date. The report pointed out in bold that she
would face effective losses of £3,993 per year if she transferred and took benefits
immediately. She was advised to keep the DB pension intact until age 65 as she appeared
to have no real need for raising a cash lump sum at the time of the advice.
The report closed by saying:
When we discussed these issues on the telephone, you told me you believe the
capital now is a higher priority than the potential loss of retirement income. You
stated that you are aware of the potential future losses but would like to have use of
the money now. You did not agree with my advice. You still wish to proceed despite our
advice to the contrary and the above consequences and disadvantages of your actions.
You are aware that your retirement income benefits will be reduced but you wish to
continue.
We have discussed these issues and figures with you and informed you that we cannot
justify the use of your pension for raising the cash you require. However you have instructed
us verbally to proceed with accessing the required funds from your pension. I am writing to
you now in order to request that you confirm that you wish to continue, and why you wish to
continue, in writing. On receipt of your written instructions I will arrange for our full report and
documentation to be forwarded to you.
Mrs D sent a letter on 27 May referring to the letter of 24 May and asked RDL to go ahead
with unlocking her pension. She said:
As I stated to you on the phone I want to enjoy it now while I still can and know all the
consequences of getting it early, but I still want to go ahead and unlock it for me. I hope this
is satisfactory to you and look forward to hearing from you soon.
On 31 May RDL sent her another suitability report which included similar information than
the previous letter sent to Mrs D. It reiterated again that she was going against RDLs
advice.
RDL said they couldnt recommend an appropriate course of action, however after having
discussed the different options with Mrs D, they set out the option she had chosen and
provided information about a provider which conducted this kind of business and a balanced
retirement investment strategy they would normally consider for someone with Mrs Dsattitude to risk.
was the advice suitable?
Based on the information Ive seen and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time of the advice, she
should have been recommended to keep her DB benefits. There were no persuasive
reasons why she needed a lump sum immediately and give up a guaranteed income in
return for lower benefits in retirement. However, RDL made it clear to Mrs D that their advice
was to not transfer her DB benefits. They said this to her on the phone and mentioned it
many times in the two suitability letters. I also dont think they gave any conflicting or
misleading information about this. So RDLs actual advice to keep the DB benefits was in
Mrs Ds best interest.
RDL said they didnt recommend the personal pension provider and the investments Mrs D
should invest into. And the suitability report told Mrs D they werent making
recommendations in this regard. It seems RDL was cautious to give the impression any
recommendations regarding the provider and investments could be seen as an overall
endorsement of the transfer.
However, firms were allowed to follow a fair insistent client process after they had given
suitable advice. Theres no obligation for firms to refuse a transaction just because a
consumer wants to go against their advice.
Once it was established Mrs D still wanted to proceed against advice to keep her DB
benefits, it wasnt unreasonable or unfair to provide Mrs D with information or suitable advice
about options how to achieve what she wanted to do. I can see how Mrs D might have
thought they were recommending the provider as I cant see that alternative providers were
discussed. However, even if they had recommended it, I cant see any issues with the
provider and the investment strategy RDL set out for her. RDL kept setting out that in their
view Mrs D shouldnt transfer.
Insistent client process
Ive carefully considered the insistent client process RDL followed here. There were no
specific rules on insistent clients at the time of the advice. However, COBS 2.1.1R required a
firm to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its
client. The regulator also issued a factsheet to advisers in 2015 about their position on
advising insistent clients. This was issued ten years after the advice given to Mrs D, but
when it was issued it was described by the regulator as a helpful reminder, so it didnt mark
a change in good practice. So Ive also looked at RDLs actions in light of this.
The key steps to take in the regulators view were:
1. To provide suitable advice for the individual client and this advice must be clear to the
client
2. To be clear with the client about the risks of their chosen course of action
3. It should be clear to the client that their actions are against the advisers advice
As I said above I think RDLs advice to keep Mrs Ds DB benefits intact was suitable and I
think it was clear what their recommendation was. Im also satisfied that Mrs D would have
understood she was going against the advisers recommendation.
I think Mrs D was given clear enough information that she likely would be worse off in
retirement by transferring and taking a lump sum now and that she was giving up
guaranteed benefits in return for a pension with investment risk. This was more than just
generic information but actually RDL gave her the additional annual income and deathbenefits sums she was likely to lose out on at age 65. The benefits in her existing scheme
and in the new scheme were compared and consequences and disadvantages of a transfer
were set out in the report.
Mrs D was given the chance to read this report and she was asked to put in writing if she
wanted to proceed and why- which she did. I cant see that she was pressured or not given
the chance to read and digest the report.
And whilst it was good industry practice to ask for a consumers insistent client letter in their
own handwriting, I have seen nothing to suggest that the letter Mrs D sent in response was
prepared for her or didnt reflect her own thoughts at the time.
Ive considered that RDL did not provide Mrs D with the option to take benefits from her DB
pension early. However, in response to RDL asking for an early retirement quote the
information Ive seen from the trustees makes it clear that Mrs D couldnt have taken benefits
at the time of the advice. They said Mrs D would not be able to take benefits from the DB
scheme for approximately another three years as the pension at age 65 had to at least cover
the value of the guaranteed minimum pension. So no early retirement quote was provided.
This was an estimate and could have been later than this. And even if she could have
accessed the DB scheme at age 53 this would have been significantly reduced by taking it
12 years before normal retirement age.
I still think this option should have been at least discussed. However, Im satisfied Mrs D
wanted a lump sum when she contacted RDL and on balance I dont think its likely she
would have wanted to wait for at least three years (potentially longer) to access benefits. In
my view there would have also been a considerable chance that even if the guaranteed
minimum pension was just about supported at age 53 that no lump sum might have been
available to take at that point which might have made this option less attractive. Overall, Im
not convinced that if Mrs D had been informed about this option that she wouldnt have
transferred.
Theres always an argument information could have been clearer and Im not saying RDLs
advice was perfect in every way. However, overall, I cant see Mrs D was misled by RDL in
any way that a transfer was something she should pursue. On the contrary, their advice was
clear throughout that they didnt recommend her to do this. In my view Mrs D had sufficient
information to understand that transferring did have a significant negative impact on her
retirement provisions and that she was giving up guaranteed benefits. Based on the call
notes and her own letter she wrote in response to the first suitability report I think she
accepted this and receiving a lump sum at age 50 was simply more important to her at that
point.
Im not disputing that Mrs D is likely worse off now than if she had remained in her DB
scheme. But I dont think it would be fair to hold RDL responsible for this in the
circumstances of this case.
Response from Mrs Ds representatives
Mrs Ds representatives disagreed with my provisional decision not upholding Mrs Ds 
complaint. In summary they made the following comments:
At the time of the advice Mrs D was financially comfortable and had no real need for 
a tax-free cash lump sum. The money was spent on new doors, windows and floors. 
She wanted to access funds but didnt know about the disadvantages or losses this 
would bring.The call notes provided are a merely a summary and cant accurately reflect what 
was discussed exactly. However, its clear Mrs D chose an option in the call of 20 
May which was before she received a suitability report or any other written advice. 
Its reasonable to suggest RDL led Mrs D down a specific path.
RDL didnt comply with Principle 9 as set out by the regulator which stipulates a duty 
to take reasonable care to ensure the suitability of their advice. Mrs D didnt quantify 
the amount of tax-free cash she required. RDL failed to explore this sufficiently and 
didnt collect enough data from her. So they couldnt understand her position fully and 
alternative options to raise cash couldnt be explored.
The suitability reports are misleading and contain inaccuracies. RDL mentioned that 
by transferring Mrs D would be giving up the right to potentially superior benefits, 
when it was clear they were superior. They queried why this wasnt made completely 
clear. RDL should have considered that Mrs D was not someone with financial 
experience and their documents should have been tailored accordingly.
The suitability reports werent discussed once sent. Mrs D was left to her own 
devices and didnt understand the disadvantages sufficiently as they werent 
quantified in a manner to alert Mrs D.
An incorrect insistent client process was used. RDL needed to ascertain a clients 
actual investment objective, so suitable advice could be provided. And they failed to 
do this. They questioned how Mrs D could be considered an insistent client when she 
had been led down a path before receiving a full written explanation why she should 
not proceed and digest this information. The whole process took 15 days which 
seems insufficient time.
Mrs D says she was simply told what must be done to allow the transfer to proceed 
and was persuaded to submit a written declaration. The advice process focussed on 
how to access tax-free cash rather than starting with the focus of a transfer being 
unsuitable and the risks involved. The information provided by RDL does not include 
any declaration from Mrs D, in her own words, showing that she was aware of being 
treated as an insistent client nor did the business have an insistent client agreement. 
Its believed this was a papering exercise.
RDL misled Mrs D and didnt act in her best interest.
Ive carefully considered these additional comments, however my decision remains 
unchanged. Ill explain why.
I agree that Mrs D likely had no urgent need for the tax-free cash from her pension and the 
same was pointed out by RDL in their suitability report. This was one of the reasons why 
they advised her to keep her DB pension intact. The suitability report says RDL asked Mrs D 
several times how much she needed but her response was that she didnt have a particular 
amount in mind and wanted the maximum possible. I agree that RDL would have needed to 
insist on more information from Mrs D about this if their advice had been to transfer her 
benefits. However, they advised against this action which was suitable advice.
I accept the suitability report didnt actively discuss possible alternatives to raise cash and 
theres no evidence this was discussed over the phone. However, Im not convinced any 
reasonable alternatives were actually viable. Mrs D and her husband had savings of £1,000 
which suggests very limited disposable income, so they likely had no existing assets to pay 
for home improvements or any other expenses to improve their standard of living which is what they wanted to do. And they already had debts of nearly £15,000, so Im doubtful they 
could have serviced another loan. 
I previously acknowledged that the suitability letters could have been clearer and werent 
perfect in every way and I agree with Mrs Ds representatives that the language used in 
parts of the report could have been improved. However, overall, Im still satisfied that Mrs D 
was given clear enough information (with quantified figures and in a way a lay person would 
understand ) how much income she would be losing per year as well as the death benefits 
she was giving up if she transferred. And throughout the communications with Mrs D the 
message was clear in my view that she should not transfer.
Of course I dont know what was discussed exactly during the phone calls. However, I dont 
think providing Mrs D with information about her different options is concerning in itself. 
Based on the call notes, which is the only contemporary evidence I have about what was 
discussed, RDL told Mrs D that the advice was not to proceed and that this seemed like a 
knee-jerk reaction she probably would regret in future. And that she was told to discuss 
with her husband and think about this. Theres no evidence to support Mrs Ds 
representatives view that she was likely led down a certain path. 
She was then given a suitability report which clearly set out again the advice not to transfer 
and why and discussed disadvantages and losses. RDL didnt just transact a transfer based 
on a choice Mrs D made over the phone. They acknowledged that Mrs D had said she 
wanted to proceed and asked her to confirm in writing that she wanted to continue and why. 
Mrs D had opportunity to read and digest the report and she was asked to get in touch if she 
had any queries. 
I think it was fine for RDL to ask Mrs D for written confirmation that she still wanted to go 
ahead and why, so they could record the process that was followed. As I said previously 
theres no reason for me to doubt that the letter Mrs D wrote in response reflected her own 
thoughts and it acknowledged that there were consequences to access the cash early. She 
could have changed her mind at this point.
I remain satisfied that based on the information available to me Mrs D understood she was 
going against advice and what she was giving up, but decided to proceed nonetheless. I 
cant see that RDL misled her or treated her unfairly.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman