DRN-2087352
The complaint
Mr B complains Aviva Insurance Limited failed to make him aware earlier of cheaper options 
for insuring his vehicle
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr B Ive considered all of the points hes raised but Im going to focus my 
decision on what I see as the central issues to this complaint. I dont intend this as a 
discourtesy, rather it reflects the informal nature of our service and my role in it.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for these reasons:
When an insurance policy is coming to end, wed expect insurers to take reasonable 
steps to explain this to a customer. No recommendation was given by Aviva about 
the suitability of the policy to Mr B. So they would only need to provide details of the 
renewal and give him time to make an informed decision as to whether he wanted to 
renew or look for another policy. I can see they did this when they wrote to Mr B 
around December 2019  around a month before the policy was due to renew. In the 
renewal letter it lists out the price of the new policy premium, the premium from the 
previous year and lists all of the information provided to them by Mr B previously, 
asking him to check if this was still up to date and relevant.
In December 2019 Mr B had been insured on the same policy for around five years. 
So Id also expect Aviva to encourage him to check that the policy remained suitable 
for his needs.  I can see this reminder was included in the first page of the renewal 
letter.
While I appreciate Mr Bs frustration at the difference in price between his existing 
policy and the price Aviva quoted for the commercial policy, I cant see that hed 
given Aviva any indication, before calling them in December 2019, that he wanted to 
use the vehicle commercially. Mr B had previously told Aviva he was using the 
vehicle for social and domestic use, and to drive to and from his place of paid 
employment. This wouldve been on his renewal schedule each year, and if he 
thought this was incorrect, or he felt the vehicle should now be classed as a 
commercial vehicle, he couldve raised this with Aviva- but I cant see anything to 
show that he did.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision Is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman