DRN-2570430
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited provided incorrect information about 
the value of her policy on a number of occasions. 
What happened
Mrs Cs endowment policy was due to mature on 1 April 2020. In late February, early March 
2020, she was sent a maturity pack. She was paid the maturity value in mid-April, but as it 
wasnt what she was led to believe she would, get she complained. 
Aviva upheld the complaint as it agreed it didnt provide correct information to her:
In the call of 20 March, although Mrs C was provided with the correct value of the 
policy at the time, it wasnt made clear that value already included the final bonus. So 
when the call handler gave the bonus amount of £3,735.62, Mrs C was left with the 
impression this would be paid in addition to the value provided. Aviva says this 
should have been clarified and Mrs C ought to have been told to send her 
instructions for payment straight away. 
Although Aviva doesnt have a recording of the call on 26 March 2020, Mrs C reports 
she was notified of delays in processing maturity proceeds but was assured that 
additional bonuses would be paid. She was told that if she posted the claim form, the 
proceeds could be paid directly into the account premiums were paid from. 
After emailing and posting the claim form (which were both received by Aviva before 
the maturity date), Mrs C called on 3 April 2020 wanting to know when she would 
receive the maturity proceeds. Mrs C asked for the value of the policy, given as 
£18,823.31. She also asked what the bonus would be, but the call handler couldnt 
provide that to her.  Aviva accepts that Mrs C ought to have been told the value given 
already included the final bonus. 
On 14 April 2020, Mrs C called again to find out when the maturity proceeds would 
be paid. Although she was correctly told during this call that the maturity value 
already included final bonus, she was incorrectly told she needed to provide 
evidence of her identification and that she would receive the value on the day 
everything required had been provided. Aviva acknowledged that it didnt need any 
evidence of identification; it also accepted she was given the wrong information about 
when the value of the policy would be calculated.  
Aviva checked to see if Mrs C had lost out financially as a result of the incorrect information. 
But it said the maturity value of 1 April 2020 was higher than the surrender value in the 
proceeding days. However, as it had provided incorrect information to her on several 
occasions, it offered a total of £250 compensation for the loss of expectation and because of 
the trouble and upset shed been caused. It also added interest to the maturity value from 1 
April to 15 April 2020 to account for the delay in the proceeds being paid. 
 
Our investigator was satisfied Aviva had fairly resolved the complaint. She wasnt persuaded 
Mrs C was entitled to an amount equivalent to the bonus she was led to believe she would 
get, in addition to the maturity amount, as that had never been the value of the policy. 
Mrs C has asked for the matter to referred to an ombudsman. She says this was more than 
one error by one member of staff, there were numerous errors made each time she 
contacted Aviva. All the documentation she received said she needed to keep the policy for 
the full term in order to receive the final bonus and she was told she would get a bonus in 
addition to the value. She is also unhappy that Aviva now has her driving licence details 
which she was incorrectly forced to provide, and she isnt happy this is being held on its 
system. Overall, she doesnt feel the compensation reflects the seriousness of the errors 
made. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mrs C feels strongly about her complaint. It must have been very 
disappointing to find out that incorrect information hadnt only been provided once, but on 
several occasions; Mrs C was entitled to expect the provision of correct information, 
particularly about the value of her policy. 
Mrs C is right that in order to receive full final bonus a policy usually needs to be kept until 
the maturity date. Aviva has already acknowledged that it got things wrong, and it missed 
several opportunities to correct Mrs Cs understanding about the final bonus. As it already 
agrees it didnt provide the correct information to Mrs C, I dont need to make any findings 
about that, I just need to decide whether Aviva has done enough to put matters right. 
When something goes wrong, as it did here, the way to put that right would be to put Mrs C 
in the position she would have been in had she been provided with the correct information; it 
isnt to put her in the position of the incorrect information being right. 
Had Mrs C been given the correct information, she would have known from 20 March 2020 
that the value provided in the maturity pack, and values she was given over the phone 
already included the final bonus. So her position wouldnt be any different to what it is now, 
in so far as it relates to the value she received; she just would have known she wasnt going 
to receive anything extra. I have thought about whether Mrs C would have done anything 
differently on 20 March 2020 (the first time the position wasnt clarified) had she been told 
correctly the value included final bonus. I dont she would have done as she was only a few 
days away from maturity; I think she would have left the policy to mature before taking the 
proceeds.  But even if Im wrong about that, and she would have surrendered the policy, I 
understand she hasnt lost out as the ultimate maturity value was higher than the surrender 
value between 20 March and 1 April. That means she hasnt been caused an actual financial 
loss as a result of the errors, although I accept there was a loss of expectation. 
Overall, I find no basis on which to ask Aviva to pay a higher value than the maturity value  
that is, I find no basis on which to ask it to pay an additional amount equivalent to the bonus 
she thought she was going to receive over the policy value. To do so would be to place her 
in a better financial position than she was entitled to under the terms of the policy, and I dont 
think that would be fair or reasonable. I am please to see that Aviva has paid interest of 
£7.94 on the maturity value to account for the two-week delay in the proceeds being paid. I 
find the interest added to be broadly fair. 
Nevertheless, Mrs C has been put to some distress and inconvenience by this matter. She 
was provided with incorrect information on several occasions and was asked to provide 
evidence that wasnt required. Although the actual delay in the maturity pay out was caused 
by the pandemic, I can see why Mrs C has been left with the impression this has been caused as a result of the administrative errors. Having carefully considered what happened, 
Im satisfied £250 compensation is fair reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs C is also concerned that Aviva holds information about her that wasnt needed; a copy 
of her driving licence. If it hasnt already done so, it should destroy that information. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited has 
already fairly resolved this complaint. I require it to pay Mrs C £257.94 if it hasnt already 
done so. I also require it to destroy any record it has of Mrs Cs driving licence, if this hasnt 
already been done. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman