DRN-2646115
The complaint
Ms W is unhappy N.F.U. Mutual Unit Managers Limited (N.F.U.) voided her home insurance 
policy.
What happened
In May 2017, Ms W and her partner at the time took out a Home and Lifestyle policy with 
N.F.U. The policy renewed in May 2018.
In December 2018, Ms W contacted N.F.U. about her cover as shed arranged to have 
guests stay at her property over the Christmas period, and she wanted to make sure she 
was covered as she wouldnt be present during their stay.
As a result of this conversation, Ms W took out a new policy with N.F.U., as she needed to 
remove her ex-partner and other details about the value of the property were updated. Ms W 
raised a complaint about this call; the price of her insurance; and being made to take out 
new cover, rather than amending her existing cover, but this has been dealt with separately.
In February 2019, N.F.U. voided Ms Ws home insurance. It said that she had deliberately 
misrepresented information to it when she took out the cover in December 2018. Ms W 
disagreed and raised a complaint about this. 
N.F.U. didnt uphold Ms Ws complaint and maintained its decision to void her policy. It said 
that Ms W had been using the property as a business prior to taking out this new policy, but 
shed not disclosed this. Ms W disagreed and brought her complaint to our service.
Ms W maintained that she wasnt running a business in 2018 and that she was intending to 
start this in 2019. She said she wasnt a B&B and she couldnt help if guests had said this in 
their reviews of her house. She said that as she was always present when guests stayed, 
she wasnt running a holiday home.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, so its been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W isnt disputing that her property was listed on her cover as only being used privately. 
She maintains that this is what it was in December 2018, so she hasnt misrepresented to 
N.F.U. Ive considered her arguments including about how her property has been advertised 
and the steps shed taken with the council in relation to starting a business in 2019. But this 
case ultimately comes down to the cover she held and the terms of her policy.
Ms Ws policy document has three key definitions in relation to this complaint and the use of 
a house:
HOLIDAY ACCOMMODATION
Accommodation for paying guests.
HOLIDAY HOME
The HOME YOU use to provide HOLIDAY ACCOMMODATION.
HOME
The house, garages, glasshouses, stables and OUTBUILDINGS described on YOUR 
SCHEDULE all used for DOMESTIC purposes.
And domestic is defined as:
DOMESTIC
Relating to the private activities of YOU or YOUR FAMILY.
WE do not cover any business or profession, including growing agricultural or 
horticultural produce, or rearing livestock for profit.
For Ms Ws house to be considered a Home by the policy definitions she couldnt be using it 
for business purposes. I accept Ms W has said she wasnt using the property for business in 
2018, and this was her intention from April 2019, but Im not satisfied the evidence N.F.U. 
has gathered supports this. 
Ms W also says she kept N.F.U. updated with every step of her journey. But one of the travel 
booking sites for Ms Ws home, which she accepts she was using, says her account was set 
up in April 2018. And it shows 26 reviews between July and November 2018. And I note 
more than one review comments on the price paid for the room. So Im satisfied that Ms W 
was accepting paying guests into her house, rather than simply having guests to stay 
occasionally during this time period.
I accept Ms W may not have officially set up her business in 2018, but I cant accept that 
renting out rooms to strangers via a travel website can be classed as her using the house for 
her own private activities. So it seems she stopped meeting the definition of Home in July 
2018. And under the terms of her policy, this meant she was using her home as a Holiday 
home to provide Holiday accommodation and so this needed to be declared to N.F.U.
While this decision relates only to Ms Ws December 2018 policy, I think its important to 
note that she renewed her previous cover with N.F.U. in May 2018. At this time shed 
already set up an account on the travel booking website, although I accept she may not have 
had any guests yet. But this does suggest an intention to begin accepting paying guests, 
which Ms W has confirmed she did start doing from July 2018. All Ms Ws paperwork from 
this renewal is the same as the December 2018 renewal, so informs her of the above 
definitions and what cover she does and doesnt have.
I consider this of relevance as Ms W has said, when she took out this cover in 2017, she 
was told she could occasionally use the property as a holiday home. N.F.U. have no record 
of this conversation. The only information it holds relating to this topic are system notes 
saying that Ms Ws partner at the time was specifically asked about the use of the property  
and its recorded he said it would only be for private use. But, in any event, the renewal 
paperwork from May 2018 made Ms W aware that N.F.U.s stance in 2018 was only to allow 
domestic use of the property.Ms W has explained that she didnt consider her property a holiday rental, as shed remained 
present when she had guests. And shes explained how the council wouldnt change the 
definition of the house if she was present and had up to six people. But N.F.U has made it 
clear how it sees this situation, both in the definitions quoted above and in Ms Ws policy 
statement. This sets out cover on the basis that her house is used Only as Home/Private 
Use. And that she doesnt have holiday accommodation cover and she must tell N.F.U. 
before she uses her home as a holiday home.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out 
what the next steps are for an insurer when it considers a consumer has made a qualifying 
misrepresentation. And these remedies are dependent on the type of misrepresentation 
thats occurred. N.F.U. is arguing that Ms W was deliberate in her misrepresentation, which 
means its entitled to void her policy and keep the premiums shes paid. This same remedy 
applies if the misrepresentation was reckless. Ms W maintains she didnt misrepresent to it.
Based on the above Im satisfied that Ms W did misrepresent her situation, as she didnt take 
reasonable care when taking out this new policy. While I havent been able to hear the call 
between Ms W and the adviser, Ive seen notes from this call  which set out Ms W is clear 
the house isnt being used for business purposes yet. And Ive seen Ms Ws renewal 
paperwork, which is clear on the use of the property too. Ms W was also adamant that she 
was using the property as a private residence and she still maintains this now, despite the 
further information N.F.U. has provided on this case. So Im satisfied this wouldve been her 
answer to any question asked about the use of the property.
While I accept Ms W wasnt formally registered as a B&B/guest house or officially using the 
property for business, she was using it to provide accommodation for paying guests. This 
means there was a material change to Ms Ws situation and how she was using the property 
from July 2018, so I consider she shouldve discussed this with her insurer. Considering 
shed received paying guests for five months and the number of reviews Ive seen, I think 
Ms Ws misrepresentation when taking out the policy in December 2018 meets the test for 
deliberate or reckless  which is that, in relation to the misrepresentation, she:
(a)knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
(b)knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Im satisfied Ms W had enough information to know she wasnt accurately presenting the risk 
of her home to the insurer in December 2018. And she knew that is was untrue or 
misleading to say at this time the house was only used as a Home or privately. Im also 
satisfied Ms W shouldve known this matter was relevant to the insurer, considering the 
warning in her paperwork about letting the insurer know if she used the house as a holiday 
home. And the fact she was calling the insurer because she was having guests over 
Christmas suggests she understood in some way the risks of others in the property.
I appreciate Ms W maintains that she didnt misrepresent her situation to the insurer. But it 
ultimately seems theres a difference between how Ms W decided she could use her 
property/what she needed to declare; and what N.F.U. required. And it seems this is in part 
driven by her reliance on other sources, such as how the local council and travel website 
defined the use of the home; and her not having set up an official business yet. But the fact 
shed spoken to the council in the summer, for example, and knew what its limit was on 
paying guests suggests she was aware the use of her home was changing. And yet she 
didnt speak to N.F.U. at this time or mention the guests in December 2018, despite this 
knowledge and the clear information shed been given. The test under CIDRA is that of a reasonable consumer  and based on all the information and knowledge Ms W had, I cant 
say she didnt misrepresent or that this was anything other than deliberate/reckless.
Considering everything, Im satisfied that N.F.U. has acted fairly in voiding Ms Ws policy and 
it doesnt need to refund her premiums.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman