DRN-4471616
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as E, complains about delays by The National Farmers' 
Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) in handling a claim on its business 
interruption insurance.
Mr P, who is a director of E, brings the complaint on Es behalf.
What happened
After a fire in April 2020 caused extensive damage at Es premises, Mr P made a claim on 
Es insurance for property damage and business interruption. This complaint concerns the 
claim for business interruption.
NFU accepted the claim and appointed loss adjusters to assess the amount to be paid. Mr P 
instructed a loss assessor to help him with Es claim.
Mr P first complained about how long the claim was taking in November 2020. NFU sent a 
final response to that complaint in January 2021. 
Further complaints were made about the progress of the claim, with further responses from 
NFU.
In June 2022, after Mr P referred the matter to this Service, we explained that it was too late 
to complain about the issues NFU had already addressed. But we referred the complaint 
about how the claim had been dealt with since January 2021 to NFU to consider.
NFU issued a final response in November 2022. NFU said the claim had been managed 
correctly and had taken some time to consider due to its complex nature. But it accepted 
there had been some delay replying to emails and to the latest complaint and paid 
compensation of £100. 
Mr P remained unhappy and asked us to look into Es complaint. 
Our investigator said that, with regard to issues since January 2021, she did not think NFU 
was at fault. 
The investigator considered further comments Mr P made on Es behalf but didnt change 
her view. So hes requested an ombudsmans decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The policy provides cover for Es claim and theres no dispute about that. The issue I need to 
consider is whether there was unreasonable delay by NFU in assessing the claim in the 
period after January 2021.
In her view the investigator set out a chronology of events, after which both parties provided 
further comments on what had happened. I wont repeat everything that has been said or set 
out in detail everything that happened. My role is to use my judgement to decide what is fair, 
based on the main crux of a case. So will focus on the key points that are relevant to the 
outcome I have reached.
In the first instance its for a policyholder to prove their claim. And the policy terms require E 
to supply details of the claim, including any supporting evidence that NFU requires. So it was 
up to E to provide the evidence NFU needed to assess the claim and calculate how much 
should be paid. 
The claim involved applying the rate of gross profit to the amount by which turnover had 
fallen short compared to standard turnover, together with other expenses, with a deduction 
for any savings E made during the relevant period. So NFU needed to gather evidence 
about all of this and then calculate the loss to be covered.
Given the size and complexity of the claim, interim payments were made as things 
progressed. Thats in line with standard industry practice and was a reasonable approach to 
take. Even where an interim payment is to be made, its still reasonable for an insurer to 
request relevant information when deciding how much to pay.
In his response to the investigators view, Mr P focused on the period in March 2021, in 
particular a delay from 18 to 29 March dealing with the interim payment. 
The loss adjuster had noted on 22 February 2021 that There is a significant difference 
between the claimed amount, the amount that we have been able to validate, and the 
reserve (which sits between these two amounts at present). In March it was noted that the 
claim stood at around £700,000 whereas the draft adjustment was around £450,000. The 
claim was not straightforward. Es business is split into two parts and different considerations 
applied to each. Assessing the amount to be paid involved, amongst other things, using 
trends data to calculate likely uplifts in sales based on past turnover figures, together with 
savings made on items such as rent. 
E requested an interim payment of £100,000 on 1 March 2021. There were discussions 
about an interim payment of around £130,00 while further information was gathered to 
enable the claim to be finalised. NFUs loss adjuster requested further information, such as 
clarification of information contained in a spreadsheet and on the reinstatement of 
equipment, and an explanation of particular points such as the difference between recurring 
and non-recurring costs.
An interim payment of £100,000 was processed on 1 April 2021.
 
I appreciate this was a very difficult period for E, but I dont consider that an unreasonable 
time to deal with a large payment based on detailed correspondence. 
Further information was still needed to assess the claim, which was received on 14 April 
2021. Correspondence continued through April and May until the loss adjuster provided 
calculations. In June Es loss assessor said it intended to accept the calculations as an 
interim payment and then refer the matter to this Service. Discussions about the calculations 
continued until Es loss assessor signed a form of acceptance in October.Looking at the correspondence as a whole, NFU replied promptly and I cant see any points 
in the period Im considering where there was unreasonable delay in proceeding with the 
claim. 
NFU was entitled to wait for evidence from E and to challenge this where further clarification 
was reasonably required for it to validate the claim. The enquires made were reasonable and 
the information requested was relevant to the claim. In the context of a complex claim, the 
amount of time taken to deal with things after January 2021 was reasonable.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman