DRN-3812505
The complaint
Miss A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc lent irresponsibly when it approved her 
credit card.
What happened
Miss A applied for a credit card with Capital One in July 2021. Capital One approved the 
application and gave Miss A a credit card with an initial limit of £200.
Miss A complained that Capital One lent to her irresponsibly. Capital One didnt uphold the 
complaint. Miss A brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought that Capital One had carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks and made a fair lending decision.
Miss A didnt agree so the company has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering the complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Capital One had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure Miss A could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable way. 
These affordability checks need to be focussed on the borrowers circumstances. The nature 
of whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on various factors 
including the amount of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost 
of credit and the consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the factors Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Capital One says it looked at the information Miss A had provided about her employment 
status, residential status and income. Miss A declared an annual income of £28,050 and 
stated that she was living in private rented accommodation. Capital One carried out a credit 
check and found no adverse information. From the credit check, Capital One discovered that 
Miss A had £4471 in outstanding credit card debt and £4154 in other borrowing (including 
overdrafts). The checks showed that Miss A had three other credit cards and an unsecured 
loan.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Capital One carried out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving the credit card. I dont think there was anything in the 
information gathered by Capital One which wouldve given cause for concern, or warranted 
further checks being carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the decision to lend was fair.
Ive looked at the information gathered by Capital One. Having done so, and taking into 
account the modest credit limit on the card, Im satisfied that the lending was affordable for 
Miss A. There was nothing in the information gathered by Capital One to suggest that Mss A 
was over indebted or that she was experiencing financial difficulties. I think the decision to 
lend was fair.
In conclusion, I dont think the lending was irresponsible or unaffordable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 January 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman