DRN-3570810
The complaint
Mr G complains through his representative that J D Williams & Company Limited 
irresponsibly provided him with, and increased the credit limit on, mail order accounts so he 
couldnt afford the repayments.
What happened
J D Williams provided Mr G with two mail order credit accounts, one in the brand name of 
Fashion World and the other in the companys name. The Fashion World account 
(account 1) was provided on 8 September 2018, with an initial limit of £200 and the following 
credit limit increases were applied:
24/11/2018 £200 - £300
22/12/2018 £300- £500
19/01/2019    £500 - £700
16/03/2019 £700 - £1,000
23/11/2019  £1,000 - £1,250
21/12/2019 £1,250 - £1,500
The other J D Williams account (account 2) was provided to Mr G on 6 July 2019 with a 
credit limit of £125, which hasnt been increased. 
Mr G complained about irresponsible lending. His representative said that J D Williams 
should have probed further into his personal circumstances before providing the credit. It has 
provided a recent credit report, dated March 2022, with six years records shown.
J D Williams said that in respect of account 2, its internal checks failed in July 2019 so it 
shouldnt have provided the credit. It agreed to refund all interest and charges incurred. It 
further said it shouldnt have provided the increase to the limit on account 1 from 
21 December 2019 and has agreed to refund all interest and charges over that limit incurred 
from that date.
In respect of providing account 1 in 24 November 2018 and all subsequent limit increases 
from then until December 2019, J D Williams said it assesses all credit applications applied 
using several sources of information, which includes information provided by a Credit 
Reference Agency. It uses up to date information regarding financial status, along with other 
internal eligibility criteria that the applicant must meet before it is able to offer a credit 
account. In Mr Gs case it assessed that the credit provided and the increases in question 
were affordable.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman Service our investigator said that providing 
account 1 was reasonable, but noted that when the first credit limit increase occurred, Mr G 
was three months in arrears on three of his revolving credit accounts (credit cards and/or 
other credit accounts). He was also in arrears with account 1. As she didnt think there was 
any persuasive evidence that Mr Gs circumstances had improved after the first increase so 
the other increases werent justifiable either.
J D Williams stated that this was a misinterpretation of its codes as the number 3 in the 
worst current status column indicates one payment on another account being in arrears, 6 
being two months behind and so on. It also said that account 1 wasnt actually in arrears 
because of a payment refund.
The matter has been referred to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did J D Williams complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr G 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mr G would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where J D Williams ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mr Gs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
account 1
As far as the evidence is concerned I note that J D Williams no longer has the application 
data for account 1, as it was disposed of after three years. It has produced spreadsheets of 
the account history which shows the points at which the credit limit was increased and the 
history of spending on the account. 
I have to say that I would expect records to be retained for six years, as a consumer can 
make a complaint up to six years after the event in question. On the spreadsheet evidence 
provided there are codes which arent really sufficiently intelligible. For example if the 
number increases in multiples of three (as J D Williams maintains) this doesnt account for 
figures like 1 and 5 showing in the relevant column. I have however reviewed the credit 
report provided by Mr Gs representative which does contain information going back six 
years and is much more readily intelligible.
There is very little information concerning the opening of this account. The initial credit limit 
was £200 but I havent seen that Mr Gs income and expenditure was checked. From the 
credit account I can see that Mr G was at that stage in two months arrears on a home credit 
loan. Bearing in mind that his maximum liability at that stage was £10 per month, I cant say 
that it was unreasonable to provide the account 1.
By the time J D Williams increased the limit in November 2018 to £300, Mr G was four 
months in arrears with a utility payment, which increased to five months in December 2018, 
before that months increase. I think that indicated Mr G was having trouble meeting his 
basic living expenses, and probably a priority debt, so by that time J D Williams should have carried out a full income and expenditure check. On the face of it J D Williams shouldnt 
have increased the credit limit in November and December 2018.
Mr G remained three months in arrears with this utility payments from February to April 
2019. As Ive seen no evidence that his income and expenditure was checked during this 
period, I dont think J D Williams should have increased the credit limit in January and March 
2019.
In respect of the November and December increases Ive noted that J D Williams agreed it 
shouldnt have provided account 2 from July 2019. This was because its system failed to 
detect missed payments. Whilst J D Williams has agreed to refund the interest and charges 
from 21 December 2019, this should clearly have been from the increase in November 2019. 
So it shouldnt have increased the limit in November and December 2019 either.
account 2
J D Williams has already agreed that this account shouldnt have been provided. Ill deal with 
the necessary repayments in my directions below. J D Williams can deduct any refunds 
already made.
Overall for account 1 the credit limit shouldnt in my view have been increased after the initial 
opening of the account. And I agree that account 2 shouldnt have been provided. 
Putting things right
As I dont think J D Williams ought to have opened account 2, I dont think its fair for it to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the credit agreement. In respect of account 1, 
as I dont think J D Williams should have increased Mr Gs credit limit above £200, I dont 
think its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that 
limit.  But in respect of both accounts, I think Mr G should pay back the amounts they have 
borrowed. Therefore, J D Williams should:
Rework account 2 removing all interest and charges that have been applied, and in respect 
of account 1, remove all interest and charges that have been applied to balances above 
£200. It may take account of any refunds already made.
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mr G along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. J D Williams should also remove all adverse information regarding accounts 1 
and 2 from Mr Gs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework there are still outstanding balances, J D Williams should arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr G for the remaining amount. Once Mr G has cleared the 
balances, any adverse information in relation to the accounts should be removed from his 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to deduct tax from any award of interest. 
It must give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he/she asks for 
one. If it intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require J D Williams & Company Limited to provide the remedy 
set out under Putting things right above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman