DRN-3237597
The complaint
Mr B complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited provided a range of poor service to 
him under the terms of his motor insurance policy after an accident. 
What happened
Mr Bs accident was on 1 April 2017. Five other vehicles were involved, and Mr B was 
convicted of dangerous driving in November 2018. After receiving a police report in January 
2019, Admiral decided not to provide Mr B with cover under the policy, based on what it 
decided was his inappropriate driver conduct. It dealt with the other claims, in line with its 
obligations under the Road Traffic Act 1988. Admiral then required Mr B to pay it over 
£12,000 towards its costs.
After making a subject access request (SAR) Mr B complained to Admiral about the 
inaccuracy of some of its notes, its use of technical terms and the sharing of his details with 
its approved repairer and its solicitors. He also thought it hadnt minimised its costs. He 
didnt think he should have to pay for new parts for his car when he hadnt had it repaired. 
And he was unhappy that cover was declined on the basis of his inappropriate conduct when 
that term wasnt explained and hadnt been brought to his attention previously. He also said 
Admiral delayed in dealing with his complaint and that hed been left on hold for two hours.
Admiral accepted the latter two concerns raised by Mr B and also agreed that it shouldnt 
have given the approved repairer some of the details it had provided. It offered Mr B 
compensation. It didnt accept the other issues hed raised, so Mr B complained to us. One 
of our investigators reviewed Mr Bs concerns. She didnt think hed shown that Admiral was 
at fault. As there was no agreement, Mr Bs complaint was passed to me for review.
Mr B raised related issues in a separate complaint to us, which has been dealt with and was 
upheld in part. I cant comment here on the issues that were addressed in that complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Admirals notes
I dont think Mr B has shown that Admirals notes were inaccurate. He says it recorded that 
he had a conviction in 2018 before that had happened. But Admiral appears to have relied 
on the police report it received in January 2019 - where the details of the conviction were set 
out - in recording it and then in making its decision on his claim. Mr B says he asked our 
investigator to ensure that Admiral corrected the many other inaccuracies in its notes, but I 
havent seen anything to that effect in the file. Mr B would first have to raise all the specific 
inaccuracies he thinks are on the file with Admiral and give it a chance to respond. Our remit 
is limited to considering whether Admiral has acted fairly and reasonably, having been made 
aware of a consumers specific concerns.
 
In my opinion, it isnt unfair or unreasonable for an insurer to use technical terms for internal 
use in its notes, as long as it explains any jargon to a consumer whenever thats relevant. In 
this case, I dont think the use of a technical reference relating to an internal allocation task 
meant that Admiral didnt explain to Mr B how it arrived at its conclusions. Admiral 
corresponded with Mr B about its decision and invited him to contact it if anything wasnt 
clear. Later on, I dont think Mr B was denied access to Admirals notes - or denied the 
chance to query or object to any entry and ask for it to be explained or rectified. 
 
As to the sharing of details with third parties thats shown in the notes, Admiral accepts that it 
gave the approved repairer information it shouldnt have provided -  and it has dealt with that 
issue. I dont think its reasonable to say that it shouldnt have shared Mr Bs details with its 
solicitors. Mr B initially said he wasnt at fault for the accident and that he was injured. He 
agreed to the referral to the solicitors on 1 April 2017. As they would have been involved in 
assisting him with any personal injury claim or uninsured losses, I think they needed full 
details about the accident and the claims. 
Explanation of inappropriate driver conduct
Consumers are advised to read through all the policys terms and conditions when they buy 
or renew a policy. The term that refers to inappropriate driver conduct in Admirals policy is 
set out in the general conditions and the policy exclusions, so Mr B could have queried it. He 
says the policy wording was changed in 2018 and has provided a 16-page document titled 
Amendments to your car insurance. That document refers to drivers inappropriate conduct 
- as does the previous policy document (provided by Admiral). 
I think it was sufficient for Admiral to just refer to the issue in the policy. In my opinion, 
insurers cant reasonably be expected to draw consumers attention to every policy term and 
condition. And I dont think it would be possible for Admiral to define all the circumstances in 
which it might rely on the inappropriate driver conduct term. Numerous factors could come 
into play - and each case has to be assessed on its own particular merits. 
I think its reasonable for an insurer to use its discretion to decide what conduct is 
inappropriate enough to merit declining cover, based on all the available evidence. We 
would only intervene if we thought  Admiral had acted unfairly or unreasonably in its 
interpretation of the facts to hand. Given the details in the police report  including the large 
amount of information provided by the other claimants, plus independent witnesses - I dont 
think it was unfair or unreasonable for Admiral to decide that Mr B had acted inappropriately. 
Cost of parts 
 
Initially, Mr B didnt say he didnt want to have his car repaired. A note on the file says he 
accepted the approved repairer, so the damage to his car was assessed by it. The garage 
ordered the parts promptly and made an appointment for the car to be repaired in May 2017. 
Mr B didnt take the car in, so the garage made another appointment. A file note shows that 
the garage told Admiral in May 2018 that by then it had been holding onto the parts for a 
year, and it was too late to send them back. The file shows that Admiral called Mr B to let 
him know that the parts couldnt be returned, whether he had the car repaired or not. I 
havent seen anything to show that Mr B said he didnt want the car repaired during the first 
year, when it may have been possible to return the parts.
Mr B says the garage told him it had sent the parts back, although hes provided no evidence 
in support of that. He thinks he should only be charged  a re-stocking fee. Admiral says it 
doesnt know what Mr B is referring to - and it provided the invoice for parts from the garage - paid by it on 13 July 2020. Given that Admiral had to pay for the parts, I dont think its 
unreasonable for it to include the cost of them in the sum it requires Mr B to pay. 
 
In summary
In my opinion, Mr B hasnt shown that Admiral acted unreasonably in relation to any of the 
issues raised in this complaint, so Im not going to uphold it. 
Final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman