DRN-3876239
The complaint
Miss E complains about the quality of a car supplied to her by Close Brothers Limited trading 
as Close Brothers Motor Finance (Close Brothers).
What happened
Miss E acquired a used car under a conditional sale agreement with Close Brothers in 
February 2018. The car cost around £10,500. Under the agreement, Miss E was required to 
make 48 payments of £178.89, followed by a final payment of £3,697.50. At the time of 
supply, the car was around four years old and had covered around 31,000 miles. 
In February 2022, Miss E said whilst driving, the engine management light illuminated in the 
car, it lost all power and cut out completely. She had the car recovered to a local car 
dealership and says it confirmed the cars timing chain had likely snapped.
Miss E raised a complaint with the manufacturer and says she was told it could only 
investigate if the car was taken to a manufacturer authorised dealership. So she arranged for 
a third party to do this. The dealership contacted Miss E and told her she would need to 
replace the whole engine at a cost of around £9,000. She says she was also told the engine 
failure couldnt be covered as a gesture of goodwill, as a third party garage used the wrong 
oil when servicing her car and it also used a non-manufacturer branded oil filter. She says 
she was told all these things contributed to the timing chain failing.
As Miss E remained unhappy with the manufacturers response, she made a complaint to 
Close Brothers. She said the timing chain failing was a common fault for this type of car. She 
said she had maintained the car and had it serviced at regular intervals. She said she didnt 
think the car was of satisfactory quality and said the timing chain wasnt a serviceable part 
and so, it shouldnt have failed.
Close Brothers issued its response to Miss Es complaint in February 2022. It said it wouldnt 
allow Miss E to voluntary terminate the agreement as it was in a poor state of repair. But it 
said it would defer the final payment, pending the decision made on Miss Es appeal to the 
manufacturer.
Unhappy with this, Miss E referred her complaint to this service and said she thought the car 
supplied to her by Close Brothers was of unsatisfactory quality.
Our investigator looked into the complaint but thought the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. She said Miss E had been able to drive around 30,000 miles in the car 
and so she said if Miss E thought the car was of unsatisfactory quality, she would have 
expected Miss E to raise this sooner than she did. She said the problems appeared to be 
due to a reasonable level of wear and tear.
Miss E disagreed. She said she maintained the car as she was expected to and so the 
engine shouldnt have failed within 60,000 miles. She said although manufacturers 
recommend timing chains are replaced between 80,000 and 120,000 miles, a reasonable 
person would expect a timing chain to last at least around 150,000 miles or more. She also 
said she couldnt raise her concerns about the timing chain earlier than she did, as there 
were no warning signs leading up to the failure. And she said the timing chain snapping 
without warning was a safety issue.
As Miss E remained unhappy, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision on 29 November 2022, in which I said the following:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconsistent or contradictory, I reach my view on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
Ive read and considered the whole file and acknowledge that Miss E has raised a number of 
different complaint points. Ive concentrated on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on 
any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it  but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. 
What I need to decide in this case is whether the car supplied to Miss E was of satisfactory 
quality. If I dont think it was, Ill need to think whats fair, if anything, to put things right. 
The finance agreement in this case is a regulated conditional sale agreement. So our service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. Close Brothers is the supplier of the car under 
this type of agreement and so is responsible for dealing with a complaint about its quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers conditional sale agreements. Under a 
conditional sale agreement, there are implied conditions that the goods supplied will be of 
satisfactory quality.
Miss E acquired a car that was used  so there would be different expectations compared to 
a new car. Having said that, the cars condition at the point of supply, should have met the 
standard a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, taking into account its age, 
mileage and price. The CRA says the aspects of the quality of the goods includes their 
general state and condition alongside other things such as their fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and  of particular relevance to 
this case - durability. 
In this case, Miss E reported that the car cut out in February 2022. This was around four 
years after it was supplied to her, during which she had been able to cover around 29,000 
miles in the car. 
After the car cut out, it was taken to a garage. A job sheet from this garage confirms there 
was a timing chain failure and the car required a new timing chain, along with rectifying other 
possible internal damage. 
The car was then recovered to a manufacturers garage to have further tests carried out. The 
manufacturer confirmed the timing chain had snapped and said the engine needed to be 
stripped to confirm the damage. It said a replacement engine would cost around £9,000. A 
further email from the manufacturer said the car wasnt running as the timing chain had 
snapped and the manufacturer could visually see this. 
Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied the car supplied to Miss E had a fault as the 
timing chain snapped and two different garages confirmed this. I now need to consider 
whether this fault makes the car of unsatisfactory quality.
There is an email from the manufacturer which states it ran tests on the oil used in the 
engine of the car. It says the test results, which it hasnt provided a copy of, confirm the oil 
used isnt within manufacturer guidelines. It goes on to say, When the wrong oil is used, it 
can contribute to the timing chain snapping/braking. We believe this to be the case for your 
car. And it says the car doesnt qualify for its goodwill process, as it must be maintained 
within manufacturers guidelines. The manufacturer also referred to what happened as when 
things unexpectedly go wrong
So, thinking about this, Im satisfied the manufacturer here has said the timing chain 
unexpectedly broke, specifically because of the type of oil that had been used when the car was serviced. It seems to me that this is the crux of the complaint here and what I need to 
consider. If I believe the oil used was of the right kind, then it seems fair for me to reach the 
conclusion that the timing chain, and so the car, wasnt reasonably durable according to 
what the manufacturer themselves has explained. 
The handbook for this model of car says:
 When selecting an engine oil, make sure that the SAE viscosity grade is 0W-40, 0W-30, 
5W-40 or 5W-30, as otherwise malfunctions or engine damage could result. The engine oil 
quality is decisive for the life of the engine. 
It also says under approved oil grades: 
(manufacturer) Longlife-04
Miss E has provided a copy of job sheets which confirm when the car was serviced. And 
shes provided an email from the garage which carried out the servicing of the car to confirm 
what grade oil was used during the servicing. The oil grade is also listed on the job sheets of 
the car. These confirm: 
28 March 2019  6 litres of oil  grade 5W30  mileage 44,156
7 September 2020  5 litres of oil  grade 5W30  mileage 56,090 
From the job sheets, its also possible to identify the specific manufacturers of the oil that 
was used at each point. For each of these services, the oil that was used had an approved 
oil grade of (manufacturer) Longlife-04.
The manufacturer official website states that: 
We recommend booking an Engine Oil Service every two years (or 18,000 miles  
whichever comes first)..
The car cut out in February 2022 at around 60,000 miles. So the next service was due on 
the car in September 2022 or when the car had travelled around 74,000 miles, whichever 
was earlier. So taking into account the manufacturer official servicing recommendations and 
supporting information Miss E has provided, Im satisfied she had the car serviced as she 
was expected to. And Im satisfied that the engine oil used was as per the recommendations 
listed in the manufacturers handbook. And so, Im not persuaded with the statement made 
by the manufacturer that the wrong oil was used, which contributed to the timing chain 
snapping. 
The car was around four years old at the time it was supplied and the mileage was around 
30,000. One of the considerations of whether goods are of satisfactory quality is durability. 
Here, the timing chain snapped and the engine needed repairing when the car was around 
eight years old and at around 60,000 miles.
Having thought about this, I think a reasonable person would consider that a timing chain 
would last longer than this. I appreciate that the car was able to travel around 30,000 miles 
before it cut out, but the timing chain is a part which a reasonable person would expect to 
last a considerable amount of time. And it wouldnt be reasonably expected that a car would 
suffer a major component failure, without any prior notification, considering the age and 
mileage at the time the car failed. And so, given Miss E maintained the car as she was 
expected to, I dont think the timing chain was sufficiently durable. It follows that I dont think 
the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss E.
Ive gone on to think about what Close Brothers needs to do to put things right. 
Miss E has said she needed access to a car and so arranged for the car to be repaired. This 
was carried out in August 2022. Shes provided evidence to show the cost of the repair was 
£3,600. I think Close Brothers should pay this amount to Miss E with applicable interest. The 
invoice also lists some other items that needed repairing but as Close Brothers hasnt had an opportunity to consider a complaint about these items, I havent considered them as part 
of this decision. 
When the car broke down in February 2022, Miss E contacted a third party recovery 
company to assist recovering the car to a local dealer. Miss E has provided her bank 
statement which shows this was at a cost of £149. Miss E hasnt provided a copy of the 
invoice from the third party recovery company to show why this cost was incurred. So I think 
Close Brothers should pay this amount to Miss E with applicable interest, given it was as a 
result of the fault Miss E has complained about, upon receipt of an invoice from the third 
party company to confirm the amount. 
The local dealer carried out a diagnostic test the following day and also recovered the car to 
a manufacturer owned dealer. This was at a cost of £216 to Miss E. Miss E has provided an 
invoice to confirm this cost and so, Im satisfied Close Brothers should pay this cost with 
applicable interest, as it was only incurred as a result of the fault with the car. 
In February 2022, the car was recovered to a manufacturer represented dealer. It remained 
there until August 2022, when the car was recovered to another garage for repairs. In 
February 2022, Miss E had paid all the monthly payments owed under the agreement and 
only the final payment remained outstanding. However, Close Brothers agreed to hold off on 
collection of the final payment pending the outcome of this complaint. Miss E hasnt made 
any further payments to Close Brothers since February 2022. And so, she isnt owed a 
refund of any monthly payments. 
Ive also considered the impact of Miss E being without a car for around six months. Miss E 
has told this service she was stressed out whilst she wasnt able to use the car, as she 
needed access to the car. She said whilst she didnt need to travel to carry out her job, she 
used the car to visit family members who lived between 45-80 miles away from her house. 
Shes told us one of her family members is unwell and she wasnt able to visit them as much 
as she would have liked to due to poor transport links. And she said not having a car took 
away her flexibility as she was required to rely on using her partners car or another car she 
had access to. She also said she made a number of phone calls to try and resolve the issue.
Having considered the impact Miss E detailed, Im persuaded she was caused distress and 
inconvenience as a result of being without a car for six months. And so I think Close 
Brothers should pay Miss E £350 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
My provisional decision 
My provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Miss Es complaint. Im minded to instruct 
Close Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance to put things right by doing 
the following:
Pay Miss E £3,600 for the cost of the engine repair;* 
Pay Miss E £149 for the recovery cost after the car broke down in February 2022, 
upon Miss E providing Close Brothers Limited with a receipt of an invoice from the 
third party recovery company; 
Pay Miss E £216 for the diagnostic report and further recovery cost in February 2022;
Pay Miss E 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement;** 
Pay Miss E £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and 
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this 
conditional sale agreement. 
*Close Brothers Limited is entitled to deduct this amount from the final payment owed by 
Miss E under the conditional sale agreement, should it consider it appropriate to do so. If it 
decides to do this and no outstanding balance remains payable by Miss E under the conditional sale agreement, it should also transfer ownership of the car to Miss E, in addition 
to the other instructions mentioned above. 
**If Close Brothers Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss E how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss E a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Close Brothers didnt respond to my provisional decision.
Miss E responded and said that the car required an oil change following the engine repair. 
But she said she accepted the provisional decision. 
As no new evidence has been provided for me to consider following my provisional decision, 
it follows that there is no reason for me to reach any different conclusion than set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
For the reasons given in my provisional decision which I have outlined above, Close 
Brothers Limited trading as Close Brothers Motor Finance should:
Pay Miss E £3,600 for the cost of the engine repair;* 
Pay Miss E £149 for the recovery cost after the car broke down in February 2022, 
upon Miss E providing Close Brothers Limited with a receipt of an invoice from the 
third party recovery company; 
Pay Miss E £216 for the diagnostic report and further recovery cost in February 2022;
Pay Miss E 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date of each payment until 
the date of settlement;** 
Pay Miss E £350 for the distress and inconvenience caused; and 
Amend any adverse information reported to credit reference agencies about this 
conditional sale agreement. 
*Close Brothers Limited is entitled to deduct this amount from the final payment owed by 
Miss E under the conditional sale agreement, should it consider it appropriate to do so. If it 
decides to do this and no outstanding balance remains payable by Miss E under the 
conditional sale agreement, it should also transfer ownership of the car to Miss E, in addition 
to the other instructions mentioned above. 
**If Close Brothers Limited considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss E how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss E a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Es complaint. Close Brothers Limited trading 
as Close Brothers Motor Finance should follow my directions above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 January 2023.
 
Sonia Ahmed
Ombudsman