DRN-3091261
The complaint
Mr B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card and later increased the credit limit twice.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional decision I said: 
Mr B applied for a Marbles credit card and it was approved in July 2017. In his application, 
Mr B said he lived with family and was employed with an income of £35,000 a year. 
Marbles says it carried out a credit search and found Mr B had no outstanding unsecured 
debt.
Marbles found two defaults totalling £300 which were over five years old.
Marbles approved Mr Bs application with a £300 credit card limit. In September 2018 
Marbles increased the credit limit to £750 and in August 2020 it increased it to £1,750. 
Marbles says it notified Mr B of the credit limit increases before they took effect and he had 
the option to turn them down. Marbles also says it looked at Mr Bs credit file, information 
he provided and account activity before increasing his credit limit. Marbles says the credit 
limit increases were all approved in line with its lending criteria.
Earlier this year, Mr B complained that Marbles lent irresponsibly when it approved his 
credit card and increased the credit limit. Marbles didnt agree it had lent irresponsibly and 
didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. Within 
Marbles file submission it made Mr B an offer to refund interest applied after August 2020 
on balances over £750. Marbles said the information about Mr B shouldve caused it to 
complete further checks before increasing his credit limit. But Marbles didnt offer to refund 
the rest of the interest Mr B paid or amend his credit file.
The investigator upheld Mr Bs complaint and said Marbles should also pay Mr B £100 for 
the trouble and upset caused. Neither Marbles or Mr B accepted the investigators view. 
Marbles didnt agree there were grounds to pay Mr B a further £100. Mr B said Marbles 
shouldve carried out more comprehensive checks that wouldve shown he was gambling 
large sums throughout the time he held a credit card.
Mr Bs complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before a business agrees to lend, it should take reasonable steps to ensure it does so in a 
responsible way. Theres no set list of checks a lender has to complete. In practice, this 
means businesses should ensure proportionate checks are carried out to make sure the 
customer can afford to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way. These checks should 
take into account various factors, like the amount being lent, the costs to the borrower 
each month, credit history and the consumers income and outgoings. As the relationship 
between lender and borrower progresses, the business may need to consider carrying out 
more comprehensive checks to ensure the borrower can afford repayments in a 
sustainable way.
In this case, I can see that Mr Bs view is that if Marbles had looked at his bank statements 
it wouldve seen he was gambling large sums each month and wouldnt have approved his 
credit card or increased the credit limit. Ive looked at Mr Bs bank statements and can see 
gambling transactions. But, as Ive said above, theres no set list of checks a business has 
to complete. Whilst I note Mr Bs comments, Marbles had to complete proportionate 
checks so Ive considered this complaint on that basis.
When Mr B applied for the credit card he gave details of his income, employment and 
residential status. Ive looked at the credit file information Marbles obtained and can see it 
didnt find any evidence Mr B had unsecured debt at this time. The defaults it found were 
over five years old. Marbles says it applied its lending criteria and approved a credit limit 
of
£300. I agree with Marbles that its decision to approve Mr Bs credit card was reasonable 
based on what it knew. The credit limit was modest and Im satisfied Marbles carried out 
proportionate checks before deciding to proceed. I havent seen anything that shouldve 
caused Marbles to carry out more comprehensive checks like asking for Mr Bs bank 
statements.
Marbles increased Mr Bs credit limit to £750 in August 2018. Ive looked at the 
information Marbles had available, including Mr Bs credit file, and I think it shouldve 
caused it to ask more questions before proceeding. I say this because Mr B had gone 
over his credit limit twice within the preceding six months. Further, Mr Bs outstanding 
balance for other unsecured credits went from zero to around £6,200 in a period of 
around 12 months. In addition, Mr B took cash advances in four out of the five months 
before the credit limit increase took place. Taking all the above into account, I think the 
information shows Mr B was struggling with his finances. I think the information shouldve 
caused Marbles to consider carrying out more proportionate checks before deciding to 
increase Mr Bs credit limit.
Had Marbles asked for additional information I think its likely Mr Bs credit limit increase 
wouldnt have gone ahead. Looking at Mr Bs bank statements from the time, its clear he 
was gambling to a reasonably high degree. I can also see Mr B had outgoings that 
werent made known to Marbles in his application that wouldve also impacted his ability 
to sustainably make repayments.
Marbles has already confirmed it agrees the decision to increase the credit limit to £1,750 
in August 2020 was irresponsible. And it follows that if I think Marbles decision to 
increase Mr Bs credit limit to £750 was irresponsible, I think the same of subsequent 
increases.
Ive considered how to fairly resolve Mr Bs complaint. In my view, Mr B has had the 
benefit of the funds he borrowed so its fair that he repays the ts fair for Marbles
to retain interest on funds that were lent irresponsibly.
Based on the information Ive seen so far, I intend to tell Marbles to refund the interest its 
applied to balances over £300 after September 2018. I also intend to tell Marbles to refund 
all late and over limit fees applied along with any cash advance fees. If at any period the interest refunds result in Mr Ls closed accounts being in credit, Marbles should pay 8% 
simple annual interest on the date that credit balance arose to the date of settlement
As I think Marbles lent irresponsibly, I dont agree its fair for it to report adverse information 
to the credit reference agencies. So I also intend to tell Marbles to amend Mr Bs credit file 
to remove all adverse information recorded after September 2018. Marbles should ensure 
no information about Mr Bs credit card balance over £300 is recorded.
I invited both parties to respond with any comments or information they wanted me to 
consider before reaching my final decision. Mr B confirmed he was willing to accept. 
Marbles responded and said that if the refund left an outstanding balance it wanted to leave 
the adverse information recorded on his credit file in place. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Marbles feels it would be fair to leave the information recorded on Mr Bs credit file in 
place, but I dont agree. As I said in my provisional decision, Im satisfied Marbles lent 
irresponsibly. I still think its unfair for Marbles to report information about a debt that was 
lent irresponsibly on Mr Bs credit file. So Im still going to tell Marbles to remove all adverse 
information recorded on Mr Bs credit file from September 2018 onwards. 
Neither party has raised any objection to the proposed interest refunds I gave in my 
settlement.
As neither party has provided information that has changed my view of how to fairly settle Mr 
Bs complaint Im going to proceed in line with the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. I still think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons.     
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint and direct NewDay Ltd trading as Marbles to 
settle in line with the above guidance.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman