DRN-2020050
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Openwork Limited (Openwork) was unable to secure a mortgage 
for him after it was declined by a lender, but that Openwork has still charged a Broker Fee. 
What happened
Mr C approached Openwork around November 2019 to source a mortgage for him to buy his 
first property. He met with the Openwork advisor to complete the required paperwork and an 
application was submitted to one of Openworks panel of lenders.
The lender declined Mr Cs application, which Mr C appealed. The appeal was unsuccessful 
and the lender refused to lend to Mr C, although it didnt give a specific reason for the 
decline. 
Following this, Mr C expected that Openwork would help him to secure lending from an 
alternative lender. He says hed asked about this scenario several times during the initial 
stages of the application process and the advisor had assured him that hed help Mr C to 
find an alternative, if his application declined. 
Despite what Mr C believed would happen, Openworks advisor told Mr C he was unable to 
help him to source another mortgage. The advisor informed Mr C that hed been instructed 
to take this action by Openworks compliance department.
Mr C queried whether the broker fee of £595.00 that hed paid would be refunded, as he 
hadnt managed to secure a mortgage. The advisor explained that hed request this as a 
gesture of goodwill. Openwork decided not to refund the broker fee, as it said that Mr C had 
signed its broker free arrangement document which explains that the fee is non-refundable 
and payable on application for a mortgage.
Mr C has also complained that during the telephone conversation in which the Openwork 
advisor informed him that the application has declined, the advisor giggled several times. Mr 
C says he found this insulting and unprofessional.
Our investigator considered Mr Cs complaint and didnt recommend it should be upheld. Mr 
C didnt agree with the investigators findings.
As the complaint hasnt been resolved, it has been passed to me to make a decision. 
I wont be considering the reason the mortgage was declined by the lender. That is a matter 
between Mr C and the lender and doesnt involve Openwork in its capacity as a mortgage 
broker.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it. Id like to explain why. 
Mr C signed Openworks broker fee arrangement document on 5 November 2019  two 
weeks before his application was submitted to the lender. The document explains  amongst 
other things  that the broker fee of £595 is payable when a mortgage application is 
submitted. And whilst it doesnt specifically say the fee is non-refundable word-for-word, it 
does insinuate that this is the case. It says:
You agree that:
2. In return for providing these services to you, you will pay the 
following to the adviser: a fee of £595 which is payable once your 
application has been submitted to a lender.
3. In the event that the loan does not proceed to completion for 
whatever reason a fee of £595 will be due
Turning to the mortgage illustration document that was completed before Mr Cs application 
was submitted, I can see that this clearly shows the broker fee of £595 and explains that this 
is non-refundable. Ive also been provided with a copy of a letter that the lender sent to Mr C 
on the same day as the application was submitted. This letter confirms receipt of the 
mortgage application, and it again explains that the broker fee is non-refundable. I fully 
appreciate that Mr C has said this was his first home purchase, and he wasnt aware that the 
fee hed paid was non-refundable. But I think that Openwork did enough to make Mr C 
aware that the £595 broker fee was payable on application of a mortgage, and that this fee 
wasnt refundable even if the mortgage application wasnt successful.
Ive thought carefully about Mr Cs point that the advisor told Mr C hed help him find an 
alternative mortgage, even if his first application declined. I accept that the advisor told Mr C 
this, but I dont think he intended to mislead Mr C in any way by doing so. Its unfortunate 
that this didnt happen, but following the instructions the advisor received from the 
compliance department of Openwork, he wasnt able to do this. Im unsure why this 
happened, but Im satisfied that the advisor wouldnt have been able to pre-empt it. In any 
case, I cant see a formal agreement that Openwork was required to continue working to 
source a mortgage after a declined application. It had carried out the work that Mr C had 
paid for by preparing and submitting a mortgage application for him. So whilst the advisor 
mayve initially intended to help Mr C further in the case of the application declining, I dont 
think hes broken the agreement Mr C had with Openwork to source and apply for a 
mortgage for a fee of £595 by not doing that.
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr C and Openwork in which the advisor lets Mr C 
know that the mortgage application had been declined by the lender. And having done so, I 
dont agree that the Openwork advisor acted unprofessionally, nor that he was rude to Mr C. 
Its fair to say that the advisor does appear to have laughed on several occasions throughout 
the call. But its not apparent that this was at Mr Cs expense, or directed at Mr Cs situation. 
Instead it seems to have been done to lighten the tone of the conversation, and in an 
attempt to be friendly and slightly less formal. I do understand that Mr C didnt appreciate the 
approach the advisor took, but I havent concluded that the advisor was unreasonable or 
rude in the way he spoke to Mr C.
Id like to reassure Mr C that Ive thought very carefully about everything hes said. And I can 
certainly understand why hes been frustrated at the experience he had when applying for 
his mortgage. But for the reasons Ive explained I havent found that Openwork has treated 
Mr C unfairly. So Im afraid I dont uphold his complaint. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint 
against Openwork Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman