DRN-1728809
The complaint
Mr S complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited wont pay for repairs to his car 
under the Breakdown Repair Cover component of his roadside assistance motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
Mr Ss car made a loud noise and he took it to a nearby garage. The mechanic, a friend, told 
him what the problem may be and advised him to call Acromas. But Acromas said Mr S 
wasnt then covered by the policy because hed already had the car looked at and the 
problem diagnosed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Acromas 
had reasonably relied on a policy exclusion to decline the claim. So he didnt think it had 
done anything wrong.
Mr S replied that the garage forecourt was the nearest safe place for him to stop when the 
car made the noise. He said a friend who worked at the garage gave an informal diagnosis. 
He said the car hadnt been referred to a garage and so he thought the exclusion shouldnt 
apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr S feels frustrated by Acromas decision to decline his claim. Our 
approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Mr Ss Breakdown Repair Cover provides cover for any costs he may incur to fix his car at
the roadside or in a garage after a breakdown. Acromas relied on a policy exclusion to 
decline Mr Ss claim. This states, on page 12 under General Exclusions:
1. Any costs for repairs following a Mechanical or electrical Failure if:
e. You referred the failure to a garage before you called for assistance under your [roadside 
assistance] membership.
I can also see that the policy provides answers to Frequently Asked Questions, on page 16, 
including: 
Can I take my vehicle directly to a garage?
No. You must first request assistance under your [roadside assistance] membership.
So I think the policy exclusion is clearly set out and its reasonable for Acromas to rely on it 
to decline a claim. 
Mr S said that when the car made a noise he was coincidentally near a garage where his 
friend worked. He said this was the nearest safe place for him to stop. And he said his friend 
had a quick look at his car, but Mr S didnt consider this to be a referral to a garage. 
Acromas has provided us with recordings of calls relevant to the claim. In the notification 
call, Mr S told Acromas that hed asked his friend to have a look and hed advised Mr S not 
to drive because of a big problem with one of the pulleys. Acromas decided that this meant 
that Mr S had made a referral to a garage. It said this would be the same if a full diagnosis 
was made or if there had been just a quick look. It said if this had happened elsewhere, such 
as a roadside, then the exclusion wouldnt apply. 
Mr S said hed had to drive the car to the garage forecourt for safety. I dont doubt this. But I 
think Mr S still asked his friend at the garage to look at the car. The friend told Mr S what the 
problem was and advised him not to drive. And, I think this means that Mr S referred the 
failure to a garage. 
So I think Acromas has shown that Mr S referred the failure to a garage before he called 
Acromas for assistance. And so I think it was entitled to then decline the claim under the 
policys exclusion. And so I dont think Acromas needs to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman