DRN-4237886
The complaint
Mr B and Ms M are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA declined a claim on their travel 
insurance policy and with the service they received.
What happened
The background to this complaint is set out in my provisional decision which I issued in June 
2023. It said: 
Mr B has travel insurance as a benefit attached to his credit card. In October 2021 he 
made a claim on his travel insurance policy as he suddenly experienced a lot of pain 
in his back, which made him immobile. At the time Mr B was in a country Ill refer to 
as S. He contacted IPA for help.
IPA declined the claim because they said there was no cover for medical costs 
carried out in a policyholders country of residence. They said Mr B was living in S 
and not in the UK. Mr B said he was a resident in the UK and was registered with his 
GP. IPA did pay Mr B £100 compensation because they acknowledged there had 
been delays and poor communication. Mr B accepted that payment. IPA have 
maintained their decision to decline the claim.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary, he said IPAs decision was reasonable. He noted that the available 
medical information suggested Mr B had moved to S. And he didnt think it was 
unreasonable for IPA to query this further, particularly as they needed to review Mr 
Bs medical history.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the claim had been ongoing for 18 months and hed 
experienced calls and emails during the evenings and weekends. Mr B said that he 
had to repeat information in the calls, IPA had lost documents and compensated him 
for administration issues. He said hed proved his UK residency and the insurance 
company approved it  so he questioned why the Financial Ombudsman Service had 
raised this. In summary, he says hed shown he was registered with a GP and 
established his residency. He also queried why he didnt have a copy of the terms of 
business relating to his credit card and said his GP surgery hadnt kept copies of his 
registration despite the law requiring them to do so.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that IPA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The policy terms and conditions
In order to have a valid claim under the policy Mr B needed to demonstrate that he 
met the relevant policy terms.
The terms and conditions say that there are conditions relating to the travel insurance 
benefits. It says:
You must be registered with a UK general practitioner or equivalent medical 
practitioner in Your country of residence.
Medical practitioner means:
A legally licensed member of the medical profession, recognised in the 
country where treatment is provided and who, in rendering such treatment is 
practising within the scope of his/her licence and training, and who is not 
related to You or any travelling companion.
There is a general exclusion under the medical expenses section which says there is 
no cover for:
Medical, dental treatment and burial expenses within your country of 
residence.
Country of Residence means:
Your current country of residence as evidenced by an official document.
Trip is defined as:
A journey outside Your Country of Residence which must commence and 
end in your Country of Residence which must include a flight, or at least one 
night of pre-booked accommodation away from home Trips must not 
exceed 90 consecutive days with a maximum 240 days during each 12 month 
period
The decline of the claim because Mr B wasnt registered with a GP
Mr Bs medical problem started on 17 October 2021. So, Ive looked at the available 
evidence to decide if Mr B was registered with a GP in the UK, as thats where Mr B 
says he was resident.
Mr B told us in his complaint that he lives in both the UK and S. He explained in his 
signed complaint form that he was a resident in the UK, paid taxes and received his 
pensions in the UK. He explained he had a UK address and driving licence. Mr B 
also said he was registered with a Doctor in the UK and S. He says that the fact he 
lives in S doesnt mean hes a resident of S. Mr B said hed registered with a GP in 
September 2021 and his daughter submitted the forms for him.
Travel insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and are designed to cover 
emergency medical treatment for unforeseen medical issues. IPA identified from the 
initial contacts with Mr B and his partner that there may be an issue in relation to his 
country of residence and that, given the dates of travel, theyd need information 
about where he resided and his medical history. I dont think that was an 
unreasonable line of enquiry given the policy terms and conditions and information 
available to IPA at that time.The case notes show that Mr B was told on 16 November 2021 that the information 
IPA had received was sufficient to confirm his country of residence. This was shortly 
after hed provided a copy of his UK driving licence.
In January 2022 IPA received information about Mr Bs medical history. The notes 
from December 2019 and January 2020 say that Mr B was living and working in S. 
They also say Mr B had no UK address and that his daughters address was outside 
that practices catchment area. Mr B was told that when he was in the UK, he would 
be able to register permanently or temporarily with a GP and the easiest option for 
him would be to register at a surgery local to where his daughter lived. IPA concluded 
that this was further evidence Mr B was a resident of S. However, this information 
was recorded by Mr Bs former GP practice, as opposed to the practice he had 
registered with just before his trip. This meant the information provided didnt cover 
the relevant time frame as Mr Bs last contact with his former GP was in 2020 and 
didnt cover the 12 months before Mr Bs trip to S.
Mr B clarified on 1 February 2022 that he was registered with a different GP practice. 
He said hed not visited that GP but was fully registered with the surgery. IPAs 
position remained that they needed to see evidence Mr B was registered with a GP. I 
think that was reasonable as IPA needed to be able to confirm that Mr B was 
registered and check if there was any relevant medical history recorded on the GPs 
systems.
When IPA declined the claim on 2 February 2022, they said the medical evidence 
theyd been provided with stated that Mr B had moved to S and was being removed 
from the practice as he was no longer residing in the catchment area. They said as 
Mr B wasnt registered with the GP they werent able to obtain his previous medical 
history. But they offered to reassess the claim if Mr B could provide that. I think that 
was reasonable in the circumstances as they didnt have any evidence to say that Mr 
B was registered with a UK GP.
IPA issued a final response letter on 27 March 2022, following Mr Bs complaint. In 
their final response letter they said that:
We require evidence that you were registered with a GP in the UK at the time 
of your claims (17 October 2021). The evidence you have provided is dated 
March 2022 and therefore we are unable to consider this. If you are able to 
provide us with further evidence we would be happy to review your claim.
Based on the available evidence I dont think IPAs position was unreasonable at the 
time they issued the final response letter about this complaint.
However, in August 2022 Mr B provided an email from his GP which said:
 we can confirm that you dropped your registration off at the surgery on 11 
October and you were registered here on 25 October.
Mr B travelled to S shortly after submitting the forms. So, I think it would have been 
reasonable, once this further information was provided, to accept his position that he 
was registered with a GP in the UK and met that policy requirement.
The decline of the claim because Mr Bs journey didnt meet the definition of trip
Although I think IPA were making reasonable enquiries about the GP registration, I 
think there are other reasons to uphold this complaint and direct IPA to pay compensation. Thats because they didnt promptly identify the claim wasnt covered 
for other reasons. Ill explain why.
As Ive outlined above there was ongoing correspondence between IPA and Mr B, 
which continued until Mr B made a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Mr B referenced this correspondence in his complaint form, a copy of which was 
provided to IPA.
Our investigator queried with IPA what their current position on the claim was, and 
whether they intended to consider this as a separate complaint. He didnt receive a 
response to those queries. I also note that Mr B made IPA aware in August that he 
was corresponding with the Financial Ombudsman Service about the ongoing issues. 
Ive therefore considered this information as part of this complaint as Im satisfied it 
arises from the same complaint points Mr B raised in his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service.
As Ive outlined above in August 2022 Mr B provided an email from his GP which 
confirmed hed registered with his GP. But IPA then told Mr B that his itinerary 
showed hed flown from S to the UK on 10 October and returned to S on 15 October 
2021. He was then told that the policy defined a trip as starting and ending in your 
country of residence. So, they queried if Mr B had a return flight booked and 
highlighted the exclusion relating to medical treatment within your country of 
residence. Mr B responded to say hed not been able to return to his country of 
residence until 8 February 2022.
Looking at the available information IPA now relies on the definition of trip to decline 
the claim. They asked Mr B to evidence that he had a return flight booking to the UK 
within 90 days of the 15 October 2021. Mr B said he travelled to and from his country 
of residence throughout the year, and all trips included flights and accommodation. 
He said on this occasion he couldnt fly back to his country of residence due to his 
condition.
If I accept Mr Bs position that the UK is his country of residence that means his trip 
needed to start and end in the UK. Mr B flew to S in October with no return flight 
booked, having visited the UK for a few days. That means there was no end date for 
the trip to S and that it didnt end in the UK. Nor was it a trip that was limited to 90 
days. Unfortunately, that means his journey didnt meet the definition of trip  it was 
an open-ended journey to S which isnt covered by the policy.
Ive thought about the overall circumstances and whether its fair and reasonable to 
depart from the policy terms and conditions in the circumstances of this case. I dont 
think that it is.
Mr B was, according to his own evidence, travelling back and forth to the UK multiple 
times per year. Thats not something a standard travel insurance policy attached to a 
credit card is designed to cover. Its not a specialist policy designed to cover 
policyholders who live or work in more than one country. Such policies are available 
on the market and it was up to Mr B to decide if he had the appropriate level for his 
circumstances. So, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to depart from the 
policy terms and direct IPA to cover Mr Bs treatment in the circumstances.
In any event, at the point Mr B had the surgery, he was aware that he wasnt covered 
under the policy. And, as a UK resident, hed have been entitled to access 
emergency medical treatment under the UKs reciprocal health agreement with S. 
Based on the information provided Mr B sought some treatment at a private facility and he was aware that his costs werent covered at the time the surgery took place. 
So, he was aware there was a risk his costs wouldnt be covered by his insurer.
Overall, I think IPA could have been more proactive in the early stages of the claim. I 
dont think they got to grips with the key exclusions that applied to Mr Bs case 
quickly enough. If theyd established the trip was open ended back in October 2021, 
they could have given Mr B an answer about cover then. Id expect IPA to have 
identified this was a relevant exclusion at a much earlier point in time.
Instead, IPA focused on Mr Bs registration with his GP  he went to a lot of effort to 
get information about whether he was registered which involved sending a number of 
emails and making calls. I think some simple enquiries about trip dates in the early 
stages of the claims journey would have established that there may have been other 
reasons to decline the claim, at a very early stage.
Thats because, even if IPA accepted that Mr B was a UK resident, there were other 
reasons to decline his claim which ought to have been apparent when the claim was 
made. Unfortunately, this information wasnt communicated to Mr B until August 2022 
after hed provided evidence that he was registered with a GP.
I can understand why it was then very frustrating for Mr B when IPA said that there 
were other reasons to decline his claim. Its clear from his email in response to IPA 
that he felt they were just looking for reasons to decline his claim. I think putting Mr B 
to the trouble of getting information, when there were other reasons to decline his 
claim, caused him inconvenience at a time when he was recovering from significant 
surgery.
Customer Service
Mr B was compensated £100 for some issues with poor communication and delays 
during the early phases of the claim. This was awarded on 2 December 2021 and 
accepted as a resolution to the complaint at that time. Ive taken into account the 
other points hes raised about the overall service he received.
Mr B told us that he received calls from IPA in the evenings and at the weekends. Mr 
B raised this with IPA, and the notes suggest he was asked if he wanted calls at an 
earlier time of the day. The notes reflect that Mr B said he was just making an 
observation. So, I think Mr B was aware he could make a request to be contacted at 
particular times.
Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about not having the terms of business for 
his credit card. Thats something Mr B will need to address with the card provider. 
The terms of business for the travel insurance policy are contained within the policy 
terms and conditions.
Finally, my role is to look into whether IPA did something wrong in declining the 
claim. Mr B has raised concerns about his GPs retention of his information. Thats 
not something I can consider. Mr B will need to raise any concerns about this with the 
appropriate regulator or dispute resolution service.
Putting things right
I think there were opportunities early in the claims journey to establish whether Mr 
Bs trip was covered. Instead, several months after the claim had started, IPA told 
him that even if he was a UK resident and registered with a GP, he wasnt covered. I think some simple enquiries at the outset of the claims journey would have 
established this.
This means Mr B, and his partner, went through several months of obtaining 
information which was ultimately irrelevant to the reason the claim was declined. That 
included, based on the evidence thats available to me, obtaining medical information 
and confirmation of registration with his GP.
I think this has had an impact on Mr B as he was trying to sort all of this out, whilst 
recovering from surgery. I also accept what hes said about the impact on Ms M as 
its also caused her distress and inconvenience too. I think IPA should pay Mr B and 
Ms M £350 compensation for failing to let them know promptly that Mr B didnt meet 
the policy definition of trip.
My provisional decision
Im intending to uphold this complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to put 
things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision. In summary, he said: 
He didnt call IPA, he contacted his card provider. His actions are supported by the 
terms of business 
The definition of trip makes no reference to him having two single tickets 
Id addressed his country of residence when I had concluded that IPA had received 
sufficient information to confirm his country of residence 
IPA was procrastinating and trying to find every excuse not to pay compensation  Id 
stated it was the duty of the company to act as quickly as possible 
The ombudsman should be impartial and Id made false accusations. Mr B queried 
the evidence that Id based my comments about the market for ex-patriate polices on
His card provider approved the payment on his card  he didnt know the surgery 
wasnt approved 
Mr B queried if I understood how the health insurance system in S worked  he said 
it could take weeks if not months before he could be treated under the reciprocal 
health agreement
There was no reason to decline his claim  hed explained the reason for not getting 
return tickets as it was more cost effective
IPA mislaid documents and continued to call him despite his observations about calls 
at the weekends 
 He disagreed I couldnt consider the issues hes raised about his card provider and 
his GP 
Compensation of £350 was an insult
Id already made my final decision. IPA didnt add any further comments. 
I asked Mr B to clarify some information hed provided in response to my provisional decision 
as hed mentioned buying two single tickets. He provided evidence that a flight had been 
booked from S to the UK, departing on 14 March 2023 and a flight which was booked from 
the UK to S on 21 March 2023. Our investigator checked with Mr B whether this was the 
right information because I was considering a claim made in 2021. He said Id address a 
comment from Mr B about the return ticket in my decision. 
Mr B responded to say that his question about the return ticket hadnt been answered. He 
said he picked those dates because it was an example of what two single tickets would cost. 
He said that since hed been with his partner hes made many trips back and forth from S 
and depending on the circumstances they would book singles or returns. Mr B said his 
question about the terms of business and the requirement to have a return ticket still hadnt 
been answered. Our investigator responded to Mr B to address those points.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I outlined in my provisional decision the relevant rules and industry guidelines say that 
IPA has a responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a 
claim unreasonably. 
Mr Bs further submissions havent changed my thoughts about the outcome of this 
complaint. Ill focus on the key points which I think are central to the decision Ive reached.  
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint for the reasons Ive outlined in my provisional decision 
and because: 
Mr Bs clarified he spoke to his card provider about authorising a transaction on 
his credit card. Thats not the same as a travel insurance provider agreeing cover 
for a procedure. If Mr B is unhappy with the guidance given by his card provider 
hell need to complain to that business. Thats because they are a separate 
business to the business which underwrites his travel insurance policy. That 
means IPA isnt responsible for information or guidance given by the credit card 
provider. If Mr B is unhappy about this hell need to complain to that business. 
That also applies to the points he has raised about his card providers terms of 
business. Mr B can make a complaint to his card provider about this but thats not 
something I can address as part of a complaint about IPA. 
Mr B said that he didnt know that the surgery wasnt authorised. But, on Mr Bs 
own account he contacted his card provider, not his travel insurer. And, I dont 
think its reasonable to conclude that the card provider saying it would authorise 
the transaction is the same as a travel insurer saying it will cover the procedure. 
In any event, the contact notes show that throughout Mr Bs contact with IPA they 
told him that they were still looking into cover. Mr Bs surgery took place in early 
December 2021. I can see that, as of that date, his insurer hadnt confirmed 
coverage. Mr B was having ongoing conversations with IPA about what 
information was needed to validate his claim. So, I still dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to say that IPA should cover Mr Bs treatment as I think he ought 
reasonably to have been aware that cover wasnt confirmed. The policy definition of trip says it must commence and end in your Country of 
Residence. Im not suggesting Mr B needed to book a return ticket to the UK or 
that its specified in the policy terms. He was free to book single tickets. However, 
with no single ticket booked from S to the UK his trip didnt commence and end in 
the UK (which he says is his country of residence). That means his journey didnt 
meet the definition of a trip as set out in the policy. Mr B hasnt provided any 
compelling or persuasive evidence that his trip started and ended in the UK. So, it 
was reasonable for IPA to conclude it was an open-ended trip. 
Insurers are entitled to decide what risks they are prepared to cover. IPA doesnt 
cover the risks associated with open ended trips or trips that didnt start and end 
in the country of residence. Thats a commercial decision its entitled to make and 
many other policies on the market contain similar restrictions. As Ill explain in 
more detail below, it was for Mr B to decide if this policy met his needs, bearing in 
mind his travel plans. 
I addressed the point about Mr Bs Country of Residence as it was one of his key 
complaint points. It was also relevant to my findings that IPA had spent a lot of 
time looking into this when they ought to have spotted there were other relevant 
exclusions. That is one of the reasons why Ive awarded Mr B compensation. 
As Ive outlined above the relevant rules say that the claim should be dealt with 
promptly. I acknowledged in my provisional decision that I could understand why 
Mr B would have felt that IPA were trying to find reasons to decline the claim. 
Mr B has questioned the basis upon which Ive determined that there was a 
market for ex-patriate policies. I think thats a relevant consideration when 
deciding what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. 
The Financial Ombudsman Service has a lot of experience in dealing with travel, 
and medical insurance complaints. Im satisfied that there would have been other 
options available to Mr B which might have been better suited to his 
circumstances. It was for Mr B to decide if the policy he had was right for him. Mr 
B can find information about this in the public domain. That includes, but isnt 
limited to: 
(a) Private Medical Insurance policies which offer global or European cover 
(b) Specialist Travel insurance policies, such as those which are tailored to 
ex-patriates who split their time between the UK and abroad 
(c) Travel Insurance policies which dont specify a requirement to have a 
return journey booked and/or which cover longer term stays abroad 
I can reassure Mr B that The Financial Ombudsman Service has a good 
understanding of the reciprocal health agreement works, including how it works in 
S. I understand that it can take some time to access treatment in S under the 
reciprocal health agreement. However, as Ive outlined above its open to 
consumers in Mr Bs circumstances to look into more specialist cover if they want 
to access treatment whilst spending time abroad. 
I invited Mr Bs further comments in response to my provisional decision because 
Id not, at that time, made a final decision. Whilst Im very sorry to disappoint Mr B 
his further comments havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of 
this complaint. But I have carefully considered all of the points hes made in response to my provisional decision.
The Financial Ombudsman Service does not deal with complaints about GPs. 
Thats not something I have the power to consider based on the rules which 
govern how The Financial Ombudsman Service operates.
Im sorry that Mr B feels the compensation Im awarding is an insult. My role is to 
consider the evidence independently and impartially. In reaching my decision 
about fair compensation I considered the impact on Mr B and Ms M caused by 
poor customer service. Thats a separate issue to the cost of the treatment he 
received. My award was to recognise that IPA could have given Mr B an answer 
sooner about cover under the policy. Ive explained in my provisional decision 
why I think £350 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused.
I dont think I need to listen to the calls between Mr B and IPA. Even if I accept 
that Mr B said he didnt want calls on the weekends it doesnt change my 
thoughts about the compensation to be awarded. I still think £350 compensation 
is fair and reasonable because Im not persuaded receiving calls on the weekend 
caused Mr B a level of distress or inconvenience that warrants further 
compensation.  
Putting things right
IPA should pay Mr B and Ms M £350 compensation for failing to let them know promptly that 
Mr B didnt meet the policy definition of trip.
My final decision
Im upholding Mr B and Ms Ms complaint about Inter Partner Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman