DRN-2138210
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the advice received from Lazenbys Financial Services Ltd to transfer 
and consolidate her personal pensions, and the amount she was charged for this.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs P approached Lazenbys for potential advice about her pension planning. 
An initial meeting was arranged to discuss potential options and she was given a guide to 
our services document. In August Mrs P confirmed by email that she wanted to proceed with 
the advice process.
A discovery meeting was arranged for 5 October 2019. As part of this process Mrs P 
uploaded details of her financial circumstances, including her various pensions, to Lazenbys 
online portal before the meeting. At the meeting, Lazenbys discussed with Mrs P in more 
detail her retirement aims and needs. This discussion included establishing her attitude to 
risk, and that she wanted to retire once she had matched 60% of her income from her 
pensions.
Lazenbys provided their Terms of Business, and Mrs P signed an Authority to Proceed.
Lazenbys then reviewed Mrs Ps circumstances and researched different options for her 
pensions. A meeting was arranged for 3 January 2020 to present their recommendation to 
Mrs P. The meeting was cut short but Lazenbys provided an overview, sent the relevant 
documents to Mrs P by post and made them available to her on their portal so she could 
review the recommendations in more detail. The recommendations included consolidating 
her six pensions into a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and transferring her ISA to 
another provider. Lazenbys charge for the work was £10,500. 
Mrs P had some concerns about a number of points in the recommendations and about the 
charges. Lazenbys replied to these and asked her to pay the fee. 
In February 2020 Mrs P emailed to say due to unfortunate family circumstances she wasnt 
able to make decisions about her long-term future and had decided not to proceed. 
Lazenbys pressed Mrs P for payment of their charges but she refused to pay and lodged a 
complaint. She said the charges hadnt been clear  she thought she would only have to pay 
an initial fee of £1,500  and Lazenbys had failed to deal with her properly as a vulnerable 
customer. Lazenbys said theyd given clear information about the charging structure from 
day one and had done a lot of work, which they should be paid for.
When Mrs P brought her complaint to us, our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. He 
said: 
Lazenbys had given clear information about the charges and asked Mrs P to sign an 
authority to proceed before carrying out the work, which she had signed and 
returned. 
At the second meeting, Mrs P could have said she didnt want to proceed but she 
had confirmed she wanted Lazenbys to make a recommendation. 
While Mrs P didnt accept the recommendation made, it was suitable in the 
circumstances and met her objectives.
Mrs P disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. Amongst other things, she 
says:
As a layperson it was reasonable to think the most she would have to pay was 
£1,500 and the fee of £10,500 is excessive.
Shes never had any justification as to why she should move her pensions to the  
SIPP.
She raised the conduct of a financial adviser who used to work for Lazenbys in her 
complaint and this hasnt been addressed.
The investigator considered these points but didnt change his view. So the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that since making the complaint Mrs P has paid the charges, after Lazenbys 
threatened legal action to recover them. But she still considers them to be unfair. And so I 
still need to make a decision.
Mrs P says Lazenbys didnt provide suitable advice; didnt make clear the charging 
structure; failed to treat her as a vulnerable customer; and pressured her to complete the 
transfer. Ive considered each of these points carefully but dont think the complaint should 
be upheld. Ill explain why.
The starting point is that Mrs P asked Lazenbys to carry out work for her. Lazenbys has 
said the charging structure was first discussed in the initial meeting in 2019 and has 
confirmed the Terms of Business were provided. This document clearly outlines the fees that 
will be charged and says:
As your adviser I will be paid by you for the advice I give you both initially and ongoing. 
You will not incur any fees until we have agreed what they will be. 
It then goes on to explain the different ways the fees will be applied and confirms that the 
fees are raised when the investment is made. It sets out the fees as follows:
 
When our work involves investing a lump sum of money, our fees are:
A minimum fee of £1,500 up to £50,000 invested
3% over £50,000 on up to £350,000,
and 0% on any balance above £350,000
Our typical charge is 3% of the sum invested, which for an investment of 
£100,000 would be £3,000 and for
£350,000 would be £10,500
I think this is clear about the way the charges are calculated and shows that for an 
investment of £350,000 or more the fee would be £10,500. (Mrs Ps investment would have 
been for around £390,000.)The document also says: 
If you ask us to stop work after agreeing to these fees you will be invoiced a minimum fee of 
£1,500 or a proportion of the agreed fee depending on when you ask us to stop working:
After agreeing the fees, but before we do any work = 0% of agreed fees
After we have started researching your current arrangements and/or solutions, but
before designing a solution = 50% of agreed fees;
After we have started designing a solution, but before we present our recommendation = 
75% of agreed fees
After we have presented our recommendation, but before we start implementation =
100% of agreed fees
After starting the implementation process = 100% of agreed fees.
The Terms of Business were updated to reflect regulatory requirements and given to Mrs P 
again. During the second meeting Mrs P was presented with and asked to sign the Authority 
to Proceed document. This confirmed the Terms of Business had been provided and the 
fees had been reviewed and discussed. It asked Mrs P to confirm that she wanted to 
proceed and understood that a flat fee of £10,500 was applicable.
Mrs P signed and dated the Authority to Proceed. 
Looking at the sequence of events and the documents provided to Mrs P, Im satisfied she 
was given clear information about the charging structure. And she confirmed that she 
wanted Lazenbys to go ahead and make a recommendation. She could have withdrawn at 
any point and would not then have incurred the same level of charges, but chose not to. 
Having received instructions to proceed, Lazenbys carried out a detailed review of Mrs Ps 
circumstances, including her six personal pensions and an ISA savings account. This 
involved obtaining details of her existing pension plans, searching the market to find 
pensions that would match Mrs Ps requirements and producing a report setting out their 
recommendations. The report set out in detail the recommendations, showing the various 
options that had been considered and the reasons for the option that was recommended. 
This is a professional service and the charges reflect this. Having authorised Lazenbys to 
carry out the work, which was then done up to and including presenting their 
recommendation, Mrs P was liable under the terms of business to pay the fees in full. 
Overall, I think the recommendation was suitable in the circumstances and met Mrs Ps 
objectives. She wanted to consolidate six different pensions into one, where she would have 
more control over her investments, a wider choice of funds and more flexibility. 
Consolidating all her pensions into a SIPP would allow this. Lazenbys said the old pensions 
did not offer guaranteed annuity rates or enhanced death benefits, nor did they have 
penalties for transferring, so she wasnt losing out by moving them. She raised some 
concerns, especially about the ongoing charges, but Lazenbys was happy to engage with 
her and review things further to ensure the final recommendation suited her. 
Mrs P says Lazenbys pressured her to complete the transfer. She was contacted a number 
of times but I think it was reasonable for Lazenbys to seek confirmation of what she wanted 
to do, and subsequently to request payment. I dont think there was undue pressure.
The total weighted annual charge of the previous schemes was 0.87% per year whilst the 
total annual charge of the recommended plan was lower, at 0.52%. The recommendation did 
include a 1% ongoing Lazenbys charge, to provide a continuing advice service. So it was 
more expensive overall, but the Authority to Proceed document shows this was requested as 
part of the process. Mrs P could have changed her mind and decided she didnt want to pay for this service, and if she had then Lazenbys should have re-worked the recommendation 
accordingly. But she didnt request this.
Mrs P is unhappy that the investigator referred to her as a relatively high risk investor. She 
was assessed as a Very Adventurous investor in relation to her ISA  where she indicated 
she was willing to take a different approach, given the relatively small amount of money 
invested there. But in relation to her pension, her risk level was assessed as Growth based 
on the discussions with her and the answers she gave to Lazenbys questions.
Mrs P refers to her personal circumstances; she says she was vulnerable and Lazenbys 
should have taken this into account but instead pursued her for payment. I do appreciate she 
had a very difficult family situation to deal with. But that was in January 2020  after the work 
had been done. The process started in 2019, when Mrs P had meetings with Lazenbys, was 
given their terms of business and signed the Authority to Proceed. The work was then 
carried out. All of that happened before the difficult situation she found herself in later on. As 
far as Lazenbys was aware, this was a highly paid professional person with a substantial 
amount of investments, who had instructed them to proceed with detailed work; there was 
nothing to indicate at that point that she vulnerable or that the work should not be done.
Finally, Mrs P raised the conduct of a financial adviser who used to work for Lazenbys. 
Since that person wasnt involved in this case thats not something Im able to consider  Im 
only looking at the actions taken in relation to advising her.
The position here is that Mrs P and Lazenbys entered into an agreement for some work to 
be done and agreed what the charge would be for that work. The terms of that agreement 
were set out in writing and Mrs P agreed to them. Taking into account all of the 
circumstances set out above I consider it was fair and reasonable for Lazenbys to apply 
those terms and to ask for the agreed charges to be paid. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman