DRN-3497455
The complaint
Mr D complains that DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined his 
claim for rent protection under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
What happened
Both parties are familiar with the circumstances of this complaint, so Ive summarised what 
has happened.
Mr D is a landlord. He has a legal expenses insurance policy which provides cover in 
the event a tenant fails to pay their rent. The policy is underwritten by DAS Legal 
Expenses Insurance. 
In March and April 2021, Mr D spoke with DAS legal advice team. 
During his first call with the legal advice team, Mr D explained his tenant was in 
arrears of approximately four weeks and wanted to know whether he should make a 
claim for rent protection. He expressed his concerns in doing so and how it could 
impact his premiums. The adviser said he would look into Mr Ds concern and get 
back to him. 
Another DAS legal advisor called Mr D back. A discussion was had about the 
relevant notices which could be served to Mr Ds tenant for failing to pay rent. 
Towards the end of the call, Mr D asks about rent protection. Hes told he has to go 
through the legal expenses insurance team and the adviser offers to put an enquiry 
through to the team for him. Mr D says hell contact the insurer himself. 
In a subsequent call, Mr D speaks to another legal helpline advisor. In it, Mr D asks 
when he needs to let DAS know that he wants to make a claim. The advisor 
responds and talks about how long Mr D might have to give his tenant before making 
a claim. The adviser offers to send Mr D a link to the online claim form. 
Mr D subsequently submits a claim in August 2021 but is told its too late by DAS. It 
says the claim was reported more than 90 days after Mr D became aware of the 
issue with his tenants rent arrears.
Mr D brought a complaint to this service. An investigator considered it and said DAS 
hadnt treated him fairly. She was satisfied Mr D had made the claim in time as in 
March and April hed clearly reported to DAS there was an issue. Whilst she 
accepted it was reported to legal advice team, and not the legal expenses team, she 
said the contact details in the policy booklet led Mr D to the legal advice line instead 
 which isnt Mr Ds fault. 
To put things right she said DAS needed to reconsider the claim without relying on 
the 90-day exclusion. And that if it were to pay the claim, it should add 8% simple 
interest from 26 September 2021, which is a month after Mr D raised a claim.  
DAS disagreed. It said its advisers had offered to submit a claim on Mr Ds behalf 
and had provided him with a link to the online form to do so. It said it cant be 
responsible for Mr Ds decision not to act.
Because DAS disagreed the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why. 
The policy document is the starting point. Under what you are not covered 
for it says: Any claim reported to us more than 90 days after the date you 
should have known about the insured event. 
DAS legal advice line provides a service on behalf of the insurer  its part of 
the package provided by the policy, and so, Im satisfied DAS is ultimately 
responsible for what is said by the legal advice line.
Mr D spoke to the legal advice line having been directed to it by calling the 
contact numbers in the policy document. Its standard practice that the legal 
advice line would assist with a claim in the first instance. 
Whats key here is whether Mr D was given misleading information during 
those calls which lead him to believe he didnt need to make a claim at that 
time or that there wasnt a deadline for submitting one in respect of the rent 
arrears. 
Ive listened to the relevant calls. Whilst I accept advisers mentioned the legal 
expenses insurance team and offered to put forward a claim enquiry on         
Mr Ds behalf, Im not satisfied that overall, the information Mr D received 
from the helpline was sufficiently clear in respect of when he would need to 
submit a claim for the rent arrears. 
Of note, is that in a call with an adviser, Mr D explicitly asks  Do I leave it 
[meaning a claim for the rent protection] for a couple of months and come 
back to you? How soon do I need to let you know?. The adviser responds 
that it sounds like an insurance matter but then adds that Mr D might have 
to possibly wait eight weeks to make a claim. But my interpretation of this 
comment is that its in respect of notifying the tenant about action being taken, 
rather than notifying the insurer about wanting to make a claim  which is 
what Mr B was in fact asking. So, I dont think its fair to say Mr D was given 
clear advice in respect of this.
Furthermore, in the same call, the adviser says, its up to you whether you 
claim, wait or consider making a claim to the county court.  Having heard that 
he could wait Im satisfied it would be reasonable for Mr D to assume that 
there wasnt a deadline in place for submitting a claim in respect of rent 
protection. 
Im not persuaded DAS has provided clear advice to Mr D. So, I dont think it 
has treated Mr D fairly in declining his claim based on it having been 
submitted outside of the 90-day window. It follows therefore, that it should reconsider the claim without reference to this exclusion. 
Mr D has complained that DAS didnt keep to deadlines when dealing with his 
complaint about how it handled his claim. Whilst I can see it missed its own 
deadlines, a final response was ultimately provided within the eight weeks its 
given before a complaint can be submitted to this service. 
Putting things right
Ive explained that DAS should reconsider the claim without reference to the 90-day 
exclusion. 
If the claim is successful and paid, DAS needs to add 8% simple interest to the payment. Ive 
set out below how Ive determined when interest should be added from.  
When Mr D called DAS in March 2021, his tenants rent was already four weeks in arrears (I 
can see from the estate agents records that the tenant failed to pay the full rent amount on 
26 February 2021). Mr D would have needed to give the tenant a further four weeks before 
acting  which would have been 23 April 2021. And from this point Mr D would have had 90 
days to submit a claim. 
From listening to the calls, I think Mr D was more likely to have logged the claim towards the 
end of the claim period (had he known there was one) as he said he wanted to give the 
tenant the opportunity to pay the arrears to avoid claiming on his insurance unnecessarily. 
So, I think the earliest Mr D would have submitted a claim was 22 July 2021. 
Its reasonable that DAS would require one month to deal with the claim. Im satisfied the 
earliest date a payment would have been made is 22 August 2021. And so, 8% simple 
interest should be added from this date until the payment is made.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company must reconsider the claim without applying the 
90-day exclusion. 
If the claim is successful, it should pay it plus 8% simple interest, which should be calculated 
from 22 August 2021 until the date the payment is made.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 July 2022.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman