DRN-3327138
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that UIA (Insurance) Limited declined a claim he made under his home 
insurance policy for subsidence.
Reference to Mr C or UIA includes the respective representatives or agents of either party.
What happened
The background to this complaint isnt in dispute, so Ill summarise whats happened:
Mr C bought a house in 2019 and insured it with UIA. He got in touch with it after he 
noticed cracks appearing in the conservatory wall in April 2021.
UIA appointed a loss adjuster, who inspected the damage and arranged for 
investigations to be carried out. It declined the claim, saying:
oThe conservatory foundation is 450mm deep and built on highly shrinkable 
clay. Oak tree roots were found to a depth of 1,900mm.
oThe foundation should have been at least 1,000mm if there were no trees and 
2,500mm to take into account the Oak trees  so its design was defective.
oSo, whilst damage had been caused by subsidence as a result of clay 
shrinkage, this had arisen due to defective design, which isnt covered by the 
policy.
Mr C complained but UIA maintained it was fair to decline the claim.
Our investigator thought UIA had acted fairly. Mr C disagreed, so his complaint has 
been passed to me to consider.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covers damage caused by subsidence but not when it arises from defective 
design.
Im satisfied these terms are clearly set out in the policy. In my experience, most home 
insurance policies will contain similar terms, so I dont think theyre unusual. And in principle, 
I dont think its unfair for UIA to have this kind of term in its policy.
Mr C has questioned whether UIA has correctly identified the cause of subsidence. Hes not 
persuaded the Oak tree roots are the cause of the problem and suggests climate change 
might be.
The loss adjuster appointed by UIA is a chartered civil engineer and a member of a relevant 
professional body. They relied on a visual inspection and investigation results to inform their 
opinion about the cause of subsidence. I havent seen any opinions by similarly qualified or 
experienced individuals. So Im satisfied UIAs view is the most persuasive.
But regardless of the underlying cause of subsidence, UIA thinks its been brought about by 
defective design  in summary, it thinks the foundation is too shallow. The onus is on UIA to 
show it would be fair to rely on this reason to decline the claim.
Usually when I consider a complaint of this nature, I would expect to see evidence from the 
insurer to show why it thinks the foundation is too shallow. For example, when was the 
conservatory built, what standards did it need to meet at the time, and how did it fail to meet 
them.
All UIA has provided is confirmation of the foundation depth, and its opinion about what the 
depth should have been. There isnt anything along the lines Ive mentioned to support its 
opinion. That means there isnt an objective assessment to persuade me that UIA has 
shown the foundation was designed defectively.
Without anything to show what the appropriate design standards were at the relevant time, 
Im not satisfied UIA has shown it would be fair to decline the claim on the basis the 
foundation was defectively designed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C accepted my provisional decision. 
UIA didnt respond.
As neither party has provided any further comments, I see no reason to change my 
provisional findings.My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require UIA (Insurance) Limited to accept the subsidence claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
James Neville
Ombudsman