DRN-2662052
The complaint
Mr M complains that Nationwide Building Society refused his claim brought under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He wants compensation for a delayed continental train 
journey together with interest. Also compensation for the time hes spent on the complaint.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons: 
 As Nationwide has now accepted it should refund 50% of the train fare in accordance with 
the terms of the relevant contract, the only remaining issues are what rate of interest (if any) 
should be applied to the award. And if any additional amount of compensation should be 
awarded to reflect the time which Mr M has spent in progressing his complaint.
 Although the rate of interest that is awarded is discretionary, Ive seen no plausible reason 
to increase it here from the 8% that is typically used. Ive not seen anything to show that Mr 
M incurred transactional interest on the amount. Certainly not the 19.9% he feels should be 
awarded. That mightve been the rate he wouldve been charged if he hadnt paid off the 
whole sum. But as he did repay the full amount, he didnt incur any additional interest. In my 
opinion 8% is wholly adequate. An award of interest is not designed to be used to increase 
the amount of any award over and above that which is required to properly compensate for 
the loss of availability of the relevant sum.
 If a consumer brings a complaint then its reasonable to infer they are prepared to invest 
time in going through the required process. We also dont make awards based on hourly 
rates. A business is equally entitled as a consumer to require an ombudsman decision. So 
any additional time and work this requires is simply part of the process. As it happens, at 
different stages in this complaint both parties have now sought a final decision from an 
ombudsman. Theres nothing in the way in which Nationwides dealt with this complaint that 
would, in my opinion, require any additional award by way of a distress and inconvenience 
payment.
In summary, I find that Nationwides amended offer is a fair and reasonable basis on which 
to determine this complaint. Whilst Im upholding this complaint, I shant be asking it to do 
anything further.
Putting things right 
Nationwide should refund £116.55 to Mr M. And pay simple interest at the rate of 8% per 
year from date of payment to date of settlement. 
If Nationwide considers it is required to deduct tax from the interest paid it should provide Mr 
M with a certificate to this effect so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if he is able to do so. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Nationwide Building Society should take the action Ive stipulated in the preceding section.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 April 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman