DRN-3068608
The complaint and what happened 
Mr and Mrs M complain that their serious illness benefit, within an endowment policy, hasnt 
operated as they were led to believe when they were sold it. Mr Ms claim for open heart 
surgery has been declined, but they believe this should be paid. The policy was sold by 
Britannic Assurance, now Phoenix Life Limited. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap the key points and focus on giving my reasons for my decision:
Mr and Mrs M were sold their endowment policy in 1999. The policy included serious 
illness benefit which would pay out a lump sum on diagnosis of one of specified 
Serious Illness Events, listed within policy documentation.
Mr M has needed open-heart surgery to repair a heart valve. He submitted a claim 
under his policy which has been declined as it isnt one of the specified illnesses. Mr 
M made a complaint, both about the declined claim and the sale of the policy as he 
says at the point of sale that such cover was reasonably expected.  
Phoenix didnt uphold the complaint; it was satisfied the level of cover was discussed 
during the sale and key features provided. This set out the list of serious illnesses 
specified which didnt include repair of a heart valve. And it was also satisfied the 
claim had been declined incorrectly. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M has referred to the ABIs guides 
where the description for Heart Valve and Coronary Bypass Surgery starts with 
surgery to divide the breastbone. He doesnt think due consideration has been given 
to his surgery, what was expected at the sale and isnt satisfied the key features was 
fully discussed. He has also provided further information from his consultant setting 
out the surgery was complex heart surgery. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
A complaint about the sale of the endowment policy has already been responded to 
in 2005. However, the sale of the Serious Illness Benefit, and specifically how it 
relates to Mr Ms condition wasnt considered. 
Both the policy document and the key facts document set out that the Serious Illness 
Benefit will be paid on diagnosis of one of the Serious Illness Events as defined. This 
is important, as it means only those illnesses specified within the policy are covered 
not all illnesses that could possibly be considered serious. 
The only heart conditions listed within the Serious Illness Events are Heart Attack 
and Coronary Artery Bypass Surgery. Mr M is not claiming for either of these events 
but heart valve repair. I have considered the letter from the consultant, and whilst 
accepting the operation Mr M had was complex heart surgery, that doesnt mean its 
covered under the terms of the policy. Heart valve repair isnt one of the specified 
illnesses and as such cover isnt provided for it.  
I have considered Mr Ms points about the ABI guides. But Im not persuaded this 
means his heart valve repair is covered. Both descriptions go further than just 
specifying that surgery to divide the breastbone takes place; they go on to refer to the 
actual illness the surgery is being carried out for - in the examples referred to by Mr 
M they are heart valve repair and coronary artery bypass surgery. But as set out 
above, Mr M doesnt have heart valve repair as a specified illness under his policy, 
and he isnt claiming for coronary artery bypass surgery. Whilst serious, it isnt 
enough for Mr M to have had open heart surgery for his claim to be paid; that needed 
to relate to a specified illness. 
As the event claimed for isnt one of the specified Serious Illness Events within the 
policy, I find no basis on which to ask Phoenix to meet Mr Ms claim.
I turn now to the sale of the policy. Its quite clear from Mr Ms own submissions that 
discussions about the policy and the Serious Illness benefit were had. Whilst Mr M 
now says that they should reasonably have expected open heart surgery to be 
covered, that wasnt set out in the policy documents. The Reason Why letter, sent by 
the adviser and which sets out the reasons for the recommendation, explained the 
key features documents were provided to Mr and Mrs M during discussions. Im 
therefore satisfied Mr and Mrs M were given the key features, even if they dont recall 
that now or no longer have a copy. The document clearly set out what Serious Illness 
Events were covered and so Im satisfied Mr and Mrs M ought to have been aware of 
what was and wasnt covered by the policy.  It follows that I dont find the policy was 
mis-sold. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed by my decision. But I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to ask Phoenix to pay a claim for a Serious Illness Event it never agreed to 
cover.
 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 October 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman