DRN-4054380
The complaint
Mrs A complains about how Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited handled a claim made 
on her motor insurance policy. She wants further compensation for her trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mrs A was involved in an accident, and she made a claim on her policy. But she was 
unhappy that Aioi Nissay Dowa gave her incorrect information and caused delays. She was 
unhappy with the courtesy car provision and with the solicitors that Aioi Nissay Dowa 
recommended. Aioi Nissay Dowa agreed that there had been service failings. It paid Mrs A 
£150 compensation for this. But Mrs A wanted an apology and further compensation. 
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought Aioi 
Nissay Dowa had responded promptly when further issues were identified with Mrs As car 
and provided her with a courtesy car within two days. Aioi Nissay Dowa couldnt then 
arrange repairs for two months, so she thought it reasonably allowed Mrs A to use her own 
garage and waived the additional policy excess for this. 
She thought there had been a lack of communication from Aioi Nissay Dowa and its 
solicitors. But she thought Aioi Nissay Dowas payment of £150 compensation for this and 
the delays in the claim was fair and reasonable. 
Mrs A replied asking for an Ombudsmans review, so her complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. Mrs A said shed been given incorrect information about when her car would 
be collected for repairs. She said the onus was on her to arrange for a suitable garage after 
the approved repairer couldnt make the repairs for two months and didnt provide her with a 
courtesy car. She said she wasnt provided with a courtesy car until two weeks after the 
accident. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs A had a frustrating and stressful experience following her accident and the 
subsequent claim on her policy. And I can see that Aioi Nissay Dowa has recognised this 
and tried to make amends. When a business makes a mistake, as Aioi Nissay Dowa accepts 
it has done here, we expect it to restore the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. 
And we also consider the impact the error had on the consumer. 
Mrs As first concern was that her car wasnt collected for assessment by Aioi Nissay Dowa. 
It gave her dates when the car would be collected, but it wasnt. So Mrs A had to chase this 
up. I can understand that this must have been frustrating and upsetting. Eventually, Aioi 
Nissay Dowa appointed another repairer, but it was unable to start work for two months.  
In the meantime, Mrs As car started cutting out. When she first notified her claim, she said 
there was damage to the bumper. And so I think Aioi Nissay Dowa reasonably assessed that 
the car could be driven safely. When Mrs A reported the cutting out, it said the car was 
unsafe to drive. And it provided her with a courtesy car two days later. 
I think this was a reasonably prompt response. I dont think Aioi Nissay Dowa would have 
been aware of the problems with the car until they were reported. And I can understand that 
Mrs A thinks that they would have been evident if the car had been collected and the 
damage assessed. But I can see that Aioi Nissay Dowa was trying to locate and appoint a 
repairer with capacity to undertake the work. And I dont think two weeks was an 
unreasonable delay as this was outside its control. 
Mrs A said she then suggested using her own repairer and Aioi Nissay Dowa agreed to do 
this. I think it reasonably waived the additional policy excess that she would otherwise have 
to pay for this. Aioi Nissay Dowa also paid her £75 compensation for the delays. I can 
understand that Mrs A was caused frustration. But I think this was fair and reasonable for the 
delays and trouble caused her. 
Mrs A was later unhappy that she didnt receive a response from Aioi Nissay Dowa to her 
email and during this time she was unhappy with the communications from the solicitors 
recommended by it to recover her uninsured losses. I think Aioi Nissay Dowa reasonably 
apologised for this delay and offered Mrs A £75 further compensation. It also correctly 
explained that Mrs A should raise her concerns with the solicitors as they were a separate 
business. But it acknowledged that it could have done more to chase the solicitors for her. 
In summary, I think Aioi Nissay Dowa restored Mrs As position by allowing her to use her 
own garage for repairs without paying an additional excess. And when it found that her car 
was undriveable, it provided a courtesy car within two days so that Mrs A could continue with 
her planned holidays. 
In terms of impact, Mrs A was caused trouble and upset over a few weeks at the start of her 
claim by delays and later by poor communication. Aioi Nissay Dowa paid her £150 in total 
compensation for this. I think thats in keeping with our published guidance and so its fair 
and reasonable. I dont require Aioi Nissay Dowa to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 May 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman