DRN-1562748
 
The complaint
P a limited company, complains that Interactive Investor Services Limited trading as 
Interactive Investor failed to act on their instructions to transfer funds to an account with 
bank B. The payments were late. P would like £5,000 in compensation.
P is represented by its director Mr B.
What happened
In June 2019 Mr B instructed Interactive Investor to transfer £14,000 into his account with 
bank B. Interactive investor didnt carry out his instructions. They said they were 
experiencing systems issues. The next day Mr B requested another transfer be made of 
£50,000. Both these transfers were manually requested. Neither transfer was carried out. 
Mr B contacted Interactive Investor to find out why the transfers hadnt been made. They 
said they were experiencing systems failure. Unhappy with the response Mr B complained to 
Interactive Investor.
The funds took 10 days to transfer. The payments were finally transferred on 5 July 2019 to 
the account in Bank B. P says its director spent time dealing with the complaint and was 
unable to make investments, so P lost out on profits. P had to borrow money from Mr B to 
pay its tax bill.
Interactive Investor in response to the complaint said that they were experiencing IT 
problems and were therefore unable to process the payments. They acknowledged that it 
was their system failure that meant the transfers couldnt be made and offered £60 
compensation.
Mr B was unhappy with Interactive Investors response. He said the first transfer was made 
to pay a tax bill which was due on 1 July 2019. P would incur a penalty of £100 if they didnt 
pay their tax bill on time. Mr B said he also couldnt trade at a time when the market was 
rising. This caused P to break its investment strategy and caused financial loss which are 
estimated to be over £5,000. Mr B also said Interactive Investor not following his instructions 
caused him anxiety. He rejected the £60 compensation.
Mr B complained to our service. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. Mr B 
said that because of the tax bill he had lent P £14,000 and P had agreed to pay Mr B £5,000 
for the loan. Mr B has said he thought Interactive Investor could transfer funds as it did so 
from his personal account in order to allow him to lend P the tax money. 
Our investigator thought that the system failure hadnt affected Ps ability to trade or put cash 
deposits into the account so he didnt think Interactive Investor should pay compensation for 
this loss.
He also thought that they werent liable for issues beyond their control and so he didnt think 
they should have to pay £5,000 for the loan. Our investigator thought that £60 previously 
offered by Interactive Investor was fair compensation for the delay and inconvenience.
Mr B disagreed with the view he said P had to raise the funds to cover its tax bill and it had 
been agreed that he would lend this money to P at short notice and in return P would pay 
him a fee of £5,000.
He said that the investigator hadnt considered that he had also suffered a loss as he had 
risked lending £14,000 when it wasnt clear whether Interactive Investor would release the 
funds. Mr B has said that his losses are difficult to quantify.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
delayed payments
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of the company. 
From looking at the evidence, its clear that Mr B provided Interactive Investor with 
instructions to process two payment transfers in line with the terms and conditions of the 
account. And that when he did so Mr B didnt have any reason to believe that there would be 
a delay in processing the two payment transfers.
Interactive Investor have said that the reason for not acting on Mr Bs instructions were 
because of system failures.
Mr B has said that he was concerned because P had a tax bill due at that time. He has said 
he had to personally loan the company the £14,000 to pay the tax bill that was due. He has 
mentioned the company agreed to pay him £5,000 in consideration for this loan.
Interactive Investor have accepted that they didnt carry out Mr Bs instructions. In their final 
response letter, they confirmed they upheld the complaint and accepted their system issues 
resulted in the company being unable to withdraw its cleared funds on 26 and 27 June 2019.
The investigator noted that Interactive Investor acknowledged that they had not acted on 
Mr Bs instructions and could have provided better service to P, they offered P £60 in 
recognition of that. The investigator thought that the offer of £60 was fair in the 
circumstances. I share that assessment, and whilst I appreciate Mr B wont agree, I dont 
think it necessary for me to award any more. I simply leave it up to Mr B to decide whether, 
on reflection, he wishes to accept that offer
The crux of Mr Bs complaint is that the delays in processing the payments had an effect on 
P and on Mr B personally. 
Mr B has mentioned that he was very stressed because he was unable to get money out of 
the account. I appreciate as a director of the company he was doing everything he could to 
move the situation along. However, a company is a distinct legal entity and it was the 
company who was the client of Interactive Investor in this situation. I acknowledge the effect 
on Mr B of trying to find out why the transfers were not being made and the worry of not 
having funds to pay the companys tax bill. However, I am unable to award compensation to 
Mr B for the distress that he personally may have suffered. In deciding this I am aware that 
he is a personal customer of Interactive Investor, but the complaint is brought by P and not by Mr B in his personal capacity. In addition, P as a company cannot be caused distress. So, 
I wont be awarding compensation for any distress caused.
Mr B has said that during the time Ps account was blocked he was unable to trade and 
therefore lost the opportunity to make a profit. I have looked at evidence that shows that 
Mr B would have been able to trade as normal despite the other issues he was experiencing 
with the account. I therefore will not be asking Interactive Investor to pay P compensation for 
loss of profit.
Loan of £14,000
Mr B has said that he lent P £14,000 to pay their tax bill and in return the company agreed to 
pay Mr B £5,000. 
The terms and conditions of service  which both Interactive Investor and Mr B had to 
comply with state that Interactive Investor wont be liable for any losses or delays because of 
failures in performance of their obligations due to circumstances outside their control. I am 
satisfied that in this situation they were faced with circumstances beyond their control.
I have checked the terms and conditions, in particular condition 13 and 15. Having 
considered these terms I am satisfied that Interactive Investor applied them correctly and I 
cant fairly and reasonably say they have done anything wrong in not paying Mr B £5,000. In 
coming to this decision, I have taken into account that Interactive Investor are not liable for 
Mr Bs personal losses. This was a private arrangement between Mr B and P and Interactive 
Investor cannot be held liable for that arrangement. 
I know that Mr B will be disappointed by my decision. I dont doubt that the agreement he 
personally had with P is a genuine agreement but because of the terms and conditions that 
P agreed to, Interactive investors are not liable to pay P £5,000.
I am sure that P will nevertheless honour their agreement with Mr B, but this is something I 
cannot comment on because it is a private arrangement between a company and its director.
In summary I am satisfied that the terms and conditions of the agreement mean Interactive 
Investor are not liable for any losses due to the delay in performing their obligations due to 
circumstances beyond their control. It follows that I wont be asking them to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. And Im 
not going to ask Interactive Investor Services Limited to do anything more to resolve Ps 
complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman