DRN-1813301
The complaint
Mr L complains that he sent money from his account with Revolut Ltd to his account in 
French Polynesia, but that it hasnt been credited. Revolut hasnt been able to retrieve it for 
him. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr L sent a payment of €1,000 from his Revolut account to his account 
overseas. It wasnt credited and he asked Revolut to investigate and, if possible, to retrieve 
the payment. 
Mr L also contacted the overseas bank. It said that it was only able to receive local payments 
or payments from France. Any other payment would have been returned automatically to the 
sending institution. 
Revolut tried to recall the payment from Mr Ls overseas bank but was unable to do so. Mr 
Ls bank said it was unable to trace the payment. 
Mr L referred the case to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He was 
satisfied however that Revolut had done what it could to retrieve the money but couldnt be 
held responsible if Mr Ls bank hadnt returned it. He wasnt persuaded that the money had 
been returned but thought it more likely that the overseas bank had it. 
Mr L didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive approached this complaint on the basis that Mr L provided the correct details for his 
overseas account. I accept that the money that Mr L sent in July 2019 hasnt been returned 
to Revolut. I accept too that it wasnt credited to Mr Ls overseas account. 
In the circumstances, I agree with the investigator that there was little else Revolut could do. 
Had the money been returned, its reasonable to assume that it would have been identified 
by the payment reference and re-credited to Mr Ls account with Revolut. Mr Ls overseas 
bank hasnt however suggested either that it identified the payment or that it was ever 
returned to Revolut. 
I realise of course that this is frustrating for Mr L, who has had his Revolut account debited 
but who hasnt had the money credited to his overseas account. Im satisfied however that 
Revolut correctly followed his instructions in making the payment, made appropriate efforts 
to trace it and retrieve it when it wasnt credited to his overseas account and hasnt had it 
returned. 
It may be that Mr L will be able to recover the money from his overseas bank, but I dont 
believe it would be fair to require Revolut to meet his losses.     
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Revolut Ltd to do anything more to resolve Mr Ls 
complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2020. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman