The complaint
Mrs K says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
This policy, sometimes referred to as Account Cover was sold by a third-party acting on 
behalf of the policy insurer. I cant consider this complaint against the seller of the policy 
directly. This is because the sale took place before that firm, or its predecessor-in-title, was 
regulated by the then Financial Services Authority (FSA) for insurance intermediation 
activities, or was otherwise covered by our jurisdiction. 
But the seller was acting as the insurers agent. And the insurer has subsequently 
transferred its business to AXA, so its taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things 
simple, Ill mainly refer to AXA in this decision, unless its clearer to do otherwise.
What happened
Mrs K bought the policy in 2000 at the same time as taking out a store card. She applied for 
the store card and PPI policy in-store. 
In her PPI questionnaire (PPIQ) dated July 2019, Mrs K said she was employed in 
supermarket retail for more than 16 hours a week. She was entitled to full sick pay for less 
than three months and had savings/insurance worth less than three months pay. She said 
she had a second job of less than 16 hours a week. 
Mrs K said she was pregnant at the time of the sale and had the following health problems:
Condition: depression, Date circa 1997, Treatment: counseling [sic], post natal depression, 
Work missed 6 weeks 
Condition: depression, Date circa 2000, Treatment: counseling [sic], post natal depression, 
Meds: antidepressants, Work missed 17 weeks 
Condition: asthma, Date: circa 1982, Meds: inhalers, Work missed 5 weeks      
More recently, Mrs K confirmed she wasnt pregnant when she bought the policy as 
indicated in the PPIQ. She said she had one job  in supermarket retail  of 19 hours a 
week, as opposed to two as previously stated.
In June 2019, Mrs K completed a Further information questionnaire for AXA. In it, she 
indicated her only health problem in 2000 was her asthma which was diagnosed in 1982. 
She said she hadnt had any unplanned hospital visits or inpatient admissions and was 
prescribed two inhalers. She was asked if her condition had worsened since diagnosis or 
DRN-1968205prior to the sale and replied  No my asthma is stable and has been for years. Ill return to 
these issues later in the decision.
The policy provided cover for life, accident and sickness, unemployment, accidental bodily 
injury and hospitalisation  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 15% of 
Mrs Ks store card balance in the event of Mrs K being unable to work due to accident and 
sickness or unemployment. 
The policy also provided price protection and purchase protection cover. Mrs K hasnt 
complained about these elements of the insurance policy, so I wont consider them further in 
this decision. 
At the time, the policy cost £1 per £100 of the monthly outstanding balance. The premium 
would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it attracted interest. 
Mrs Ks representatives made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I wont 
restate them all here, but Ive read and considered them all carefully. In summary, Mrs Ks 
representative said:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mrs Ks 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means AXA should have told 
Mrs K about the poor value; and
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs K and the impact 
they would have had on her chances of making a claim.
 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be upheld on the grounds that Mrs K was 
suffering with health problems when she bought the policy and that she wouldnt have been 
able to claim for them as it excluded claims for pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs). 
The adjudicator didnt think AXA made the policys restrictions clear to Mrs K and that she 
wouldnt have bought it if it had. They asked AXA to put things right for Mrs K.
Both parties have seen, and had the opportunity to provide their responses to, the 
adjudicators opinion. AXA disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. Among other things, it 
pointed to Mrs Ks account of her health problems in its own questionnaire. AXA said based 
on that Mrs K was unlikely to have needed to claim for asthma, which was managed with 
inhalers, and that the condition was unlikely to have affected her decision to take the policy.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed to me for a decision. After 
considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision setting out why I didnt think the 
PPI had been mis-sold. I gave the parties the opportunity to respond before I considered the 
complaint again.
Neither AXA nor Mrs K replied to my provisional decision. But Im satisfied they were made 
aware and, in Mrs Ks case twice reminded of, the deadline for responses, so I think its reasonable to assume that if they wanted to respond theyd have done so by now. I therefore 
think its appropriate to carry on and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Services set out its general approach to PPI complaints on 
our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ks complaint.
This sale took place in 2000, before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005. So, the FSAs (and FCAs) overarching Principles for 
Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this 
complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party and not AXA. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court 
judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period of industry self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC). It published the GISC Code, which set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other than Registered 
Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
 
Among other things, the code said that As a condition of membership of the Association of 
British Insurers (ABI), members undertake to enforce this Code and to use their best endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
The insurer was a member of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an 
intermediary. 
The Finance & Leasing Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code was introduced in 1992, and set out standards of good practice for the finance and 
leasing industry. Section 4 of the code covered Credit Protection Insurance. 
As Ive explained, the insurer was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code 
and its associated requirements. The seller  but not the insurer  was a member of the FLA 
and subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA) should have complied with its code when selling PPI, and this extends 
to when it was acting as an agent of the insurer. 
So, Im satisfied its right that I should take these codes into account when deciding whats, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Ks case. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions, which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts 
or omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Insurance Ombudsman Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so AXA 
was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ks complaint. 
Key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding whats in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If AXA gave advice, whether it advised Mrs K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances. 
Whether AXA gave Mrs K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs K suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage.  
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs K and AXA, 
Ive provisionally decided not to uphold Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Did Mrs K know she had a choice?
AXA had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Its provided a copy of Mrs Ks signed store card application form. In the section headed 
Payment & Purchase Protection, she was asked to sign separately if she wanted the policy. 
Mrs K signed in the relevant place.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mrs K knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Did AXA provide advice?              
AXA says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mrs K hasnt indicated that it did advise 
her. Taking that into account, and looking at what happened when AXA sold Mrs K the PPI, 
Im not persuaded that it provided advice. 
This means AXA didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs K. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs K to make an informed 
choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
The information
AXAs provided a copy of the paperwork it says Mrs K would have received, including most 
of the policy terms and conditions  which I accept on a balance of probabilities  applied to 
policies like hers. 
This sale took place in-store. I can see the application form described some of the policys 
benefits. It also informed Mrs K that the monthly premium would be debited from her account 
until further notice. 
The information provided would have given Mrs K a broad sense of what the policy covered. 
But it was AXAs responsibility to draw to her attention the important information  i.e. the 
key information  about the nature of the cover and any significant exclusions and limitations 
which might be relevant to her decision. 
Im not persuaded AXA did enough to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs K, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest. In addition, I cant see that AXA adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
So, I dont think AXA gave Mrs K sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable her 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And, for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mrs Ks representatives raised a number of 
general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. Ive considered these carefully and summarised them as:
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ks representative considers to be poor 
value. 
The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mrs K about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
                                    
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ks representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in 
the way Mrs K has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
What effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs K? To what extent did Mrs K suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that AXA didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mrs K. So, Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs K suffered loss 
and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mrs K would have still 
taken out the policy, had AXA done things properly. 
Mrs K says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs K had to weigh up, in her own mind, the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure 
against the risk of being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mrs K chose to take this policy out. So, I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision based on incomplete information. So, what Mrs K thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs Ks suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs K ought reasonably to have known shed have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover a portion of her outstanding balance. But I 
accept that AXA didnt make clear the on-going cost information. So, while Mrs K didnt know 
some things, the ultimate position in the event of a successful claim wasnt dissimilar to what 
shed reasonably have thought from the information she based her decision to take out the 
policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs K thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mrs K knew about or 
ought to have known about, or for which she received advice, treatment or 
counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the start of the credit; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mrs K 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The likely requirement that, in order to be eligible for a disability claim, Mrs K be 
unable to do her own job, a similar job and other paid work that her experience, 
education or training reasonably qualified her to do. 
 
I do accept that theres a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might well have 
caused Mrs K pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude that the policy 
wasnt as good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations 
on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs K from taking out the policy. 
The evidence about Mrs Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided cover that, 
despite its limitations and exclusions, could have proved valuable to her should the insured 
risks have become a reality. Although Mrs K says she had medical conditions when the PPI 
was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had she needed time off work 
because of them, I dont think better information about this exclusion would have put her off 
agreeing to it. Ill explain why.
Taking the instances of depression first, it seems they were both pregnancy-related and 
were treated relatively conservatively and for a limited period of time. Theres no evidence to 
suggest Mrs K thought she might suffer further mental health problems in the ordinary 
course of events following her pregnancies. So, I dont find that this would have put Mrs K off 
the policy.
In relation to Mrs Ks asthma, Im satisfied she likely was diagnosed in or around 1982, when 
she was a child. After that, the situations less clear. On the one hand, shes told us the 
condition was treated with inhalers and had led to her taking a total of five weeks off work. 
On the other, shes recently told us she suffered good days and bad days and had been 
hospitalised around three times over the years when shed been admitted for a few days at a 
time. On other occasions, shed been to hospital with breathing difficulties. She said she 
sees an asthma nurse regularly and that the condition has been very controlled over the last 
couple of years.
Then theres AXAs questionnaire Mrs K completed in June 2019  the month before she 
completed our PPIQ. The questionnaire contradicts some of what Mrs K subsequently told 
us. Among other things, she suggested she had no other conditions other than asthma (she 
didnt mention depression). She also said shed had no unplanned hospital visits or inpatient 
admissions.
By way of explanation for the inconsistencies, Mrs K said she completed AXAs 
questionnaire as though it was asking about the present day rather than the time of the sale. 
However, I believe the questionnaire was clearly asking about the period between diagnosis 
and the sale. And the question about previously diagnosed conditions specifically referred to 
the time she took out the PPI.Whats more, we asked for clarification regarding the dates of Mrs Ks recently revealed 
hospital admissions. Mrs K didnt substantively respond.   
Overall, given the evidence provided, Ive no reason to believe Mrs Ks asthma would have 
put her off the policy either.
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest Mrs K would have been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So, I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy 
out. 
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mrs K might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely shed have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs K 
from taking out the policy she, in her circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.
If Mrs K had known she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar occupation that in the insurers view she might reasonably become qualified 
for, it might have played into her thinking about what shed have done. And I accept it may 
have given her pause for thought  although its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if she was unable (through disability) to carry on her own occupation 
the chances that shed be able to take up a similar occupation would also, in all probability, 
be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs K would still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to 
what she thought she was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her limited employment benefits and savings/insurance. And, 
in those circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that shed have taken out the policy 
in any event.  
Mrs Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless theres evidence to outweigh the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but its a relevant consideration, so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide whats in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach Ive taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs K wouldnt have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, theres evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumptions rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ks 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mrs K 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position shed have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. Mrs K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and weve failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments that she wouldnt have taken 
out the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs K in the position shed have been in if she hadnt 
bought the policy. 
Thats because, while I accept its possible that she wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that shed still have taken out 
the PPI had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy she 
was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those circumstances, 
to conclude that AXA should pay Mrs K compensation, as that would put her in a better 
position than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Ive also considered whether AXA misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it described 
the PPI. While I accept theres a possibility a court might conclude some of AXAs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why AXA failed to act 
fairly and reasonably wasnt because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided 
 but because the overall information AXA gave Mrs K, in the way it did, was insufficient to
meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 2000 when
providing information about an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach a court might take if it were to find AXA negligently 
misrepresented the contract to Mrs K and about the remedy a court might award if it were to 
find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade 
me to alter my conclusions about whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  including what I thinks fair compensation in the circumstances of this case. For 
the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mrs K in a 
better position than if everything had happened as it should have done.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide whats, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons Ive set out 
above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 July 2020.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman