DRN-2115707
The complaint
Mr B says Santander UK Plc, trading at the time as National & Provincial, mis-sold him a
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B took out a PPI policy during a meeting in 1990 at the same time as he was applying for 
a mortgage. The policy gave him accident, sickness and unemployment cover and he paid a 
monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagreed so the complaint was passed
to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory (as some of it is here), I have based my 
decision on the balance of probabilities. So, on what I think is most likely given the available 
evidence and the wider circumstances.
Our approach to complaints about the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr B says he was pressured to take out PPI  he was told hed have a better chance of 
getting the mortgage. Santander says it has never been a requirement to take PPI with a 
mortgage. I cant know what was said to Mr B in the meeting, but based on what we know 
about the banks sales process at the time its most likely Mr B would have been given 
information about the policy allowing him to decide if he wanted it. He would then have to 
have completed a separate PPI application for the policy to have been set up. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Bs comments and I know he says he remembers the meeting 
well, but I do also have to consider the sale was 30 years ago and how that might impact 
what he recalls. Mr B also says he wasnt told about other polices he could buy elsewhere, 
but the bank was under no obligation to do this. 
Overall, without stronger evidence, I cant fairly conclude he was pressured - on balance I 
think its more likely that it was made clear to Mr B that he had a choice about whether to 
take the PPI, and he agreed to take it out.
Santander recommended the PPI to Mr B, so it had a responsibility to check it was right for
him. But it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him, based on what Ive seen of his
circumstances at the time. Mr B said he was entitled to 12 months sick pay and some 
accident cover from his employer. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to his work 
benefits and for up to 24 months. It also gave up to 24 months redundancy cover so would 
have allowed him to protect any lump sum redundancy payment, giving increased financial 
stability at an already difficult time. Mr B had a death-in-service benefit, but this protects 
against a different event and wouldnt help with monthly mortgage repayments in the same 
way as PPI. Mr B had savings held as shares, but the PPI would have allowed him to either 
use these for other living expenses whilst not working, or to protect them for his future 
needs. And given the value of shares varies, it would have meant he didnt have to sell them 
at an inopportune time. 
Overall, I think the PPI would have been useful if Mr B was sick, had an accident or lost his 
job. Mr B argues he was financially secure and a very steady job, but the PPI would have 
protected him against any change in these circumstances. And as he was paying monthly for 
the policy he could have cancelled it at any time, without incurring any further cost, if he no 
longer wanted it.
Its possible Santander didnt give Mr B all the information he needed before he decided
to buy PPI. I dont know when it first made the cost clear, but the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently affordable. I also dont know that it pointed out the main things the 
policy didnt cover. So I dont think better information wouldve changed his decision.
Mr B also said that the adviser never told him that she was getting commission for selling the 
policy. Our adjudicator explained that following the Supreme Court review of a PPI case that 
involved the commission on a policy the Financial Conduct Authority introduced rules and 
guidance that meant a business might need to give back some of the commission paid on 
certain PPI policies. But, as the adjudicator said, the start and finish date of Mr Bs mortgage 
means these rules dont apply in this case. So his point about the non-disclosure of 
commission doesnt change my conclusion about this sale.
It follows I dont think Mr B has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
My final decision
My decision is I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2020.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman