DRN-4115901
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
In April 2018 Mrs B applied for a credit card. Lloyds approved the application and gave Mrs 
B a credit card with an initial credit limit of £2800. No further credit limit increases were 
applied to the account.
Mrs B complained that Lloyds had lent to her irresponsibly. She said that Lloyds shouldve 
checked her credit record and that if it had done so it wouldve seen that she was already 
borrowing at a high level in relation to her income.
Lloyds didnt uphold the complaint. It said it had carried out proportionate checks before 
lending to Mrs B.
Mrs B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that Lloyds had carried out reasonable 
and proportionate checks and that the lending decision was fair.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said shed told Lloyds that she was going on maternity leave in May 
2018 and that her income would be impacted. She said that although she had taken out a 
personal loan in May 2018 and had used this to repay her overdraft and reduce the 
outstanding balance on her catalogue account, her monthly debt repayments stayed around 
the same.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set out on our 
website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering Mrs Bs complaint.
Before agreeing to lend, the rules say that Lloyds had to complete reasonable and 
proportionate checks to ensure that Mrs B could afford to repay the debt in a sustainable 
way. These checks needed to focus on the borrowers circumstances. The nature of whats 
considered reasonable and proportionate will vary but can include things such as the amount 
of credit, the total sum repayable, the amount of repayments, the cost of credit and the 
consumers individual circumstances.
Theres no set list of checks a lender must complete. But lenders are required to consider 
the facts Ive mentioned above when deciding whats reasonable and proportionate.
Ive reviewed the information about the checks carried out by Lloyds before it approved the 
application. Mrs B declared in her application that she had an annual income of £14,560 and 
that she was a homeowner with a mortgage commitment of £401 per month. Lloyds used 
this information, together with other information it held about Mrs B and information it had 
obtained from the credit reference agencies and ONS data to estimate Mrs Bs living 
expenses, and to confirm existing consumer credit repayments. Lloyds said that the 
information gathered showed that Mrs B was repaying around £211 per month to other 
creditors.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Lloyds carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks before approving the credit card. I dont think there was anything in the information 
gathered by Lloyds which wouldve given it cause for concern or warranted further checks 
being carried out.
Ive gone on to consider whether the lending decision was fair.
Ive looked at the information gathered by Lloyds. Having done so, Im satisfied that the 
lending was likely to be affordable for Mrs B. There was nothing in the information gathered 
which suggested that Mrs B was over indebted or that she was likely to struggle to repay the 
lending sustainably.  I think the decision to lend was fair.
Mrs B has said that she told Lloyds that her income would be reducing with effect from May 
2018. I havent seen any information to support this. Even if I was persuaded that Lloyds 
was made aware of this, it doesnt change my view that the credit was affordable. I say this 
because I can see that Mrs B took out a loan for £7500 in May 2018 which was used to 
repay her overdraft, repay a credit card and repay some of the balance on her catalogue 
account. This put Mrs B in a better position financially, because her credit repayments were 
then less than shed been repaying previously.
Mrs B has said that Lloyds didnt treat her fairly when she found herself struggling to repay 
her debts. Ive thought about this, I can see that Lloyds agreed to a payment plan and 
refunded some interest which had accrued as a result of a delay in Lloyds responding to the 
payment plan provider. I appreciate that Mrs B doesnt think that Lloyds shouldve reported 
missed payments in 2019, 2020 and 2021. However, Lloyds is under an obligation to report 
accurate information to the credit reference agencies, so Im unable to say that Lloyds has 
made an error or treated Mrs B unfairly, 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman