DRN-3680458
The complaint
Mr K complains a former appointed representative (AR) of Personal Touch Financial 
Services Ltd trading as PRIMIS Mortgage Network (PRIMIS) mis-sold a mortgage to him.
Where I refer to PRIMIS in my decision I am also referring to the AR.
What happened
In 2007, on the recommendation of PRIMIS, Mr K took out an interest only mortgage for 
£117,000 over a term of 25 years, which was secured over his residential property.
Mr K complained to PRIMIS the mortgage was mis-sold because he was advised to          
self-certify his income (borrow without proving his income) and PRIMIS didnt take his 
income and what he could afford into account when they recommended the mortgage. Mr K 
said he lost around £28,500 as a result of the mortgage being mis-sold.
PRIMIS said they would have advised Mr K following their processes which were set in line 
with industry regulation. Broadly, that would have included gathering information about       
Mr Ks needs and requirements; recommending a mortgage that was suitable and affordable 
based on that information; and Mr K signing the mortgage application to confirm the 
information hed provided was true. PRIMIS didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint, so he came to 
the Financial Ombudsman.
PRIMIS felt Mr K had brought his complaint outside relevant time limits and that we didnt 
have the power to consider it. Another ombudsman decided we could consider Mr Ks 
complaint that the mortgage was mis-sold because his income was self-certified instead of 
being independently verified, and that affordability wasnt assessed.
Our investigator considered the merits of Mr Ks complaint. He didnt think PRIMIS had acted 
unfairly. Since Mr K didnt accept our investigators view, his complaint was passed to me to 
decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to see Mr K has found it difficult to make his mortgage payments over the years. I 
can understand he will have gone through some stressful times. But based on the 
information I have currently, I dont intend to uphold his complaint, as Ill explain.
Ive no reason to doubt Mr Ks memory of what happened. But Im conscious memories fade 
over time and, unsurprisingly, he can only remember a few details of the meeting he had 
with PRIMIS around 15 years ago. Id generally think it was fair, where events happened a 
long time ago, to place more evidential weight on the documents that were created at the 
time. Unfortunately, there are very few such documents in this case. So, I come to my 
provisional decision based on what I think is more likely than not to have happened using the 
evidence I have. Ill address each part of Mr Ks complaint in turn:
Was Mr Ks income self-certified?
Mr Ks recollection is that he was told to self-certify his income at an appointment with 
PRIMIS. Mr K recalls PRIMIS performed a credit check. And he says they asked about his 
wage slips - which suggests PRIMIS did verify his income at the time.
PRIMIS have described the process the AR ought to have followed in advising Mr K. But 
without the fact find, suitability letter and key facts illustration PRIMIS prepared, it isnt 
possible to reach any conclusions about whether those documents show PRIMIS advised 
him to self-certify or that he did self-certify.
PRIMIS have suggested the lender may have approved the mortgage using a process 
common at the time which didnt require income to be verified, which they say is different to 
self-certification. It sounds similar in practical terms. But the process the lender followed isnt 
relevant here. The complaint is that PRIMIS advised Mr K to self-certify.
However, PRIMIS have provided a screen shot of details on their database relating to Mr Ks 
mortgage which indicates the mortgage was not self-certified. Based on that and Mr Ks 
recollection he was asked about wage slips, on balance, I dont think Mr K did self-certify his 
income.
But even if he did, that doesnt necessarily mean PRIMIS were wrong to accept the income 
information he provided. Under the relevant mortgage rules at the time PRIMIS were 
required to take reasonable steps to ensure they made a suitable recommendation to their 
customers. PRIMIS was entitled to rely on information the customer provided about their 
income unless they had reason to doubt the information was correct.
The issue here is that Mr K disputes the income information the mortgage application 
appears to have been based on.
Did PRIMIS take Mr Ks income and whether he could afford the mortgage into 
account in recommending the mortgage he took out?
Mr K says he was earning around £17,000 at the time of the application, working at a local 
company. As I currently understand it, he is still working for the same company, earning 
around £24,000. I havent seen any documentary evidence about that.
Ive noted that PRIMIS have described the process the AR ought to have followed in 
advising Mr K. But since the documents arent available, I cant see from them what income 
information PRIMIS were considering.
However, the lender has provided its record of Mr Ks mortgage application, which shows he 
was working for a different company to the one Mr K says employed him, and earning a 
salary of £36,500, over double the amount Mr K says he was being paid at the time. I think 
its likely the lenders information about his employment and income reflected the information 
PRIMIS used when they submitted the application on Mr Ks behalf.
Mr Ks recollection is that he didnt see any documents supporting the mortgage application. 
He says PRIMIS told him theyd take care of any process that needed to be followed. And, 
as a first-time buyer, Mr K relied on and trusted PRIMIS to advise him and act in his best 
interests. PRIMIS say Mr K would have had to sign the mortgage application to confirm the information, including income information, was accurate. So, if the income declared was 
wrong, he ought to have pointed that out.
Even though Mr K was relying on PRIMIS to advise him, I think its likely he would have had 
to sign the application. Whilst I understand he wasnt familiar with the process, Id expect him 
to have read what was an important document before signing and to have pointed out any 
inaccurate information about his income it contained.
Based on the evidence Ive seen so far, I think it was reasonable for PRIMIS to think Mr Ks 
income was the figure recorded on the lenders file. And, whilst theres no information about 
Mr Ks other outgoings at the time, the mortgage he was taking of around £117,000 would 
seem to have been affordable on a salary of £36,500. The mortgage offer shows his initial 
contractual monthly payments were around £544, increasing to around £730 once his      
two-year fixed interest rate product expired. Even bearing in mind he would have had to 
make payments to his planned repayment vehicle, there would have been a reasonable 
balance remaining for other outgoings.
Even if PRIMIS had reason to believe Mr Ks income was lower, I havent seen any evidence 
to suggest the mortgage was unaffordable when Mr K took it out. PRIMIS have mentioned a 
county court judgment was recorded against Mr Ks property at the Land Registry in 2009, 
suggesting he may have been in financial difficulties by then. But theres nothing to show he 
wasnt able to pay the mortgage before 2010 or that PRIMIS had reason to believe hed be 
unable to do so. Mr K says hes lost around £28,500 but he hasnt explained what those 
losses are, so I cant make any comments about that.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mr K will be disappointed, Im not currently 
persuaded to uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has commented on my provisional decision or provided any additional 
information. So, I see no reason to change my conclusions. For the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman