DRN-3190338
The complaint
Mr G says AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
In November 2016 Mr G took out a 36-month instalment loan from AvantCredit for £2,600. 
The monthly repayment was £126.70 and the total repayable was £4,561.08.   
Mr G says he took out the loan to repay other payday loans, he was in a cycle of debt and all 
other lenders rejected his application. Friends and family had to bail him out in the end.
The investigator said Mr Gs complaint should be upheld. She said AvantCredits checks 
showed Mr G was having problems managing his money and that he would be unlikely to be 
able to make his loan repayments sustainably. 
AvantCredit disagreed saying its checks didnt show Mr G would have any problems 
repaying the loan. He would have £1,032 of disposable income each month and as the loan 
was for debt consolidation his outgoings would be decreasing. It asked for an ombudsmans 
review so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Mr G. Its 
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged AvantCredit 
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, AvantCredit was required to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr G could afford to repay what he 
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment 
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So AvantCredit had to think about whether 
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr G. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of 
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing 
to lend to Mr G, and have considered the following questions:
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when 
assessing Mr Gs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to 
repay the loan in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AvantCredit asked for some information from Mr G before it approved the loan. It asked for 
details of his income and checked this against copies of his recent bank statements. It 
estimated his likely living costs and it checked his credit file to understand his existing credit
commitments and his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was debt consolidation. From these checks combined AvantCredit concluded Mr G
would have monthly disposable income of £1,032 and so the loan would be affordable.
I think these checks were proportionate, but I dont think AvantCredit made a fair lending 
decision based on the information it gathered. 
AvantCredit argues that Mr G had £1,032 of disposable income. I cannot see how it can 
present that figure as the result of a fair and reasonable affordability assessment given the 
information it had. It says it used data analysis to estimate Mr Gs expenditure, but it had 
copies of his bank statements for the month prior to application so I am unsure why it didnt 
take into account his actual financial position. 
Had it done so it would have seen Mr G was persistently reliant on his overdraft, even 
straight after payday, and in fact had no disposable income. He had taken out three payday 
loans in the month prior to this loan application so was clearly having problems managing his 
money. And AvantCredit knew from the credit check it completed that Mr G had been using 
short-term high-cost credit for some time  he had borrowed and repaid £18,639 on such 
products over the last five years. 
So I think there were clear signs Mr G was in a harmful debt cycle and further lending would 
most likely cause him adverse financial consequences.  
AvantCredit argues the loan was for debt consolidation so Mr Gs outgoings would be 
reducing. But Ive seen no evidence the lender took any steps to understand which debt 
Mr G was looking to repay to know that its loan would be financially beneficial, not harmful. 
And it also doesnt seem to have assessed how much any debt consolidation would reduce Mr Gs monthly credit commitments by. Mr Gs debt was in excess of £10,000 so he would 
still have significant debt to service. So this does not change my conclusion.
Overall, I think it was irresponsible of AvantCredit to lend to Mr G.
I havent found any evidence that AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other 
way.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr G to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and AvantCredit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr G made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account results in there being an outstanding capital balance
AvantCredit should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit should 
give Mr G a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.  
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC must put things right as set out 
above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman