DRN-3927819
The complaint
Mrs and Mr A complain about the way AWP P&C SA (AWP) handled their claim against
their home emergency insurance policy.
Any reference to AWP includes their agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
I issued a provisional decision on 12 January 2023 where I set out why I felt the complaint 
should be upheld and what I felt the redress should be. An extract is below and forms part of 
this decision.
Whilst AWP have denied that they pre-authorised Mrs and Mr A using their own contractor, I
have been provided with a copy of a call recording where contractor costs of up to £75 were
authorised.
Mrs and Mr A have maintained that a further call the following day gave authorisation for
costs of up to £200. However, I dont have a copy of this call or any evidence of this further
authorisation. I have a call log from Mrs A which shows a call was made but an email sent
following this still said please approve. I am therefore not satisfied that authorisation for the
full £200 was given.
However, I dont think that AWP acted fairly in attempting to resolve this infestation for Mrs
and Mr A. I do think that the initial appointment went ahead in a timely manner. I also cant
comment on the process of the contractor in not laying traps in an initial visit. However, a
subsequent visit was needed, and this wasnt scheduled until 30 November 2021, two weeks
after the initial visit. I dont think this was reasonable.
Mrs and Mr A were left with no other option than to use their own contractor, who managed
to resolve the issue at a cost of £200. AWP should reimburse this cost with interest, to
compensate Mrs and Mr A for not having use of this money for over a year.
I also think that AWP should compensate Mrs and Mr A for the distress and inconvenience
caused by the delays. They were clearly worried by the issue and having young children in
the property and I think AWP should have acted quicker. Whilst I think the initial appointment
was quick, there was a two week wait before the necessary follow-up appointment. 
AWP have also caused further distress by not acknowledging or paying at least the £75 
costs they pre-authorised. I think they should pay £100 as compensation to recognise this.
For these reasons, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Mrs and Mr As
complaint.
Mrs and Mr A responded to say they had nothing further to add. 
AWP didnt respond to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As there is nothing further for me to consider, my decision remains as outlined in my 
provisional decision  for the same reasons. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require AWP P&C SA to do the following:
Reimburse Mrs and Mr A £200 of their own contractor costs,
Add 8% simple interest on to this amount from the date of the invoice to the date of
settlement,
Pay a further £100 to Mrs and Mr A for the distress and inconvenience caused.
If AWP P&C SA considers that HM Revenue and Customs requires it to withhold income
tax from that interest, it must tell Mrs and Mr A how much its taken off. It should also
give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr A to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman