DRN-2233269
The complaint
Ms W says Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Ms W bought the policy in 1990 in connection with a Marks & Spencer budget card account.  
Allianz Insurance plc has taken responsibility for this complaint, so for simplicity Ill just refer 
to Allianz in the rest of this decision.   
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ws case.
Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ive set out my reasons below:
 Ms W says she didnt know the PPI had been added to her account. She says she 
wouldnt have continued with the cover after she stopped working. Ive noted 
everything Ms W has said. But on balance I think Allianz made Ms W aware that the 
PPI was optional and that she chose to take it. I say this because the card application 
form she signed was completed to show that she wanted the cover. Allianz has also 
provided evidence to show that the cover was cancelled in 1994, even though the 
account remained open. So I think Ms W wouldve realised she had a choice about 
taking the PPI and chose to buy it  although given the amount of time thats passed 
I can understand why Ms W may no longer remember this.
 Allianz didnt recommend the PPI to Ms W so it didnt have to check if it was suitable 
for her. But even if it had recommended the policy, I dont think it was unsuitable for 
Ms W. Even though she says she would have received some employer benefits 
similar to the kind the PPI provided, the policy would have paid out in addition to 
those benefits. So I think the policy wouldve been helpful to Ms W if she couldnt 
work. 
 Its possible the information Allianz gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But its unlikely Mrs W would have been affected by any of the 
main things the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her buying it.
Which means Allianz does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms W.
But Allianz has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms W because:
- Allianz got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI
premium) - so it should have told Ms W about that. Because Allianz didnt tell Ms W, 
that was unfair.
- To put that right, Allianz has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Allianz does not have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Ms W.
But Allianz does have to pay back to Ms W any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman