DRN-3768402
The complaint
Mr P complains about Domestic & General Insurance Plcs (D&G) refusal to repair his 
washing machine under his household warranties insurance. 
What happened
Mr Ps washing machine was faulty, so he contacted D&G to repair it. Mr P says he was told 
they didnt have any engineers in his area so they explained Mr P would need to arrange the 
repair himself and then D&G would refund him the costs. Mr P says he told D&G that no 
engineers are available in his area, but despite asking for help from D&G, they refused. So, 
Mr P complained. D&G responded and explained, because they didnt have any repair 
agents in Mr Ps area, they offered him a Pay and Claim for the repair to be carried out 
independently. They said the terms and conditions of Mr Ps policy allowed them to take 
these steps. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. He thought D&G hadnt acted unfairly. Mr P 
disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr P will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Ps insurance policy document. This sets out the terms and conditions 
and says, under the heading Repairs, If we authorise a repair but are unable to find an 
engineer, well permit you to use your chosen engineer. You will have to pay them and claim 
the cost back from us. D&G say, due to Mr Ps location, their repair network wasnt 
allocating an engineer but if Mr P is able to locate an engineer, theyll cover the cost of this. I 
understand Mr P feels this isnt reasonable as no engineers are available in his area. So, Ive 
looked to see whether D&G have acted reasonably here. 
D&G have acted in line with the terms and conditions by offering to settle Mr Ps claim using 
their pay and claim process. This is an option available to policyholders in circumstances 
where D&G are unable to find an engineer through their repair network  and I can see thats 
the case here. But, I think this would only act as a fair and suitable option for Mr P if hes 
able to find an engineer himself. 
I can see D&G have provided details of a website which shows availability of engineers in  
Mr Ps area. I can see our investigator has also checked and Ive also carried out a search 
and this shows engineers are available in Mr Ps area who deal with repairs to Mr Ps 
particular type of washing machine. I can see our investigator has provided Mr P with a link 
to this website. I note Mr P says searches on a website often dont reflect the real position. 
He says this website provides repair quotes, requires an advance payment, but then doesnt 
actually fulfil its obligation and arranges a refund if an engineer cant be found. Mr P says he 
has completed the details and found a quote which exceeds £200. 
I do understand Mr Ps concerns but, despite our investigator asking for any evidence, I cant 
see Mr P has provided any information which shows an engineer isnt available in his area. I 
can see the terms and conditions say theres a repair authority limit of £150 but Mr P says he 
has received a quote for over £200. The terms and conditions do however say a policyholder 
must call D&Gs repair authority line before starting any work. So, while I acknowledge       
Mr Ps quote exceeds D&Gs repair limit, the terms and conditions dont suggest this is a 
maximum limit - and allows Mr P to contact D&G to seek approval for the quote. I do 
understand Mr P remains concerned his washing machine is still faulty, but I cant say D&G 
have acted unreasonably as theyve offered to settle Mr Ps claim in line with their terms and 
conditions and in a manner which is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. If however, 
D&G dont approve Mr Ps quote or Mr P is able to provide them with any evidence that an 
engineer isnt available, then it would be fair for D&G to reconsider Mr Ps claim in line with 
the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.       
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman