DRN-2798069
The complaint
Mr Ks complaint against Oxford Capital Partners LLP (Oxford Capital) is about the 
Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) he invested in.
What happened
Mr K invested £25,000 in an Oxford Capital Gateway EIS portfolio in October 2013. 
Mr Ks funds were invested in 11 companies and he received shares in a twelfth following 
the sale of one of the companies in his portfolio. By April 2019, Mr Ks portfolio was valued at 
less than £800.
Mr K complains that:
Oxford Capital invested his money too quickly without conducting sufficient due diligence 
and so failed in their duty of care to investors. He understands that EIS investments are 
high risk and that some companies in a portfolio might fail, but not all of them. 
Oxford Capital told his financial adviser that some of the EIS companies were doing well 
and others not so well. That was inaccurate as all of them have performed badly. 
He didnt receive loss relief statements from Oxford Capital and so was unable to claim 
tax relief. 
Oxford Capital have said, in summary: 
They carried out due diligence on each of the investee companies as described in the 
Information Memorandum (IM) for the EIS. Each investment was subject to detailed 
analysis and then monitored carefully. They have not been negligent, but the 
investments were high risk and have failed for a variety of reasons.
They reported regularly to Mr K and his financial adviser on the performance of the 
investments.
The loss relief statements were sent to Mr K in hard copy. Mr K and his financial adviser 
should also have had access to the statements online. 
 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint but didnt think Oxford Capital had done 
anything wrong. Mr K has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Due diligence
Mr K recognises that the EIS was a high risk investment but says Oxford Capital didnt carry 
out sufficient due diligence on the individual companies his funds were invested in. He has 
also said the staff responsible for the due diligence on his investments are no longer 
employed by Oxford Capital. 
In response, Oxford Capital have said they followed a rigorous due diligence process as set 
out in the IM. They say their staff have changed over time but that it not related to the 
selection or management of past investments. Oxford Capital say they have at all times 
resourced their team sufficiently and hired professionals who have the required skill set to 
analyse the investment opportunities. 
The IM gave Oxford Capital the mandate to make decisions on behalf of Mr K and so Oxford 
Capital had to ensure their actions were in line with the strategy and approach set out in that 
document. That included the due diligence process described in the IM.  
The IM said that Oxford Capital would apply a structured investment and due diligence 
process.to each investment both before and during the life of each opportunity. It said 
that, where appropriate, Oxford Capital would engage professional firms to carry out specific 
due diligence reviews. These would focus, for example, on intellectual property, market 
analysis, sales management or finance and operations. 
The IM said that Oxford Capital would consider the due diligence reviews and analysis by 
their own team in preparing an investment proposal. A proposal to invest in a company 
would examine the business and investment opportunity in detail and pay particular 
attention to the potential risks in the business and how they can be mitigated. The IM said 
that final investment decisions would be taken by Oxford Capitals Investment Committee.  
Oxford Capital have provided copies of the investment proposals for each of the companies 
Mr K was invested in. The proposals include key information about the companies, such as 
their leadership and financial position. They also assess the companys opportunities for 
growth, their competitors and the risks to investing. The proposals draw on the results of the 
due diligence reviews carried out for that company.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr K has said and the information provided by Oxford Capital. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think Oxford Capital followed the due diligence process set out in 
the IM, which Ive described above. 
Although Mr Ks funds were invested across a diversified portfolio of companies, they were 
all high risk assets. Unfortunately, in Mr Ks case, a number of the potential risks associated 
with this kind of investment have been realised and his portfolio has performed badly. I can 
understand why Mr K feels strongly about what has happened. But I dont think I can fairly 
say that Oxford Capital invested Mr Ks funds too quickly or were negligent in their due 
diligence. 
Reporting
Mr K has complained that when his financial adviser spoke to Oxford Capital, he was given 
reassurances about how the portfolio was performing that proved to be inaccurate. 
Oxford Capital had an obligation to provide accurate information to Mr K on the performance 
of his investments. The IM said that Oxford Capital would monitor each portfolio company on 
an ongoing basis. It said investors would be provided with annual audit and portfolio 
company reports and semi-annual valuations and cash statements. 
Oxford Capital have said they dont have a record of meetings or calls with Mr Ks adviser. 
They have said that Mr K and his adviser were sent valuations of Mr Ks portfolio twice a 
year and have provided an example. The reports would have included information on each 
of the companies he was invested in. Ive considered carefully what both Mr K and his adviser have said. Im sure they will 
appreciate that I cant be sure what was said in any conversations that took place some 
years ago between Mr Ks adviser and Oxford Capital. And overall, Ive not seen enough 
evidence to say that Oxford Capital provided inaccurate information about the performance 
of Mr Ks portfolio. I think they reported to both Mr K and his adviser in line with the 
expectations set out in the IM.  
Loss relief statements
Oxford Capital have said Mr K and his adviser would have had access to all loss relief 
statements through their online portal. In addition, Mr K opted to receive all correspondence 
in hard copy and so the statements were also sent to him in the post. Oxford Capital have 
provided copies of the two loss relief statements Mr K specifically mentioned and say they 
were sent to him on 29 March and 9 December 2016. 
Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that Oxford Capital most likely sent the loss relief 
statements to Mr K on the dates they said. So, I dont think I can fairly hold Oxford Capital 
responsible if Mr K did not receive hard copies. And, as the statements were also available 
to Mr K and his adviser online, I dont think Oxford Capital have done anything wrong on this 
point.
Summary
Id like to reassure Mr K that Ive looked carefully at everything hes said. I can understand 
why he feels strongly about what has happened to his investment, but I dont think I can 
fairly hold Oxford Capital responsible for his losses. 
I realise this will be a very disappointing decision for Mr K, but I wont be upholding his 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint 
against Oxford Capital Partners LLP.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Matthew Young
Ombudsman