DRN-3766237
The complaint
Mr M complains about his broker, Intelligent Advisory Services Limited trading as Intelligent 
Insurance (Intelligent Insurance). Mr Ms complaint is about Intelligent Insurance charging a 
fee when Mr M cancelled a home insurance policy hed taken out.
What happened
Y In July 2022 Mr M took out a home insurance policy through Intelligent Insurance, using an 
online comparison website. However, Mr M then realised the policy hed taken out didnt 
include flood cover. He contacted Intelligent Insurance the following day to cancel the policy 
(he subsequently took out a policy that included flood cover with another insurer). Intelligent 
Insurance returned the premium Mr M had paid for the policy hed cancelled. But they 
deducted a £35 arrangement fee charged for arranging the policy (as the arrangement fee 
was non-refundable).
Mr M was unhappy at being charged the £35 fee, thinking he should have been able to 
cancel his policy (within a cooling off period) without any charge being made. So, he 
complained to Intelligent Insurance.
Intelligent Insurance didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response they said the 
endorsement explaining flood cover was excluded was made clear to Mr M when he took out 
his policy through the online sales process. They also referred to the Terms & Conditions 
wording provided to him before he took out the policy, This included information on charges 
and fees, including a non-refundable arrangement fee of £35. They said the fee was 
reasonable; no profit margin was made; and it was in line with fees more generally in the 
market. They concluded the fee had been fairly applied. They added that a policy including 
flood cover was available from the panel of insurers they used, and if Mr M decided to take 
out that policy, they would consider returning the arrangement fee for the cancelled policy.
Mr M then complained to this service. He was unhappy at being charged a £35 cancellation 
fee. As hed cancelled the policy less than 24 hours after taking it out (when he realised the 
policy didnt include flood cover) he thought this would have been within a cooling off period. 
Which he thought meant he could cancel the policy without penalty. While he had found an 
alternative insurer to provide cover, he was £35 out of pocket as well as the time hed spent 
dealing with the issue. He wanted Intelligent Insurance to refund the £35 fee.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, thinking Intelligent Insurance hadnt acted 
unreasonably. She thought Mr M would have had the policy information before accepting the 
quote and would have been aware of the flood cover exclusion. She also thought it was clear 
all policies included a £35 arrangement fee.  
Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He thought Intelligent Insurance was masking a cancellation fee as an 
arrangement fee, and this was unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether Intelligent Insurance has acted fairly towards Mr M.
The key issue in Mr Ms complaint is that Intelligent Insurance unfairly charged a £35 
fee when he cancelled his policy. He thinks the fee is a cancellation fee, which 
shouldnt be charged as he cancelled within what he thinks is a cooling off period. 
Intelligent Insurance say said the endorsement explaining flood cover was excluded 
was made clear when he took out his policy. They also say Mr M was made aware of 
information on charges and fees, including a non-refundable arrangement fee of £35. 
They say the fee is reasonable and fairly applied. 
Ive considered this issue carefully, including the evidence and information available 
to Mr M during the process by which he took out his policy. Having done so, Ive 
concluded Intelligent Insurance acted fairly and reasonably in charging the £35 
arrangement fee. I know this will be disappointing to Mr m, so Ill set out why Ive 
come to this conclusion.
The first aspect Ive looked at is the information Mr M would have had about the 
coverage of the policy he took out. Mr M cancelled his policy the day after he took it 
out, because it didnt include cover for flood. Intelligent Insurance have provided 
details of what Mr M would have seen when taking out his policy. Under a heading 2 
Review Cover details theres a clear box that states: Damage caused by flood or 
flood arising from a storm is not covered. Theres also a reference that if this isnt 
suitable, and cover for flood is required, then theres the option to go back to a results 
page to view the panel of results, which may include coverage for flood. I;ve also 
noted the same screenshot includes links to the policy booklet  and the Insurance 
Product Information Documents (IPID). Both of which would set out what the policy 
covered (and what it didnt). 
Based on this, Ive concluded Mr M would have been aware that the policy he took 
out didnt included flood cover.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive then considered whether Mr M was aware of any 
potential fees and charges (including the £35 arrangement fee). 
In their final response, Intelligent Insurance include a screenshot Mr M would have 
been provided with prior to purchasing (taking out) the policy. Under a heading 
Terms & Conditions, as well as asking Mr M to confirm he has reviewed and 
understood any endorsements; excesses and claims limits (and the policy booklet 
and IPID), theres a section headed Charges and Fees which includes the following 
wording:
All policies include a non-refundable £35 arrangement fee which is included 
within the price quoted. The following fees and charges may also apply to the 
policy.
Amendment or cancellation of the policy within 14 day cooling off period £0
Cancelling the policy outside the cooling off period £60
Looking at this, its clear the £35 arrangement fee is non-refundable (should the policy 
be cancelled). But its also clear there are separate charges for cancelling the policy - £0 within the cooling off period, £60 outside the period. So, Mr M wasnt charged for 
cancelling his policy in the cooling off period (as he sees it). But he was charged the 
£35 non-refundable arrangement fee. 
As this was made clear before he took out the policy, then Ive concluded Intelligent 
Insurance acted fairly in charging the £35 arrangement fee, in line with the 
information provided to Mr M when he took out his policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman