DRN-1854806
The complaint
Mrs S says S.D Taylor Limited trading as Loans at Home (LAH) irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about ten loans LAH provided to Mrs S between March 2011 and July 
2015. Each loan given to Mrs S was to be repaid on an instalment basis over a period of 
between 23 and 59 weeks.
Mrs Ss borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount 
BorrowedTerm
ExpectedCost 
expected 
per week
1 24/03/11 08/09/11 £200 32 weeks £10 
2 08/09/11 03/01/13 £300 32 weeks £15
3 16/08/12 11/04/13 £150 23 weeks £10
4 11/04/13 21/11/13 £150 23 weeks £10
5 31/10/13 18/12/14 £1225 59 weeks £25
6 12/12/13 17/07/14 £100 32 weeks £5
7 17/07/14 22/01/15 £200 32 weeks £10
8 18/12/14 30/07/15 £500 32 weeks £25
9 22/01/15 05/11/15 £200 32 weeks £10
10 30/07/15 Written off -
£366£500 32 weeks £25
In its final response letter LAH said that during its investigation this brought to light that four 
of Mrs Ss loans were issued more than six years ago. It therefore said it was unable to 
investigate the first four loans issued. In relation to the next six loans it didnt agree to uphold 
Mrs Ss complaint. It said the repayment history reflected relatively consistent repayments 
throughout. It accepted there had been arrears, but these were not deemed to be excessive 
and caused it no concern. It told Mrs S that her outstanding balance of £366 had been 
written off at a cost to LAH and it would not pursue the balance.
Mrs S told us she took out loans which she could not afford to repay. She had to borrow 
more to repay the previous loan which all got out of control.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold loans 1 and 2 but she said loans 3-10 shouldnt have been 
provided. She explained that by loan 3 Mrs S was showing signs that she was struggling to 
repay her previous loans with LAH. She said Loan 2 was due to be repaid over 32 weeks  
the equivalent of approximately eight months, however, due to repayment problems instead 
Mrs S took around 16 months to repay the loan. So, she said that there was a significant risk 
that Mrs S would have been unable to sustainably meet her repayments for loan 3 and any 
subsequent loans. And that continually lending to Mrs S was unsustainable.
LAH disagreed with this assessment and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision. Another adjudicator also wrote to LAH and explained that 
loans 1-4 were also loans we could look at as this complaint had been brought to our service 
in time. LAH didnt respond to this view.
As the parties havent reached agreement the complaint was passed to me to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
LAH needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that LAH should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that LAH was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre 
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint. I agree with the adjudicator that loans 
3-10 shouldnt have been given. I will explain why.
Firstly, in relation to loans 1 and 2, these loans were given early on in the lending 
relationship and so LAH could have reasonably undertaken less thorough checks. I have 
thought about the arrears Mrs S fell into for loan 1 but I dont think the missed payments 
were enough for LAH not to give the second loan to her. I think both these loans would have 
appeared on the face of it sustainably affordable.
By loan 3 however, Mrs S had clearly shown signs she was struggling to repay her previous 
loans. For loan 1 Mrs S was in arrears for 15 weeks and the loan was repaid early because 
LAH provided Mrs S with loan 2. Loan 2 was repaid over 16 months rather than the eight 
months she had agreed. I think taking into account these circumstances LAH would have 
realised that loan 3 and any subsequent loans were not sustainable, and Mrs S was having 
problems managing her money. So I think loan 3 shouldnt have been given.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of LAHs lending history with Mrs S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which LAH should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so LAH should have realised that it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ss case, I also think that this point was reached 
by loan 3. I say this because:
At this point LAH ought to have realised Mrs S was not managing to repay her loans 
sustainably. Mrs S had taken out two previous loans, both of which she was unable 
to repay in the time shed agreed and for both loans 1 and 2 she had fallen into 
arrears. This was the third loan given to Mrs S and she had been indebted to LAH for 
all that time and was still repaying loan 2 when she took out loan 3. Mrs S had by 
now been borrowing for nearly 17 months. So, LAH ought to have realised it was 
more likely than not Mrs S was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying 
her previous loan was leaving in her finances and that Mrs Ss indebtedness was 
increasing unsustainably.
Mrs Ss first loan was for £200 and although loan 3 was for £150, Mrs S was still 
repaying loan 2 at that time. By loan 3 Mrs S had been showing consistent signs that 
she was struggling to repay each of her previous loans. The amounts Mrs S 
continued to borrow stayed roughly the same save for loan 5 which Mrs S took for 
£1,225 which was significantly more. So, it doesnt seem likely that Mrs Ss need for 
cash was reducing which also points to her having a longer-term need for funds. So, 
at this point LAH ought to have known that Mrs S was not likely borrowing to meet a 
temporary shortfall in her income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Mrs S repeatedly took out new loans in quick succession, either on the same day as 
the previous loan was repaid, or while she was still repaying the previous loan. This 
pattern of borrowing meant she was continuously in debt between March 2011 and 
July 2015. 
Mrs S wasnt making any inroads to the amount she owed LAH. She had repayment 
problems for all her loans. Loan 10 was taken out 64 months (nearly five and a half 
years) after Mrs Ss first. And it was for two and a half times more than Mrs Ss first 
loan. Mrs S still had loan 9 outstanding when she took out loan 10. Mrs S had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to LAH over an extended period.I think that Mrs S lost out because LAH continued to provide borrowing from loan 3 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mrs S borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on Mrs Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so 
kept her in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im upholding the complaint about loan 3 onwards and LAH should put things right.
Putting things right
LAH shouldnt have given Mrs S loans 3 -10.
I understand there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 10 which LAH has written off 
and said it will not pursue: Ive kept this in mind when looking at what LAH needs to do to put 
things right.
a) LAH must add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything that has already been refunded; 
b) LAH must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs S 
which were considered as part of paragraph (a) from the date Mrs S originally made 
the payments to the date the complaint is settled; 
c) LAH must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs S as though they had 
been repayments of principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs S having 
made overpayments, LAH should refund these overpayments with 8%* simple 
interest calculated on the overpayments from the date the overpayments would have 
arisen to the date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the amounts calculated 
in paragraphs (a) and (b) and move to step (e);
d) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in (a) and (b) 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus must be repaid to Mrs S. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance, LAH should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Mrs S. LAH can offset any principal it wrote off for loan 10 when calculating the 
balance.
e) The overall pattern of borrowing for loan 3 onwards means that any information 
recorded about them is adverse. LAH must remove these loans entirely from Mrs Ss 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LAH to take off tax from this interest. LAH must give Mrs 
S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. S.D Taylor Limited trading as 
Loans at Home should pay Mrs S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman