DRN-2385211
The complaint
Mr H complains about the level of service provided by esure Insurance Limited after he 
made a claim on his moor insurance policy. He wants fair compensation for the stress and 
inconvenience caused.
What happened
Mr H was involved in a collision with a motorcyclist. A day later, he decided to make a claim 
on his policy. But he was unhappy that when the approved garage came to collect his car, it 
wasnt able to recover it as it was undriveable. Mr H was unhappy with a weeks delay in his 
claim and then that his car had to go back for further repairs. esure apologised for the delays 
and offered Mr H £100 compensation for the frustration caused. But Mr H was unhappy with 
this. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mr H 
had made esure aware only a week after the accident that his car was undriveable. So he 
didnt think it was responsible for this error. He thought esures offer of £100 compensation 
caused by the further weeks delay was fair and reasonable. And he thought esure wasnt at 
fault for the car having to go in for further repairs. This was because he thought it wasnt 
made aware that there was further accident-related damage in the same area as the repairs. 
Mr H replied that hed told the garages manager that the car was undriveable a day after the 
accident. He said he wasnt able to use his car for a month due to the miscommunications. 
He thought esure hadnt completed the entire repairs the first time in order to cause him 
financial loss. Mr H asked for his complaint to be reviewed, so its come to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr H felt frustrated that he was without the use of his car for some time 
until it was fully repaired. Like the investigator, Ive looked at what happened with his claim 
and whether esure was responsible for mistakes that caused avoidable delays. 
Mr H told us that he had a mobile engineer look at his car following the accident. He said the 
engineer told him that he shouldnt drive the car as the bumper was touching a tyre. Mr H 
told us that hed earlier pushed the bumper back so that he could drive home after the 
accident.
Weve been provided with the calls Mr H made to esure following the accident. In the first 
one, Mr H said there was damage to his front bumper. In the second call, when he made a 
claim, he said the bumper was damaged, but it wasnt massively bad. 
The agent explained that priority was given to undriveable cars. But Mr H didnt then say that 
his car was undrivable. So I think Mr H hadnt told esure that the car couldnt be driven.
When an approved garage was appointed, Mr H called it for confirmation. He said he told the 
manager that his car was undriveable. But when the car was collected, a week later, the 
agent came to drive the car away. 
Mr H said the manager later told him, after listening to recorded calls, that hed clearly stated 
that his car would need recovery. I dont doubt what Mr H has told us. But were an 
evidence-based service. And I havent any evidence to show what happened in the call 
between Mr H and the garage. This is because the call recording isnt available, due to the 
passage of time. And the manager said he doesnt recall their conversation. 
I know that Mr H thinks this is convenient for esure. But without substantiating evidence I 
cant say that esure or its garage made an error at this time. I think, from the evidence, that 
the first time Mr H told esure that the car was undriveable was when the agent came to 
collect it. From esures file, it seems that the garage later confirmed that the car was still 
driveable, and that Mr H was out in it when the garage came to recover it. But Ive no 
evidence to substantiate this either.
It took esure a week to arrange for the car to be recovered to the garage. It agreed that this 
was poor service and it offered Mr H £100 for the trouble and upset this caused. I think thats 
fair and reasonable as it compensated Mr H for his loss of use of his car in keeping with the 
rate we consider fair. And so I dont think esure needs to do anything further on this point.
The garage then carried out repairs, but Mr H said dents to the bonnet around the area of 
impact hadnt been repaired. He said these were caused by the same incident. But esure 
said Mr H hadnt told it about this damage. 
I dont think it was unreasonable for esure to expect Mr H to tell it about areas of damage 
when he made his claim. Without this information, the garage only repaired those areas 
authorised. So I cant say this was its fault. And, when Mr H complained, I can see that esure 
had the further areas repaired quickly. I think that was a fair and reasonable response. I 
dont require esure to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman