DRN-3301453
The complaint
Mr G complains about the service he received from BMW Financial Services(GB) Limited 
when he took out a new hire purchase agreement in June 2021.
What happened
Mr G entered into a hire purchase agreement in June 2021 for a used car. He says he 
enquired about the effect of increasing the size of his deposit on his monthly repayments but 
was given incorrect information by BMW. Mr G told us:
He acquired a car in June 2021 and telephoned BMW to clarify whether he could 
reduce the monthly payments due under the hire purchase agreement by increasing 
the size of the initial deposit;
he made a number of telephone calls and was transferred to various departments, 
but he didnt get an answer to his query;
he registered a formal complaint about this with BMW and at the same time was able 
to speak with one of its representatives who informed him that they couldnt address 
his enquiry until his new hire purchase agreement was live. But he says he 
persisted and was told he could indeed lower his monthly payments by increasing the 
initial deposit;
having signed the agreement, he contacted BMW again but was told hed been mis-
informed;
he made a further complaint but says hes unhappy with how that was dealt with and 
was eventually offered £25 by BMW as a gesture of goodwill. He says he didnt 
accept this offer because it required him to sign a declaration;
he contacted BMW because he wasnt satisfied it had properly investigated his 
complaint and it agreed to review the complaint point it had overlooked, and provide 
him with a final response;
he wants this Service to listen to the call recording of the conversation where he was 
given the incorrect information. And he wants some compensation to reflect how 
much he mightve saved had he put down a larger initial deposit.
BMW partly upheld Mr Gs complaint. It acknowledged that the service it had given Mr G 
hadnt been good enough and it apologised for the length of time hes spent on the phone 
trying to contact it, and for the overall experience hed had. It offered him £25 as a gesture of 
goodwill in recognition of the inconvenience and stress hed been caused because of the call 
wait times.
BMW also apologised for not fully investigating Mr Gs complaint at the outset, but it did 
confirm that it wasnt possible to amend the hire purchase agreement once it had been 
signed. It explained that the information about changing a deposit shouldve been provided 
to Mr G before he signed the credit agreement. But BMW did say that although it couldnt 
retrospectively adjust the deposit amount, Mr G could make lump sum payments towards the 
outstanding balance and this would enable him to reduce the outstanding rental amount or 
the remaining payment term.
Mr G disagreed and brought his complaint to this Service. He told us he hadnt necessarily 
wanted to put down a larger deposit but wanted to know if that option was available to him 
and whether he could make further payments.
Our investigator looked at this complaint and said he didnt think it should be upheld. He 
explained that it hadnt been possible to retrieve the call recording that Mr G referred to, and 
that although he recognised this would be frustrating for Mr G, BMW is not required to record 
all calls.
He went on to say that, from what hed heard from both Mr G and BMW, he was satisfied 
that BMW had provided Mr G with some incorrect information. But he explained that hed 
need to consider whether this had caused Mr G any detriment  had BMWs actions caused 
Mr G any financial loss. Our investigator said he didnt think there was any financial loss and 
as a result he wouldnt be asking BMW to do anything over and above the £25 payment it 
had offered Mr G. And he said Mr G should contact BMW if he now wished to accept this 
payment.
Mr S disagrees, so the complaint comes to me to decide. He says he was told he could 
make payments at any time to reduce the interest but was told later that it wasnt possible to 
reduce the interest payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a number of points to this Service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us, and Ive listened to the calls between Mr G and our investigator. But, 
in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be focusing on the crux of his 
complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here. 
Firstly, I must explain to Mr G that complaint handling by a business isnt a regulated activity 
and as such, the issues hes raised that relate directly to how BMW have investigated his 
complaints and his dis-satisfaction with it dont come under my powers to consider. But I can 
look into the poor customer service that Mr G received from BMW.
I also need to tell Mr G that my role isnt to punish businesses for their performance or 
behaviour  thats the role of the regulator. My role is to look at problems that a consumer 
may have experienced and see if the business, in this case BMW, has done anything wrong. 
If it has, I seek to put the consumer  Mr G  back in the position he wouldve been in if the 
mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award compensation if I think its appropriate
Having considered all the evidence, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. To be honest, theres very little I can add to what hes 
already said, and I think hes set out the position very clearly in his view.
Mr G says he was given incorrect information at the start of his agreement when he enquired 
about the possibility of paying a larger deposit, and the effect this would have on his monthly 
payments. He says its important that I listen to a recording of a telephone call he made with 
a BMW representative. 
Weve asked BMW for a copy of this call recording, but we havent been provided with one  
it says it simply doesnt have one. I understand that this has caused Mr G some frustration, 
but a business isnt required to record all telephone conversations with its customers. So, in 
the absence of a call recording, I can only work with the evidence and testimony I do have.Mr G told our investigator that he hadnt intended to put down a larger deposit, but that he 
wanted to know if he had that option. With this in mind, Im satisfied that hes not 
experienced any detriment; hes suffered no actual financial loss.
Ive also looked carefully at the hire purchase agreement that he entered into in June 2021. 
Theres a section headed Early Repayment and this states that Mr G has a right to repay 
all or part of the credit early at any time. This section goes on to explain that in order to do 
this, he simply needs to let BMW know that this is his intention  he can write it, email it, or 
telephone it  and he can make a payment by BACS/CHAPS or cheque.
Im therefore persuaded that, because he hadnt intended to put down a larger deposit, any 
incorrect information he may have been given had very little detrimental impact  the credit 
agreement confirms that Mr G could very easily make additional payments after the 
agreement was enacted if he subsequently chose to do so.
Finally, Ive considered the customer service issues Mr G experienced and Ive listened to 
that calls that BMW has been able to provide. Its offered Mr G £25 in recognition of the poor 
service he experienced; the call waiting times. And I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. So, I wont be asking BMW to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman