DRN-1478054
 
The complaint
Mr R complained that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) provided him 
with unaffordable loans.
What happened 
Mr R complained about two instalment loans he took out with Sunny.
Heres a table showing loan details:
 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
repayment
121/08/2015 24/08/2015 6 £500.00 £160.70
216/09/2015 Debt sold 6 £500.00 £165.26
 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and Sunny told us about these loans. 
Overall, taking into account the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Rs 
circumstances at the time and his history with the lender, our adjudicator didn't think it 
wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask Mr R for the amount of information needed to 
show the lending was unsustainable. 
And he didnt think that there was anything in the information Mr R provided or the 
information Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to 
start verifying what Mr R had told Sunny. 
Also, our adjudicator didnt think that the number of loans Mr R took, the amounts they were 
for or the period of time he was borrowing shouldve made Sunny realise that he mightve 
had underlying money problems.
So our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint.  
Mr R disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
Mr R mainly said that he wouldve expected Sunny to do more checks when he first applied 
for a loan rather than wait until hed already had loans before requesting more information.  
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Sunny provided Mr R with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So Sunny needed 
to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Sunny was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether any 
lending was sustainable for Mr R before providing it. Our website sets out what we typically 
think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Rs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Sunny says it agreed to Mr Rs application after carrying out affordability checks. It relied on 
information Mr R provided about his monthly income and expenditure as well as information 
obtained from credit reference agencies. Sunny says the information it recorded for Mr R 
showed that these loans shouldve been affordable for him - and in these circumstances it 
was reasonable to lend. 
Ive carefully thought about what Mr R and Sunny have said. 
loan 1
I dont think Sunny was wrong to lend Mr R loan 1. This was his first loan with Sunny and so 
I think Sunny was entitled to rely on the information Mr R provided as there was no reason to 
disbelieve what Mr R said or question the information he provided. 
The information Sunny recorded for Mr R suggested that he was well able to afford this 
borrowing. There wasnt anything else shown in the checks Sunny did that indicated 
otherwise. 
At this early stage, Mr R didn't have any track record with the lender that shouldve alerted 
Sunny to any underlying money problems. 
And I cant see that there was anything in the information Mr R provided or the information 
Sunny shouldve been aware of, which meant that Sunny shouldve taken steps to verify the 
information Mr R had declared. So I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 1.
loan 2
Less than a month after he paid loan 1, Mr R took out loan 2. 
Sunny asked Mr R to update the information he provided about his finances each time he 
applied for a new loan and the loan repayments still looked to be affordable for Mr R. There 
wasnt anything to indicate to Sunny that Mr R had found it hard to manage the loan 
repayments for loan 1 (which hed paid early) or that paying for this loan was likely to 
become a problem. 
So I dont feel I've seen enough to be able to uphold Mr Rs complaint about loan 2.
Looked at overall, bearing in mind the amount of the total monthly repayments he had to 
make for each of his loans, the questions Sunny asked Mr R and that these were Mr Rs first 
two loans, I dont think it was unreasonable for Sunny to rely on the level of information Mr R 
was providing.
Ive taken into account everything Mr R has said, including his comments in response to our 
adjudicators opinion and his view that Sunny shouldve done better checks before agreeing 
to lend to him. 
But at this stage of the lending relationship, I agree with our adjudicator and I dont think 
proportionate checks wouldve required Sunny to ask Mr R to prove what he was declaring 
or check other information sources to verify what he had told them (or omitted to say) about 
his financial circumstances.
Looked at overall, I think its reasonable to say that Sunny was entitled to decide Mr Rs 
lending applications based on the information it had available at the time. And its lending 
decision doesnt seem unreasonable to me looking at the information it relied on when 
deciding whether to provide these loans.  
Im sorry that Mr R found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality Mr Rs 
financial situation possibly wasnt fully reflected either in the information he provided, or the 
other information Sunny says it obtained. 
In order to uphold this complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, 
in this case, I dont think that Sunny did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr R. 
I appreciate that this isnt the outcome that Mr R has been hoping for but I hope that setting 
out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 June 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman