DRN-3721575
The complaint
Mrs T and Mr T have complained that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) 
have declined a claim made and voided their term assurance with critical illness policy. 
What happened
In May 2014 Mrs T and Mr T applied for a term assurance and critical illness policy. They 
completed an application form on which they were asked various medical questions. 
When assessing the claim Mrs T made in 2021 L&G concluded that medical information 
hadnt been disclosed in response to question/s it had asked on the form. It found that Mrs T 
had made a misrepresentation. L&G cancelled Mrs Ts policies from the start and refunded 
the premium paid.
Our investigator didnt find that L&G had treated Mrs T and Mr T unfairly.
Mrs T and Mr T appealed. In summary they felt that condition can only be reasonably 
interpreted as something that had been diagnosed. They also felt that the policy wording 
was unclear or ambiguous.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
L&G say that Mrs T failed to take reasonable care when answering the following questions 
on the application form:
Have you ever had any neurological condition or visual disturbance, for example 
epilepsy, multiple sclerosis, muscular dystrophy, cerebral palsy, motor neurone 
disease, Parkinsons disease, optic neuritis?
During the last five years have you seen a doctor, nurse or other health professional 
for any condition affecting your eyes or vision, not wholly corrected by spectacles, 
lenses or laser treatment, for example cataract, blindness?
Mrs T answered no to these questions however L&G have relied on the evidence that in 
August 2012 she saw her optician, who referred her back to her GP, in turn her GP referred 
her to A&E where she saw an ophthalmologist. She was given a neurology referral and a 
neurologist after a two-week history of eye pain. In September 2012 Mrs T saw a 
neurologist. On describing her symptoms which included a two week history of eye pain, 
headaches, numbness in the fingertips, left upper limb and big toes. she was referred for an 
MRI. The neurologist raised the possibility of clinically isolated syndrome. The MRI revealed 
some minor white matter changes and it was agreed a further MRI would be done 6-7 
months later.
Ive carefully considered the medical evidence and the questions asked. Whilst I do 
understand Mrs T felt she had been given the all-clear, as she had been suffering with eye 
pain, and had seen her optician, her GP and an ophthalmologist in A&E, I find that it was 
reasonable of L&G to say Mrs T should have answered the last five year question positively. 
Im satisfied therefore that Mrs T made a qualifying misrepresentation in answer to this 
question. 
With regard to the question starting Have you ever had any neurological condition or visual 
disturbance I can accept that even though she had been referred to a neurologist, Mrs T 
didnt believe at that time she had a neurological condition.  I note that when reporting her 
claim she described having suffered with optic neuritis some years previously so it does 
seem more likely than not that she understood this was what she was experiencing in 2012. 
She also reported this incident to her Neurologist.
Having reviewed the underwriting evidence Im satisfied that had Mrs T answered the 
questions positively, as I find she should have, L&G wouldnt have offered her critical illness 
cover. I dont agree that the failure to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
was deliberate or reckless, rather I find it was careless. But in this case this makes no 
difference as L&G wouldnt have offered cover to Mrs T and it has offered to refund the 
premiums she has paid, which is fair.
Nevertheless there were delays in assessing the claim which I accept would have been 
stressful and frustrating for Mrs T and Mr T, and exacerbated Mrs Ts symptoms. Although I 
can see that L&Gs claims assessors were at times waiting for medical reports and 
underwriting evidence, there were delays in assessing that evidence. I find that 
compensation is due for the poor service they experienced, and I note that L&G agrees. It 
has offered £400 which I find is fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman