DRN-2641608
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money he lost, which he believes 
was as the result of a scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat it all in 
detail here. But in summary and based on the submissions of both parties, I understand it to 
be as follows;
In June 2019 Mr D was looking to get some building work done on his property. His wife saw 
an advert for a builder near their house, the advert was on an advertising board outside 
another property. Mr D contacted the builder and arranged for the builder to come to his 
house to provide a quote.
The builder quoted for carrying out work on a patio, driveway and to landscape the garden. 
Mr D decided to go ahead and agreed a price of c £6,000, with the work scheduled to start 
on 20 June 2019. The builder asked Mr D for upfront payments of £200 and £2,500 for 
labour and materials and Mr D went ahead and made these transfers on 20 June 2019, to 
the account details provided by the builder.
Mr D has said the builder did come and act as if he was carrying out work on the property, 
adding that he was sometimes accompanied by others. Although Mr D has said the priority 
was for his garden to be done, the builders started on the driveway  it is Mr Ds belief that 
this was to make it appear they were working, but Mr D says things werent being done 
properly.
On 25 and 26 June 2019, Mr D has said the builder asked him for more money, as he said 
he had run out of money and needed it to pay the labourers. Mr D agreed and made a 
further two payments to the builders of £1,700 on 25 June 2019 and £700 on 26 June 2019. 
In total Mr D paid £5,100 to the builder.
Mr D has added that he always asked for paperwork from the builder, for the works that were 
being carried out, as he wanted evidence of payments in case anything went wrong. Mr D 
has said the builder wasnt forthcoming with the documents and has provided copies of text 
messages where he had to chase them for this and at one stage, has said he had an 
argument with the builder about this. Mr D has provided a copy of a contract for the work, 
dated 1 July 2019, indicating that the total cost of the work was £5,200.
After Mr D had made the last two payments, hes said the builder did not show up to his 
property. Mr D was unhappy with this as he didnt consider the work had been finished and 
he thought it was unsafe. Hes said he was able to speak with the builder on the phone, but 
they gave excuses, including; not having materials or labourers to do the work. Mr D has 
said that, on 1 July 2019, the builder posted the contract and a certificate of guarantee 
through his letterbox (both dated 1 July 2019). But Mr D was not happy with this, as he 
considered the work hadnt been finished and they were incorrectly dated. 
Mr D continued to try and speak to the builder by phone, but was unable to get hold of him. 
He did speak to the builders brother, but was told the builder was out of the country 
attending a funeral. Mr D also attended the addresses that were detailed on the documents 
the builder had provided, but said he found them to be shops. Hes said the owner of one of 
the shops told him, other people had also been there looking for the builder.
Mr D raised the matter with Barclays on 5 August 2019. Barclays contacted the receiving 
bank and this resulted in the builders account being suspended while the disputed payments 
were investigated. 
As a result of the builders account being suspended, Mr D said the builder contacted him 
and began harassing him, telling him that he had the money to give to him. But Mr D has 
said he was told by Barclays and Action Fraud not to interact with the builder. Mr D has also 
said that the builder turned up at his house, while he was not there, but his wife was scared 
and didnt answer the door. On other occasions the builders brother also turned up and the 
builder also went to a neighbours house to ask if Mr D could contact Barclays to arrange for 
the account to be unblocked.
Mr D understands the builders account was eventually unblocked and he didnt hear back 
from them. Overall, Mr D said the property was left in a worse state than it was when the 
building work started and provided photographs of the work that had been carried out.
Barclays looked into the concerns that Mr D had raised. It considered its obligations under 
the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, of which it is 
a signatory. Barclays sent its final response on 14 November 2019. It said while it 
understood this was a stressful situation, it deemed the matter to be a buyer/seller dispute 
between Mr D and the builder. It said this meant there was no further action it could take on 
Mr Ds behalf, as he had authorised the transactions to take place. Barclays did pay Mr D  
£50 for not calling him back when it had promised and a further £150 for delays in dealing 
with his complaint.
Mr D then brought his complaint to our service. In summary, he said he believes this is a 
scam as the builder used a fake address and these addresses should have been checked by 
the banks. He added that the builder hadnt carried out all of the work after hed been paid.
One of our investigators looked into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ds complaint, 
as she considered this was a dispute between Mr D and the builder who he had made the 
payments to. In summary, she said that although the works may not have been done well, 
there was evidence of work having been carried out. She added that some of the builders 
actions didnt fit the usual pattern of fraudulent activity, in that he was still contactable for 
some time and the receiving bank hadnt raised any concerns about the account the money 
went to.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigators opinion. In summary, he didnt agree that this wasnt 
a scam. Mr D said the contract was not legitimate as the builder had used somebody elses 
address and that Barclays and the receiving bank had not considered the evidence he had 
provided or investigated things properly.
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Im aware Mr D has raised some complaint points in his arguments that relate to the 
receiving bank, which was not Barclays. At the outset, I should make it clear that this 
decision solely focuses on Barclays, in its capacity as the sending bank.
Having thought very carefully about Barclayss actions, Im not intending to uphold Mr Ds 
complaint. I do appreciate how disappointing this will be for him, but I dont think I can fairly 
say Barclays should reimburse him. Ill explain why.
Im sorry to hear of whats happened to Mr D, and I can understand entirely why he feels so 
strongly that his money should be returned to him. Its understandable for such a significant 
sum why Mr D feels he has been the victim of a scam. But not all cases where individuals 
have lost significant sums are in fact fraudulent and/or a scam. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable in this case, Ive also thought about the 
Lending Standards Boards voluntary Contingent Reimbursement Model, which Barclays has 
signed up to and was in force at the time Mr D made these payments.
Under the CRM Code, the starting principle is that a firm should reimburse a customer who 
is the victim of an APP scam. Ive thought about if the CRM code applies in the 
circumstances of the payment Mr D made and, in particular, whether Barclays ought to 
reimburse him under the provisions of the Code. But the Code is quite explicit that it doesnt 
apply to all push payments. It says: 
DS2(2) This code does not apply to: 
(b) private civil disputes, such as where a Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, 
services, or digital content but has not received them, they are defective in some way, or the 
Customer is otherwise dissatisfied with the supplier 
Subsections (a) and (c) have been omitted as they are not relevant to this complaint. 
Both the bank and our investigator felt the payments Mr D made formed part of a 
buyer/seller dispute and, as such, are not covered by the Code. Mr D strongly disagrees. He 
feels the builder has scammed him and the contract he had was not legitimate.
Its clear the agreement Mr D entered into with the builder did not go as planned and he has 
not received what he was expecting. And I can understand entirely why he feels so strongly 
about what has happened. There may even have been some sharp practice in terms of how 
the builder carried out the work and with the documentation they have provided. But I cant 
safely say with any certainty, with what I know, that the builder set out with an intent to 
defraud him. I say this because there appears to be a number of factors, in the circumstances of this 
case, that dont carry the typical hallmarks of these particular types of scam or of a trader 
setting out with an intent to defraud. Such as;
- Work was carried out, at least to an extent. This is confirmed with Mr Ds own 
representations, although I understand it wasnt carried out to the standard he 
expected. The receiving bank also confirmed that representations were made to it 
when it was investigating the recipient account, to evidence that work had been 
done.  
- Mr Ds wife saw an advert for the builder outside another property and Mr D called 
them. He wasnt cold called which, while not always, can often be the case with 
rogue trader scams - where people can often be contacted out of the blue and 
pressured into having work done that they may not want / require. Here, Mr D 
proactively contacted the builder and agreed a price and Im not aware that Mr D was 
put under any pressure.
- The receiving bank has confirmed that the beneficiary account is a legitimate account 
which had been longstanding before the payments were made. As mentioned, it also 
confirmed that its customer provided evidence of work carried out and didnt have 
any concerns regarding how the account was being operated.
- I understand that Mr D has said he raised the matter with Trading Standards, but Im 
not aware of any ongoing investigations by Trading Standards, or any other authority, 
which would lead me to safely conclude there was an intent to defraud and;
- The builder (and the builders brother) were still contactable after Mr D had made the 
payments, indeed the builder pro-actively tried to speak to Mr D when his bank 
account was suspended. This is not typically the case with fraudsters, who more 
often than not are not able to be contacted after they have taken a victims money, 
nor likely to try and get back in contact with them to discuss matters of banking. 
 
Im aware Mr D thinks strongly that as the address provided by the builder does not appear 
to be accurate, this is enough to suggest this is a fraud. While I dont doubt that this may 
smack of bad practise, I have to consider this, alongside all of the other factors that Ive 
mentioned above and consider everything in the round. After taking everything into careful 
consideration, so the testimony and evidence provided by both parties, on balance, I cant 
safely say this meets the high legal threshold and burden of proof for fraud. Rather, this 
appears to be a case of a builder, failing to honour its agreement by not providing the quality 
of work that its customer expected. 
This being the case Im satisfied the CRM Code doesnt apply. And I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money Mr D has lost, as I dont think Barclays treated 
Mr D unfairly when it said the payment he made was not covered by the CRM Code. And I 
dont think there was anything else Barclays could have done to prevent his loss. I also 
consider the compensation Barclays has already paid for £200, due to not returning a call 
and for the delay in responding to Mr D, is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I realise that my decision will be disappointing for Mr D and I dont underestimate the impact 
this matter has had on him. But overall, for the reasons Ive explained I cant fairly or 
reasonably ask Barclays to refund the money Mr D has lost. 
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman