DRN-3970017
The complaint
Mr S complains The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited provided 
poor service.
What happened
In 2022 Mr S was involved with a claim, or potential claim, against his NFU motor insurance 
policy. He was unhappy with how the insurer handled matters and its communications. NFU 
issued complaint final responses to Mr S in March, May and July 2022. 
In March 2022 NFU accepted it had handled some elements of the claim poorly, sending a 
£50 cheque in recognition. But it didnt agree it had failed to progress the claim effectively.
In May 2022 it said staff members were correct to have told Mr S they were unable to 
confirm the impact of a claim on his upcoming insurance premium.  In July 2022 NFU 
accepted it had failed to communicate with him appropriately. It offered a further £50 
compensation. 
Mr S wasnt satisfied with NFUs responses, so came to this service. In January 2023 our 
investigator considered the complaint. He said this service was unable to consider the 
subject matter of the March 2022 final response  as that part of Mr S complaint had been 
referred outside of our time limits.  
The investigator considered the issues NFU addressed in latter two responses. Firstly, he 
said, as Mr S bank had compensated him £50, he hadnt lost out because of an NFU 
cheque not being credited to his account. He thought the second £50 compensation was a 
fair amount to recognise some poor customer service. Mr S didnt accept that outcome, so 
the complaint was passed to me for a final decision. He wants £500 compensation.
For the same reasons as set out by the investigator this final decision wont be considering 
the subject matter of the March 2022 final response letter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to require NFU to pay any further compensation or to do 
anything differently.
In response to our investigators view, Mr S said his complaint hadnt been considered 
properly. I can see hes also said this of NFUs responses. Hes provided a lot of information 
for his complaint. But its very difficult to understand from it exactly what his key concerns 
are. Unfortunately he failed, when asked by this service, to provide a summary of his 
complaint points.   
So Ive done my best at understanding Mr S concerns from the information already 
provided. Essentially it seems hes frustrated at what he considers poor customer service. 
This frustration originated with contact with NFU in relation to the claim or potential claim. Its 
continued and deepened during the resulting complaint procedure. 
It does seem there was some limited amount of poor customer service from NFU  some 
poor communication and failure to act on commitments made. But, whilst I accept I may not 
fully understand Mr S concerns, Im satisfied the compensation already offered is enough to 
recognise the impact. So Im not going to require NFU to pay anything more.  
Mr S referred to NFUs bad manners and rudeness. But I havent seen anything that 
supports this claim.  
There seems to be an issue with a compensation cheque not being credited to Mr S 
account. But as far as Im aware his bank made up for any loss there. So even if NFU was at 
fault he didnt lose out. So Im not going to require NFU to reissue that payment.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman