DRN-3501998
The complaint
Mr and Ms H have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them a 
packaged bank account. Their account history is as follows:
Fee-free Current account taken out in May 2000
Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account in July 2001
Downgraded to a fee free account in June 2002
Mr and Ms H say that they had to take out the Additions account to avoid the overdraft fees 
that they were paying. They have also suggested that they thought that they had to have the 
account in order have a better chance of obtaining borrowing in the future.
What happened
One of our adjudicators looked into this complaint and they didnt think the Additions account 
had been mis-sold. Mr and Ms H disagreed and so the complaint has been referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
I note that Mr and Ms H have also highlighted overdraft fees that they have paid. It is my 
understanding though that this is being dealt with separately by Barclays.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me deicide this case. I think it might help to explain that where 
matters are in dispute and evidence is incomplete, I have to base my decision on what I 
think was most likely to have happened, based on everything that is available.
Firstly, I have considered whether Mr and Ms H were given a fair choice to the Additions 
account. Mr and Ms H have said that they thought that they had to agree to the Additions 
account in order to obtain borrowing in the future. However, I can see that Mr and Ms H held 
an overdraft prior to taking out any of these accounts, so I cant see why they would think 
that they needed to take out an account to get an overdraft. Additionally, I can see that they 
had held a loan prior to the Additions account. So overall I am not persuaded that Mr and Ms 
H agreed to the Additions account in order to obtain future borrowing. I think that it is more 
likely that they agreed to the Additions account as they were attracted to the benefits that it 
came with.
When this account was taken out it cost £6 per month and came with an interest free 
overdraft buffer zone of £100. And by having the Additions account, Mr and Ms H no longer 
had to pay the £5 monthly overdraft usage fee (which was applicable to fee free accounts). I 
can see that Mr and Ms H did regularly use their overdraft at this point and so having the 
Additions account meant that they were likely to have saved money on a monthly basis 
when it was initially taken out, compared to what they were being charged in interest and 
charges to use their overdraft on a fee-free account.
When selling the Additions account, Barclays was required to give Mr and Ms H enough 
information about the account so they understood what they were agreeing to. And based on 
their recollections of the sale, it seems highly likely that the overdraft features were 
discussed with them. I also cant see anything that they were not told that may have 
changed their decision to take out this account.
Therefore, based on everything I have seen, I dont think the Additions account was mis-
sold. The account mayve changed in terms of cost and benefits over the time they held it, 
and I appreciate that Mr and Ms H may now believe the account to have been poor value for 
money. But that does not mean it was mis-sold, or that Barclays was wrong to have sold it to 
them when it did.
I appreciate that this may come as a disappointment to Mr and Ms H, but I hope they 
understand the reasons why I have reached this outcome.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms H to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman