DRN-3557594
The complaint
Mr S has complained about his car insurer Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He feels it 
took too long to fix his car windscreen, causing him to be without a car for several weeks.
What happened
Mr Ss windscreen was damaged and he made a previous complain to this service. That was 
resolved in September 2021, with Admiral making a payment to Mr S towards the 
replacement cost and Mr S left to make arrangements with Admirals glass company for the 
work to be done. In January 2022 Mr S made contact with the glass company to arrange for 
the replacement. 
Mr S had two appointments booked for replacing the glass. But the glass company wouldnt 
do the work. Mr S later had the glass replaced elsewhere, the cost of which Admiral 
reimbursed him for. But Mr S was unhappy with the delay, the upset this had caused and 
that, in the end, hed had to make arrangements himself. Admirals glass company accepted 
there had been a lack of communication for which it offered £200 compensation. But it felt it 
hadnt caused any unreasonable delay. Admiral said it agreed with that assessment. Mr S 
complained to us.
Our investigator noted that the glass company had said it couldnt do the work due to fault 
codes on Mr Ss car. Our Investigator considered what Mr S had said about this, noting that 
he'd said the glass company had lied to him and treated him poorly. But our Investigator 
wasnt persuaded there were any grounds for him to require Admiral to further compensate 
Mr S. 
Mr S said he felt as though only Admirals side of things had been taken into account. He 
asked for an ombudsmans consideration. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that it was difficult for Mr S to be without his car in the early part of 2022. But Im 
not persuaded that he was without it at that time due to any failure of Admiral. 
I can see that Mr S twice had his car booked in with Admirals glass company for the screen 
to be replaced but that the work didnt take place due to concerns raised by the glass 
company about faults on Mr Ss car. And that a third booking was cancelled by Mr S 
because he was making a complaint. 
I can understand from Mr Ss point of view that he could see no reason why his car couldnt 
be fixed. There was at least one fault code present on Mr Ss car and Mr S told the glass 
company the manufacturer garage had said that replacing the windscreen would resolve 
that. If I were him, I might well have expected the glass company to accept this and move 
ahead with the work. But I can also see from the glass companys point of view that if it 
accepted what Mr S had said hed been told, and fixed the windscreen  if there were then 
any issues, that might have left it liable for completing extra work. I see the glass company 
said it would reconsider if it could have written confirmation from the manufacturer garage. 
I think that was reasonable of it. 
I know Mr S, in the end, took it upon himself to replace the windscreen, I understand that 
was an inconvenience for him. I also understand that whilst without his car in the intervening 
period he wasnt able to get around as normal and missed some important appointments. 
I accept he was distressed. But Im not persuaded that this was caused by any failure of 
Admiral. As I said above, I think its glass company acted reasonably in the circumstances. 
I understand that Mr S was also upset as he felt hed been lied to by the glass company. 
However, Im not persuaded that the relevant conversations Mr S and the glass company 
had materially affected the course of the repair work. Im satisfied that was delayed with 
good reason. And I think it is the glass companys refusal to move ahead with the work and 
the delay this caused Mr S in getting his car back in working order, that has caused the 
majority of Mr Ss dissatisfaction, resulting in this complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman