DRN-1879657
The complaint
  Mr M complains that 3J Finance Limited is responsible for a mis-sold loan for an online 
teaching course and that it wont release him from the fixed sum loan agreement which paid 
for the course.
What happened
  In February 2019 Mr M says he was sold a cancel at any time subscription for an online 
teaching course for his children by a related company to 3J Finance. 3J Finance says he 
took out a Fixed Sum Loan Agreement over five years with it to pay for this teaching course 
provided by the related company.
Later in 2019 Mr M says he was unhappy with the subscription service, so he tried to 
cancel it over the phone. He was told he was outside the cancelation period and that he had 
a loan not a subscription service. So he complained. He was told that neither the related 
company or 3J Finance had done anything wrong. So he complained here.
Our Investigator upheld Mr Ms complaint, but 3J Finance didnt agree and pointed to the 
paperwork from the sale. So the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Mr M says his partner discovered the related company (that Ive referred to) and so they 
expressed an interest in learning more. As a result a representative visited his home in 
February 2019. By the end of this meeting Mr M had purchased a course teaching Maths 
and English for the children. It appears the representative was acting for both the related 
company and 3J Finance during the sales process, and both these companies shared 
directors. Evidence from the related company has been provided to this service by 3J 
Finance. The total price of the course was just £4565 and £4519 was being financed through 
a fixed sum loan agreement. The loan was to run for 60 months. 
Mr M has been very clear and consistent in his representations that during the meeting with 
the representative that he understood the situation was that they had a service which was 
paid for by a subscription and that they could cancel at any time. So later in 2019 when 
Mr M had decided that they didnt want to continue he spoke to both the related company 
and 3J Finance. I can see from the call notes with the related company it says:
he just wanted to cancel his subscription. I advised that he is outside of the cancellation 
period (which he asked me to explain). He said that he is going to cancel his DD
The other call notes from around the time are consistent with him having this belief when he 
called in. They go onto explain his obligations under the agreement. And Mr M goes on to 
say he feels he has been miss-sold to and treated unfairly.
I have also listened to the calls where Mr M called this service. In this he states:
That he was told You can leave at any time
I agreed a DD to pay for it
it appears I signed up to a finance package to pay for this
And that he has been the victim of mis-selling
Mr M complained and 3J Finance responded (as did the related company). These responses 
essentially said Mr M had signed and initialled the paperwork, had the benefit of the finance 
agreement, was aware of the cancellation period and had discussed the matter thoroughly 
with the representative at the time. 
3J Finance didnt sell Mr M the course or the loan, but it has some responsibilities to Mr M 
due to certain protections afforded to consumers by the Consumer Credit Act 1974. The loan 
Mr M entered with 3J Finance is regulated by this Act, and there are two sections of the Act 
which provide him with some protection namely section 56 and section 75. 
In summary section 56 has the effect of making the related company the agent of 3J Finance 
during the antecedent negotiations leading up to Mr M entering into the loan agreement, 
beginning with the first communication he received from the related company. In essence 
this means 3J Finance can be held responsible for the things that were done or said during 
the sales process. Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr M to hold 3J Finance liable for 
breaches of contract by the related company, or misrepresentations made by it in relation to 
the purchase of the course.
3J Finance has pointed to a number of documents (of which it has provided copies) which 
were either electronically signed or initialled and signed by hand by Mr M that day. He 
accepts that he did complete documents and that he completed forms on an electronic 
device. I can see from the documents that they are date and time stamped. I note the time 
stamps on the different documents are close together in terms of the exact times stamped. 
This suggests that the electronic documents were gone through at speed. Which seems to 
support Mr Ms comments about the representative saying they were just a formality and 
could be cancelled at any time.
3J Finances position essentially is that the documentary evidence from the point of sale is 
decisive and is, in short, the end of the matter as Mr M agreed to everything in those 
documents. But I dont agree that position is a complete appreciation of what happened 
here. What was said by the representative is also important as the discussion will have 
started before the paperwork was signed. And Mr M would have considered what the 
representative said in his decision making during the sale.
Here Mr M has been consistent in two particular areas, firstly that he believed at the time 
(and until he discovered differently when trying to cancel) that he was paying a monthly 
subscription for the teaching course. He says he believed this because this is what the 
representative told him. Secondly he believed he could cancel this course at any time and 
that he didnt discover this wasnt the case until when he did try to cancel the subscription. 
Similarly he believed this because this was what the representative told him.
As for the broader context of this sale Im aware that the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
wrote to credit brokers outlining some key risks for them to consider and act upon. The FCA 
said it had found firms brokering credit agreements with third party finance providers had 
poor oversight of staff, leaving sales practices unchecked and potentially increasing the risk 
of mis-selling, fraud or other poor consumer outcomes. It highlighted in particular brokers 
which sell products in consumers homes as presenting a higher risk of consumer harm, 
especially where sales took place without appropriate oversight and on a commission-basis. The FCA did not name individual firms, but Im mindful of the fact that the sale here does, at 
least, fit some of the criteria the FCA identified as presenting a high risk of mis-selling.
Importantly I also need to consider that this service has seen a number of cases about the 
related company and 3J Finance. These include the common themes of people 
understanding that they could cancel at any time and that they were paying on a subscription 
or pay as you go type arrangement. I havent seen anything that connects these 
complainants other than they were sold courses such as this by the related company or 3J 
Finance. That doesnt mean that the representatives always provided misleading or untrue 
information and as 3J is aware, some of these cases have gone in its favour. But it does 
show that there was a significant risk that such representatives either were unclear on the 
arrangement being entered into or that unscrupulous or incompetent representatives may 
have presented the situation differently to that articulated in the documentation. 
This service has also received information that the related company operated informally a 
longer cancellation period than the fourteen days set out in its contracts. I can see the 
existence of official and unofficial cancellation periods of different lengths being a potential 
source of confusion during the sales process, and this again leads me towards a conclusion 
that misunderstandings were not uncommon.
Ive considered what Mr M has said very carefully. And taking everything into account Im 
persuaded on balance that Mr M was told a different story by the representative regarding 
the operation of the agreement to that which is set out in the documentation provided by 3J 
Finance. I think it likely he was told that he could cancel at any time and that he was paying 
a subscription type service. And it was on this basis he entered into the agreement. And 
similarly I think it is on this basis things should be put right. And as Ive described due to the 
operation of sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Mr M can hold 3J Finance 
liable for the incorrect information provided by the representative in this case. So 3J Finance 
needs to do something to put things right.
In response to the views of the Investigator 3J Finance has reiterated its point about the 
paperwork completed and continued to argue from that standpoint. But I note with interest 
that in the call notes relating to Mr M it (and the related company) has noted down that he 
believed he could cancel at any time. And that it was on this premise Mr M was calling in. 
and that in retrospect it has had other customers of it calling in clearly on the same premise 
as Mr M. Taking everything into account, I think on balance that it is fair for 3J Finance to put 
things right.
I should add for completeness that I think it likely that 3J Finance will disagree with the 
position taken here. I have endeavoured to be consistent in the wordings of certain 
arguments above to ensure 3J Finance has a clear appreciation of my position on such 
matters. It has pointed to other similar cases at this service whilst arguing its position on this 
case and accordingly Ive been as clear and consistent as I can on my views of these 
important issues.
Putting things right
  I direct 3J Finance to take the following actions:
Cap Mr Ms liability for the loan at the sum of the repayments which were due as of
the date he first contacted either the related company or 3J Finance to cancel. Anything 
above this amount must be written off and no longer pursued.
If Mr M has paid more than this capped liability, then any overpayments must be
refunded to his, along with 8% simple interest per year* calculated from the date he
made each overpayment, to the date he receives a refund.If Mr M has paid less than this capped liability then an affordable repayment plan 
must be arranged for the outstanding balance up to the cap.
Remove any negative information relating to the loan from Mr Ms credit file and mark 
it as settled from the first date he contacted either the related company or 3J 
Finance to cancel. If Mr M has not paid up to this capped liability then 3J Finance 
does not need to mark the loan as settled until he has paid up to the cap.
Arrange with Mr M for the return of any course materials, DVDs and anything else he 
received under the contract, and the ending of any other services supplied under the 
contract.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 3J Finance to take tax off this interest. 3J Finance must
give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, if Mr M asks for one.
My final decision
  For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint against 3J Finance Limited and direct 
it to put things right as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Rod Glyn-Thomas
Ombudsman