DRN-2799228
The complaint
Mrs A complained that she was mis-sold a Guaranteed Over 50s Plan by a company that 
has since been acquired by Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited.
What happened
Mrs A took out a Guaranteed Over 50s Plan in February 1999. The plan offered a 
guaranteed sum assured of £7,280, for a monthly premium of £30, if she died while the plan 
was in force. The sum assured would be tripled if Mrs A died as a result of an accident while 
travelling in several specified circumstances.
 
Mrs A surrendered her plan in July 2020 for £4,347.62. At that point Mrs A had paid in more 
than £7,000 in premiums. 
Mrs As daughter (who Ill refer to as Mrs C), complained on Mrs As behalf that the plan 
had been mis-sold. Mrs C said her mother had not been made aware when buying the plan 
that she could pay more in premiums than the plan would pay out on her death. She said 
had Mrs A been aware of this she wouldnt have taken out the plan. So, she argued the plan 
had been mis-sold. She asked Aviva to return the premiums paid plus interest and 
compensation for the mis-selling. 
Aviva rejected Mrs As complaint. It explained the plan had been sold on a non-advised 
basis. This meant Mrs A wouldve been provided with information about the plan benefits 
and key features at the time of sale. It would then have been up to her to decide if the plan 
met her needs. It noted that following a recent review, Aviva had decided to make the plan 
terms more favourable to the policyholders. 
Mrs C referred a complaint to our service on her mothers behalf. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She noted that due to the time that had elapsed since the plan was 
sold there was limited documentation from time of the sale. But she was persuaded it was 
more likely than not Mrs A would have been provided with enough information to enable her 
to make an informed decision on whether the plan met her needs. 
Mrs C, on behalf of Mrs A, disagreed and asked for the case to be considered by an 
ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. I do understand Mrs Cs concerns and why she feels strongly that her mother 
has been treated unfairly, particularly as shes now received less from the plan than she paid 
in. But as Ill go on to explain, I dont think Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably. 
Ive not seen any documentary evidence from Aviva specific to Mrs As plan. Nor have I
been able to listen to the phone call from when the plan was sold. This isnt unusual. The 
plan was sold more than 20 years ago and the business responsible for the sale has 
changed more than once. Businesses arent expected to keep information indefinitely, and 
the absence of information isnt enough reason for me to uphold a complaint. Id have to be 
persuaded that Avivas predecessor had failed in its responsibilities when selling the plan, 
and Im not sufficiently persuaded this happened. 
I appreciate it came as a surprise to Mrs A to learn shed paid in more to the plan than would 
be paid out on her death. But Ive seen nothing to suggest she was told at the point of sale 
that shed be guaranteed to get back what she paid. I think its also unlikely Mrs A wouldve 
been told this, as it would go against a basic principle of insurance. While I can appreciate 
her disappointment, I cant hold Aviva responsible if Mrs A made an incorrect assumption 
about how the plan worked. 
Aviva has provided us with examples of marketing information and plan documentation of 
the kind Mrs A would most likely have been sent  this included a marketing leaflet, a plan 
schedule, acceptance letter and In Plain English booklet.  
While I dont know exactly what Mrs A received, I think its most likely she wouldve been 
given some documentation of the type Aviva has provided to me. The examples Aviva have 
provided show the key selling points of the plan at the time was that it would provide a 
guaranteed sum assured for a fixed monthly premium. The example leaflet Aviva has 
provided explains: 
The Guaranteed Over 50 Plan gives you lifelong protection, lifelong peace of mind. 
However, as the Guaranteed Death Benefit is a fixed sum, the total premiums paid could 
eventually be greater. To find out how many years your own plan would have to be in force 
before your total premiums paid would be great than the Guaranteed Death Benefit, all you 
have to do is multiply your monthly premium by 12 to find out the annual premium, then 
divide this amount into your Guaranteed Death Benefit.
If Mrs A hadnt received any documentation, Id have expected her to challenge this at the 
time. Ive seen nothing to suggest this happened.   
It would seem Mrs Cs main concern is with the overall fairness of the plan, in so far as 
policyholders can pay in more than they get out. While it may be the case, with the benefit of 
hindsight, that Mrs A wouldve been better off paying into an alternative savings or 
investment scheme, this doesnt mean the plan was inherently unfair. 
Had Mrs A died in the early years of the plan Aviva wouldve paid out more than
shed paid in. But, equally, there was always a risk that Mrs A might need to continue paying
premiums to a point where shed paid more than the sum assured. That sort of risk is part of
the very nature of insurance.
As Ive said, while I understand Mrs A and Mrs Cs concerns that doesnt necessarily mean 
Aviva has done anything wrong. And if it hasnt acted incorrectly or unfairly  and I dont 
think it has  Im unable to direct it to do anymore in respect of Mrs As plan.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons set out above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Lisa De Noronha
Ombudsman