DRN-2942325
The complaint
Miss B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) had unfairly cancelled her insurance 
and taken steps to recover money it spent whilst assessing her claim for items damaged by 
a water leak.  
What happened
In August 2020 Miss Bs home and some of the contents were damaged by a leak of hot 
water. Miss B contacted Aviva to make a claim for the damaged contents. Some of them 
were hers and some belonged to her son, who was living with her at the time.
Aviva appointed a specialist to look at the claim. When Miss B was talking to the specialist 
she said her son was living with her on a temporary basis and hed been released from 
prison on bail to her address. She said he was looking for alternate accommodation.
When Aviva found out about this, it said that the terms and conditions for her policy made it 
clear she should immediately tell Aviva if someone with her sons record was living in the 
house. It said if shed done that Aviva would have cancelled her policy, as it doesnt insure 
people in these circumstances. It went on to say that even if Miss B hadnt realised this when 
her son initially moved in, shed since renewed her insurance and it was made clear at this 
point as well.
Aviva decided to cancel the policy on the basis that Miss B had mis-represented her 
circumstances. Its refunded her premium and recorded the cancellation on industry 
databases.
Aviva also said it thought Miss Bs claim was fraudulent. So its registered this on industry 
databases, and has insisted Miss B repays the costs it incurred when assessing the claim  
about £835. Miss B says she agreed to do that at £100 a month in order to avoid the court 
action Aviva threatened. Miss B says the claim wasnt fraudulent and should be met  and 
that shes happy to exclude things belonging to her son if thats what Aviva wants.
When Miss B complained, Aviva didnt change its stance, so she asked us to review her 
complaint. Our investigator concluded that Aviva had cancelled the policy in line with its 
internal guidelines and had been fair when it returned the premium. However, he said there 
had been no real explanation of how Aviva had decided the claim was fraudulent. He 
thought that without this, Aviva was being unfair when it noted this on industry databases 
and when it demanded Miss B pay the costs it incurred whilst looking at the claim. He 
thought Aviva should undo any actions to do with fraud and return to Miss B any money 
shed paid towards the cost of investigating the claim.
Miss B asked why, if her contents claim had been denied, her claim for damage to the 
building had been accepted  and our investigator explained he was only looking at the 
issues raised by Miss B in her complaint. I understand Miss B was content with the 
conclusions our investigator reached. Aviva says it refunded the premium to Miss B before 
the end of 2020  and that it has nothing else to say about our investigators opinion.
Because Aviva hasnt responded to all the points in our investigators view, Ive been asked 
to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly I should confirm that this decision is only about the claim Miss B made for the 
damaged contents in her home. I dont know the circumstances surrounding her buildings 
claim, nor who provides that cover. The outcome of that claim doesnt impact on this one.
Having said that, I think this complaint falls into two parts. The first is whether Miss B 
misrepresented her circumstances in a way that meant Aviva could fairly cancel her policy. If 
thats the case, then Aviva need not have considered the claim at all.
The second point is whether Aviva has fairly concluded that the claim itself was fraudulent, 
and if it was, whether Aviva has reasonably applied the terms and conditions in the policy 
that apply in such a situation.
Has Miss B misrepresented her circumstances?
In certain situations, when a customer provides inaccurate information, a business can fairly 
take steps to rectify the position. It must do that in line with the relevant law  in this case the 
Consumer Insurance Disclosure and Representations (CIDRA) Act 2012. CIDRA says a 
customer needs to take reasonable care no to make a mis-representation. If an insurer can 
show a customer didnt take reasonable care, then this is called a qualifying 
misrepresentation. These qualifying misrepresentations can be classed as careless, 
reckless or deliberate  and the insurer can fairly take different actions, according to how 
serious the misrepresentation is.
For Aviva to say Miss B misrepresented her circumstances it has to show that it asked a 
clear question  and that Miss B was careless when she answered it. The question being 
looked at here is about Miss Bs son, who has unspent criminal convictions and who was 
living with Miss B at the time of the claim.
Miss Bs policy was first taken out many years ago in 2001, and Aviva no longer has details 
of the questions it asked Miss B at the time. It likely asked her to say if anyone insured under 
the policy had been convicted of any criminal offences (excluding motoring offences), and I 
say that because this question is asked by most insurers. Its part of the information an 
insurer uses to assess whether it wants to accept the risk associated with offering insurance 
to a customer.
I dont think whether or not this question was asked back in 2001 matters to this complaint.  
From what Ive seen, Miss Bs son would have been quite young when the policy was initially 
taken out  so its unlikely she needed to answer yes at that point. 
However, the policy has been renewed many times since then, and each time Miss B would 
be asked to confirm if her answers had changed to certain questions  and the one about 
criminal convictions will have, most likely, been asked each time. We know that when the 
policy was renewed in July 2020 Aviva asked Miss B to say if anyone insured under the 
policy had any convictions. That was some months after Miss Bs son had been released on 
bail to her address.
Miss Bs policy terms and conditions also say she should tell Aviva immediately if her 
answers to any of the questions (including the one about criminal convictions) changes. And 
it reminds her each time that she should take reasonable care to provide complete and 
accurate answers both when taking out and renewing the policy. 
I think that, even if Miss B hadnt realised she should have contacted Aviva immediately her 
son came to live with her, she would have known she should tell Aviva about this when the 
policy renewed in July.
The renewal actually says Miss B must disclose information about anyone whos covered by 
the policy and refers to you. you is defined elsewhere as Miss B and her immediate 
family who normally live with you. I dont think this is the best way to get a clear answer to a question, because it shouldnt be necessary for a customer to look up definitions in a 
separate document in order to give an accurate answer. 
Ive also considered whether normally living with you applies. But given Miss Bs son 
seems to have been staying with her for about four months when she renewed the policy 
(and about six by the time of the claim) I think it can be fairly said that he did live there 
normally  even if it wasnt intended he stay indefinitely.
Even if Miss B hadnt read the definitions, she clearly thought her son was covered by the 
policy as she claimed for his damaged belongings. 
I think Miss B did misrepresent her circumstances by not telling Aviva about her sons 
criminal record. Aviva has voided (cancelled and treated as though it never existed) the 
policy and says its refunded premiums back to 2018, which I understand is when her son 
received a criminal conviction. Its recorded this on industry databases. Those are the 
remedies available to it where it thinks the misrepresentation was careless rather than 
reckless or deliberate.
Taking everything into account I think Avivas actions were fair up to this point.
The claim
When Aviva responded to our investigators opinion, it was silent on the fact that he thought 
Aviva hadnt treated Miss B fairly by saying her claim was fraudulent and that it wasnt 
entitled to recover the costs associated with it investigating the claim. 
I agree with our investigator. I havent seen much, if any evidence to support Avivas 
statement that it declined the claim because of fraud.
Once Aviva fairly cancelled the policy, and backdated this to 2018, it meant Miss B had no 
cover in place when hot water damaged her belongings. So Aviva need not have considered 
the claim.
It did, however, spend some money investigating the claim before it discovered her 
circumstances and cancelled the policy. Its this money (about £835) its insisted Miss B 
repay. Ive thought about whether thats fair. 
Avivas final response letter says the claim was declined due to fraud concerns but not 
what these were. It goes on to quote the terms and conditions that describe fraud and the 
various actions Aviva can take.
These say that if the claim is in any way dishonest or exaggerated we .may cancel your 
policy.We may also take legal action against you. (For ease of reading Ive taken out the 
parts of the sentences that dont affect this decision).
The policy also says where our investigations provide evidence of fraud or a serious non-
disclosure it can cancel the policy and will return premiums for the unused period of cover.
I havent seen persuasive evidence that Miss Bs claim was fraudulent. I accept she may 
have mistakenly included her sons belongings in the claim. However that seems to me to be 
a natural follow on from her assuming he was covered by the policy even though she hadnt 
realised she needed to tell Aviva he was living with her. And as I said above, the actions 
Aviva took with regard to the policy point towards careless misrepresentation  not fraud. So 
it seems to me that Avivas decision to take legal action to recover its own costs is both 
unfair and unjustified. Im upholding this part of the complaint.
Putting things right
To put things right Aviva should:Return to Miss B any money shes paid towards Avivas costs. As Aviva unfairly 
deprived her of the use of this money, it must add interest at the statutory rate to any 
refund. 
The interest should be calculated at 8% simple per annum on each payment from the 
date of payment to the date of refund. Aviva will likely deduct tax, as required by 
HMRC, from the interest before paying Miss B. Miss B might be able to claim that 
back from HMRC, so Aviva must give Miss B a certificate of tax deducted if she asks 
for one.
Remove any references to fraud from industry databases, and also any references to 
any associated declined claim. The notice of cancellation for careless 
misrepresentation can fairly remain.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Aviva Insurance Limited must now refund 
to Miss B any payments shes made plus interest as outlined above. It must also remove any 
reference to fraud and the claim from the relevant databases. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 October 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman