DRN-1143389
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr and Mrs K hold with Bank of 
Scotland plc. They believe the balance is incorrect, and that Halifax has mis-recorded some 
transactions from September 2018.
What happened
Our investigator explained that Halifax had altered its accounting procedures on instruction 
from the regulator, and he didnt think Mr and Mrs K had suffered any detriment as a result. 
He said it was up to them to have the account audited if they thought otherwise. 
Mr and Mrs K asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority. We deal with individual disputes between businesses and their 
customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Lenders generally agree to put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but 
they dont have to and we cant force them to. On this occasion, Halifax wasnt prepared to 
do that, and Im not going to say that it should have done. For the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to have that power would seriously undermine our impartiality between the parties to 
a complaint. It would also create the potential risk of consumers abusing our service by 
making complaints with the intention to obstruct businesses that were trying to take 
legitimate action to recover money owed to them.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for much the same overall reasons. 
Mr and Mrs K want us to find that theyve been financially disadvantaged by accounting 
errors, but they need to do more than simply say they dont agree with their statements. Its 
not our job to make their case for them or indeed look to see if they even have one. If Mr and 
Mrs K truly believe Halifax has made accounting errors to their detriment, they need to 
obtain an independent audit at their own cost and present that in support of their case.
That should not come as a surprise to them; I said as much in a final decision I issued in 
March 2015 on a not-dissimilar complaint that they brought in 2014. I also see that an ombudsman colleague made precisely the same point in a final decision in August 2019 on 
another complaint. 
I dont underestimate Mr and Mrs Ks determination in this matter, but theyve now received 
several decisions issued by us saying largely the same thing. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman