DRN-4269345
The complaint
Miss C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC was irresponsible in its lending to her. 
What happened
Miss C was provided with a £9,200 loan in 2018. The loan was repayable over 84 months 
with monthly repayments of around £186. Miss C says that she has five children, three with 
additional needs and that the loan repayments arent affordable. She says she is having to 
borrow to make her repayments. 
Lloyds issued a final response letter not upholding Miss Cs complaint. It said that when 
Miss C applied for the loan it carried out credit and affordability checks. It said Miss C 
provided her monthly income and share of housing costs and it used this along with the 
information from the credit reference agencies and an estimate of living costs to assess 
Miss Cs costs. It said Miss C passed its checks and so the loan was provided. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. Although she thought further verification should 
have taken place of Miss Cs income and expenses before the loan was provided, she 
thought that had this happened it wouldnt have changed the decision that the loan was 
affordable.
Miss C didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she was borrowing every month to 
make her repayments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, Lloyds was required to undertake reasonable creditworthiness 
and affordability checks. There is not a specific set of checks that are required and what is 
proportionate depends on things like  but not limited to  the size of the loan, the 
repayments, what the lender knew about the consumer, and the things the consumer told it 
about their circumstances.
In this case, as part of the application process Miss C was asked about her income and 
housing costs. She is recorded as being a homemaker with four dependents with a monthly 
income of £1,272 and no housing costs. Lloyds carried out a credit check which showed 
Miss C had no accounts in default or county court judgements. Her total unsecured credit 
commitments at the time were £724. 
I do not find that the credit search raised concerns about Miss Cs financial situation. But, 
considering the size of the loan and its term against Miss Cs income, that she had four 
dependents and there being no amount included for housing costs in the application, I think 
further checks should have taken place to verify Miss Cs income and expenses to ensure 
the repayments would be affordable.
I have looked through Miss Cs bank statements from the months leading up to the loan. 
These show she was receiving regular income from benefits and child maintenance. The 
income was in line with the amount she had declared on her application form. I have looked 
through her account statements and Miss C was maintaining her account and I cannot see 
any evidence of payments for housing costs. There are payments for utilities, 
communications and towards another credit commitment. However, taking these into 
account against Miss Cs income I do not find I can say the repayments of around £186 
should have been considered unaffordable.
I also note that Miss C raised concerns about the interest rate charged on the loan. Lloyds 
has explained how the interest rate is applied to the loan balance and that the interest has 
been applied correctly. I have nothing to suggest this isnt the case. Therefore, I do not 
uphold this part of her complaint.
I understand my decision will be disappointing for Miss C but having considered the 
evidence that would have been available through further checks at the time of application, I 
do not find I can say Lloyds was wrong to provide the loan. I note Miss Cs comments about 
struggling to make her repayments. If Miss C is struggling financially, she should contact 
Lloyds and we would expect it to treat her positively and sympathetically. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman