DRN-2442803
The complaint
Q complains Paymentsense Limited (Paymentsense) have charged various fees for services 
they never requested.
What happened
Q says on reviewing their invoices it noticed charges had been levied by Paymentsense for 
an ecommerce facility and additional fees for PCI (Payment Card Industry) non-compliance. 
Q says when they applied for the merchant service facility they only requested cardholder 
present as the card acceptance method and also made clear in their application they did not 
accept transactions over the internet. Q says they have also been charged fees for PCI non-
compliance and they were never made aware of these from Paymentsense. As a result, Q 
have requested all fees relating to both the ecommerce facility and the PCI non-compliance 
fees to be refunded.
Paymentsense says Q signed agreements for both online and cardholder present facilities 
and PCI fees are mandatory for all customers, and these were discussed with Q, with 
several emails sent to them detailing these. Paymentsense have agreed to refund the 
ecommerce and phone validation fees as a gesture of goodwill as this service hadnt been 
utilised by Q. Paymentsense felt they had done nothing wrong and Q should still pay any of 
the other fees charged. 
 Q werent happy with Paymentsenses response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at all the information available and upheld Qs complaint. The 
investigator felt that Q had never applied for an online ecommerce facility and it was clear 
from the application forms completed by Q. While the investigator accepted agreements had 
been signed by Q, it was not clear these related to two different services. The investigator 
says Paymentsense should refund any fees charged to Q relating to the ecommerce facility 
including any associated PCI compliance charges. He did agree that the PCI compliance 
fees relating to the cardholder present facility should remain. 
Paymentsense werent happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can understand it would be frustrating and upsetting for Q to see charges levied on their 
account with Paymentsense for a facility they say they never asked for and never used. 
When considering this complaint, I have looked at whether Paymentsense acted fairly when 
charging Q for the ecommerce facility and PCI compliance fees. 
What happened here was Q opened a merchant service facility with Paymentsense. Q says 
when reviewing their costs around 12 months later they noticed they had been charged for 
PCI compliance fees and fees relating to an ecommerce facility, which would enable them to 
take customer card payments online. Q says they werent made aware of the need for the 
compliance and any fees associated with this and importantly when they made an 
application for the merchant service facility with Paymentsense, they only asked for a 
cardholder present facility. Paymentsense on the other hand says they have signed 
agreements by Q and says the PCI compliance fees are clear and mandatory for all its 
customers and are detailed in the signed agreements. Paymentsense have agreed to refund 
part of the fees charged to Q for the ecommerce facility and phone validation as a gesture of 
goodwill, given these hadnt been used by Q, although the associated PCI compliance fees 
should stand. 
Paymentsense, have provided information to this service and say two separate applications 
and contract agreements forms have been signed by an official of Q. Paymentsense also 
suggest that in one application it details a web address for Q and two agreements have been 
signed by Q, so Q cant say they didnt know about the ecommerce facility for the additional 
outlet. Paymentsense also point out they have sent various emails and held telephone 
conversations with Q regarding the PCI compliance fees and fines, so they would be aware 
of these. Q says they never requested any online facility and the director signed the 
agreement based on the application they completed  being for cardholder present only 
arrangement. Q didnt feel they understood the fees or the need for the compliance and  it 
was never explained to them by Paymentsense.
I have considered what both parties have said here and understand the points they have 
made.  
What is important here is whether Q, when applying for the facilities with Paymentsense 
requested the facilities they were given. From the information provided to this service, by 
Paymentsense, I have seen one application form completed by Q  in this application it does 
clearly state the card acceptance method was to be cardholder present and not ecommerce. 
When asked the question in the application form will you or do you accept transactions over 
the internet they ticked a box saying no. Paymentsense says there are two application 
forms completed by Q, one for cardholder present and one for ecommerce, but they havent 
produced any evidence for the latter other than their own additional outlet form which isnt 
an application form nor is it signed by Q. Furthermore, from the application form I have seen 
completed by Q it has no mention of a web address as a means of conducting business, as 
suggested by Paymentsense. 
That said, Paymentsense have provided this service with two signed merchant agreements, 
one of the agreements headers refers to a mobile terminal and the other header is blank- its 
fair to say these have been signed by Q and one agreement refers to charges for 
ecommerce. I have considered this, but like the investigator, I am satisfied these are 
identical in layout and theres nothing immediately apparent to differentiate these or identify 
clearly, they relate to two different facilities. What is important to say, is when Q made their 
application it was clear they didnt want ecommerce facilities or ever intended using them, 
born out by the fact they never did. So, on balance I am satisfied when they received the 
documents these were accepted in good faith by Q, expecting Paymentsense to have 
delivered the documentation to match the application they completed. For this reason, I 
support the investigators view its reasonable that Q couldnt have been expecting to sign for 
something they never wanted. I think to some degree Paymentsense have recognised this 
and have agreed to refund the ecommerce fees and some phone validation fees. I dont feel 
this goes far enough as any fees associated with the ecommerce facility should be refunded 
as this isnt a facility they ever asked for. As far as the PCI non-compliance fees are concerned, I do feel there was enough evidence 
provided by Paymentsense to show Q should have been aware of their responsibilities here 
and what costs were associated with that and the fines that could be attributable if they didnt 
comply. I say this as not only was it documented as Paymentsense have indicated, several 
emails over a reasonable period of time were sent to Q, so I cant say that they wouldnt 
have been aware of this, however, these fees should only be charged for the cardholder 
present facility and not the ecommerce facility for the reasons I have already explained. 
While Paymentsense will be disappointed with my decision, I uphold Qs complaint.
Putting things right
I instruct Paymentsense Limited to refund all charges, including any PCI compliance fees, 
attributable to Qs ecommerce facility. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Paymentsense Limited to refund all charges, including any PCI compliance fees, 
attributable to Qs ecommerce facility.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman