DRN-3126573
The complaint
Mr R is unhappy that a car supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
In December 2019, Mr R was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. The agreement was for £30,940 over 49 months; with 48 monthly 
repayments of £571.68 and a final payment of £13,068.75. At the time, the car was around 
three years and nine months old and had done 50,869 miles.
In April 2020 Mr R raised several issues about the car  he said there was a DPF fault, a 
parking brake light fault, a leak from the engine that was causing misfires, and the alloy 
wheels were flaking. He was also unhappy with the service the dealership had provided. But, 
after obtaining a report from an independent engineer, Santander said they didnt think the 
faults were present or developing when the car was supplied to Mr R.
Mr R wasnt happy with Santanders response, and he brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said that there were faults with the car. But he said that the independent 
engineer thought these were as a result of wear and tear  Mr R had done almost 8,000 
miles in the car before the main issues emerged, and a health check in October 2019 didnt 
show any faults that werent repaired at the time. He also thought that Santander had acted 
reasonably by defaulting the account when Mr R stopped making payments. So, he didnt 
think that they needed to do anything more.
Mr R didnt agree with the investigator. He said that the dealership failed to service the car 
before they supplied it to him, and only did a health check instead. And he thinks that, 
because the coolant level decreased between the health check and him raising the issues, 
this shows that there was a fault with the car.
Mr R also said that he reported the faults within the first six months so, under the Consumer 
Rights Act 2015 (CRA), its not for him to show that the car was faulty on supply  this is the 
responsibility of Santander and the dealership. He also said that the faults were noted 
immediately, not after 8,000 miles, and asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mr R was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The CRA says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory quality 
when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, Santander are responsible. Whats 
satisfactory is determined by things such as what a reasonable person would consider 
satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In a case like this, 
this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and the vehicles 
history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must last a 
reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified 
after the first six months, its for Mr R to show that it was present when the car was supplied. 
So, if I thought the car was faulty when Mr R took possession of it, and this made the car not 
of a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Ive seen a copy of the report done by an independent engineer on 17 June 2020. At the 
time of the inspection the car had done 58,369 miles  7,500 miles more than when it was 
supplied to Mr R. The engineer said that the coolant expansion bottle was empty, there was 
a drop in pressure in the cooling system, but there was no visible leak. Although there was a 
coolant level warning light illuminated on the dashboard.
The engineer also said that, although the engine had a heavy misfire, the DPF warning light 
wasnt illuminated, the brake lights werent faulty, and the alloy wheels showed signs of 
kerbing damage. The engineer concluded by saying on the balance of probability, the faults 
were not developing at finance inception. 
The engineer also explained that his duty was to the courts, which over-rides any obligation 
he had to whomever instructed and/or paid him. On this basis, Im satisfied that the contents 
of this report are reasonable to rely on.
Ive seen a copy of the inspection done on the car, by the dealership, on 21 September 
2019. At the time the car had done 50,870 miles. This report shows that the dealership 
replaced brake discs, pads and sensors, replaced a wiper blade, and topped up the diesel 
exhaust fluid. And Ive also seen that the Vehicle Health Check, carried out on 2 October 
2019 confirmed that the coolant level was checked.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that the coolant level on the car was above the 
minimum required at the point the car was supplied to Mr R, although Ive seen nothing that 
shows me it was topped up to full when the health check was done. And, at some point in 
the first 7,500 miles the car was driven by Mr R, the coolant level reduced to the point where 
the coolant level warning light came on.
The independent engineer has said theres no evidence of a leak in the cooling system, so 
Im satisfied that its more likely than not that the coolant level reduced from being above the 
minimum to being below the minimum during the time Mr R drove the car, as a result of 
normal operation, given the age and mileage of the car.Had there been a fault with the cooling system, or with anything else (for example, 
something that was causing the engine to misfire), this wouldve been identified during the 
health check, and fixed alongside the issues with the brakes and sensors. So, because this 
didnt happen, and for the other reasons stated above, Im satisfied that the faults Mr R 
experienced with the car in April 2020 werent present when the car was supplied.
Im aware that Mr R says the faults with the car were apparent shortly after supply. But I 
havent seen anything that shows me he complained to either the dealership or Santander 
before May 2020. At which point the car had travelled around 7,500 miles since supply.
Given all of the above, Im therefore satisfied that the car was of a satisfactory quality when 
supplied to Mr R. And, under the CRA, Santander dont need to take any further action.
With regards to the other issues raised by Mr R; the dealership shouldve been in 
possession of the V5C document, not Santander. And the car had been serviced within 12-
months of it being supplied to Mr R, and it had had a full health check performed just before 
supply. Ive seen nothing that shows me Santander will only finance a vehicle if its been 
recently serviced. So, Im satisfied that the failure to provide the V5C, and the failure to 
service the car immediately before it was supplied to Mr R, are issues relating to the 
dealership. And I wont be asking Santander to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Santander Consumer (UK) 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman