DRN-2748220
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn).  
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2021. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst I currently agree that this car has not been of satisfactory quality I dont currently
agree with the redress that the investigator has suggested. Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.
was the car of satisfactory quality?
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the supplier of the car, are
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here
was around seven years old and had completed about 70,000 miles. So, I think a reasonable
person would expect some wear and tear to be present.
But I dont think a reasonable person would consider a car, even of this age and mileage, to
be of an acceptable quality if there was a fault with the gearbox developing that would be
expensive to resolve.
The relevant legislation says that if a fault happens after more than six months it is to be
assumed the fault wasnt present at the point the car was supplied, unless the consumer can
demonstrate otherwise.
Mr M has referred us to a manufacturers recall (34F7 and 34H5) but Moneybarn have
explained theres nothing listed for this make and model of car on the government website. I
think Mr M may be referring to a non-code action which is an issue registered with the
Driver Vehicle Standards Agency (DVSA) thats outside of a recall but if not attended to
could result in a safety issue. Having said that, I have reviewed the DVSAs non code action
bulletin for 2013 when Mr Ms car was first registered and theres no mention of any non-
code actions for this make and model of car.
But the relevant legislation also asks us to consider if a car has proven to be suitably durable
when we consider whether it has been of satisfactory quality and here I dont think this car
has proven to be suitably durable. I think a reasonable person would expect a cars gearbox
to last more than 84,000 miles.
So, I think its likely this car was of unsatisfactory quality when supplied as it likely it had a
known fault.
what do Moneybarn need to do to put things right?
I agree with some of the actions the investigator proposed.
The relevant legislation allows the business an opportunity to repair a fault present at the
point of supply. So, Id agree that Moneybarn will need to do that.
Mr M hasnt been able to use the car since September 2019 so its not fair to expect him to
pay finance instalments towards it. Id therefore agree with the investigator that any
instalments paid since the car failed in September 2019 should be refunded and, as Mr M
has been deprived of that money, Moneybarn should add 8% to that refund.
Its clear Mr M has been inconvenienced by these issues. Hes had to take his car to be
repaired; uncover information about a recall; arrange an alternative vehicle when a courtesy
car wasnt provided, and hes had to escalate his complaint to this service when I think it
could have been dealt with earlier. In those circumstances I would agree with the
investigator that Moneybarn should pay him £350 in compensation.
Its often the case that dealerships provide courtesy cars when consumers put their cars in
for repair. When that happens, this service would usually tell the business to refund monthly 
payments made whilst the car is being repaired but may allow the business to retain some,
or all, of that refund in return for keeping the consumer mobile.
But here Mr M has arranged a new finance deal for an alternative car. So, he should be
refunded for the car he isnt able to use but not for the car he is using as a replacement. That
would not be fair as he would be getting use of a car for free. So, I disagree with the
investigator here and Im expecting to ask the business to refund the finance instalments but
not the money Mr M has paid towards his new car.
The investigator has suggested that Moneybarn should pay for a courtesy car whilst Mr Ms
is being repaired. This clearly wont be necessary as Mr M now has an alternative vehicle.
But Moneybarn should continue to refund any finance instalments Mr M pays whilst hes
waiting for his car to be repaired and returned to him.
Mr M has told us he is expecting to move home in March 2021. If he needs to move before
this complaint is settled Moneybarn will need to refund any costs Mr M incurs transporting
the car to his new home. Theyll need to add 8% interest to that refund from the date Mr M
paid it to the date of settlement.It may well be that the cost to repair the car is prohibitive and Moneybarn may wish to allow
Mr M to reject the car instead. If thats the case I would be asking them to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund any deposit Mr M may have paid and add 8% interest per year to that refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund all finance instalments paid since September 2019 and add 8% interest per
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £350 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im expecting to tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to either:
repair the car;
refund all finance instalments paid from September 2019 until the car is fixed and
add 8% interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement;
pay Mr M £350 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund any costs associated with transporting the car to Mr Ms new address and add
8% interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of
settlement.
Or:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund any deposit Mr M may have paid and add 8% interest per year to that refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund all finance instalments paid since September 2019 and add 8% interest per
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
pay Mr M £350 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund any costs associated with transporting the car to Mr Ms new address and add
8% interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn didnt provide any further evidence for me to look at within the deadline I set but 
Mr M did.
He accepted the provisional decision and he explained that, as he had another car now, his 
preference would be to not have two live agreements and to therefore have this agreement 
ended.  
Putting things right
Ive thought about what Mr M has said and Ive thought about whether it would be fair to allow Moneybarn to make the decision whether to repair or allow the rejection of the car. 
Mr M has been waiting a long time to have his complaint resolved and I dont think it would 
be fair for him to have to wait any longer whilst Moneybarn reach a further decision on which 
of my provisional actions to adopt. 
The car was supplied in December 2018 for a cash price of £7,599 and will have depreciated 
in value since then. The gearbox quote I have seen from January 2020 suggests the cost to 
repair the gearbox is in the region of £7,249 and I think that suggests a repair wouldnt be 
cost effective.
So, I think the fairest resolution would be to allow Mr M to reject the car. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Moneybarn No. 1 Limited 
to:
end the finance agreement;
collect the car at no cost to Mr M;
refund any deposit Mr M may have paid and add 8% interest per year to that refund
from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
refund all finance instalments paid since September 2019 and add 8% interest per
year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
pay Mr M £350 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes
experienced;
refund any costs associated with transporting the car to Mr Ms new address and add
8% interest per year to that refund from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman