DRN-3661890
The complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc have unfairly refused to refund over £5,000 to his 
credit card that he lost as part of an investment scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr B paid over £5,000 from his Barclays credit card to a scam 
investment broker Jones Mutual. This was spread over two transactions of £1037.74 and 
£4150.95 that were paid on 15 February 2019.
Barclays refused to refund the payments, however, as Mr B had authorised them. It also said 
that a section 75 claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 would not succeed as it didnt 
think there was a valid debtor  creditor  supplier (DCS) link. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Barclays had sufficiently demonstrated 
a break in the DCS link and thought Mr B would have a valid claim under section 75 for 
misrepresentation. As a result, he thought Barclays should refund the money. Barclays 
disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the reasons set 
out below. 
In order for a section 75 claim to succeed, there must be:
1. a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling under section 12(b) or 12(c); and
2. a transaction financed by the agreement; and
3. a claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract related to that transaction; 
4. but not a claim which relates to any single item which the supplier has attached a 
cash price below £100 or in excess of £30,000
Debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS) agreement
Barclays says the charges on the account are listed as being paid to 538936739901, Accra 
to a payee in Ghana, and says it questions whether this was to a money transfer service 
instead of being sent directly to the fraudulent merchant. It says it needs further evidence 
that a DCS link has been established. 
However, Im not persuaded the link has been broken. Mr B has provided evidence to show 
that Jones Mutual were able to confirm whether or not the payment had gone through when 
he was attempting to pay them, which would suggest the payments were being made 
directly to the merchant. Barclays has also not been able to demonstrate that the payee was 
in fact a money transfer service as opposed to a payment processor, for example (which 
would not break the DCS link as the involvement of a payment processor simply creates a 
four-party agreement). 
As such, based on what little Barclays have provided, Im not persuaded there is anything 
here that breaks the debtor-creditor-supplier chain between Mr B (the debtor), Barclays (the 
creditor) and the merchant (Jones Mutual). It also doesnt appear to be in dispute that there 
was a transaction financed by the agreement in these circumstances. Indeed, if Mr B had not 
used his credit card he wouldve had to find the cash from his own resources to fund the 
transactions. So, Im satisfied the transactions were financed by the agreement as required 
by the Act  which were also over £100 but less than £30,000  such that section 75 does 
apply to the credit card transactions. Ive therefore considered whether Mr B has a valid 
claim for misrepresentation or breach of contract.
Misrepresentation
I consider that Mr B has made a claim of misrepresentation by the merchant  that claim 
being that it represented to him it was a legitimate enterprise when this was not the case.
For a claim of misrepresentation to be successful its necessary to show not just a false 
statement of fact but also that the statement induced Mr B into entering into an agreement. 
(i) A false statement of fact
Based on Mr Bs account of events and the evidence he has provided  as well as the 
warnings issued by the FCA  theres a strong basis for concluding that the merchant was 
not operating with legitimate intentions. Im satisfied that the merchant was not likely to be 
operating a legitimate enterprise, i.e. one in which Mr B could have ever received back more 
money than he deposited. It therefore follows that any statements made by the merchant to 
the contrary are likely to be a misrepresentation.
This includes being told that everything he invested would be matched by the broker. They 
also said that at the end of a trial period he would be able to take every penny from his 
investment as well as any profits, which he was not able to do by the time he asked to 
withdraw his money. 
The mere suggestion that Mr B could make or withdraw money from Jones Mutuals 
investment platform is likely to suffice as entailing, by necessary implication, a statement of 
fact by the merchant that it operated a legitimate business, i.e. a legitimate trading platform 
on which investors could profitably trade. And, Im satisfied that based on Mr Bs account of 
events (and emails sent between the two parties), the merchant did claim that he could have 
made money from the trading platform.
(ii) That induced him into entering the agreement
If Mr B had known that the trading platform he was using was essentially a scam designed to 
steal the investors money, theres little doubt that he would not have proceeded with his 
investment with Jones Mutual, meaning he was therefore induced into the contract on the 
basis of these misrepresentations.
Therefore, Im satisfied Jones Mutual has made a misrepresentation to Mr B, such that he 
would have a valid section 75 claim. 
Consequential lossesIve also considered whether Mr B has a valid claim against Barclays for the loss he incurred 
through the international transaction fees that were charged as a result of the credit card 
transactions. Where a person has been fraudulently induced to enter into a transaction 
through misrepresentation, they are entitled to recover from the wrongdoer all the damage 
directly flowing from that transaction (so long as it was the direct consequence of said 
transaction).
In Mr Bs case, if the transactions had not occurred, the transaction fees would not have 
occurred. The transaction fees can therefore be considered a direct consequence of the 
transactions. And given the payments were made outside of the UK, its foreseeable that a 
bank used by Mr B to make the deposits would attach a fee for converting the payment. So, 
Im satisfied Mr Bs payment of the transaction fees were a consequential loss also caused 
by the misrepresentation.
In summary, Im satisfied Mr B has a valid section 75 claim on the grounds that the merchant 
made a series of misrepresentations, namely that it was operating a legitimate enterprise 
and that Mr B could access his money freely and earn a profit from his transactions. Im also 
satisfied the transaction fees meet the test for consequential loss in misrepresentation, as 
they wouldnt have been incurred but for the transactions. It was also a direct and 
foreseeable loss as a result of the transactions. 
Given that Mr B has a claim for misrepresentation, I dont consider it necessary to determine 
whether he would also have a claim for breach of contract (given the former also tends to 
provide the highest sum of redress with consequential losses). I also dont consider it 
necessary to determine whether the bank ought to have also prevented the transactions 
from being made as a result of suspecting fraud. Barclays should therefore put Mr B back 
into the position he wouldve been had the transactions not been entered into. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to:
Refund the disputed transactions;
Refund the associated transaction fees;
Pay 8% interest on those sums from the date they were paid by Mr B to the date of 
settlement;
If Barclays deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it should provide 
Mr B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman