DRN-2972788
The complaint
Mr K and Ms O complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont return over-payments theyve made 
to their joint mortgage.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here in detail. Instead, Ill give a brief summary and then focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Mr K and Ms O took the mortgage out in 2008; since that time theyve made extensive use of 
a term in the mortgage that allows them to pay more than the contractual amount in order to 
reduce the balance more quickly. Recently, Mr K and Ms O asked HSBC to return the 
accumulated overpayments; they want to use the money to repay other debts that attract 
higher interest rates. HSBC refused; Mr K and Ms O thinks thats unfair.
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file, Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
We have no regulatory function here; thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. That means I dont have to address every individual question or issue 
thats been raised if I dont think it changes the outcome.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the following conclusions.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. Its not about imbalances in negotiating 
power or HSBC taking a unilateral decision for its own benefit. HSBC hasnt treated Mr K 
and Ms O unfairly; it has simply declined their request to do something for which there is, 
and never was, any provision in the mortgage contract. 
Under the terms of the mortgage contract Mr K and Ms O entered into with HSBC, they can 
make overpayments that permanently reduce their debt. What they cant do under that 
contract is, to all intents and purposes, treat the mortgage as a revolving credit facility.
A comment in an email Mr K and Ms O sent us on 1 May 2021 reveals a fundamental 
misunderstanding on their part. They said: This is not a request for compensation it is a 
request for money that is ours that we overpaid to be refunded. But this isnt, and never 
was, Mr K and Ms Os money to be refunded. It is HSBCs money, that Mr K and Ms O 
borrowed and then paid back more quickly than they needed to. What they are actually 
asking HSBC to do is lend that money to them again. HSBC has said they can apply to do 
that, subject to meeting its current lending criteria. Thats perfectly fair and reasonable.
I make one further observation. Mr K and Ms O have said they may use the historic 
overpayments to offset future payments; if I understand them correctly, that means they will 
allow future payments to go unpaid. As I said earlier, the overpayments have permanently 
reduced the capital balance; they havent created a pre-paid credit that can be used to 
offset future under- (or non-) payments. What would happen if Mr K and Ms O missed future 
payments, is that the mortgage would go into arrears. Mr K and Ms O might want to get 
some advice of their own before doing that.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 September 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman