DRN-2521152
The complaint
Mr Z is unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) didnt do more to locate and 
contact him, after his original investment matured and the proceeds were put in a fund that 
he didnt select. He is also unhappy with the performance, management and charges of this 
fund.
What happened
In 1999 Mr Z invested £7,000 into the Guaranteed Fund with Aviva. The investment had a 
five-year term and matured in March 2004.
Aviva say they wrote to Mr Z in advance of this in September 2002. They say they explained 
that Mr Z needed to decide where he wanted the proceeds to go and that if he didnt select 
anywhere, the investment would automatically go into the Secure Growth Fund (now called 
the Deposit Fund). Aviva say this is the option that was taken as Mr Z didnt respond to them 
in 2002 or at the time of maturity.
Mr Z has said that he lost track of this investment for some time and Aviva say that he was 
marked as gone away in 2008 after an annual statement was returned to them. In 2019, 
upon finally having contact with Aviva finding out the value of the investment, he complained 
to Aviva. He was unhappy that they hadnt done more to locate and contact him sooner. He 
was also unhappy with the performance of the investment, citing poor management and 
unfair charges. 
Aviva responded to say that the proceeds had gone into the Secure Growth Fund in line with 
the terms and conditions, as Mr Z hadnt responded to them. They also said they had acted 
reasonably when applying a gone away marker and that they couldnt locate Mr Z until a 
new system trace was done in 2019. They also tried to explain the factors impacting the poor 
performance of the fund and why they felt the charges were fair. 
Mr Z remained unhappy and brought the case to our service for an independent review. 
However, the investigator didnt feel that Aviva had done anything wrong. She said the 
investment proceeds and tracing of Mr Z had both been administered properly. She also 
explained why she couldnt uphold a complaint for an investment performing poorly. As no 
agreement was reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same outcome as the investigator. Ill explain why.
I am satisfied that Aviva gave Mr Z notice prior to his investment maturing, that he needed to 
select what he wanted to do with the proceeds. I am satisfied that this also let Mr Z know, 
that if he didnt select an option, the default would be the fund now known as the        
Deposit Fund  this is the normal process in these circumstances. 
This notice seemed to come 18 months prior to the investment maturing. Normally I would 
expect another reminder to be sent to a customer a couple of months before the policy 
matured, but Aviva havent been able to evidence this was done. Nevertheless, I am still 
satisfied that Mr Z was given enough notice and from his contact with the business in 2004 
and 2005 regarding accessing the funds, I am satisfied he knew where his funds were 
invested following maturity. 
It appears a gone away marker was applied to Mr Zs account once post had been returned 
undelivered to Aviva in 2008. Whilst this is common practice and avoids account information 
potentially being delivered to third parties, I would still expect Aviva to make some attempts 
to restore contact with Mr Z. Aviva say they did so every three years through a trace method, 
but that Mr Z wasnt located. This was until 2019 when a new trace system was used and Mr 
Z was contacted. Mr Z has acknowledged that he failed to update his address with Aviva and 
that is why contact was lost and that he then lost track of this investment. 
Unfortunately, Aviva havent been able to provide me with any evidence to show these 
traces were completed or the results of them. However, they have explained this is due to 
the time that has passed and that the previous trace system is no longer in use. I am 
satisfied with that reasoning and on a balance, I think it is more likely than not that traces 
were completed for Mr Z and thats why a trace was completed in 2019. I have asked why he 
was located then and not previously. Aviva have said that the new system has different 
methods and information and so it was possible it could produce a different result to previous 
traces. 
Mr Z is also unhappy with the annual management charges and performance of the deposit 
fund, where he remained invested for approximately fifteen years. I want to say that I 
understand Mr Zs frustration. His money did very little in this time, in a fund that I dont 
suppose is intended as a long-term investment and is usually transferred out of after a short 
period of time. 
However, I havent found that Aviva have done anything wrong with the management of this 
fund. As a Deposit Fund it will carry little risk and so there may be less potential for growth. 
Aviva have also pointed to market downturns as having affected its performance. An annual 
charge was also taken in line with policy conditions. But it was Mr Zs responsibility to inform 
Aviva if he wanted to move or surrender this investment.
In summary, I dont think Aviva did anything wrong. Whilst I understand this must have been 
very frustrating for Mr Z, I am satisfied that Aviva did enough to try and trace him. This 
situation is very unfortunate and I sympathise with Mr Z but he was aware the proceeds went 
to the Deposit Fund after maturity having been in contact with Aviva soon after, and I dont 
believe it is Avivas fault that they remained there for so long. 
My final decisionMy final decision, for the reasons set out above, is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2022.
 
Yoni Smith
Ombudsman