DRN-2830348
The complaint
Mr C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest):
doesnt have clear information on its payment transfer screens about the daily 
transfer limit, or that other methods of payment will allow higher sums to be 
paid, and that premier account holders have a higher limit; and
doesnt have clear information that faster payments sent on a non-working 
day take longer to reach the recipient account; and
the online digital assistant Cora is presented as a colleague, which could 
mislead people into believing it is a real member of staff. 
What happened
The details of this this complaint are well known to both parties and the facts are not in 
dispute, so I wont repeat them in full here. The key findings by the investigator were:
She was satisfied there was clear information on NatWests website about the daily 
online transfer limit and that other methods for transferring higher sums was 
explained. She was also satisfied NatWest wasnt being unreasonable in having a 
limit, or different limits, for different types of account.
Although NatWest accepted the information on its website could have been clearer 
the payment did leave the account immediately and arrive with the destination 
account the same day  there wasnt a delay of two days in the funds reaching the 
account. 
How NatWest presents Cora is a business decision for it. 
Mr C has asked for the matter to be reviewed as he believes the information provided by the 
bank is inadequate, amounting to misinformation which needs correction.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only summarised the findings and arguments above, I would like to reassure 
both parties that I have read and considered everything provided. Having done so, I agree 
with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied NatWest does provide clear information on its website about the online 
daily limits. This information is found in the making payments and transfers section 
of the online banking pages. Im not persuaded someone has to go hunting for this 
information in order to find it. 
Mr C appears to be aware that higher amounts of money can be spent/transferred by 
using his card as he has done this on several occasions. That Visa, or any other 
card scheme, has higher limits is not the responsibility of NatWest. And in the same 
web area as mentioned above, information is provided about what to do if a 
customer wishes to transfer more than the daily limit. So Im satisfied this information 
is available to customers.
 I have considered Mr Cs point that the limit should be put on the transfer page. 
Whilst I understand Mr Cs desire for this, I have already found that information is 
clearly set out elsewhere. 
Mr C is unhappy that different daily limits apply to different types of account. 
However, what offering a bank decides to make to a customer, and on what terms, is 
a matter for it, and not something I would generally interfere with. Given premier 
customers have to meet set criteria to hold such an account, and how those 
accounts are operated and managed by customers often means larger sums of 
money is transferred into and out of them, it isnt unusual for daily limits to be higher; 
its typical of many different banks that offer premier style accounts. And any limit 
set is part of a suite of measures to protect customers against fraud. I dont find any 
basis on which to conclude its unfair or unreasonable for different types of account 
to have different features, including daily online transfer limits. 
NatWest has provided evidence that the faster payment Mr C made left the account 
immediately. Im not persuaded there is anything mis-leading about saying payments 
can be made 24/7, as they can. And the website explains payments made using this 
method after 6.30pm Monday  Friday, weekends or bank holidays will still be sent 
immediately but will show on any statement as the next working day. Im satisfied 
this clearly sets out the payment will be sent immediately. If the payment wasnt 
showing as received by the recipient bank until the next working day, that might be 
something Mr C wishes to take up with it. Nevertheless, I understand NatWest has 
passed on the feedback, which I find to be reasonable and I dont require it to do 
anymore. 
That Cora is a digital assistant is set out NatWests website. And I note that when 
pressing the Ask Cora button, once connected Cora starts the conversation by 
explaining the functionality is one of a digital assistant. Im not persuaded there is 
anything misleading about that, even if Cora does refer to passing a query onto 
colleagues where applicable.  
For these reasons, I dont find the bank did anything wrong and I dont uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 July 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman