DRN-3380782
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that charges and fees were continually added to her overdraft when she 
says it should have been clear to National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) that the 
overdraft wasnt sustainable.
What happened
Miss J complained to NatWest that it never monitored her overdraft usage and account and 
that it should have intervened as her overdraft was unsustainable. NatWest says that there 
were no obvious signs of financial difficulty and that all charges were applied correctly in line 
with the terms and conditions of the account and that no bank error had been made.
One of our adjudicators looked into her concerns and reached the conclusion NatWest 
hadnt done anything wrong or treated Miss J unfairly and so didnt recommend the 
complaint be upheld. Miss J disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman 
for a final decision. 
Why I think we can only look at part of your complaint
The rules applying to this service say that, I cant look at a complaint made more than six 
years after the event being complained about  or (if later) more than three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(2)  which can be found online in the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys handbook.
Miss J raised her complaint in February 2022 in relation to her overdraft dating back 10 
years. Six years before she raised her complaint is February 2016. And as Miss J wouldve 
been aware of how she was using her overdraft and her limit from when she was granted it, I 
think Miss J ought to have known enough to decide whether it was sustainable and the 
charges NatWest applied were unfair or causing financial difficulty. So, I dont think that 
three years from when she ought to be reasonably aware she had reason to complaint 
provides Miss J with a longer period than the six year rule. So, I will only be looking at Miss 
Js overdraft usage and charges applied from February 2022.
I can still look into Miss Js complaint about her overdraft outside this time if Im satisfied the 
failure to complain earlier was due to exceptional circumstances. Miss J has told us that 
although she knew she was in financial difficulty over the years she never knew that 
NatWest had done anything wrong by allowing her to continue with the overdraft or that she 
might have reason to complaint. 
In coming to my decision I have to be fair to both Miss J and NatWest and what I have to 
decide is whether I think the circumstances outlined by Miss J wouldve prevented her from 
referring her complaint earlier had she chosen to do so.
I have thought carefully about everything she has told us about her circumstances during
the relevant period. But despite Miss Js admission that she knew she was in financial 
difficulty at no point did she contact NatWest about this. And not knowing she could 
complain isnt something that prevented her from doing so or something I would usually 
consider exceptional circumstances. 
I understand why referring the complaint may not have been a priority for Miss J. But I think 
she still could have referred her complaint about the overdraft usage or have contacted 
NatWest about her situation before she did especially as it only takes an email or telephone 
call to do so.
And as such I dont think that exceptional circumstances apply so I am unable to look at Miss 
Js overdraft and the charges applied to it before February 2016.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Js complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
Miss J has said that NatWest should have continued to apply fees to her account when it 
was clear she wasnt using her overdraft in the manner it should have been used and that 
she was heavily reliant on it to survive.  Just to be clear I havent considered whether the 
various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided  as Miss J has already acknowledged 
how much a bank charges for services is a commercial decision and not something we get 
involved with. 
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests various charging structures per se, it wont 
have acted fairly and reasonably towards Miss J if it applied any interest, fees and charges 
to Miss Js account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
have been aware Miss J was experiencing financial difficulty and that her overdraft was 
unsustainable.
So Ive considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Miss J fairly 
and reasonably. I dont think that NatWest did treat Miss J unfairly or unreasonably here 
though. I say this because having a detailed look at Miss Js statements from February 2016  
I dont think there was enough to suggest that NatWest ought to have realised she might 
have been experiencing financial difficulty or that her overdraft wasnt sustainable.
Whilst I accept that Miss J was at the top of her in overdraft limit at the start of the period 
looked at, shed never gone over her limit or had any unpaid transactions and was receiving 
a regular healthy salary which overall was bringing her overdraft down every month. And 
while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements over Miss Js expenditure, 
nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and 
discretionary transactions. 
And I can see in September 2016 Miss J managed to pay off her overdraft completely. 
Following this Miss J again went on to use her overdraft and has a pattern of going in and 
out of overdraft and that there were some months where the account didnt see a credit 
balance. But use of an overdraft by itself isnt enough - I think  to say that NatWest ought to 
have stepped in.
And from April 2018 Miss J received a large credit of over £130k allowing her to again pay 
off her overdraft and by June she had over £300k. It matters not what the source of these 
funds were, just that from the information NatWest had available to it, there wasnt enough to say it ought to have known Miss J was in financial difficulty and that her overdraft wasnt 
sustainable. 
So, in these circumstances I dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to proceed 
with adding the interest, fees and charges it did in light of how Miss Js account was being 
used. 
Overall and having considered everything, I dont think that NatWest treated Miss J unfairly 
or unreasonably and this means that Im not upholding this complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss J. But I hope she understands the 
reasons for my decision and that she feels her concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman