DRN-3341646
The complaint
Mrs R complains about the level of service received from U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
following a claim against her motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs R was involved in an incident on 30 October 2021, so she raised a claim. She says she 
contacted UKI by phone but was directed by an automated message to register the claim 
online. UKI says the call took place out of hours over the weekend, and claims registered 
online generally take 24 to 48 hours to be received. Mrs R says she was unaware of this. 
After doing this, Mrs R says she didnt hear back from UKI, so she contacted them by phone 
on 1 November 2021. She says she made numerous attempts and spoke to different 
departments before an agent tried to transfer her call, but the line disconnected. Mrs R says 
she was on the phone for an hour and felt the agent had purposefully disconnected the call. 
UKI didnt think this was the case but fed back to the agent involved. 
Mrs R says she explained her circumstances and why it was important UKI arranged a 
courtesy car for her as soon as possible. She says she is the carer for three family members 
and being mobile is essential. 
UKI recorded the claim on 1 November 2021 and say they didnt instruct the third-party 
company to organise the hire car until 2 November 2021. Mrs R received the courtesy car 
the following day, on 3 November 2021. 
Mrs R wasnt happy with the level of service received or delays experienced, so she 
complained. UKI responded and upheld it. They paid Mrs R £25 compensation for the call 
that was dropped, and a further £75 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Mrs R didnt agree and approached our service. 
An investigator here considered the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He 
considered the way UKI handled things and the impact this had on Mrs R, given her 
circumstances, and felt a further £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused was due. 
Mrs R agreed, but UKI didnt. They say they caused only a short delay in Mrs R receiving a 
courtesy car, and felt the compensation amount they originally offered was fair and 
reasonable. They asked for an ombudsman to decide, and the case was passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Rs policy entitled her to a courtesy car whilst her own was being repaired. Also, in 
certain circumstances, she would have been entitled to claim travel expenses up to £50 per 
day. 
UKI say they didnt speak to Mrs R on the Saturday when she first reported the claim, and 
therefore, they were unable to communicate this benefit to her, whilst she awaited a courtesy 
car. Mrs R says UKI only informed her about this benefit on 2 November 2021. 
I accept UKI couldnt have communicated this to Mrs R on the Saturday. However, it isnt 
disputed Mrs R contacted UKI for updates on 1 November 2021 and had explained the 
importance of being able to get around. I accept theres a responsibility on a policyholder to 
check the policy to ensure they understand the level of cover held. However, given the 
circumstances Mrs R says she explained, on balance I do think had UKI communicated this 
to Mrs R on 1 November 2021, this could have mitigated some of her concerns regarding 
her ability to travel to fulfil her caring responsibilities. 
Ive also seen the instruction from UKI to the third-party car hire company didnt happen until 
2 November 2021. At this point, Mrs R had reported the claim twice, explained the reasons 
why receiving a courtesy car promptly was important, and had received poor customer 
service, amongst other things. 
I do accept UKI acknowledged the level of service provided to Mrs R could have been much 
better, which caused her to experience a level of distress and inconvenience  over and 
above whats naturally expected following a claim. In some circumstances Id agree UKI 
made reasonable attempts to put matters right. However, in Mrs Rs case, its evident it was 
important she had the ability to be mobile, and overall, I do think UKI could have done more 
to mitigate her concerns in this respect. So, its for this reason, and the direct impact on Mrs 
R, that I also consider a further £100 payment for any distress and inconvenience caused to 
be fair, reasonable, and proportionate here. 
Putting things right
Due to the way things were handled and the impact on Mrs R, UKI must pay her a further 
£100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive mentioned above, my final decision is I uphold it. I now require U K 
Insurance Limited to pay Mrs R £100 compensation for any distress and inconvenience 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman