DRN-2907435
The complaint
Mr M complains Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) automatically 
renewed his roadside assistance policy without telling him.
What happened
Mr M took out roadside assistance with AA on 25 March 2020. The policy automatically 
renewed on 9 April 2021. 
Mr M says the renewal of his policy was done without his authority as they didnt tell him an 
automatic renewal was in place, nor did they send him any renewal documents. Mr M says 
he always shops around for the best deal, and because of the renewal premium coming out 
without his knowledge he was put into financial difficulties. So, he complained to AA.
AA said Mr M bought the roadside assistance policy on a comparison site, and this said the 
policy would be automatically renewed. They said they couldnt find any evidence Mr M had 
specifically asked for the policy not to automatically renew. And they said renewal 
documents were sent to Mr Ms current address on 14 February 2021. So, they didnt think 
theyd done anything wrong. But when Mr M got in touch on 14 April 2021, they refunded the 
cost of the policy.
Mr M wasnt happy with this and asked us to look into things.
One of our investigators did so. She found based on the information provided Mr M had 
agreed to the automatic renewal in March 2020 and was sent confirmation by AA his 
renewal was happening in February 2021. Because of that, she didnt uphold his complaint.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigator. He reiterated hed never received the email or letter 
AA said theyd sent him telling him about the automatic renewal of the policy. So, the 
complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to determine in this case is whether AA have made any errors leading to a loss 
for Mr M. To do that, I need to be sure theyve provided him with enough information to make 
him aware what was going to happen with his policy.
I can see from the information provided Mr M signed up through a price comparison website 
for his cover with AA. Once this had been paid AA wrote to Mr M. This was on 25 March 
2020, and in it, AA said:
We will automatically renew your membership next year using the Continuous Annual 
Payment details you supplied us for future renewal payments
And AA said they wrote out to Mr M at his current address on 14 February 2021. Ive seen a 
copy of that letter and, as they said, it is correctly addressed to Mr M and it tells him that his 
renewal is due on 9 April 2021.
Mr M has said he didnt receive either of these contacts. But from the information Ive 
received I can see AA did send them to Mr M. Why he didnt get them I cant say, but I cant 
hold AA responsible unless theyve made an error  and I cant see they have.
When Mr M got in touch, AA refunded the cost of the policy. I note hes said it took longer 
than they said it would, but as I find they didnt make an error in taking the money then I 
dont think itd be reasonable to expect them to cover the costs Mr M has said he incurred.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman