DRN-1769529
The complaint
Mr W complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited set up his order on the wrong 
payment terms.
 
Shop Direct trade as Very.
 
What happened
In August 2019 Mr W ordered a washing machine. Before making payment, he was 
presented with two options, buy now, or buy now pay later. He says he selected the buy now 
pay later option, but he now has a statement which is showing he was given the take three 
option instead, meaning the cost would be spread equally over three months. This is leading 
to a higher cost which he cannot afford.
 
Mr W complains that:
 
Shop direct had issues with their telephone and he hasnt been able to get through. 
He thinks they may have blocked his number.  
That the buy now pay later option was selected at the time of purchasing the washing 
machine, not the take three option. 
Our investigator was initially of the opinion that it was likely Mr W had opted for buy now pay 
later. He reviewed the order history and could see what Mr W had clicked on and when. To 
him, it looked as though the order was completed at around 6pm. At the same time, on the 
same day, he could see that Mr W had clicked on a buy now pay later page and had then 
continued from that page.
 
He felt Shop Direct should pay Mr W £200 for the trouble and upset caused. He also asked 
that they transfer the amount of debt onto buy now pay later terms, from the date of the 
order, should Mr W wish for them to do so. 
Shop Direct provided screen shots showing what their internal records would look like had 
Mr W selected the buy now pay later option. Our investigator compared them to the records 
for Mr W, and this changed his opinion. As the record wasnt the same, he decided that 
Mr W couldnt have selected the buy now pay later option before making payment and said 
that Shop Direct didnt need to do anything further. 
Shop Direct checked their systems and couldnt find any records of any calls being made 
from the number on Mr Ws account and explained they dont have the ability to block 
customer numbers.
Mr W didnt agree and so his complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read through everything provided, Im sorry to disappoint Mr W, but I agree with the 
investigator for the same reasons. I will explain why.
 
Shop Direct have explained that when a purchase is being made, there is an option to select 
buy now pay later before making payment. The page will list what items are available for buy 
now pay later, and a customer will need to click on a specific button to select it.
 
They have shown what the process would look like if a customer clicked on the necessary 
buttons to select buy now pay later. It looks like this:
 
They have also sent us history of the transaction process that Mr W followed on the day he 
purchased the washing machine. It looked like this:
 
Comparing the two, I can see that the top one includes a click which confirms that buy now 
pay later has been selected, whereas the bottom one doesnt. Because of this, I think its 
most likely Mr W looked at the items available for buy now pay later but didnt actually select 
the buy now pay later option for the washing machine when making the purchase.
 
I understand Mr W has said that we shouldnt rely on screenshots. I note his comments, but 
we would expect a business to send screenshots of the process followed when a purchase 
is completed, so we can get a good idea of what happened.
 
Because of this, I wont be asking Shop Direct to compensate Mr W or change his payment 
plan over to a buy now pay later one. 
Overall, Im satisfied Mr W didnt select the buy now pay later option for the washing 
machine, meaning he now needs to make the payments Shop Direct are asking for.
In relation to how Mr W is managing his payments, I can see that two payment freezes were 
applied to Mr Ws account from May  October 2020.
 
A hold was also placed on the account in October for three months. This is the kind of 
support I would expect Shop Direct to apply when someone is experiencing financial 
difficulties.
From what I can see no other hold or freeze has been applied since this one ended. 
However if Mr W is finding it difficult to make payments, he and Shop Direct should work 
together to come to an arrangement where he is able to make payment without getting into 
any further financial difficulty. 
Mr W has suggested that Shop Direct have blocked his telephone number as he has been 
unable to get through to them by phone. Shop Direct says they havent been able to find any 
evidence of this being the case. Ive thought about this, but I understand Mr W has been 
able to speak with them more recently. So overall, I havent seen enough to say his number 
has been blocked. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman