DRN-2026993
 
The complaint
Mr M is representing the estate of the late Mr S. Hes complaining about The Royal London 
Mutual Insurance Society Limited (Royal London) following its response to a claim on Mr 
Ss life insurance policies. Hes unhappy with the amount paid and that errors were made in 
calculating the amount due.
What happened
In 1927 and 1936, two non-profit whole-of-life insurance policies were taken out in Mr Ss 
name with Royal Liver (now Royal London). They were designed to pay out on his death 
whenever that occurred. In 1968, the policies became paid-up and premiums stopped.
Sadly, Mr S recently passed away. Mr M found details of his policies and contacted Royal 
London. Initially it said it had no record of them. But when Mr M provided copies of what hed 
found, Royal London then sent him payment of the claim value.
Royal London didnt accept Mr Ms complaint, saying it had paid what was owed under the 
policies. But it did identify the amended policy sums assured may have been miscalculated 
in 1968 and made an additional payment to cover this.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He was satisfied Royal London 
had paid out what it was required to. Mr M didnt accept the adjudicators assessment and 
asked for the case to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before going any further, I offer Mr M my condolences for his loss at what I realise must still 
be a difficult time.
Mr M has made extensive submissions and Ive read these carefully. But I havent tried to 
address every single point raised in this decision. Ive instead concentrated on the key 
issues that I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
I think its also relevant at this point to explain that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt 
the industry regulator. That means we dont set the rules for businesses or police the 
industry to make sure these are followed. It also means I dont have the power to fine or 
punish a business for not complying with relevant rules and regulations. My role is instead to 
consider individual disputes and reach what I consider to be a fair and reasonable outcome 
in the circumstances of each case. Where I consider a business hasnt acted appropriately, 
the principal aim of any award I make is to return the consumer to the financial position 
theyd be in if it had acted as it should.The documentation available on this case is very limited and thats not surprising given how 
long it is since the policies were set up and any premiums were paid. The fact Royal London 
had no record of them could indicate the policies were cashed by Mr S several years ago 
and were no longer in place at the time he died. But in the absence of any evidence to 
confirm that, Royal London considered the claim as though the policies had remained in 
place.
Mr M has referred to the policies as funeral plans, but its important to understand this wasnt 
their stated purpose and there was no commitment on Royal Londons part to pay out 
enough for Mr Ss funeral. The policies also werent investments. Instead, they were what is 
known as non-profit whole-of-life insurance policies. Under the terms of this type of policy, 
the insurer agrees to pay the policyholder a fixed amount (the sum assured) on death in 
exchange for the payment of a regular premium during their lifetime.
The documentation provided showed the policies were made paid-up in 1968, after which no 
premiums would have been payable. Because premiums were stopping earlier than had 
been envisaged when the policies were set up, Royal London reduced the amount that 
would be payable when he died. The documentation shows the sums assured on the 
policies were reduced to £7 and £9. I understand the total of the premiums paid into the two 
policies up to this point was around £14.
So, the commitment under the policies, as established when they were made paid-up in 
1968, was that Royal London would pay a total of £16 on Mr Ss death whenever that 
occurred. Crucially, there was no commitment to increase this amount in any way. The terms 
of the arrangement were set out in the documents Mr M discovered and Ive no reason to 
think Mr S wasnt happy to proceed on that basis at the time.
Royal London has said that, historically, it sometimes added a discretionary bonus payment 
when a claim was made on this type of policy. But that it took the decision in 2011 to stop 
this practice and says it wrote to policyholders at the time to explain this. I cant be sure 
whether Mr S received this information, but either way, it didnt change the fact that the only 
amount guaranteed under the policies on his death was £16 as set out in 1968.
When Mr M questioned the amount paid with Royal London, its actuaries checked the 
figures quoted from 1968 and concluded the sums assured may have been wrongly 
calculated at the time and should instead have been £9 and £12, a combined total of £21. It 
then made payment of an additional £5.
Taking everything into account, I think the evidence indicates Royal London has paid out the 
correct amount under the policies. I understand why Mr S says he has no confidence in 
Royal London, but Ive seen nothing to show a higher amount is due. Its unfortunate an 
error seems to have been made when premiums were stopped in 1968, but Im pleased to 
see Royal London has identified and addressed it. 
I realise the amount paid out by the policies is very low, but that does reflect the value of the 
premiums paid and also the fact none have been paid for more than 50 years. These 
amounts would have been worth considerably more in real terms at the time the policies 
were taken and when premiums were stopped in 1968. But because the policies were non-
profit and didnt attract bonuses, their real value was always going to be reduced by inflation 
throughout the remainder of Mr Ss life.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M and isnt what he was 
hoping to hear. But for the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied Royal London has paid out 
the amount it was required to under the policies. I hope the additional explanation Ive 
provided at least helps him understand how Ive reached that decision.From some of his earlier correspondence, it looks like Mr M may not have cashed the 
cheques issued by Royal London in payment of the claims. If thats still the case, and the 
cheques are now out of date, he should contact Royal London directly for a replacement if 
he now wants to accept the money.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
James Biles
Ombudsman