DRN-3095103
The complaint
Miss O complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, overcharged 
her on her flexible account, and was unable to explain why when she asked.
What happened
Miss O has two accounts with Very. One is a buy now pay later (BNPL) account, on which 
no interest is charged if the items purchased on that account are paid for by a particular 
deadline. The other is a flexible account, on which all non-BNPL purchases appear, and on 
which interest is charged. Not everything qualifies for BNPL.
Miss O says that Very kept asking her to make monthly payments on her flexible account 
even after she had cleared her balance. She says she phoned Very in December 2019 and 
twice in January 2020 to ask why, but nobody could tell her why. She complained, and Very 
sent her a letter in which it told her that some of her purchases had not qualified for BNPL 
and so these had been charged to her flexible account instead. It was these items (and also 
one BNPL order which she had not paid for on time) for which she was being charged.
Being dissatisfied with that answer, Miss O brought this complaint to our service. But our 
investigator did not uphold it. He accepted Verys explanation. Miss O asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold it. The evidence Very has provided makes it clear that not 
every purchase qualifies for BNPL, and its screenshots of the online checkout process 
demonstrate that it is made clear to customers at the time of purchase which items qualify 
and which do not. Verys contact note show that this was explained to Miss O in a phone call 
she made on 8 January 2020, so I cannot accept that nobody was able to tell her why she 
still had to make payments on her flexible account. 
I have seen no evidence which suggests that Very has made a mistake, or that the 
outstanding balance on the flexible account is wrong.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 November 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman