DRN-3757536
The complaint
Mrs G has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) cancelled the life 
policy she held jointly with her late husband, because they said Mr G hadnt completed the 
health and lifestyle questions accurately when they bought it.  And they declined Mrs Gs 
claim following Mr Gs death.
What happened
In May 2018, Mr and Mrs G bought a joint life and critical illness policy.  They each 
answered a number of medical, health and lifestyle questions.  Based on the answers they 
gave, Aviva offered immediate cover.
In November 2020, Mr G was very sadly killed in an accident.  Aviva were notified and sent 
claim forms to Mrs G.  Because of the circumstances of Mr Gs death, the coroner had 
completed a report.  Aviva obtained a copy.
The report confirmed Mr G had died of injuries sustained in the accident.  But it also 
recorded the presence of cocaine in his blood.  This led Aviva to make enquiries with Mr Gs 
GP.
The GP records Aviva received showed Mr G had an appointment in early February 2019 
because he wanted help in relation to his cocaine use.  The locum doctor he saw recorded 
that hed been using the drug daily for six months in the previous year, but that had reduced, 
and Mr G hadnt used it at all for two weeks before the appointment.
On the basis of this information, Aviva said Mr G hadnt answered the application questions 
accurately.  They said, if theyd known about his cocaine use, they wouldnt have offered him 
the policy.  
Aviva confirmed that, because of this, they wouldnt accept the claim.  They cancelled the 
policy and refunded the premiums paid to Mrs G.
Mrs G complained about Avivas decision.  Aviva considered the complaint but didnt change 
their conclusion.  They said Mr G had been asked a clear question about using recreational 
drugs and, if theyd been aware of his cocaine use, they wouldnt have offered him cover.  
And that cancelling the policy was in line with the ABIs Code of Best Practice for 
Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly and the relevant legislation.
Mrs G wasnt satisfied with Avivas conclusion and brought her complaint to us.  Once it was 
allocated, an investigator asked Aviva to provide information to help them consider the 
complaint.  When Aviva replied, they acknowledged that they had delayed in administering 
the claim and offered Mrs G £300 compensation for those delays.  Mrs G rejected the offer 
and said she wanted us to review the complaint.
Our investigator did this and concluded Aviva didnt need to do more than theyd already 
offered to resolve the complaint. She recommended Mrs G accept the £300 offered for 
delays.  
She said it was fair for Aviva to review Mr Gs medical records, having been alerted by the 
coroners report to the presence of cocaine.  And she thought the conclusion Aviva drew 
from his GPs records that he was using it at the time he applied for the policy was 
reasonable.  So she was satisfied there had been a misrepresentation within the meaning of 
the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) and that Aviva 
had dealt with that in line with CIDRA.
Mrs G didnt agree with our investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im upholding Mrs Gs complaint  but only to the extent of the delays 
Aviva have identified.  I dont think they need to do anything more in relation to their decision 
not to pay the claim.  I know this will distress Mrs G and Im sorry about that.  Ill explain my 
reasons.
I can see Mrs G has said she doesnt understand why Aviva have looked at Mr Gs cocaine 
use, because that wasnt what caused his death.  Thats true.  But Avivas decision isnt 
related to the cause of death.  Its about the fact they say that, if theyd known Mr G used 
cocaine, theyd never have offered him cover.  They say he misrepresented the true position.
The relevant law in cases of misrepresentation is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies, provided the 
misrepresentation is what CIDRA describes as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be a 
qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms - or not at all - if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Aviva say that, in his application, Mr G was asked:
During the last 5 years, have you used any of the following:
(Recreational drugs (other than cannabis), for example cocaine, ecstasy, heroin etc.), 
(Stimulants, sedatives, tranquillisers or anabolic steroids that have not been prescribed by a 
doctor),(Methadone)
They said Mr G failed to take reasonable care when he answered no to this question.  He 
should have answered yes because his GPs notes indicate he was regularly using cocaine 
at the time.
The GPs note for an appointment in early February 2019  nine months after Mr and Mrs G 
applied for the policy - says:
Nondependent cocaine abuse hx [history] cocaine use past year  used daily 6/12, now 
only weekend use.Mrs G has said this doesnt show her late husband was using cocaine at the time of the 
application.  She supplied a copy of a letter her surgery provided following Mr Gs death, 
which confirmed he had an appointment in February 2019 about cocaine abuse over the 
previous year.  The GP subsequently sent a letter asking the reader to disregard over the 
previous year.
Ive thought carefully about this.  And the evidence I find most persuasive is the 
contemporaneous note of the appointment, which Ive set out above.  I think its clear that 
refers to use dating back over the previous year, ie, to February 2018.  I think its unfair to 
say this note should be displaced by the later, corrected, letter - which was written by 
another doctor at the practice, not the one who saw Mr G.
It follows that Im satisfied Mr G didnt take reasonable care answering the questions in the 
application form and made a misrepresentation.  Aviva have shown that, if hed answered 
yes to the question above, theyd have declined cover at that time.  So Im satisfied there 
was a qualifying misrepresentation.  
CIDRA sets out what steps a business should take in relation to a qualifying 
misrepresentation, depending on whether its careless, reckless, or deliberate.  Aviva have 
treated the misrepresentation as careless, cancelled the policy and returned the premiums.  I 
think thats fair here.  I appreciate that Mrs G may not have known Mr Gs answers were 
inaccurate.  But this was a joint policy.  So its fair for Aviva to base their decisions on the 
answers he gave.
And, while I dont think Aviva need to do anything different in relation to the claim being 
declined and the policy cancelled, I can see they identified some periods of delay in reaching 
that conclusion.  Theyve offered Mrs G £300 compensation for this.  I think this is fair for the 
delays Aviva have identified and they should now pay Mrs G this sum.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding the complaint Mrs G has made against Aviva 
Life & Pensions UK Limited and directing Aviva to pay her £300 for their delays in 
processing her claim. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and the 
estate of Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 9 February 2023.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman