DRN-3319884
The complaint
Mr C complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited trading as Curtis Banks Pensions (Curtis 
Banks) has made changes to his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) including 
increased charges and a requirement to keep a minimum of £5,000 in cash.
What happened
Mr C has had a SIPP with Curtis Banks for around 10 years. There is a commercial property 
held within the SIPP and the rent from that property provides a pension income for him.
Mr C made a previous complaint about increased charges. We looked into that complaint in 
2018 and our investigator didnt think it was fair for Curtis Banks to introduce those increases 
as Mr C had not been given adequate notice of them. The investigator said Curtis Banks 
should refund the additional fees that had been charged, together with interest. And she said 
if Mr C decided to change to a different SIPP provider he should be refunded the reasonable 
costs of doing that, together with £300 compensation for his trouble.
Curtis Banks accepted that it should have provided clearer information before making the 
changes, agreed to the recommendations, and refunded the extra fees to Mr C. He didnt 
move to a different provider and so the other recommendations did not need to be followed.
In August 2019, Curtis Banks wrote to Mr C advising him of changes to his SIPP 
investments and fees. Mr C was referred to their website for copies of the Schedule of Fees. 
A letter was also sent to his financial adviser.
Mr C was unhappy and complained about this. Curtis Banks issued a final response in 
January 2020 saying:
It was aware of our findings in 2018 about the previous increase, but the issue then 
was that it should have given notice of the fee increase.
This wasnt the same situation, as it had given written notice explaining the changes.
Our 2018 findings didnt affect its right to make changes to the fee structure in the 
future.
Mr C was given the opportunity to transfer his SIPP free of charge in 2018 and again 
in 2019 when they introduced the new fee structure, but he didnt do this.
Mr C was still unhappy. Curtis Banks issued a further response in March 2020 maintaining 
its position that our findings in 2018 didnt mean it lost the right to review fees at any point in 
the future.
Mr C then brought his complaint to this service. He said Curtis Banks wasnt complying with 
the recommendations from the previous complaint, the intention of which was to provide him 
with some ongoing relief, which he expected to be increased in line with indexation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She said the findings from the 
previous complaint referred to the way Curtis Banks had increased its fees on that occasion 
and didnt mean it could never increase them. It had refunded the previous fees in line with 
the recommendation, and when increasing the fees in 2019 had given a written explanation 
in advance.
Mr C didnt agree. And he said hed made a further complaint about the way Curtis Banks 
was managing the SIPP. He was unhappy a minimum balance of £5,000 had to be kept as 
cash.
The investigator raised this issue with Curtis Banks who agreed it could be dealt with as part 
of this investigation. It said the terms and conditions allow it to request that clients maintain a 
minimum cash balance of £5,000, where they hold a commercial property investment within 
their SIPP, to make sure theres enough cash in the clients property account to assist with 
ongoing needs, such as paying fees and any third party costs.
The investigator said the terms and conditions did allow for a cash balance of £5,000 to be  
maintained but Mr C disagreed. He said:
This term specifically says it only applies at the point of investment. His investment 
was set up over 10 years ago and he wont be adding to it.
The property produces a rental income which forms the basis of his pension income. 
Curtis Banks are taking money from this income but this is wrong, as these are not 
investment funds.
Its one thing to set aside a small sum from an investment and a completely different 
thing to divert his pension income to achieve the same result.
Our investigator didnt agree and said there was a need to hold cash funds in any event. So 
Mr C requested an ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint. I didnt think the complaint should be upheld 
and set out my reasons for this as follows:
Increases in charges
In the previous complaint, our investigator didnt say Curtis Banks was not allowed to make 
any changes  rather that the way it had introduced those changes wasnt fair. And so it 
didnt necessarily mean Curtis Banks could never make any changes. Looking at the terms 
and conditions, I agree with that approach.
The terms and conditions say:
We may increase our fees in line with the increase to the Average Weekly Earnings (AWE) 
or equivalent successor index, rounded to the nearest £1. If we do not increase a fee in any 
year, we may base the next increase on the change to the AWE since the last increase in 
that fee.
We may make other increases or changes to our fees by amending these terms.
Where these terms are to be amended we will give you as much notice as is reasonably 
possible in the circumstances, which will generally be at least 30 days written notice.
The terms set out various circumstances in which amendments can be made, the final one 
being:
g. where we have any other valid reason for doing so.
If the change we make under Paragraph 25.2(g) has a significant unfavourable effect on 
your rights under your SIPP and you do not accept the changes, we will waive our transfer out fees provided you return a completed discharge form within 3 months of receiving notice 
of the amended term. You will be responsible for any other costs.
I think its clear from the terms and conditions that Curtis Banks can make changes to its 
fees from time to time. And it would be reasonable for that to happen too  bearing in mind 
that accounts may be held for many years (Mr Cs SIPP has been in place for over 10 years) 
it wouldnt be reasonable to expect that the fees can never be increased, or that he should 
still be paying the same level of fees that were charged 10 years ago. But before any 
changes are made, written notice is to be given. And where this has a significant 
unfavourable effect, Mr C can then choose to move his SIPP to another provider without any 
transfer out fee.
The findings of our previous investigation acknowledged this; the issue then was not the fact 
that changes were made, but that Mr C wasnt given proper notice in advance. And the 
recommendation included that he should be able to move his SIPP without charge. Those 
findings dont prevent Curtis Banks from making further changes, as long as these are 
introduced correctly. I note also that Curtis Banks advised Mr C in 2018 that it reserved the 
right to make further changes in future, but would provide written notice if that happened.
In 2019, Curtis Banks sent written notice in advance of the increases. I think the information 
was clear and so Mr C was aware in good time of the proposed changes. He was also given 
a refund of the previous charges, in line with the recommendations made in the previous 
complaint, and the option to transfer his SIPP.
Taking all of this into account I dont think this aspect of the complaint should be upheld.
Cash balance
The terms and conditions say:
For the effective operation of your SIPP:
a. we require you, at the time of making an investment or on transferring money to an 
investment manager, to maintain a minimum balance of £1,000 (or £5,000 if you have a 
property investment)
Based on this, Curtis Banks can require a minimum balance of £5,000 to be held where  as 
in this case  theres a property investment. However, the term specifically says this is at 
the time of making an investment or on transferring money to an investment manager So 
I agree that the term only applies at the point where an investment is being made.
Mr C points out that the investment in the property was made many years ago and he hasnt 
added to it since. So I cant see how this term applies in his circumstances. And I dont think 
its fair to take money from his pension income and divert it in this way, where the terms and 
conditions dont allow for that.
I appreciate, of course, there will be a need to keep some funds in cash to pay for fees and 
other outgoings. But I dont think the way this term is worded allows Curtis Banks to insist on 
a minimum balance of £5,000.
Having said that, Curtis Banks says it has agreed to only hold a minimum balance of £1,000 
 and in fact has reduced this further to £570, to allow the maximum amount of rent to be 
transferred to Mr Cs SIPP to cover his ongoing pension payments. That seems fair to me. 
And if it is not insisting on keeping a balance of £5,000 then it doesnt appear that Mr C has 
suffered any loss or harm in relation to this.For these reasons, while I dont think Curtis Banks can insist on a minimum balance of 
£5,000 in Mr Cs circumstances, if it is not in fact doing so then theres no further action 
needed.
Curtis Banks says if at any time costs become due and theres not enough in the cash 
balance to cover these, it may request funds to cover these. I think thats fair.
It could also potentially change the terms and conditions to allow for an increase in the 
minimum cash balance in future. It would need to do that in accordance with the terms and 
conditions, and with appropriate notice given in advance. And if Mr C wishes to, he can then 
transfer his SIPP in line with the terms and conditions.
Replies to the provisional decision
Curtis Banks says it has nothing further to add, but notes the comments regarding the 
amount to be held in cash and the wording of the terms and conditions.
Mr C does not accept the provisional decision. He says:
He has never suggested Curtis Banks couldnt increase its fees, only that they should 
be reasonable. The provisional decision focuses on Curtis Banks right to increase its 
fees (which he doesnt dispute) rather than the amount of the increase, which is too 
high and is unreasonable.
He would welcome increases in line with indexation.
Whether Curtis Banks gives adequate notice and justification for increases now wont 
affect the fact it didnt justify the huge increases originally made and the findings of 
his previous complaint only corrected this for less than two years.
With regard to the cash balance, the provisional decision confirms his reading of the 
terms that this can only be done at the point of investment  as that is clear, in civil 
law thats the end of the matter and fairness doesnt come into it. So its not possible 
to argue there are extenuating circumstances.
The reality is that he is permanently losing the use of £1,140 which Curtis Banks has 
no right to, so there is a financial loss.
Mr C has also provided some comments from his financial adviser, who has been assisting 
him with this matter. These include:
Curtis Banks issued a blanket document to customers regardless of Mr Cs 
previously negotiated position; they would have expected a phone call or 
personalised correspondence sympathetically outlining the decision to increase his  
fees significantly and perhaps an offer to soften the amount of the increase.
The offer to move the SIPP wasnt really an offer to move without charge, as legal 
fees would be required to transfer ownership of the properties and there would still be 
administration fees.
The prohibitive cost of moving away means Mr C is subject to future increase in costs 
that cant be justified by failing service levels. 
Its wrong to suggest Curtis Banks has agreed to only hold a balance of £1,000 or 
has reduced this further to £570. It has imposed a minimum balance of £1,140 on the 
SIPP (two lots of £570). That is £1,140 that Mr C cant receive as income, and that 
can only be viewed as a loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Increases in charges
Mr C doesnt dispute that Curtis Bank may increase charges, but says the amount of the 
increase is unfair  hed welcome increases in line with indexation. The terms and conditions 
refer to increases in line with inflation and Curtis Banks may make such increases each 
year. But the terms dont say it can only make increases in line with indexation; they 
specifically say other changes can be made  provided that:
Curtis Banks gives proper notice of the change; and 
where changes are made under Paragraph 25.2(g) which have a significant 
unfavourable effect and Mr C doesnt accept the changes, it will waive the transfer 
out fees provided a completed discharge form is returned within 3 months of 
receiving notice.
So provided Curtis Banks complies with these requirements it can make other changes. And 
as I explained in the provisional decision, Im satisfied that it did so on this occasion. I 
appreciate Mr C thinks the fees are too high. But the amount of fees a business charges is a 
legitimate business decision for it to make; its not for me to say what it should charge for its 
services.
Mr Cs financial adviser has suggested there should have been a personalised approach for 
him. But these changes affected customers as a whole. In these circumstances I think it was 
fair to notify all customers of the changes, providing the same information to everyone 
affected. I dont think it would be fair to expect Curtis Banks to treat Mr C more favourably 
than other customers.
Cash balance
In my provisional decision I said the terms only allow the cash balance of £5,000 to be done 
at the point of investment. Mr C says as this is clear, in civil law thats the end of the matter, 
and fairness doesnt come into it. But even if that is the position as set out in the terms, Im 
required to make a decision based on my judgment of whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case. So while I take account of the law, I must also take account of 
relevant rules and guidance, good industry practice and any other relevant circumstances. 
If a relatively modest amount of cash is being held to cover expenses, I think thats fair. I 
appreciate Mr C says that deprives him of income. But its a relatively modest amount and 
its common practice to hold a cash balance in this way. And if fees or charges are due, Mr C 
would be required to pay these in any event. 
Looking at the particular circumstances here, it remains my view that the way Curtis Banks is 
currently dealing with this is fair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman