DRN-3405237
The complaint
Mr N complains about the actions of Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited in respect of his 
mortgage with it after he became bankrupt. He says it:
- Unfairly tried to pursue him for the outstanding debt. 
- Incorrectly applied a second default to the mortgage account in 2019.
- Failed in its duties whilst selling a repossessed property as it was undersold. 
- Unfairly applied fees and charges to the account throughout the term of the 
mortgage.
What happened
In 2007, Mr N took out an interest only mortgage with Southern Pacific Mortgage Limited 
(SPML). The mortgage was for £391,000 (excluding additional fees to be added to the loan) 
with a term of 15 years. 
The mortgage has fallen into arrears several times over the term and in March 2019 Mr N 
decided to surrender the property. Before SPML could proceed with repossession and 
marketing the property, it needed Mr N to sign and return a Surrender of Property (SOP) 
form. 
SPML sent the SOP form on several occasions to Mr N. As SPML didnt receive the signed 
form and because the arrears had continued to increase, it started legal proceedings in 
November 2019. Mr N returned the SOP form in December 2019, so SPML cancelled legal 
proceedings and took possession of the property on 20 December 2019. 
The property sold for £305,000 in July 2020 leaving Mr N with a shortfall of £137,547.28. 
However, in August 2020 SPML wrote off the remaining shortfall debt.  
Mr N says he was declared bankrupt on 19 December 2008, at which point SPML registered 
a default for his mortgage account. When the property was repossessed in December 2019, 
Mr N says SPML applied a second default to the mortgage account which he says it 
shouldnt have done.  
Mr N says SPML pursued him for the mortgage debt after he had been made bankrupt. He 
says it shouldnt have done this as it is contrary to the Insolvency Act 1986. Therefore, he 
wants SPML to remove all history of the mortgage from his credit file and return all the 
money he was wrongly charged following his bankruptcy. 
Mr N is also unhappy that SPML tried to pursue him for the shortfall debt by making him sign 
a SOP form. He says he returned the form with parts redacted to ensure he wasnt 
responsible for the debt. Mr N also thinks that SPML undersold his property, failing in its 
duties whilst selling a repossessed property. 
Over the duration of the mortgage Mr N has had several different fees and charges applied 
to his account. Mr N says he would like the fees and charges refunded to him as he feels 
they were excessive and unfairly applied to the account.
SPML didnt think our service could consider all of Mr Ns complaint as some of it had been 
raised too late. Our Investigator agreed and explained to Mr N we could consider all of his 
complaint points with the exception of the fees and charges being applied over the duration 
of the mortgage. For this complaint point the Investigator only thought we could consider 
fees and charges applied to the account since July 2013. Mr N disagreed. 
An Ombudsman looked at the complaint and issued a decision setting out our jurisdiction on 
2 August 2021. They agreed with the Investigator that our service could only consider a 
complaint about fees and charges applied to the account from July 2013, as under the rules 
which the Financial Ombudsman Service operates under (specifically DISP 2.8.2 which 
deals with whether a complaint has been made in time), any complaint about fees and 
charges prior to July 2013 had been raised too late. The Ombudsman decided that all other 
complaint points were raised in time. 
Our Investigator considered the merits of the complaint and felt SPML hadnt treated Mr N 
fairly. They reviewed the fees and charges applied to Mr Ns account since July 2013 and 
felt SPML had incorrectly charged an arrears management fee in August 2018  they said 
this should be refunded to Mr N. They didnt think SPML had acted unreasonably by making 
Mr N sign a SOP form, or that it had undersold his property. They also thought SPML had 
correctly recorded a default on the mortgage account. 
Mr N disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. He disagreed that SPML had 
applied the default to his account correctly and didnt think the Investigator had taken into 
account the guidance released by the Information Commissioners Office on when a default 
should be registered.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 9 March 2022 where I said:
Firstly, I think it should be noted that Ive reviewed the previous Ombudsmans decision on 
what our service has powers to investigate and Ive seen nothing which makes me disagree 
with the outcome which they reached. With this in mind, my decision will only address any 
fees and charges applied to Mr Ns account since July 2013 - and his other three complaint 
points.   
I understand since the complaint has been raised with our service, Mr N has raised 
additional complaint points with our Investigator, and these have been referred to SPML to 
consider and respond to in the first instance. To be clear, I havent considered these 
additional complaint points as part of this decision. If Mr N remains unhappy with SPMLs 
response, he can (subject to our rules) refer these to our service. 
For ease, I will address Mr Ns complaint points in turn under separate headings. 
Unfairly pursuing the debt and incorrectly applying a second default to the mortgage
SPML has said that because Mr Ns mortgage was secured against the property it is exempt 
from any bankruptcy. Therefore, Mr N would remain liable for the debt and could continue to 
be pursued for it. It says a default wasnt registered on the account until it took possession in 
December 2019, which was correct. 
The Insolvency Act 1986 (The Act) covers both secured and unsecured debts. The main 
difference between the two types of debt is that most unsecured debts will be written off as 
there is no asset, or security, the creditor can take possession of to recover the debt. With a 
mortgage the lender can take possession of the property to repay some, or all, of the debt. 
This doesnt mean that secured debts dont fall within The Act, its just that the lender will have an additional level of security as there is a property which it can take possession of, 
meaning it doesnt just write off the debt. 
SPMLs right to enforce its security in the event of discharge from bankruptcy is preserved 
by The Act. However, The Act also says that where a bankrupt is discharged, the discharge 
releases the borrower from all the bankruptcy debts. In this case, this would mean that whilst 
SPML was able to enforce its security over the property, Mr N didnt need to pay the monthly 
instalments and SPML shouldnt pursue Mr N for payment or record the fact that monthly 
instalments have been missed on his credit file. However, the consequences of Mr N not 
making payments to the mortgage (even in bankruptcy) is that SPML can decide to take 
possession of the property  and its up to it when it starts that process. In this case SPML 
chose not to take possession of Mr Ns property as it came to an arrangement with him to 
continue to make the monthly payments. This is not unreasonable as it allowed Mr N to 
retain the property and stayed SPML from taking possession of it, which it was entitled to do.  
Whilst Mr Ns didnt necessarily need to pay the monthly instalments, SPML was still entitled 
to report the operation of the account to credit reference agencies. But it should have done 
so in the appropriate manner taking into account relevant rules and guidance. That guidance 
includes the Information Commissioners Offices (ICO) Principles for the Reporting of 
Arrears, Arrangements and Defaults at Credit Reference Agencies, which set out how a 
default should be recorded on a customers credit file in the event of bankruptcy. This says 
the mortgage account should have shown on Mr Ns credit file as defaulted at the date of his 
bankruptcy  and for six years after that  with the account being marked as partially settled 
from the date Mr N was discharged from bankruptcy. 
Whilst Mr Ns credit file shows other accounts as having defaulted, SPML recording Mr Ns 
mortgage as having missed payments and as having defaulted has unfairly impacted him. I 
say this because he has had adverse information recorded on his credit file for longer than 
he should have. I think this would have caused Mr N distress and inconvenience, so I think 
SPML should pay Mr N £100 to recognise this.
Mr N has also raised concerns about SPML trying to pursue him for the shortfall debt by 
making him sign a SOP form which said he would be liable for the debt. I can appreciate 
Mr Ns concerns here, especially considering what I have explained above about Mr Ns 
liability with regards to the debt. However, since selling the property SPML has written off the 
shortfall debt, explaining this was done because Mr N was made bankrupt and the shortfall 
would be included in the bankruptcy. This is what I would have expected SPML to do in the 
circumstances but I do think asking Mr N to sign the SOP form accepting liability for the debt 
was inappropriate and would have been distressing for Mr N, so I think SPML should pay 
Mr N £150 in recognition of this.  
Mr N has also argued that SPML should not have pursued him for the debt following his 
bankruptcy. He therefore wants all history of the mortgage removed from his credit file and 
SPML to return all the money he was wrongly charged following his bankruptcy. Whilst I 
agree that SPML should not have recorded any adverse information, such as missed 
monthly instalments, on Mr Ns credit file, I dont think that Mr N should fairly have all the 
money hes paid towards the mortgage since the bankruptcy returned to him. 
As explained, SPML is able to enforce its security over the property if it decides to, but 
equally it can choose not to do this if an arrangement to pay the mortgage can be agreed  
which is what happened in Mr Ns case. The arrangement Mr N agreed with SPML allowed 
him to keep the property until he voluntarily surrendered it, and I dont think its unreasonable 
that SPML accepted payments during this time. I say this because by making these 
payments Mr N retained the property. So, they were a condition of SPML not enforcing its 
security and taking possession of the property sooner. If Mr N hadnt made these payments, or if I were to require SPML to return them to him, he would effectively have had the property 
for free from 2008 to 2019. I dont consider that would represent a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances.
Sale of the Property 
Mr N has also said that he thinks SPML undersold his property. 
SPML had a duty to obtain the best possible price for the property. I would expect it to have 
balanced that against selling the property as quickly as possible  in order to keep the costs 
to Mr N to a minimum. Therefore, what I need to consider is whether SPMLs actions were 
reasonable when selling the property  and having reviewed everything I think they were. 
Following SPML taking possession of the property, I can see that it had two valuations 
completed on the property by two independent surveyors. These valued the property at 
£375,000 and £300,000, with each report commenting on the extensive work needed to the 
property. The auction reserve prices on the valuations were £350,000 and £250,000.
The monthly marketing report says that, after the property had been on the market for 118 
days, there had been a number of viewings with general feedback being that the property 
needed a lot of work. There is also mention of a dispute with the neighbours claiming that 
the garages for the property were built on their land  which was a reason for an offer being 
withdrawn. The property had received three offers ranging between £305,000 and £332,000, 
but two had been withdrawn leaving only the offer at £305,000. 
Against this background, I dont think SPMLs decision to accept the offer of £305,000 was 
unreasonable. This amount was within the range of valuations and the decision to sell the 
property took into account the advice of industry professionals  which is what I would 
expect SPML to have considered in the circumstances.
It should also be noted that SPML has written off the remaining debt due to Mr N having 
previously been made bankrupt, so Mr N is not be responsible for the shortfall.  
Fees and charges
Our Investigator reviewed the fees and charges applied to the account and recommended 
that SPML refund an Arrears Management Fee of £35 charged in August 2018  which 
SPML agreed to. But I wont be requiring SPML to refund any further fees and charges. Ill 
explain why.
Ive reviewed the fees and charges applied to Mr Ns mortgage account since July 2013. I 
think these have been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the account and for the 
most part have been applied in a fair and reasonable way. 
Besides that, SPML has written off the shortfall which was left following the sale of the 
property. Therefore, any fees and charges applied unfairly to the account have been 
resolved as Mr N is not responsible for repaying them and has not incurred this cost. In 
addition, the write-off of the shortfall also far exceeds the amount of fees and charges which 
would have been refunded to Mr N.  
Conclusion
In conclusion, I dont think Mr N has been treated fairly by SPML in this instance, as I dont 
think SPML have correctly reported the mortgage on Mr Ns credit file following his 
bankruptcy  and by doing so has caused Mr N distress and inconvenience. However, I dont agree that Mr N should have all the money hes paid to the mortgage since 
his bankruptcy returned to him. This is because by agreeing to the payment arrangement 
with SPML it has allowed him to retain the property up until he decided to surrender the 
property in 2019. I also think SPML has acted reasonably when selling the property following 
it taking possession, and also with Mr Ns treatment with regards to the fees and charges.
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence they wanted to raise 
by 23 March 2022. 
Mr N responded accepting my provisional decision. 
Despite reminders and an extension to the deadline, SPML didnt respond to my provisional 
decision with any further comments or evidence by the agreed extended deadline.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr N accepted my provisional decision and SPML didnt put forward any further 
comments or evidence for consideration by the deadline, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision above.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct Southern Pacific Mortgage 
Limited to:
- Mark the entry on Mr Ns credit file for the mortgage as partially settled as at the 
date Mr N was discharged from bankruptcy.
- Remove the default applied to Mr Ns credit file in 2019 and mark the account as 
having defaulted as at the date of Mr Ns bankruptcy order on his credit file.
- Remove any missed payments reported to his credit file from the date Mr N was 
made bankrupt.
- Refund Mr N £35 for the Arrears Management Fee charged in August 2018.
- Pay Mr N £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022. 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman