DRN-2978056
The complaint and what happened
Mr W complains that PayPal wont reimburse money he spent on an event that was later 
cancelled in part.
 
The full details of the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, Ill recap on the key points and focus on giving reasons for my decision:
In October 2018, Mr W paid £103.06 (including postage) for a photo opportunity at a 
convention due to take place in March 2019. In the lead up to the event one of the 
guests supposedly booked for it cancelled. 
Mr W was promised a refund by the organiser, but this never materialised.  So Mr W 
raised a payment dispute with PayPal in March 2020. But PayPal declined a refund 
under its buyer protection policy as the claim hadnt been made within 180 days of 
the transaction. 
Our investigator didnt find PayPal had done anything wrong, given the applicable 
terms and conditions. Mr W has asked for the matter to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons:
Paypals buyer protection policy requires a dispute to be opened with its Resolution 
Centre within 180 days of the payment being sent. Mr W made his payment on 14 
October 2018, which meant any dispute needed to be raised by April 2019. 
Mr W was aware that the photo opportunity wasnt happening as advertised when he 
was told one of the guests he had booked his photo opportunity with, cancelled.  This 
happened prior to the scheduled date of the event. So he was aware before the 180 
days had expired of a problem and could have lodged his claim in time. 
I accept that Mr W was initially offered a refund by the event organiser and this was 
delayed and ultimately never paid. But I dont think it would be fair to hold PayPal 
responsible for that. 
The buyer protection policy doesnt allow for an extension in the time frame, like 
some chargeback schemes with card providers do. So there isnt any basis under the 
terms and conditions for the 180-day time frame to run from a later date.  
I appreciate Mr W would like a change in PayPals terms and conditions. But that isnt 
something within my remit. Mr W is able to use other payment methods for such 
transactions if he doesnt agree with the terms of PayPals buyer protection policy. 
I accept Mr W is likely to be disappointed with this. But his loss is ultimately as a result of the 
organiser not going ahead with the convention on the basis advertised, or at all. Whilst that 
isnt the fault of Mr W, it isnt the fault of PayPal either, and Im not persuaded it has done 
anything wrong when considering this dispute, such that I think it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask it to refund Mr Ws losses.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2021.
 
Claire Hopkins
Ombudsman