DRN-2895498
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the cost of her Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance UK Plc (RSA) home 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs G took out a home insurance policy with RSA in 1999. The policy migrated to another 
RSA product in 2006. That policy renewed each year until April 2020. By this time, Mrs Gs 
daughter had obtained a power of attorney to deal with her mothers financial affairs and she 
was surprised to discover that the renewal price RSA was offering Mrs G was £695.52. 
Mrs Gs daughter complained to RSA on her mothers behalf. She said that he mother was 
92 years old and that she felt that RSA had been overcharging her for years by taking 
advantage of her loyalty. She said her mother was unaware that she could shop around. 
Mrs Gs daughter obtained a policy from another insurer for £223.91 and complained to 
RSA.  
RSA looked into Mrs Gs complaint and said the premiums itd been charging were correct 
and in line with the risk shed presented. It said premiums did vary across the market and 
that different insurers had different rating structures. And it said Mrs Gs policy had been 
taken out before the advent of price comparison sites which had made the market more 
competitive. 
Unhappy with the outcome of RSAs investigation, Mrs Gs daughter complained to this 
service. She said shed like a partial refund of her mothers premiums. Our investigator 
looked into Mrs Gs complaint and thought that it should be upheld. She recommended RSA 
make a partial refund of Mrs Gs premiums from the point it shouldve become aware that 
Mrs G wasnt engaging with the renewal process (2006) by calculating Mrs Gs premium 
based on the same margin it had used in 2006 for all subsequent renewals. Our investigator 
thought RSA should refund the difference between each recalculated premium after 2006 
and the actual premium charged. She also thought RSA should add simple interest of 8% 
per year to each overpayment from the date Mrs G paid the premium to the date RSA pays 
the compensation. And she thought RSA should pay Mrs G compensation of £100 for the 
trouble and upset itd caused her. 
RSA disagreed with our investigators findings and said there were no errors in the way 
Mrs Gs policy had been priced. It said the annual increases were in line with fair margins 
applied to the whole book (not just Mrs Gs policy) applied to withstand fluctuations in the 
insurance market. But, in an effort to reach an agreeable conclusion, it offered Mrs G £450 
as a gesture of goodwill. 
Our investigator put RSAs offer to Mrs Gs daughter who decided that she would like the 
complaint referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers each have their own view on how much risk there is of a customer needing to make 
a claim and how much any claims are likely to cost. They use this information in order to 
decide what price they need to charge to cover the risk. If an insurer thinks that the risk has 
increased for some reason, it may be fair to increase the premium. Our role is to make sure 
that a customer has been treated fairly and in line with how other customers have been 
treated. Whilst its not for this service to tell a business how to price their policies, when a 
complaint is made about the premium charged, we do need to make the insurer is being 
consistent and not taking advantage of a particular customer. 
Mrs G was about 71 years old when the policy was first taken out and 77 years old when it 
migrated six years later. By the time her daughter complained on her behalf, following her 
taking over her mothers financial affairs, Mrs G was 92 years old. At no point since shed 
taken out the policy is there any evidence that she had ever engaged with RSA at renewal. 
There had been one claim in 2010 that was subsequently withdrawn. That appears to have 
been the only contact between Mrs G and RSA during the lifetime of the policy. Mrs Gs 
daughter has said that she had never challenged the price of the policy and that she had 
assumed she wasnt able to change insurers. She also said that RSA had her mothers date 
of birth so was aware how old she was.
The premium when the policy was first taken out in 1999 was £203.10 and by 2020 it was 
£695.52. The increases in price in the interim were steady. RSA has not said there were any 
changes in its approach to risk that impacted the price of Mrs Gs policy during its lifetime. I 
can see that RSA sent Mrs G a renewal notice each year setting out what her forthcoming 
policy would cost. But given that RSA was aware of Mrs Gs age, and given she failed to 
engage with it at any point in respect of the price she was being charged, I think it should 
have been apparent that Mrs G was vulnerable and may need additional help or assistance 
to make an informed choice about whether she should renew her policy. 
I think the point this shouldve become apparent to RSA was in 2006 when the policy 
migrated and the premium increased from £315.69 to £359.16 (an increase of about 14%). 
RSA has a duty to treat its customers  including the vulnerable or inert  fairly when it 
comes to the premiums it charges. I appreciate that a policy that has run for 20 years or so 
will increase in price. Thats to be expected. But based on what is known about the historic 
cost of insurance, Ive not seen any evidence to suggest that this would amount to such a 
large increase between 2006 and 2020. Increasing Mrs Gs premium each year without 
considering her needs left her potentially susceptible to detriment. 
RSA has explained that it applies margins of increase to account for inflation and other 
factors which impact premium. This information is commercially sensitive so Im unable to 
provide any detail about here but I have taken it into consideration when reaching this 
decision. It has also said that increases in premium wouldve been applied consistently and 
fairly to all its customers. And its said that it found no errors in how Mrs Gs policy had been 
priced over the years. 
Whilst Ive thought about all these points, I dont think they explain why RSA didnt approach 
Mrs G given it knew her age and was aware of her lack of engagement, to see if she was 
making an informed choice each year and to see if she was happy with the price she was 
paying. If RSA had been able to show us that it had done so I would most likely be reaching 
a different conclusion on this complaint. 
So, I think that RSA should compensate Mrs G by applying the same margin as that which it 
applied to her 2006 premium to all her subsequent premiums up to the point she cancelled 
her policy. I think RSA should refund the difference between the amount Mrs G actually paid each year and the amount she wouldve paid (if her premiums from 2007 onwards had been 
calculated using the 2006 margin of increase). I also think that RSA should pay simple 
interest of 8% a year from the date she made each overpayment to the date it settles my 
award. 
Finally, I note that RSA offered Mrs G £450 as a gesture of goodwill after receiving our 
investigators findings. Mrs Gs daughter has declined the offer on her behalf and Im 
satisfied that the award Im making here is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and 
is in line with our approach to complaints of this nature. Our investigator also recommended 
that RSA pay Mrs G compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset shed been caused, 
however, I havent seen any evidence that Mrs G herself has been caused any trouble and 
upset by the actions of RSA. Thats because shes been shielded from this complaint by her 
daughter who has taken on the responsibility of bringing it on her behalf. We can only tell a 
business to pay compensation for trouble and upset experienced by their customer  not by 
a third party  so we cant award compensation to representatives with a power of attorney 
who have brought a complaint on behalf of someone else. 
I asked our investigator to contact Mrs Gs representative to explain my thoughts about 
compensation and Im grateful to her for confirming that she accepts that, in the 
circumstances, I cant fairly or reasonably award compensation to her mother.   
Putting things right
I think RSA should do the following in order to put things right for Mrs G: 
Calculate the premium that it would have charged Mrs G for subsequent renewals had 
the margin remained the same as it was in 2006 and refund the difference between this 
amount and actual premium charged; 
Add interest at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date Mrs G paid 
each extra amount to the date RSA settles my award.
If Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance UK Plc considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs G how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs G a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she 
can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance 
UK Plc to take the steps Ive set out in the putting things right section above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 August 2021.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman