DRN-3866704
The complaint
Mrs D complains that BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited, trading as Mini Financial
Services, didnt provide her with the correct settlement figure in order for her to pay her
outstanding liability. She also says she was unaware that she had taken out two credit
agreements when entering into the hire purchase agreement with BMW Financial Services
(GB) Limited, trading as Mini Financial Services for a vehicle.
What happened
In March 2019 Mrs D entered into a hire purchase agreement with Mini Financial Services
for a car. The agreement was for four years. At the time Mrs D entered into the hire
purchase agreement she also entered into a fixed sum loan for £1,500, as the car she used
in part exchange for the new one, had negative equity. The fixed sum loan was also for four
years. Each agreements monthly payment was to be made by direct debit.
In March 2021 Mrs D was considering ending the agreement and a retailer contacted Mini
Financial Services requesting a settlement figure. The quote was provided.
In June 2021 Mrs D contacted Mini Financial Services for a new settlement quote which was
provided. Mrs D arranged the private sale of the car and settled the hire purchase
agreement. She cancelled the direct debit payments, and, in July 2021, Mini Financial
Services sent Mrs D a letter of discharge confirming that the hire purchase agreement had
been paid in full.
Mrs D says she was confused to then receive letters notifying her of arrears on her account
and she contacted Mini Financial Services who informed her that, although she had paid off
in full the hire purchase agreement, there was still a balance outstanding on the personal
loan. It said that as Mrs D had cancelled the direct debit payments this account was now two
months in arrears.
Mrs D complained to Mini Financial Services. It didnt uphold her complaint. Mini Financial
Services said that the hire purchase agreement had been settled in full in June 2021, but the
personal loan was not. It said this is a common mistake that is made as the two
agreements run separately and, when selling the vehicle, only the hire purchase agreement
was paid leaving the personal loan agreement to run unless otherwise agreed with the
retailer. Mini Financial Services said that the balance of the personal loan was payable.
Mrs D was unhappy at the response from Mini Financial Services and complained to this
service. She said she hadnt been aware there were two agreements in place and, when she
had asked for the settlement quote, it would have been reasonable to have expected Mini
Financial Services to have told her the cumulative amount needed to clear both outstanding
balances.
Our investigator partially upheld Mrs Ds complaint. She said that the two agreements
entered into by Mrs D set out clearly the two separate liabilities, and both had been signed
by Mrs D to show she agreed to be bound by their terms and conditions. But she thought
Mini Financial Services should have been clear with Mrs D that the settlement figure it had
provided to her had been for the hire purchase agreement only.
Our investigator said that she thought it would be fair for Mini Financial Services pay Mrs D
£50 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her by the confusion over the settlement
amount. However, our investigator said she thought it would be fair for Mrs D to still be liable
for the outstanding balance for the personal loan and a payment plan should be agreed to
pay off the arrears.
In regard to Mrs Ds credit file, our investigator said that as Mrs D had missed payments
believing them not to be due, it would be unfair for any adverse information to remain
showing for this account. She asked Mini Financial Services to remove it.
Mrs D agreed with our investigators view, but Mini Financial Services disagreed. It said that
its agents had provided Mrs D with the information she had requested, and it wasnt the
responsibility of any agent to know that a customer had more than one live agreement in
place. Mini Financial Services said that Mrs D had taken out two separate agreements and
should have asked for the settlement figure for both when she contacted it in June 2021.
As the parties were unable to agree the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional 
decision along the following lines.
Mrs D said she had been unaware that she had taken out both a fixed sum loan and a hire
purchase agreement with Mini Financial Services when she had part-exchanged a car for a 
new one. She said that converting negative equity into a personal loan isnt standard or 
common practice in the industry.
Mini Financial Services is a member of the Finance and Leasing Association (FLA). The
FLA is a trading association for the asset, consumer and motor finance sectors in the UK.
One of the roles of the FLA is to provide guidance to its members on legal, fiscal, economic
and financial developments as they affect members.
Here, Id seen that, by setting up the two credit agreements in these circumstances, Mini
Financial Services had acted in accordance with the non-binding FLAs guidance on funding
negative equity in motor finance. This guidance sets out that when setting up a hire
purchase agreement for a car, and dealing with negative equity, then two agreements were
required because the hire purchase agreement should be distinct from the refinancing of the
negative equity on the previous vehicle. The hire purchase agreement was linked to the hire 
of the vehicle in question, and therefore should not be linked to the refinancing of an existing 
debt. The guidance also said The secondary loan to refinance the negative equity would 
usually be in the form of a restricted use credit agreement. This may have different
contractual rights and obligations, for example around early repayment or voluntary
termination, and may have different interest rates.
So, I couldnt reasonably say that Mini Financial had acted unfairly when providing two credit
agreements to Mrs D when she had handed one car back and took out another hire 
purchase agreement for the new car.
However, The Financial Conduct Authoritys Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) also
applied as was recognised by the FLAs guidance. CONC are the regulations that apply to all
credit-related regulated activities. Here, CONC 4.2.5R applied and this states that a firm
must provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the agreement, including any
features which may have a significant adverse effect on them. That is, was the position
clearly explained to the customer so that they understood there were two separate
agreements in existence.While I didnt know what had been said by the supplying dealer to Mrs D, Id seen that she 
had signed two separate agreements and that each agreement had a separate payment 
amount. This meant that there were two separate payments being taken from Mrs Ds bank 
account. Id also seen that Mrs D had received two separate welcome letters from Mini 
Financial Service, one for each of the agreements that provided two separate agreement 
numbers.
I hadnt seen that Mrs D disputed there were two direct debits being paid to Mini Financial
Services. And so, looking at the evidence, I thought it was reasonable to say that Mrs D 
would have been aware she hadnt been making one payment to Mini Financial Services but 
two, one for each of the agreements.
I also thought it was reasonable to think that Mrs D would have been aware there had been
negative equity in the car she had part-exchanged and that this amount hadnt been
incorporated into the hire purchase agreement but into another credit agreement. I thought it 
was more likely than not that she would have discussed the cost of the car she was 
acquiring under the hire purchase agreement and the impact of part-exchanging her original 
car.
I therefore thought it was reasonable to say Mrs D had been aware she had entered into two 
separate credit agreements with Mini Financial Services for two separate things, the new car 
and to pay the negative equity.
Id seen that in March 2021, a dealership had contacted Mini Financial Services to obtain a
settlement figure for both of the agreements and these were both provided. However, no 
settlement was made. 
Mrs D then contacted Mini Financial Services in June 2021 and asked for the
settlement figure. Mrs D said she would have asked to settle her liabilities, but Mini Financial
Services said that she had asked for the settlement figure for the car only.
It appeared that there may have been a misunderstanding as to the settlement figure Mrs D
had requested, but I had seen that the settlement quote sent to her by Mini Financial
Services quoted only one agreement number. And as I thought it was more likely than not 
that Mrs D had been aware she had two agreements with Mini Financial Services then I 
thought it was reasonable to say that it was for Mrs D to ensure she had the settlement 
figures for both of these agreements. As only one agreement had been shown for the quote, 
then I think Mrs D should have questioned whether this amount was for both agreements.
I appreciated that our investigator had felt that Mini Financial Services should have been 
clearer as to what information it had been providing to Mrs D, particularly as Mini Financial 
Services had said it was a common mistake that its customers made in not appreciating the 
settlement figure covered only one agreement. However, here I thought that on looking at 
the evidence, Mini Financial Services had given Mrs D clear information that she had 
entered into two credit agreements. And I didnt think Mini Financial Services had acted 
unfairly by providing the settlement figure for only the hire purchase agreement when Mrs D 
had made contact.
So, although this would have been of disappointment to Mrs D, I wasnt intending to uphold 
her complaint. And I wasnt asking Mini Financial Services to amend her credit file or pay
compensation. I think it was reasonable to say Mrs D should have been aware she had two
agreements with Mini Financial Services and that it had only provided the settlement figure
for the hire purchase agreement. 
I didnt think Mini Financial Services had acted unfairly in not automatically providing the 
settlement figure for both agreements. The loan to cover the negative equity had been separate to the car. As the settlement figure had quoted only one agreement number, I 
thought it was reasonable to say Mrs D should have checked whether this figure was for
both her liabilities.
Mrs D disagrees with my provisional view and has asked me to reconsider it. She says that 
when she had needed to end the agreement for the new car, she had spoken with the same 
salesperson who previously arranged it. It was that salesperson who had called to get the 
settlement quote and they hadnt told Mrs D there were two agreements in place. When Mrs 
D had later called for a settlement quote, she said she had been given only the one figure for 
the hire purchase agreement. And that due to the negative equity that had been covered by 
the fixed sum loan only being around £1,000 it wasnt apparent this amount hadnt been 
included in the overall settlement figure provided. 
Mrs D also says that Mini Financial Services process of providing a settlement figure in 
these circumstances was flawed since the fact there were two agreements in place hadnt 
been highlighted when she had made contact. She says it is unfair to punish her for this.
Mrs D agrees that she was aware there were two direct debits in place but that it is harsh to 
say she should have known there were two agreements. She says her complaint is mainly 
regarding the damage that has occurred to her credit file over what she considers to be a 
misunderstanding. Mrs D says she was told by Mini Financial Services she had settled the 
hire purchase agreement and should ignore any letters that may be sent seeking payment 
as it can take time for the systems to be updated. Mrs D says she didnt knowingly refuse to 
settle the remaining liability. Mrs D also says Mini Financial Services has said this is a 
common mistake made by consumers when two agreements are in place.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate Mrs D feels the impact on her credit file is unfair as the arrears on the 
fixed sum loan arose through a misunderstanding rather deliberately, Im afraid I havent 
changed my view about her complaint.
I still think it was clear at the time Mrs D traded in the first car and took out a new credit 
agreement for a new one that she had entered into two separate credit agreements, a hire 
purchase agreement and a fixed sum loan agreement. She signed two separate agreements 
and there were two direct debits set up. Mrs D says that she only spoke with the salesperson 
at the time of taking the new car about her monthly budget, but as set out above, I think its 
more likely than not that there would have been a discussion about the both the new cars 
cost and the impact of trading in the original car at the time.
I also think its reasonable to have expected her to have queried the two different types of 
agreement and the two direct debits if she hadnt understood the arrangements. She had 
signed both agreements showing she was content to be bound by their terms and 
conditions. 
Mrs D has raised that she achieved more when selling the second car privately than when 
she had part-exchanged the first. But I dont think thats unusual and thats the choice 
consumers make when using a car in part-exchange for another at a dealership. It may be 
easier to trade a car in than sell it privately so a lower sales price when part exchanging may 
be more appealing for a number of reasons. I cant reasonable criticise Mini Financial 
Services for the price given for the first car.Mrs D says that the process of seeking a settlement figure from Mini Financial Services is 
flawed as it should have automatically flagged up that there were two agreements in place. 
But Ive seen Mrs D asked for the settlement figure for the hire purchase agreement only and 
that was what was provided. There could be a number of reasons a customer has more than 
one agreement in place with a credit provider so I dont think it would be an automatic 
assumption that a request for a settlement about one agreement would mean that a 
customer wished to settle all the agreements in place. And as set out above, I think Mrs D 
should have been aware that the settlement figure provided was for only one of the 
agreements in place since only one agreement number was quoted. Mrs D had been 
provided with two agreement numbers with the welcome letters.
Although I accept Mini Financial Services has said that it can be a common mistake made by 
consumers who have two credit agreements in these circumstances to think the settlement 
figure covers both, Im still satisfied that here, Mrs D should have been aware of both of the 
credit agreements she had entered into when trading in the first car and taking a new one. 
So, I think she should have been alert to the settlement figure only being for one.
Mrs D says she believed she had settled the finance in full with Mini Financial Services and 
had been told to disregard letters about payments but I think it would have been reasonable 
for her to check what the arrears letters were saying when they arrived. I think if she had, it 
would have been clear that she had been mistaken about settling the liability in full.
Mini Financial Services is obliged to report how a consumer has managed their account and, 
as I dont think Mini Financial Services has done anything wrong, I cant say it was unfair of it 
to record the missed payments to the fixed sum loan account. So, while I am sorry to 
disappoint Mrs D, Im not going to ask it to remove this adverse information.
For the reasons set out above, Im not going to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I think Mini 
Financial Services has acted fairly as it was clear that Mrs D had entered into two separate 
credit agreements but only settled one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman