DRN-4468132
Complaint
Mr T complains that MotoNovo Finance Limited (MotoNovo Finance) unfairly entered into a 
hire-purchase agreement with him. Hes said he was in financial difficulty as a result of 
already being in a lot of debt and so he shouldnt have been lent to. 
Background
In May 2019, MotoNovo Finance provided Mr T with finance for a used car. The cash price 
of the vehicle was £18,851.90. Mr T paid a deposit of £100 and applied for a loan to cover 
the remaining £18,751.90. The loan had interest, fees and total charges of £4,679.70 
(comprising of interest of £4,678.70 and an option to purchase fee of £1), and the total 
amount to be repaid of £23,431.60 (not including Mr Ts deposit) was due to be repaid in 59 
monthly instalments of £390.51 and one final payment of £391.51. 
Mr Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She didnt think that MotoNovo 
Finance had done anything wrong or treated Mr T unfairly. So she didnt recommend that        
Mr Ts complaint should be upheld. Mr T disagreed with our investigator and the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ts complaint. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive been provided with, Im not upholding           
Mr Ts complaint. Id like to explain why in a little more detail.
MotoNovo Finance needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what 
this means is that MotoNovo Finance needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to 
understand whether Mr T could make him payments in a sustainable manner before 
agreeing to lend to him. And if the checks MotoNovo Finance carried out werent sufficient, I 
then need to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks are likely to have shown.
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that 
information  in the early stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low, the 
amount lent was high, or the information the lender had  such as a significantly impaired 
credit history  suggested the lender needed to know more about a prospective borrowers 
ability to repay. 
MotoNovo Finance says it agreed to this application after it completed an income and 
expenditure assessment on Mr T. During this assessment, Mr T provided details of his 
monthly income. MotoNovo Finance says it also carried out credit searches on Mr T which 
showed up an existing hire-purchase agreement with another provider. But Mr Ts sales 
invoice shows that that was for his existing vehicle which he was part-exchanging and the 
outstanding finance balance on that agreement was being settled as part of this transaction. 
Furthermore, MotoNovo says that the rest of Mr Ts commitments show that he wasnt overly 
indebted and that hed have enough left over to meet his regular living costs once his 
payments to his creditors were deducted from his income. On the other hand, Mr T says he 
was already struggling to manage his debts at the time and that these payments were 
unaffordable.
Ive thought about what Mr T and MotoNovo Finance have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that much like our investigator, I dont think that the checks 
MotoNovo Finance carried out did go far enough. MotoNovo Finances searches showed 
that Mr T had had previous difficulties with credit. In my view, MotoNovo Finance needed to 
take further steps to verify Mr Ts actual living costs, given what the credit search showed in 
order for its checks to have been proportionate. 
As MotoNovo Finance didnt carry out sufficient checks, Ive gone on to decide what I think 
MotoNovo Finance is more likely than not to have seen had it obtained further information 
from Mr T. Bearing in mind, the length of time of the agreement and the amount of the 
monthly payment, I would have expected MotoNovo Finance to have had a reasonable 
understanding about Mr Ts regular living expenses as well as his income and existing credit 
commitments. 
To be clear Im not going to carry out a forensic analysis of whether the loan payments were 
affordable. Im simply going to consider what MotoNovo is likely to have done if it obtained 
the missing information I think it should have done. I say this because this information 
provided does appear to show that when Mr Ts own figures on his committed regular living 
expenses are used, MotoNovo is likely to conclude that Mr T could sustainably make the 
repayments due under this agreement. 
I accept its possible that Mr Ts actual circumstances at the time might have been worse 
than what the information hes provided shows and Ive seen what hes said about his 
personal circumstances at the time. In particular he says that he was more indebted than it 
appears and had a poorer credit score. 
The credit checks carried out do show that Mr T was a regular user of home collected credit. 
But this regular use was in 2014, 2015 and 2016. And there was a one-off loan in 2017. Its 
fair to say that this use of this product was historic by the time of this application and him not 
using this product in the same way is likely to have improved his credit rating in the lead up 
to this application  especially as the rest of his credit was appears to be reasonably 
maintained too.
Furthermore, I can only go on what the information provided suggests. I dont think that 
MotoNovo would have known about other debts, if there were any, or that Mr T had a really 
poor credit score. I say this because Mr T received an APR of 9.5% at this time. This isnt 
indicative of MotoNovo knowing that Mr T was heavily indebted, or that his credit score was 
poor.
As Ive explained, what Im required to think about here in order to determine whether 
MotoNovo Finance acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr T, is whether MotoNovo is likely to conclude that Mr T had sufficient disposable income to enable him to make the monthly 
payments to this agreement. 
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that the available information indicates that 
MotoNovo is likely to conclude that Mr T did have sufficient funds left over, once his regular 
living expenses and discernible committed expenditure was deducted from his monthly 
income, to make his monthly payments in a sustainable manner. As this is the case, while I 
do sympathise with the tough time Mr T has said hes gone through, Im not persuaded that 
MotoNovo doing more checks here would have resulted in a different outcome.
  
So overall and having carefully considered everything, while I dont think that MotoNovo 
Finances checks before entering into this hire purchase agreement with Mr T did go far 
enough, Im satisfied that carrying out reasonable and proportionate checks wont have 
prevented MotoNovo Finance from providing these funds, or entering into this hire-purchase 
agreement with him. 
Im therefore satisfied that MotoNovo Finance didnt act unfairly towards Mr T when it agreed 
to provide the funds and Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint. I appreciate that this will be very 
disappointing for Mr T. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman