DRN-2340893
The complaint
Ms J complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) continued to charge her a 
yearly fee for a service that she says they didnt provide. Ms J would like her fees refunded. 
What happened
Ms J holds investments with Nationwide and pays a yearly fee called an ongoing service 
charge. In July 2017, Ms Js advisor went on maternity leave and she was told that if she 
needed advice someone else would be able to assist her. In December 2017, Ms J needed 
some advice on her investments as she was looking to undertake a property purchase in the 
coming months, but she found it difficult to get Nationwide to provide an advisor to help. 
Ms J says that she was passed around and had no confidence in the person that she says 
was tasked with helping her. In March 2018, Ms  J was in a position where her property 
purchase was ready to finalise, but she says there was no one available at Nationwide who 
could help her. Ms J sought the advice of her Accountant and he gave advice on 
investments to sell which would allow Ms J to fund the property purchase.
MsJ complained to Nationwide about the service that she had received and that they had 
continued to charge her and that she had incurred costs when she had to use her 
Accountant. Nationwide investigated her complaint and responded to her with a summary 
resolution communication (SRC). This letter stated that MsJ had accepted the outcome of 
their investigation and they had closed the complaint. It appears that the outcome was 
Nationwide arranging a meeting with one of their advisors.
Ms J complained to Nationwide again in September 2019 that she had not received her 
annual report and that she continued to pay the ongoing service charge. Nationwide 
investigated and agreed that this had not been sent. Nationwide offered Ms J £250 in 
compensation for their error. In their final response to Ms J, they said that the complaint 
about charges had already been covered in their summary resolution confirmation dated 
August 2018. They said that as six months had passed since the date of this letter, they 
could not look at this part of the complaint as the deadline had passed.
Unhappy with Nationwides response, Ms J asked the service to look at her complaint and 
one of our investigators reviewed her complaint. The investigator said that she was unable to 
look at the part of the complaint that covered the ongoing service charge and other costs as 
it had been raised too late. On the other part of Ms Js complaint, she thought that they had 
offered reasonable compensation and didnt think that Nationwide should be asked to do 
anything else.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Ms J has asked for an ombudsman to review her 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms J but I agree with the outcome that the investigator reached and 
wont be upholding her complaint. I know that Ms J feels strongly about this and will explain 
why I have reached this decision.
There are time limits that apply to what complaints we can consider, and we arent 
automatically able to consider every complaint thats referred to us.
The service cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it more than six months 
after the date on which the business sent the complainant its final response or summary 
resolution communication.
The complaint can be considered if the business consents to it being considered even if the 
condition above have not been met, or if exceptional circumstances apply.  Nationwide did 
not consent and believe that the complaint is out of jurisdiction. I have not seen any 
evidence from Ms J that any exceptional circumstances applied to her not being able to 
respond within six months of the SRC being sent.
I know that Ms J feels strongly that Nationwide did not address her complaint about the 
ongoing annual charges that were applied to her account and additional costs that she 
incurred using her own Accountant. From the documentation that I have seen, Nationwide 
issued their SRC on 10 August 2018 and Ms J complained to the service in November 2019. 
Nationwide have said this part of the complaint has been made too late. The investigator 
also looked at this part of the complaint and agreed that it had been made too late for the 
service to consider.
I have reviewed the information available to me and although I sympathise with Ms J, the 
rules do not allow me to consider her complaint about charges and additional costs. If Ms J 
did not accept what Nationwide said in the letter of August 2018, she should have referred 
the matter to the service within six months of this date.
Turning to the other part of Ms Js complaint. Ms J says that she did not receive her annual 
report in 2018 and she should be refunded fees for this lack of service. I have looked at what 
services Nationwide charge for and these are listed as:
At your request, you will have access to a financial planning manager should you wish to 
review your investments, implement any changes or want to discuss any aspect of the 
advice you have received 
Well give you access to the personal finance portal website so you can view and monitor 
your investments as well as top up, sell or transfer investments 24 hours a day, 7 days a 
week
Well send you a personalised annual customer report which shows how your 
investments are performing 
The services of our investment committee, who on your behalf:
oContinue to monitor market conditions, selecting additional and alternative funds 
for our panel where necessary 
oWill continue to negotiate reduced charges and fees
oMonitor the performance of our existing range of investment funds regularly to 
check that they continue to perform as we expect 
oMeet with the relevant fund managers if we have any concerns to identify 
whether these are justified If the investment committee feel it is necessary, we will let you know so that you can 
decide whether you want to take any action to ensure that your money continues to work 
hard for you
From what I have seen, the annual charge that Ms J paid for includes different services. 
Nationwide have said that due to an error they did not send an annual report to Ms J. In 
order to compensate for this error, Nationwide paid Ms J £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
As I have already said, there are elements of Ms Js complaint that the service cant consider 
so I can only look at the Nationwides error in not sending out the annual report. All other 
parts of the service are were provided by Nationwide.
I think that the compensation amount offered is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and 
in line with what the service would ask the business to pay so Im not going to ask 
Nationwide to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 February 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman