DRN-4053558
The complaint
Mr L is unhappy that Society of Lloyds increased the premiums he was paying for his 
income protection policy. 
What happened
Mr L has had an income protection policy underwritten by Society of Lloyds since 2017. 
When he took out the policy the monthly cost was £32.06. In June 2020 the premiums 
increased to £40.08. In June 2021 the premiums increased to £84.17 per month. Ultimately, 
Mr L cancelled the policy because he said he couldnt afford it at the new price. 
Mr L complained to Society of Lloyds. They explained, in summary, that the cost of the 
policy had increased following the impact of Covid-19 on the market. They also said the 
policy terms allowed them to make such changes. 
Unhappy with Society of Lloyds response, Mr L complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. He highlighted that he was going to be made redundant and had now lost out on 
cover because of the increase in the price. 
Our investigator upheld Mr Ls complaint and awarded him £750 compensation. She said 
that due to the price increase Mr L had needed to let the policy lapse, at a worrying and 
uncertain time. She didnt think Mr L had been treated fairly. 
Initially Society of Lloyds didnt agree to the compensation the investigator recommended. 
However, following further correspondence they said they would take a pragmatic view and 
agree to the amount shed recommended. Mr L asked an ombudsman to review his 
complaint. He didnt feel that the compensation offered fairly reflected his loss, particularly 
bearing in mind hed lost out on a potential benefit of up to £12, 000 if hed kept the policy.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties dont dispute the investigators core findings in relation to this complaint. Since 
the investigator issued her opinion SOL has made an offer. Mr L doesnt accept that offer. 
So, the key issue for me to determine in this case is whether £750 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I think it is because: 
Mr L cancelled the policy because he could no longer afford the increased premiums. 
Benefits payable under the policy stopped at the point at which the cover ended. So, 
after that point theres no entitlement to benefit under the contract of insurance. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to say Mr L should get the benefit of a policy 
which hed cancelled and wasnt paying premiums for. Hes effectively be getting the 
benefit of free income protection insurance. I dont think thats fair. 
I also cant say whether a claim would have been accepted under the policy and how 
long it would have been paid for in the event of a successful claim. So, I dont think 
paying Mr L the maximum benefit, or a proportion of it, leads to a fair and reasonable 
outcome in the circumstances of this particular case. 
Ive thought about whether its fair for Mr L to receive a refund of his premiums. I 
dont think that leads to a fair outcome either. Mr L had the benefit of cover during the 
time the policy was in force. The insurer was bearing the risk of him making a claim. 
I think £750 adequately acknowledges the difficult circumstances Mr L found himself 
in. He had a significant and unexpected increase in the cost of his premiums. This 
caused him a lot of worry and inconvenience because he was aware that he was 
facing redundancy and he couldnt afford the premiums. Also, due to his 
circumstances, and those surrounding Covid-19 it was difficult, and expensive, to 
move to an alternative insurer. I think £750 fairly reflects the distress and 
inconvenience this caused to Mr L during this worrying time. I dont think Society of 
Lloyds needs to pay him any more compensation.   
Putting things right
Society of Lloyds needs to put things right by paying Mr L £750 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused. 
My final decision
Im upholding Mr Ls complaint about Society of Lloyds and direct them to put things right in 
the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman