DRN-4049570
The complaint
Mr P says Covea Insurance plc provided poor service that led to delay when he made a 
claim on his motor insurance policy, and that its valuation of his car was too low.
What happened
Mr Ps car was taken to a holding garage after being written-off by another car whilst parked 
and unattended. He had a replacement car, but he was unhappy that Coveas agent didnt 
retrieve his car for several weeks and that he had to call Covea to chase for progress. Mr P 
didnt think he should have to pay the £650 excess on the policy - or the charges for 
retaining his private number plate - given that the accident was non-fault. Covea said these 
were uninsured losses - not covered by the policy. But it accepted that its agent had caused 
delays and that one of its advisors had been rude to Mr P. He didnt accept the £150 
compensation Covea offered him. And he said it had valued the wrong model of his car.
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Ps complaint. She thought Covea had acted 
reasonably in offering him £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience. And she said 
it had based its valuation for the car on the correct model. She said adverts may have shown 
higher asking prices, but we dont think theyre reliable.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Understandably, Mr P wanted an offer for his car as soon as possible, so the delay in 
collecting it (which seems to have been four weeks) must have been frustrating for him. It 
seems there were communication issues between the garage that was holding the car, 
Coveas agent and others in getting it released. But Covea accepted that it was partly at fault 
for the delay. I think it was reasonable for it to offer Mr P £100 compensation for the undue 
inconvenience he faced. I think it was also reasonable for it to offer him £50 compensation 
for its advisors lack of professionalism during a call. 
Although Mr P thinks Covea looked at the wrong model when valuing his car,  that isnt the 
case. Covea has provided evidence that the valuation was based on the correct model, year 
of manufacture and mileage.  It has also shown that it used four of the national trade guides 
to arrive at a valuation and that it offered him the highest valuation of all four (at £10,890).
Mr P told Covea he wouldnt accept less than £12,425 for his car, although he could have 
accepted the sum it offered (as an interim payment) whilst continuing to dispute it.  But Mr P 
is only entitled to the cars market value, and we think the best way to establish what a cars 
market value is likely to be is to review the figures quoted in the national trade guides. 
Theyre based on extensive research of likely selling prices and are updated regularly.
We dont think advertised prices are generally reliable, as they show negotiable asking 
prices that are often inflated. And the figures shown in adverts often vary greatly for what 
appear to be similar cars. So although some adverts will show higher prices for cars similar 
to Mr Ps car than the sum offered by Covea, others wont. Covea provided an advert for the 
same model of car as Mr Ps car (with slightly higher mileage) on sale for £10,000  and it 
may well not have achieved that asking price.
In my opinion, Covea has shown that it offered Mr P a reasonable settlement sum for his car. 
Its standard industry practice (and part of a policys usual terms and conditions) for the 
agreed policy excess to be deducted, as its payable on every claim. If its a non-fault claim 
like this one, and the other insurer accepts liability, its usual for a consumer to claim the 
excess back from that insurer. The same applies to the usual costs associated with retaining 
a private number plate.  
As I think Covea has shown that it acted reasonably in valuing Mr Ps car, and that it made a 
reasonable attempt to put the service issues / delay right, I cant uphold his complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman