DRN-4190380
The complaint
Mr C complained that, in October 2021, HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) irresponsibly granted 
him a loan that he couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In October 2021, Mr C took out a loan of £14,000 over a term of 60 months, with a monthly 
payment of £251.93. 
In summary, Mr C told us that, during a period of poor mental health, he got into debt 
through overspending on an online game. This spending started in late 2020. As a result he 
had to take out loans with HSBC and another lender to structure the borrowing. Mr C thought 
HSBC irresponsibly granted the loan.
I should say here that Mr C also thinks HSBC should have taken action to limit his spending 
on the game. However, that is being considered as a separate complaint, and in this 
decision I am only considering whether HSBC acted responsibly in granting the loan in 
October 2021. 
HSBC said it had carried out appropriate checks before granting the loan, and told Mr C that 
it did not uphold his complaint. Mr C then brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into it and thought it should be upheld. HSBC didnt agree, and asked for 
it to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website, and Ive taken this into account here.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why. 
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks required of a lender, but it needs to 
ensure the checks are proportionate when considering matters such as the type and amount 
of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the credit and 
the consumers circumstances. So Ive considered whether HSBC completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr C would be able to make the repayments on 
his loan account in a sustainable way.
HSBC sent in copies of Mr Cs loan agreement and his current account statements for the 
relevant period, and its notes of the loan application and underwriting checks. 
HSBCs notes of the loan application show that Mr C seems to have stated limited 
outgoings, such as no mortgage or rent, or other borrowing, although as I dont have the 
original loan application its not entirely clear what questions wouldve appeared on the 
application and how Mr C answered them. 
Looking at the underwriting notes, HSBC used its own affordability calculation which showed 
Mr Cs monthly income to be £2,596 and his outgoings as living costs of £980, 
accommodation costs of £420, credit commitments of £941, and the cost of the new loan as 
£252. This left a monthly disposable income of £3.
I think such a low level of disposable income should reasonably have prompted a more 
detailed look it Mr Cs financial situation, as it would have left him unable to cover any 
unexpected expenses. But the underwriting notes contain references to some figures being 
overridden  the income figure because of the salary seen on Mr Cs account, and the living 
and accommodation costs because of the figures declared on the loan application memo. 
The only additional contact with Mr C seems to have been to check the purpose of the loan, 
and its not clear that HSBC looked at Mr Cs current account in any detail  this account 
was held with HSBC so it would reasonably have had access to the information. It also 
seems likely that HSBC wouldve used information on Mr Cs credit record to carry out its 
affordability checks, so its not clear why information wouldve been overridden without 
further checks  for example Mr C had a mortgage and credit cards, which ought to have 
shown on his credit record. 
From all this I dont think HSBC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks  as I 
noted above I think the low disposable income figure should have prompted more detailed 
enquiries of Mr C with regard to his income and outgoings, and theres no evidence such 
checks were completed.
I have looked at the bank statements that HSBC provided, and in particular those for the 
months leading up to the loan being granted. I can see from these that Mr Cs monthly 
income was around £2,596 and that he had a loan with another provider. The monthly 
payments on Mr Cs joint mortgage seem to be around £1,000, and I can also see monthly 
payments to two credit card accounts  some quite large. There were also two amounts 
transferred in to Mr Cs current account from one of the credit card providers. These two 
transfers totalled £7,500. And just before the loan application there was a payment to a buy 
now pay later company of £1,700, suggesting a further credit commitment (albeit most likely 
short term). I also note that Mr Cs current account balance was regularly quite low just 
before he was paid.
Whilst I dont have complete details of Mr Cs credit commitments, the information on his 
bank statements seems to be consistent with the figure on HSBCs affordability assessment, 
based on the existing loan and his likely credit card balances I also dont have details of how 
HSBC calculated Mr Cs living costs, but the figure doesnt seem unreasonable based on 
what Mr C has said about his circumstances. So its difficult to see on what basis HSBC 
made its decision to override these figures. 
I have also looked at the transactions relating to the online gaming that Mr C told us about. 
As I explained above, I will not comment here on Mr Cs complaint that HSBC should have 
taken action to limit his spending on the game  that is the subject of a separate complaint. 
But I have taken account of the effect on the affordability of the loan. 
The bank statements show numerous transactions to the company involved  sometimes 
several on the same day  in the period leading up to the loan (and indeed earlier, although 
as I noted above I have focused on the months preceding the loan application). As an 
example, in the first two weeks of August 2021  shortly before Mr C applied for the loan  I 
found 56 transactions totalling just over £1,040. The rest of the period leading up to the loan shows similar numbers of transactions. So it seems to me that Mr C was living beyond his 
means at that point. 
Overall, based on the evidence Ive seen, I think that if HSBC had carried out more detailed 
checks on Mr Cs income and outgoings, those checks wouldve shown that the monthly 
repayments on the new loan were unlikely to be sustainable. I say this because, taking 
account of the commitments detailed above, and the pattern of transactions on his current 
account, Im not satisfied that Mr C was left with enough disposable income to manage those 
repayments sustainably. So I dont think HSBC acted fairly in granting this loan to Mr C.
HSBC argued that Mr C had always made the loan repayments and maintained a strong 
credit balance in his current account. Ive thought about these points  but in this decision I 
am concerned with Mr Cs circumstances when the loan was granted. I do not have details 
of how he was managing his finances afterwards so as to meet the payments, although I 
note that he took out another loan with a different provider shortly after the HSBC loan. 
In summary, having carefully considered all of the evidence and information, my conclusion 
is that HSBC acted unfairly in granting the loan in October 2021, so Ive decided to uphold 
Mr Cs complaint. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr C to repay the capital that he borrowed in October 2021 
because he has had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a 
loan that shouldnt have been provided to him. HSBC must put this right.
It should:
remove all interest, fees and charges applied to this loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr C has made should be deducted from the new starting balance  the 
£14,000 originally lent. If, once all adjustments have been made, this shows that Mr 
C has made overpayments leading to a credit balance, these overpayments should 
be refunded to Mr C, together with interest at 8% simple a year* from the date they 
were made to the date of settlement.
if, once all adjustments have been made this shows that Mr C still has an outstanding 
amount to repay, HSBC should contact Mr C to arrange a suitable repayment plan.
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made then HSBC 
should remove any adverse information (if any) it recorded on Mr Cs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must give Mr C 
a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I have decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint. HSBC UK Bank 
Plc should compensate Mr C as described above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jan Ferrari
Ombudsman