DRN-4344886
The complaint
Ms D and Mr W complain about the service they received from Sainsburys Bank Plc, whilst 
it was administering their home insurance policy.
Ms D and Mr W are joint policyholders. As most of the communication relating to the 
complaint has been from Ms D, Ill refer mainly to her in my decision.
What happened
In late 2021, Ms D took out a home insurance policy through Sainsburys Bank. In around 
April 2022, she made a claim under the policy. The insurer arranged for a loss adjuster to 
visit the property to validate the claim. 
In July 2022, Ms D received a letter from Sainsburys Bank saying her policy was going to be 
cancelled in ten days time. Ms D phoned Sainsburys Bank, who told her that the decision to 
cancel the policy was made by the insurer because she had a lodger living in the property 
and had ongoing building work. Ms D disputed having a lodger and said she had declared 
building work when she took out the policy. Sainsburys Bank told her shed need to raise 
her concerns with the insurer.
Ms D then received a letter from Sainsburys Bank thanking her for letting it know she 
wanted to cancel her policy, even though she hadnt asked for the policy to be cancelled.
After Ms D raised a complaint with the insurer, it referred it back to Sainsburys Bank. The 
insurer said it seemed the decision to cancel the policy had been taken by Sainsburys Bank. 
Sainsburys Bank didnt respond to Ms Ds complaint, so she asked our service to consider 
it. Sainsburys Bank acknowledged it had made some errors, but it said it didnt think these 
had caused Ms D any detriment.
Our investigator thought Ms Ds complaint should be upheld because of poor service 
provided by Sainsburys Bank. She acknowledged that Sainsburys Bank had waived the 
cancellation and broker fees. But she recommended it also pay Ms D £100 for distress and 
inconvenience.
Sainsburys Bank disagreed with our investigators outcome. It said the insurer was entitled 
to void the policy, so Ms D had benefitted from this not taking place. It said it didnt call Ms D 
but there was nothing to discuss as based on the information from the insurer, there was no 
course of action other than to cancel the policy. It was necessary to refer Ms D to the insurer 
as Sainsburys Bank couldnt comment on the claim. It said its cancellation letter should 
have been better worded, but it had refunded the setup and cancellation fee (totalling £60), 
which it thought was reasonable. 
As Sainsburys Bank disagrees with our investigators outcome, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Only insurers can make the decision to cancel or void a policy. This means that Sainsburys 
Bank was only entitled to cancel Ms Ds policy upon the insurers instruction.
I can see that the insurer raised some concerns with Sainsburys Bank that Ms D may have 
provided inaccurate information when she took the policy out. The insurer told Sainsburys 
Bank the claim had been declined. It asked Sainsburys Bank to contact Ms D and advise 
her that the policy didnt include lodgers or buildings work and to suggest cancelling it and 
arranging insurance elsewhere, as there might not be cover in the event of a claim.
Sainsburys Bank says it didnt contact Ms D as the insurer had requested. Instead, it 
jumped straight to cancelling the policy. However, Sainsburys Bank says, even if it had 
spoken to Ms D, the policy would still have needed to be cancelled. 
Sainsburys Bank says it was necessary to refer Ms D to the insurer as it couldnt comment 
on the claim. It says Ms D would have needed to discuss the claim with the insurer anyway, 
so doing so didnt cause her any inconvenience. 
Ms D disputes answering Sainsburys Banks questions inaccurately when she took out the 
policy. However, she says she doesnt wish to challenge the decision to cancel her policy 
any further. 
Based on what Ive seen, I think its likely that Ms Ds policy would have been cancelled even 
if Sainsburys Bank had contacted her as the insurer requested. However, I think Ms D and 
Mr W were caused unnecessary distress and inconvenience as a result of Sainsburys 
Banks handling of the matter. 
I think it would have been upsetting for Ms D and Mr W to receive a letter from Sainsburys 
Bank saying their policy was being cancelled without being told why. Sainsburys Bank has 
commented that it was necessary to refer Ms D to the insurer as it couldnt comment on the 
claim. However, the letter didnt refer to the decline of the claim, only the policy being 
cancelled. It was no doubt frustrating for Ms D to be referred to the insurer and then be told 
that she was being referred back to Sainsburys Bank. 
Ms D was caused additional inconvenience and confusion when she received a letter from 
Sainsburys Bank thanking her for letting it know she wanted to cancel the policy, when she 
hadnt requested it be cancelled.
From what Ive seen, the insurer referred the matter back to Sainsburys Bank in October 
2022. However, Ms D doesnt appear to have received any further contact from Sainsburys 
Bank. It looks like Sainsburys Bank only looked into her concerns after Ms D referred her 
complaint to us. 
I appreciate Sainsburys Bank thinks waiving the set up and cancellation fees is enough to 
compensate Ms D for the poor service its provided. However, its only acknowledged that its 
cancellation letter should have been worded better. I dont think it fully appreciates the 
impact its actions have had on Ms D and Mr W.Having considered everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Sainsburys Bank to 
pay Ms D and Mr W £100 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Putting things right
Sainsburys Bank should pay Ms D and Mr W £100 for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Sainsburys Bank Plc to put 
things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman