DRN-3550877
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has acted unfairly in defaulting his credit card 
account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in detail. But in summary:
Mr A had a credit card account with Lloyds
Mr As working hours were significantly affected by the Covid-19 pandemic, and in 
December 2020 he contacted Lloyds to discuss his financial circumstances and to try 
to agree a way forward with the account
Lloyds agreed to put in place a plan whereby Mr A wouldnt have to make any 
payment for three months
When Mr A did not get back in contact with Lloyds after the plan expired Lloyds 
began the process of defaulting his account
Mr A complained that Lloyds was acting unfairly by not taking account of his health 
issues, and explained that hed not seen any of the letters Lloyds said it had sent him 
about the default
Lloyds considered Mr As complaint, but didnt think it had done anything wrong
Mr A asked our service for an independent review and the investigator thought 
Lloyds had acted reasonably in how it handled Mr As account
Mr A didnt accept the investigators findings. He said, amongst other things, he 
thinks he should have been offered a Covid-related payment holiday (payment 
holiday) rather than a payment plan as he feels that would have helped him to avoid 
the default. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complained has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To maintain his credit card account  and therefore avoid adverse information being reported 
to the credit reference agencies (CRAs)  Mr A needed to make at least the minimum 
repayment by the due date each month. 
In December 2020 Mr A was struggling with his income as his working hours had been 
seriously reduced during the pandemic, so he contacted Lloyds for help. Lloyds went 
through full details of Mr As income and expenditure so it could find an appropriate solution 
to help Mr A. Having done so, Lloyds identified that Mr A had a deficit  his outgoings were 
more than his income  and as a result it offered to arrange a short term plan where Mr A 
wouldnt need to make any payment to his account for three months. As part of the plan all 
interest and charges would be suspended on the account and the card would be temporarily 
blocked so Mr A couldnt use it.
In my view Lloyds actions here were reasonable. I appreciate that Mr A feels a payment 
holiday would have been better for him, but at the start of his conversation with Lloyds he 
said he did not want to arrange a payment holiday. And, in any case, even if he hadnt 
already declined that option I dont think it would have been reasonable for Lloyds to offer 
him a payment holiday at that time as that would have meant interest continued to accrue on 
Mr As credit card when he couldnt afford to pay anything towards it, thereby increasing his 
indebtedness. And the guidance in place at the time around payment holidays was that 
lenders should ensure that any support was tailored to the customers individual 
circumstances. Im satisfied thats what Lloyds did here; it took full details of Mr As situation 
and made sure the plan it offered him would not make his financial situation worse. 
From listening to Mr As conversation with Lloyds about the payment plan its also clear that 
Lloyds explained what would happen at the end of the plan  that Mr A would need to 
contact Lloyds to talk about the next steps and that if that Mr A didnt contact Lloyds before 
the end of the plan then his credit file could be affected. Lloyds also talked about the 
possibility of a default in the same call. And when Mr A then didnt make contact at the end 
of the agreed payment plan, Lloyds sent several letters to him detailing what he needed to 
do and the potential consequences of not making contact. 
I understand Mr A says he did not receive these letters, but Im satisfied they were sent to 
him at the correct address. I appreciate Mr A has said there were issues with the post at the 
building he lived in, but hes also said that post would often be sent to a neighbour in error 
and they would pass it on to him. So I think it would be unlikely for all of the letters that were 
sent to him to have failed to reach him. But in any case, given that Lloyds had also verbally 
explained the implications of not making contact once the plan ended, I think it did all it 
needed to do to make Mr A aware of what he needed to do.
I understand the information recorded on Mr As credit file will have an impact on him. But Mr 
A was missing contractual repayments to his account for an extended period of time, and 
didnt bring that account back in order when requested to do so by Lloyds or make contact to 
agree any further repayment plan for the outstanding arrears. This is important account 
information which Lloyds had a duty to record with the CRAs. And while I appreciate that Mr 
A has been unwell, what Ive seen doesnt suggest to me that he would have been unable to 
make any contact with Lloyds to explain his circumstances or agree a way forward, and his 
health also doesnt mean that Lloyds isnt still obliged to record accurate information with the 
CRAs. 
I accept this has been a difficult time for Mr A and he has my sympathies. However, I must 
review things objectively and having done so, I dont find Lloyds has treated him unfairly. It 
follows this isnt a complaint I should uphold.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman