DRN-2778123
The complaint
Ms D is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited declined her claim for damage to her property, 
which she believes was caused by a storm and should be covered under her home 
insurance policy.
Ms D is represented in this complaint by her nephew but, for ease, Ill refer to Ms D 
throughout. 
What happened
In August 2020 Ms D contacted Aviva to say her property had been damaged by Storm Ellen 
and she wanted to make a claim under her home insurance policy. She said water had got 
into her property, causing damage to the walls and flooring and to the electrics. 
Aviva declined the claim. It accepted thered been a storm at the time Ms D said the damage 
had been caused. But it didnt accept the storm was the main cause of the damage. It relied 
on a report prepared by its surveyor who found defects that werent storm related and 
concluded that the main cause of the damage was wear and tear. Aviva said there was an 
exclusion in Ms Ds policy that said it didnt cover her for any damage caused by wear and 
tear or gradual deterioration.
Our investigator was satisfied there were storm conditions at the time the damage was said 
to have occurred. He also said the type of damage caused was typical of storm damage. But 
having read the surveyors report, he was satisfied the storm wasnt the main or dominant 
cause of damage and thought Aviva had applied the exclusion fairly and reasonably. 
Ms D didnt agree with the investigators view and the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a final decision. She said the missing roof felt referred to by our investigator was torn 
off by the storm force winds. And the only logical conclusion was that Storm Ellen damaged 
the roofing felt and forced rain into the house. So, she thought Aviva should pay for the 
repairs that needed to be made to the property.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. Let me explain why.
Ms D thinks her property was damaged during a storm and, as her policy covers storm 
damage, she thinks she should be covered for this type of claim. So, Ive considered this, 
taking into account the policy terms and conditions.
When we look at storm damage cases we ask three main questions:
1. Were there storm conditions on or around the date the damage is said to have 
happened?
2. Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3. Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If the answer to all of these questions is yes then the claim is likely to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of above questions is no the claim for storm damage is unlikely to be 
covered.
Reports show that there was heavy rainfall and storm like conditions in the area of Ms Ds 
property around the time she says the damage happened. Both parties seem to accept there 
were storm conditions around the date the damage is said to have happened and I dont 
think theres a need for me to comment any further on that issue. So, I can answer yes to 
issue one. 
I can also answer yes to issue two. Strong winds and heavy rainfall can damage property, 
so Im satisfied the damage claimed in this instance is consistent with damage typically 
caused by a storm. 
I now need to consider whether the storm was the main cause of the damage in this 
instance. The surveyor appointed by Aviva said there was no visible evidence of any storm 
or impact related damage and decided water had got into the property as a result of age, 
wear and tear. Ms D disputes that. She says the roof felt was torn off by the storm and says 
theres no evidence the felt was not in place before the storm. And, as there was no water 
ingress before the storm, she believes the only reasonable conclusion is that the storm 
damaged the roofing felt and forced rain into the house.
Ive reviewed the evidence from the surveyor and Im satisfied his inspection was adequate. 
Hes taken a number of photographs of the relevant areas of the roof and of the internal 
spaces damaged by rainwater - and I think these help to support his findings. For example, 
the photographs support his view that the flat felt roof is aged and visibly deteriorating. They 
also support his view that the patio door has been installed directly onto floor level, thus 
allowing water to ingress. 
I realise theres no evidence the felt roof wasnt in place before the storm. But, to my mind, 
the photographs clearly show the poor condition of the roof felt  and the guttering  and, on 
balance, Im more persuaded by the surveyors report that these defects were old and 
caused by wear and tear rather than by the storm conditions. It seems to me that the 
damage to the roof was already present when the bad weather began and the strong winds 
and heavy rainfall simply highlighted the damage that was already there.
Taken together with the other defects the surveyor identified, Im satisfied he reached a 
reasonable conclusion that the storm conditions werent the main cause of the damage to 
Ms Ds property. 
Ms Ds policy doesnt cover wear and tear, or damage that happens gradually over a period 
of time. And, with all of this in mind, Im unable to answer yes to storm issue three. 
Im sorry to hear about the problems Ms D has experienced at her property. But for the 
reasons Ive given, I think it was reasonable for Aviva to refuse her claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Richard Walker
Ombudsman