DRN-3027605
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland (trading as Halifax) hasnt refunded him after he fell 
victim to a scam. He bought a car which turned out to be stolen. The bank has said this is a 
civil dispute, rather than a scam.
 
What happened
Mr A went to view a car he was interested in buying from a private seller in November 2020. 
Mr A was happy with the car and was presented with the logbook during the viewing. He 
also carried out an HPI check which came back clear. He decided to buy the car and sent 
two payments totalling £6,000 to the account details he was given by the seller.
He got the car home and was able to tax it. But shortly after he saw an advert online for what 
appeared to be the same car, with the same registration. He contacted the seller who 
confirmed they had the car on their driveway. So Mr A contacted the police.
The police inspected the car and discovered that the registration had essentially been 
cloned, with the chassis number altered. The police said it was a sophisticated deception 
and that the car was actually stolen, and so they confiscated it.
Mr A tried to contact the seller but found hed been blocked and so couldnt discuss with him 
or follow up in any way.
He then reported the matter to Halifax, letting it know hed been the victim of a scam. The 
bank looked into what had happened but said it couldnt help. It said because Mr A had 
received the car it couldnt treat it as a scam. Instead, it said Mr A had a civil dispute with the 
seller.
Mr A wasnt happy with Halifaxs answer and so brought the complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators considered it and thought it ought to be upheld. He thought it was clear 
Mr A had been scammed, given he was sold a stolen car. And he was satisfied the seller 
had acted with intent to defraud him. He noted that the fact Mr A had initially taken 
possession of the car didnt mean that he hadnt been scammed.
Our investigator went on to consider whether Mr A was due a refund under the Lending 
Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model CRM Code, of which Halifax is a 
signatory, which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of APP 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.  
He recommended Mr A be refunded under those considerations. He said the bank hadnt 
shown that Mr A had ignored an effective warning. And he was satisfied Mr A made the 
payments for the car with a reasonable basis for believing he was engaged in a legitimate 
purchase.
Halifax disagreed and maintained its position, stating that as Mr A had taken possession of 
the car it was a dispute between him and the seller. It referred directly to part of the CRM 
Code where it states:
CRM Principle DS2 (2)
(b), states that the Code does not apply to private civil disputes, such as where a
Customer has paid a legitimate supplier for goods, services, or digital content but has not
received them, they are defective in some way, or the Customer is otherwise dissatisfied
with the supplier.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to alter his view and so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding it and for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. 
Im satisfied Mr A was the victim of a scam. It seems quite clear that the seller deliberately 
set out to defraud Mr A. It seems very unlikely he was unaware that the car was stolen with 
cloned details applied to it.
That Mr A took possession of the car doesnt mean he wasnt the victim of a scam. This isnt 
a case where Mr A is only dissatisfied with the quality of what hes bought. It seems quite 
clear there is a crime sitting behind the proposed sale. 
Referring back to the section of the Code quoted by Halifax, it is evident that Mr A was not 
engaged in paying a legitimate supplier of goods. So Im satisfied the CRM Code applies to 
the payments he made.
The investigator is also correct when he says the bank has presented no argument around 
whether Mr A ignored and effective warning or whether he had a reasonable basis for 
believing he was making a legitimate payment to a legitimate seller. These are two 
exceptions to reimbursement that might apply under the CRM Code. 
The evidence of warnings provided to Mr A is limited. Ive copied below what the bank has 
suggested Mr A was presented with:
Im satisfied this doesnt meet the Codes standards for firms, which it set out what an 
effective waring should look like. Its not specific to the scam Mr A was falling victim to. And it 
doesnt give reasonable advice on what Mr A might have done to avoid the scam. But even if 
it had met all of the standards for firms requirements that are set out in the Code, I still dont 
believe it could be fairly and reasonably argued that Mr A had ignored it, given the 
circumstances of the case.
Hed seen the car in person, carried out an HPI check, and seen the logbook. All appeared 
genuine and so he would have had understandable reason to move past any warning the 
bank had given.
This reasoning then carries through into an assessment of whether Mr A acted with a 
reasonable basis for belief. Mr A carried out a lot of checks to ensure he was legitimately 
buying a car from a legitimate seller. Seeing the car in person and being handed the keys so 
he could drive it away is a major factor here. And he also carried out an HPI check. The fact 
that he was able to tax the vehicle, and the police commented on how sophisticated the 
scam was, all points to Mr A having had a reasonable basis for belief at the time of making 
the payments.
Im satisfied then that the CRM Code does apply to the payments made by Mr A. Im also 
satisfied that none of the exceptions to reimbursement apply. It is then the case that Halifax 
ought to have reimbursed Mr As loss under the CRM Code. It is now fair and reasonable 
that it compensates him to that extent.
Putting things right
To put things right Halifax should:
pay Mr A £6,000 to compensate him for his loss resulting from the scam; and
pay Mr A interest on that refund calculated at 8% simple from the date the claim was 
declined to the date of settlement. Ive awarded interest at this rate as its clear Mr A 
has been deprived of the use of this money and where he had clear intention to use it 
to buy a car. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2021.
 
Ben Murray
Ombudsman