The complaint 
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold payment protection 
insurance (PPI) to them alongside a mortgage in 2001. 
Background
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Through their representatives, 
Mr and Mrs S disagreed with that view. They said that the policy had a 30-day deferral 
period and they wouldnt have been able to meet their mortgage repayments during that 
time. 
As the parties are not in agreement with our adjudicator, the matter was passed to me to 
make a final decision. Upon considering the documents, I could see that when the PPI 
application was completed back in 2001, Mr S declared a pre-existing medical condition. 
After making further enquiries, Mr S told us that hed received a minor injury that did not 
affect his day to day life. This injury had not caused him to take any time off work. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but I havent upheld their complaint. Ill explain why 
below. 
The parties agree that the cover was sold during a face to face meeting. I cant know what 
was said during that meeting. So to help me decide whats likely to have happened, Ive 
looked at what Mr and Mrs S told us about it. And Ive also considered the documentary 
evidence thats available from the time. 
The first thing Ive thought about is whether Mr and Mrs S would have known they had a 
choice about buying this cover. I can see in their PPI questionnaire that they said they didnt 
know about the cover and they wouldnt have willingly agreed to it. I accept that what Mr and 
Mrs S told us is what they honestly remember about the sale. But I also have to bear in mind 
that its difficult to remember precisely what happened almost 20 years ago, which is when 
this policy was sold. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs S now dont remember agreeing to PPI, I can see from the 
documents that they signed to say they wanted a PPI policy. They also completed a 
separate application form in which they were asked details about their jobs and their medical 
history. So I think there must have been a conversation about PPI at the time, particularly as 
its reported that Mr S had a pre-existing medical condition. I dont think the BOS 
DRN-1744569representative would have known that if Mr S hadnt disclosed it. I note also that Mr and Mrs 
S refused other financial products that were offered to them. With that in mind, I think theyd 
have known theyd bought this PPI cover and that they could have refused it if they wanted 
to. 
Given the way in which the cover was recommended to Mr and Mrs S, Im satisfied this was 
an advised sale. So that means BOS had to make sure the cover was suitable for Mr and 
Mrs Ss needs.  To help me decide whether the cover was suitable, Ive looked at the terms 
and conditions of the cover. And Ive also thought about what Mr and Mrs S told us about 
their personal circumstances at the time. 
I can see that if they needed to make a claim on the PPI, Mr and Mrs S mortgage 
repayments would have been covered for up to 24 months for each claim if they were made 
redundant or if they were off sick from work. 
From the information Mr and Mrs S provided, I can see they told us they wouldnt have had 
any sick pay if they couldnt work. And they didnt have any other means with which to make 
repayments towards their mortgage if they couldnt work. It goes without saying then that the 
PPI provided benefits over and above their existing means. 
Ive thought about what they said about the 30-day deferral period. Most policies would have 
a deferral period and 30-days is not unusual. I dont think it can be reasonably argued on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs S that in these circumstances, they should have gone without 24 
months worth of cover for the sake of 30 days. I must stress that their mortgage was 
secured on their home. And if theyd been unable to make their repayments for a prolonged 
period, the consequences could have been significant. 
Mr and Mrs S told us that they didnt have any medical conditions when they took the cover 
out. However, the documentation from the time indicated that Mr S may have had a medical 
condition. I dont think hed have been able to make a claim for that condition. But as it didnt 
cause him to take any time off work and it did affect his day to day life, I cant say it would 
have affected the suitability of this cover. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Mr and Mrs Ss wider circumstances that would have 
stopped them from being able to make a successful claim if they needed to. Putting all of 
these things together, I think the cover probably was a suitable recommendation. 
Despite that, BOS still had to give Mr and Mrs S enough information about the PPI so they 
could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for their needs. That information had to 
be clear, fair and not misleading. It is of course possible that BOS didnt tell Mr and Mrs S 
everything it should have done. But Ive set out above how PPI could have been helpful to 
them at what would have no doubt been a very stressful time if one of them was out of work. 
So I dont think theyd have acted differently even if theyd been given more or better 
information about the PPI. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S, but it follows that I dont uphold their complaint. I dont 
require BOS to take any further action in respect of it. 
My final decision 
I dont uphold this complaint about Bank of Scotland plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 21 July2020.Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman