DRN-2900056
The complaint
 Mr and Mrs S complain that Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) 
did not notify them when bonds they held had matured. Mr and Mrs S also complain that the 
compensation offered by Scottish Friendly did not reflect the loss of interest incurred and the 
problems they experienced in trying to resolve the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S would like Scottish Friendly to calculate interest from different dates and to 
increase the award for the trouble and upset caused. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs S each took out a ten-year bond in 1998 and when this matured, they rolled it 
over into another ten-year bond.  The 2008 bond matured and again, Mr and Mrs S rolled it 
over into another ten-year bond.
When the 2008 bonds matured in 2018, no notification was sent by Scottish Friendly and Mr 
and Mrs S were unaware that the bond had matured. It was only when Mr and Mrs S 
checked their bank account, they discovered that their regular direct debits had not been 
taken by Scottish Friendly.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Scottish Friendly who upheld their complaint. In their final 
response to Mr and Mrs S, Scottish Friendly offered compensation for the loss of interest 
since the bonds matured and offered £100 each to Mr and Mrs S for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Mr and Mrs did not accept the response from Scottish Friendly and referred the complaint to 
the service. One of our investigators reviewed the complaint and initially said that he thought 
that Scottish Friendly had acted fairly in trying to resolve the complaint.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigators view and provided further documentation 
and information. The investigator looked at this information and issued a second view where 
he partly upheld the complaint. The investigator asked Scottish Friendly to amend the date 
on which interest be applied to Mrs Ss bond surrender value.
Mr and Mrs S did not agree with the investigators second view and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at their complaint. Scottish Friendly agreed with the second view of the 
investigator.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 15 June 2021.  In my provisional 
decision I explained the reasons why I was upholding the complaint. I asked both parties to 
send me more evidence or information they wanted me to look at by 15 July 2021.
Both Mr and Mrs S and Scottish Friendly replied saying they were happy with my findings.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts of the complaint are understood by both Mr and Mrs S and Scottish Friendly. 
Scottish Friendly have admitted that due to a system issue, they did not send notification to 
Mr and Mrs S that their bonds had matured.
As the circumstances of the complaint are not in dispute, it is not my intention to go into 
detail about what has happened. My decision will instead focus on what is appropriate 
compensation for interest payable to Mr and Mrs S for the time that they were out of funds in 
connection to the surrender value being paid late. I will also comment on the compensation 
for the trouble and upset caused.
I would like to thank Mr and Mrs S for the detailed information that they have provided 
including the timeline of events for the complaint. I have used this information in making my 
decision.
Interest payable on surrender value 
Mr and Mrs Ss bonds matured on 13 November 2018. Scottish Friendly offered interest 
payments of £970.74 and £980.62. This was calculated as 8% simple interest on the 
surrender values of the bonds when they matured. Scottish Friendly calculated these using 
dates which they thought a bond maturity claim form should have been completed and 
returned to them. They calculated the interest using 1 June 2020 as the date when Mr and 
Mrs S could have had access to the funds.
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs S said that it was unreasonable for them to 
complete this form as it was blank, and they were still pursuing their complaint. 
The investigator thought that Scottish Friendly should use a slightly different date for Mrs Ss 
calculation as she hadnt received her form until after Mr S. The investigator thought that the 
13 June 2020 should have been a more appropriate date as she received her form on 3 
June 2020 and used the same ten-day process from this date when Mrs S could have had 
access to the funds.
Mr and Mrs S were denied access to the surrender value of the bonds and should be 
compensated for this. Mrs and Mrs S have said in their submission that the dates that 
Scottish Friendly have used are incorrect. They said that Scottish Friendly admitted liability 
in their letter dated 21 July 2020.
Scottish Friendly calculated the interest payments based on dates where they thought it 
would have been reasonable for Mr and Mrs S to have completed the bond maturity claim 
form and return it to them for processing. I can see some logic in this had these forms been 
expected by Mr and Mrs S and were straightforward, but the forms were blank due to the 
circumstances in which the bonds matured.
The forms were not properly explained and were left blank with no clear instructions for Mr 
and Mrs S to follow. As a result, Im not convinced that these dates are appropriate to be 
used as a guide for the interest to be calculated.
Scottish Friendly issued their final response to Mr and Mrs S on 21 July 2020 and confirmed 
the interest amounts in this letter. Given that this is the letter confirming their final position 
and they issued cheques to Mr and Mrs S on 14 August 2020, I think this date can be used 
as a guide for the interest to be calculated.Scottish Friendly issued new forms to Mr and Mrs S on 21 July 2020. Using the same ten-
day process that that has been referred to by the business and the investigator, I am going 
to say that the 4 August 2020 should be used as the date when interest should be calculated 
to. I note that Scottish Friendly issued the cheques on 14 August 2020 which is ten days 
after this date.
Mr and Mrs S have said that compound interest should be used to calculate the interest that 
they are due. The service uses a simple interest approach in calculation of funds where a 
consumer has been denied the use of funds.
Compensation  trouble and upset award 
Scottish Friendly offered Mr and Mrs S £100 each for the trouble and upset caused by their 
error. The investigator said in his view that this amount was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr and Mrs S did not agree.
I have looked at the timeline of the complaint and the steps that Mr and Mrs S have had to 
take to resolve the complaint. Scottish Friendly acknowledge that the service was poor and 
not reflective of the service that they should have received.
In their submission to the service, Mr and Mrs S felt that the award was too low. They 
referred to previous payments that they had received from the service and compared these 
awards to the one offered by Scottish Friendly.
The service publishes a guide on how awards for trouble and upset are calculated but every 
complaint is different, and we look at every case on an individual basis.
I think that Mr and Mrs S had to go to some lengths to get their complaint resolved but I think 
that the amount suggested by Mr and Mrs S does not reflect what we would normally offer in 
the circumstances of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have also suggested that the amount that they should receive does include 
some element of punishment for Scottish Friendly. It is not the role of the service to punish a 
business for failings in the service they offer, but to put consumers back into the position 
they should have been in had the error not happened and to ask a business to compensate 
for the trouble and upset caused.
Mr and Mrs S have also said that had they not discovered that the direct debits had not been 
taken by Scottish Friendly then they would have been denied access to these funds for a 
longer period. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs S, but the service cant look at hypothetical 
situations  it can only look at what did happen  not what may have happened.
Mr and Mrs S have also said that they would have rolled their bonds over into another new 
investment but were denied this opportunity. Scottish Friendly have said that it was not 
possible to roll the bonds over to a new bond as the bond term was ten years so Im not 
going to consider any loss of investment opportunity in this complaint.
  
Putting things right
Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited should take the following actions:
pay 8% simple interest from the date that the bonds matured to 4 August 2020.
pay Mr and Mrs S £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman