DRN-2690738
The complaint
Ms E submitted to this service a number of complaint issues related to her investment and 
pension assets serviced by partner firms of St. Jamess Place Wealth Management Plc 
(SJP) and related to events mainly from 2017 onwards. 
The issues were separated into different complaints. Last year, an Ombudsman produced a 
final decision on the issues he described as The service provided by SJP from January 
2017 to February 2019, and he noted that Any issues about the suitability report, the 
suitability of the advice and anything Ms E has raised with SJP since February 2019 will be 
dealt with in a separate complaint.
The present complaint is the separate complaint the Ombudsman referred to and it 
addresses the issues he summarised (as quoted above). In particular, it addresses:
Ms Es claim that a suitability report dated 8 February 2019 was, overall, unfit for 
purpose. [issue 1]
Ms Es claim that unsuitable advice was given to her to withdraw income from her 
pension assets, instead of withdrawing income from her investment assets. [issue 2]
Ms Es dissatisfaction with the income payment arrangement(s) that followed  she 
says she asked for payments over March and April 2019 but instead received lump 
sums on 22 February 2019 which caused an emergency tax consequence. [issue 3]
Ms Es claim that she has not received the ongoing service from her SJP partner firm 
that she has paid for, including advice on withdrawing further income in the 
2019/2020 tax year  this relates to service, beyond the period considered by the 
Ombudsman last year, from March 2019 onwards. [issue 4]
What happened
The key findings in the Ombudsmans decision last year, on the previous/separated 
complaint, were as follows:
The issues at the heart of [Ms Es] complaint started in January 2017.
Under the sub-heading titled Service provided during 2017 the Ombudsman 
concluded that SJP provided the service Ms E was entitled to in 2017 and he did not 
uphold her request for a refund of the fees she paid in that year.
Under the sub-heading titled What happened in 2018-19 the Ombudsman 
concluded that  The events in 2017 were intended to make preparations for Ms E 
to receive an income from her pension funds in 2018. The income did not start until 
February 2019 and this delay is, in my view, as a result of errors made by SJP.
To compensate Ms E for the part of the complaint that was upheld, the Ombudsman 
said  
In my view, SJP did not provide the service they charged Ms E for from January 
2018 to January 2019 inclusive. SJP should refund the fees Ms E paid between 
January 2018 and January 2019 inclusive.
Ms E also delayed taking her pension benefits from August 2018 to February 2019. 
This was initially the fault of SJP in not providing Ms E with the advice she had 
requested. I accept Ms E then gave instructions to put her withdrawal on hold. She 
explained this was as a result of a fall in the value of her pension fund. If she had 
withdrawn her pension benefits at that time, she would have had to sell more units. I 
think it was reasonable to delay taking benefits for that reason. 
The loss, if any, by delaying taking pension benefits in August 2018 was caused by 
SJPs inaction. SJP should therefore establish how many units were sold in February 
2019 and compare this to the number of units that would have been sold in August 
2018. SJP should then compensate Ms E for the value of those units. This should 
preferably be by adding the units to Ms Es pension plan. If not, this should be paid to 
Ms E as a cash sum. Ms E is a non-taxpayer, so no adjustment needed to be made 
for the effect of income tax.
Simple interest, at a rate of 8% gross a year, should also be added to the £20,000 
Ms E wished to withdraw in August 2018 until the date it was paid in February 2019.
Ms E has also been caused a significant amount of distress and inconvenience 
because of the delay to her pension benefits. In my view, an amount of £500 is 
appropriate for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms E.
Ms E accepted the Ombudsmans decision and the complaint he addressed was 
subsequently closed. One of our investigators thereafter looked into the present complaint  
issues 1 to 4 (as summarised above)  and concluded, mainly, as follows:
With regards to issue 1, the investigator identified the following sequence of events  
in December 2017 the matter of withdrawing income was briefly addressed between 
Ms E and her SJP partner, but the latters advice was that it was too early to discuss 
the matter any further and that such discussion should be done during the following 
years review; the review happened in July 2018, for which a fact finding exercise 
was conducted; a suitability report was prepared, but not issued, by SJP in 
September 2018; the matter was thereafter suspended until February 2019, when the 
report of 8 February 2019 was issued to Ms E; but this report was erroneously based 
on the fact finding exercise in July 2018 and not on an updated fact finding exercise, 
as should have been the case; hence the inaccuracies (conflicting with the state of 
Ms Es assets as of February 2019) within the report. However, the investigator did 
not find that the inaccuracies affected suitability of the advice within the report, and 
she found that SJPs offer to pay Ms E £250 for the matter was reasonable.
The investigator did not uphold issue 2. She acknowledged that Ms E had, 
subsequent to the complaint events, received alternative advice that her income 
withdrawal objective should have been met through her investment assets and not 
through her pension. However, the investigator did not consider that such advice 
meant SJPs recommendation to withdraw income from her pension was unsuitable. 
She noted, with reference to the contents of the suitability report, that the 
recommendation addressed the option of withdrawing income from her investments 
(an Investment Bond (IB) and an Individual Savings Account (ISA)), the 
advantages of deferring her pension benefits and the disadvantages of accessing 
those benefits earlier, but she concluded that the recommendation met Ms Es specific objectives as presented at the time. She also considered that the 
recommendation had not resulted in a financial loss to Ms E.
With regards to issue 3, the investigator summarised her understanding that Ms E 
had asked, in writing, for a total of £15,800 (tax free)  including her tax free Pension 
Commencement Lump Sum (PCLS)  and for the payment to be made in two 
instalments on 1st March 2019 and 1st April 2019 (within the 2018/2019 tax year); that 
the payment was made, instead, in one lump sum; and that this led to overpayment 
of emergency tax which Ms E had to reclaim from HMRC. The investigator 
acknowledged how frustrating it would have been for her to pursue the HMRC 
refund, but she considered that a comparable emergency tax overpayment would 
have been likely even if the payment had been made over two instalments. She also 
noted that the overpayment was successfully reclaimed, and that Ms E incurred no 
financial loss in the matter.
The investigator did not uphold issue 4. She referred to a breakdown in relations 
between Ms E and her previous SJP partner around February 2019; to SJP finding 
her a new partner to continue the service and to this new partner contacting her, 
without a response from her, in May 2019; to her request for advice in September 
2019; to SJP arranging for a partner to advise her in October 2019 (with advice given 
to her in this month); to the partner providing her with a drawdown review in February 
2020; and to SJP waiving its initial advice fee for the withdrawal matter at the time, 
applying no additional fees and applying only the regular ongoing charge which Ms E 
would have known about. Overall, the investigator did not consider that Ms E had 
been deprived an ongoing service by SJP.
Ms E disagreed with this outcome and the matter was referred to an Ombudsman. She 
submitted very detailed representations (with evidence). The document in which she 
responded to the investigators findings concludes with a statement, amongst others, which 
says  This investigation really does need to revisit the previous ombudsman opinion, that 
there is no case to answer for 2017  the same, or similar, request is made a number of 
times earlier in the document; and the same, or similar, type of request is also made a 
number of times in the document with regards to events in 2018. 
Many detailed points are made in the document about Ms Es corrections to and accounts of 
key events (chronology) in her dealings with SJP and the relevant partner firms since 2017. 
However, the main points made in the document  that relate directly to the investigators 
findings (and to matters addressed in the previous Ombudsmans decision)  are that:
SJP and the relevant partner firms involved in providing service to her (and her 
pension and investments) in 2017, 2018 and 2019 committed grave and fundamental 
know-your-client (KYC) failures with regards to her, her personal and financial 
circumstances and her assets. This service must investigate and address this. In this 
respect, Ms E also submitted an additional document in which she explained, 
alongside a chronology, an example of SJP breaching its KYC obligation (and duty of 
care) in terms of claiming she was not contactable in 2019 when, she says, the 
opposite was the case.
This service must conduct a thorough  or more thorough  investigation into all 
relevant aspects of SJPs (and the relevant partner firms) operations and conduct in 
her case from the outset to date. Ms E considers that the relevant partner firms have 
committed a  fundamental mismanagement of [her] financial affairs , committed 
serious compliance and best practice breaches, concealed and/or deprived her of 
transparency over dealings and discussions related to her financial affairs and deprived her of documentation (some of which she discovered only through indirect 
disclosure by this service) throughout this period.
On issues 1 and 2, the investigators findings do not address the need she had for 
emergency fund withdrawals around August 2018 as she had no other income at the 
time; the suitability report of 8 February 2019 was so erroneous (including reference 
to a meeting with her in August 2018 which did not happen) she thought it belonged 
to someone else; the undated financial review document on which the investigator 
believes the report was based  in terms of fact finding in July 2018  was equally 
erroneous and she never even spoke to its author; sourcing the income she required 
from anything other than her pension was never recommended by SJP and there is 
evidence of her repeatedly querying whether (or not) using her pension was the best 
way forward; the report is inaccurate in saying she had a preference for using the 
pension, she had no preference (hence her queries as to which source was the best 
way forward); according to her current financial adviser it would have been more 
suitable to take income from her investments as opposed to drawing from her 
pension; the investigators focus on the absence of a financial loss in her case 
neglects the important points and questions that have been raised about SJP and the 
relevant partner firms breaching key regulatory and compliance obligations in terms 
of KYC, transparency, record keeping and provision of advice.
On issue 3, the investigator again refers to an absence of financial loss because she 
received a refund of the overpaid emergency tax, but that ignores the fact that she 
was denied access to the refund money prior to achieving the refund and ignores the 
time and effort she invested in order to achieve the refund.
On issue 4, her relationship with the previous SJP partner ended in February 2019 
and, at the time and/or thereafter she was not aware that SJPs regular ongoing 
charge was being applied to her account; the relevant partner did not inform her; she 
sought advice in September 2019 and as she did not have an adviser previously she 
considered herself to be an execution only client; from then and into 2020 the 
relevant partner she was in contact with could have corrected her understanding and 
could have notified her about the ongoing charge but he did neither; she learnt about 
the ongoing charge in February 2020 and complained without success; had she 
known about the ongoing charge earlier she would have stopped it; because it took 
this service until this year (2021) to conclude the investigation of her complaint she 
continued to pay the ongoing charge; it should also be noted that concealment of the 
ongoing charge breached regulation requiring transparency, for clients, on charges. 
Her request is for this service to  review [her] evidence and increase the scope of 
 compensation to include all advisor fees from 2017, given the failures during this 
period significantly impacted events in August 2018 and beyond and that she is 
asking  for the following compensation award:
Refund fees
2017 estimate fees in region of £5,000
2019 estimate fees in region of £5,000
2020 estimate fees in region of £5,000
cost of a Suitability Report is £1,500 x 2 £3,000
compensation for Time, distress, Trouble, upset, anxiety £1,500
In addition to her comments on the investigators findings, Ms E submitted the following:A document with Ms Es detailed analysis of available evidence and evidence upon 
which SJP relies, which also includes a personal impact statement from her. A 
summary of the same  or similar  was presented in her covering email.
A document submitting why this service should review the previous Ombudsmans 
decision, should consider all matters in her complaint from 2017 henceforth and 
should consider, favourably, her claims for compensation.
A document with her detailed submissions on what I referred to above as  
Ms E considers that they have committed a  fundamental mismanagement of 
[her] financial affairs , committed serious compliance and best practice breaches, 
concealed and/or deprived her of transparency over dealings and discussions related 
to her financial affairs and deprived her of documentation (some of which she 
discovered only through indirect disclosure by this service) throughout this period.
A summary of poor practices by SJP.
A document summarising third party opinions on the merits of her complaint and on 
SJPs wrongdoings; and referring to an online press article about the life of an SJP 
adviser.
A document summarising Ms Es comments on and criticisms of the undated 
financial review document on which, as she understands, the investigator believed 
the report of 8 February 2019 was based (in terms of fact finding in July 2018). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider it important to clarify at the outset of my findings that I have neither the discretion 
nor power to re-open the complaint determined by the previous Ombudsman, to overrule 
and/or review his decision and/or to address, afresh, the issues determined in his decision. 
I quoted key parts of the Ombudsmans decision above for the sake of transparency and for 
the purpose of showing that his conclusions were reasoned. In addition, I included the 
quotes from his decision to provide the parties with a reminder of the findings and 
compensation that Ms E agreed to when she accepted the Ombudsmans decision. The 
matters addressed in that decision are concluded and closed, so the present decision 
addresses only issues 1 to 4 as summarised above.
A substantial part of the submissions made by Ms E relate, overall, to regulatory compliance. 
I do not suggest that such a matter is unimportant  it is patently important  and I 
acknowledge her right to raise concerns where she considers that SJP and its partners have 
conducted themselves contrary to regulations (and/or best practice). However, I must remain 
mindful of my remit and that of this service. We are not the industry regulator, so the extent 
to which alleged breaches of regulations are treated in a decision is normally limited to the 
requirements of determining complaint issues, considering if such issues should be upheld 
and, if so, considering what (if any) compensation should be paid. I regard it beyond my 
remit to investigate or determine matters of regulatory breach(es) in isolation  or, arguably, 
where no co-relation to a complainants financial loss exists. If, as it appears, this is what Ms 
E wants, she can consider approaching the regulator for that purpose.I should also note that Ms Es claim for a refund of fees from 2017 is defeated by the fact 
that the same claim was considered by the previous Ombudsman and was rejected (as 
quoted above); that Ms Es claim for a refund of fees from 2019 is impacted by the fact that 
the previous Ombudsman already awarded her a refund of fees for part of 2019 (within his 
award of a refund covering  between January 2018 and January 2019 inclusive); and 
that her reference to the investigator not addressing her need for emergency funds around 
August 2018 omits the fact that, as stated in the quotes (above) from the previous 
Ombudsmans decision, the delay in the pension withdrawal planning matter (which gave 
rise to her need for emergency funds) and SJPs failure to execute the planning in time was 
criticised by the Ombudsman, was part of the basis for his findings on SJPs wrongdoing in 
2018, was part of the basis for the refund of fees he ordered for that year and was the main 
basis for separate compensation to Ms E for any financial loss arising from the delay in 
executing the planning between August 2018 and February 2019  as such, the overall 
matter had been resolved and was not one the investigator needed to address.
The above statements have the effect of rendering redundant  for the purpose of my 
decision  a substantial amount of Ms Es submissions and arguments, in as far as they 
relate to matters beyond issues 1 to 4, to matters prior to February 2019 (other than that of 
suitability of the advice on selecting the source of income withdrawal, which began in 2018 
and which the previous Ombudsman did not address) and to matters that the previous 
Ombudsman has already addressed. Nevertheless, I assure Ms E that I have gone through 
all her submissions in order to understand what they present, and in order to identify 
contents that are relevant to issues 1 to 4 (which are also relevant to this decision). I have 
also gone through our file for the complaint.
Issues 1 and 2
I uphold issue 1 and it seems clear that the investigator essentially did the same  it is also 
my reading of SJPs complaint response letter of 17 July 2019 that it also essentially did the 
same (including its expression of an apology for the erroneous report and of its 
disappointment in the standard of the report). Like the investigator, I too consider SJPs offer 
of £250 reasonable for the trouble and upset caused to Ms E by the matter. It is an amount 
that is broadly consistent with those this service has awarded on similar issues. This service 
does not make punitive awards, so if Ms E considers that SJP should face a financial 
consequence in the context of regulatory breaches committed by producing the erroneous 
report that is a matter I cannot address. 
Ms Es criticisms of the report are, broadly, fair and, overall, I accept them. Given this 
finding, I do not consider it necessary to treat her individual arguments about the reports 
errors. The matter to treat, under issue 2, is the suitability of the advice within the report. It 
should not be considered implicit that a suitability report with factual errors will always 
convey unsuitable advice. I accept that erroneous facts within a suitability assessment can, 
perhaps more likely (than not), lead to erroneous advice. However, the need remains to 
address each case on its merits (or lack of) and to consider the relevant facts of what 
happened in Ms Es case in relation to the advice given to her in the report.
The report of 8 February 2019 recommended withdrawal of income from Ms Es pension 
and, in terms of the unsuitability alleged in issue 2, this is the crux of her complaint. She 
says withdrawal from her investments  not pension  was the suitable or more suitable 
recommendation that she should have received. I accept her point that she conveyed no 
specific preference over the source of income prior to the report. Evidence of her 
communications with the relevant SJP partner(s) on the matter at the outset supports this. 
However, evidence in her complaint submissions of May 2019 also shows that she appeared 
to have a form of assumption that the source would be her pension. In the document she 
referred to a change of adviser/partner in early 2017 that unsettled her and said news of this change was concerning because she  was 18 months away from taking an income from 
[her] pension and needed [her] portfolio structured to do this efficiently.
It is possible that such an assumption was shared with, and influenced, SJP at the time, but 
in any case, and as Ms E has pointed out, it was incumbent upon the firm to provide suitable 
advice. I accept that this meant the recommendation had to stand its own ground in terms of 
being suitable.
The errors in the report were mainly related to its account of Ms Es financial circumstances 
and to its inaccurate portrayals of the level (and details) of engagement with her (for 
example, its reference to her meeting the author in 2018, pursuant to the report, when her 
last contact with him was in 2017 and when in 2018 her engagement was with a different  
her original  adviser/partner). I appreciate these are significant errors and I would accept 
Ms Es argument that this affects credibility of the report. However, I consider that the report 
(especially its undisputed and/or non-erroneous content) can still provide insight that helps to 
determine issue 2.
The report records Ms Es objective to withdraw income  it says this was sought specifically 
from her pension and I have addressed above how this could have happened despite Ms E 
instructing no particular preference prior to the report. It also records her objective to 
withdraw the income in a tax efficient manner and in a way that did not alter the non-tax 
payer status she had at the time. These aspects do not appear to be in dispute. 
As the report guided itself into consideration of Ms Es pension, only, the analysis that 
followed focused on the pension. However, what is notable  and what the investigator also 
noticed and commented on  is that the recommendation section that followed the analysis 
was not guided by the same limited focus on the pension. This section began with neutral 
advice on suitability of the pension withdrawal objective. Such an approach is what a firm 
would be expected to apply in the course of giving suitable investment advice, even in the 
face of specific instructions from a client. The section then proceeded to recommend the 
way(s) to withdraw from Ms Es pension, but for the express reason that withdrawal from her 
pension was what she specifically wanted. Nevertheless, I find the following early contents in 
the section to be noteworthy:
I recommended in the first instance that you should leave your pension funds as they are 
now and utilise and use your other assets and cash reserves rather than crystallising your 
pension and for the purposes of IHT planning it does make financial sense to utilise these 
funds rather than bringing your pension funds out of their tax efficient state. You understand 
that deferring benefits has advantages: tax free growth of the fund, advantageous 
inheritance tax treatment etc, but still you confirmed taking the ta free cash from your fund 
was your preferred option  In addition you could have drawn additional income from your 
St. Jamess Place Investments in a tax efficient manor [sic] to cover your expenditure, 
however, these were not options you wished to consider, you prefer to use the tax free cash 
from your pensions to cover the costs of your expenditure.
You understand that there are disadvantages to accessing your benefits earlier than you 
might have done, which include:
The ongoing tax treatment of funds inside a pensions wrapper is generally 
preferential to funds outside of pension wrappers.
Any monies not spent will accumulate in your estate and may therefore be 
chargeable to inheritance tax.
On balance, I consider it sufficiently clear from the above that, as far as the report (and its 
recommendation) is concerned, SJP did not initiate the idea of withdrawing income from the pension, it did not agree with the idea (for reasons it set out) but it recommended the way(s) 
in which to achieve the withdrawal(s) from the pension because it believed the pension was 
the source Ms E wanted to use.
I also consider that this would have been equally clear to Ms E upon receipt of the report. I 
appreciate that it would not have been easy for her to digest the report given the distractions 
caused by its errors. However, it is reasonable to expect that a complainant would properly 
read documentation related to his/her investments and/or pensions. On balance and despite 
its errors, I consider that Ms E read and understood the report enough to know that SJP 
believed drawing from her investments was the suitable option; that, in its view, drawing from 
her pension was not suitable; and that it proceeded to give advice on drawing from the 
pension only because it believed that was specifically what she wanted. It is inconceivable 
that she could have read and understood the report enough to highlight its factual errors 
without taking on board the recommendation contents quoted above.
Ms E could have suspended the matter upon receipt of the report and clarified, by way of 
correction, that her objective was not fixed on drawing from the pension; and she could have 
terminated the idea of withdrawing from the pension and could instead have instructed 
withdrawals from her investments based on the reasons for doing so expressly mentioned in 
the report. She did not do this. Action thereafter followed to execute the drawings from the 
pension. It appears her discontent with the idea of drawing from the pension arose mainly 
after she received alternative advice which criticised SJP for recommending it. However, 
based on what I have quoted above, SJP did not quite recommend it and it is arguable that it 
expressly or implicitly, at least, recommended withdrawals from her investments as the 
better option for her. Where she says the alternative advice she received was that her 
investments should have been used instead, that should not have been news to her, given 
that the report of 8 February 2019 previously said the same.
For the reasons given above, I am not persuaded to uphold issue 2. On balance, it has not 
quite been established that withdrawals from the pension was a recommendation initiated in 
SJPs suitability report of 8 February 2019; and even though Ms E expressed no particular 
preference prior to the report, her actions in proceeding with the pension withdrawals, 
despite the report telling her that withdrawals from her investments were better for her, 
would suggest that the former became her preference after the report.
Issue 3
I uphold this issue, because evidence shows that SJP breached Ms Es payment 
instructions, but I do not consider that any compensation to her arises from it. It is not in 
dispute that the emergency tax she incurred was successfully reclaimed from HMRC  so, 
as the investigator said, she experienced no financial loss in the matter. 
Ms E has made points about being denied the refund money, prior to receiving the refund, 
and about the time and effort expended in achieving the refund. However, she has also 
referred to the refund being resolved over a few weeks around late April 2019 and to that 
resolution happening  after a number of attempts and more than half an hour on the 
phone to HMRC. Overall and on balance, I am not persuaded that these amount to 
circumstances that prompt an additional or separate award for trouble and upset.
Issue 4
I do not uphold this issue. In terms of service from SJP to Ms E from or after February 2019, 
I note the following:The report of 8 February 2019 explicitly referred to the continuation of SJPs ongoing 
advice service in the future. On this basis, it seems inconceivable that Ms E could 
have regarded herself as an execution only client (as she presently claims) at the 
time and inconceivable that she would not have known that the charge associated 
with the ongoing advice service would also have continued. I therefore do not accept 
her claim that she was deprived of the opportunity to terminate the service. The 
report reminded her of the service and gave her that opportunity, but she did not 
terminate the service. I am also not persuaded by her reference to retaining the 
service until our investigation was concluded and the implication that our 
investigation into her complaints required retention of the service. I have not seen 
evidence that we instructed, advised or influenced, in any way, her decision to retain 
the service for as long as she did.
Available evidence, as confirmed in writing by SJP, is that Ms E did not face any 
additional or separate charge for the suitability assessment and report of 8 February 
2019, so this defeats her claim for a refund of fees associated with its preparation.
SJPs response (in July 2019) to Ms Es complaint included mention of her new 
adviser/partner, so this too reminded her of the ongoing advice service and informed 
her of who had been appointed to discharge that service.
Ms Es approach to SJP around September 2019, for advice, suggests her 
awareness that the ongoing advice service continued, and it shows her use of it at 
the time. In response to her approach, there is evidence of an appointed SJP 
adviser/partner engaging with her thereafter, communicating with her and sharing 
some advice around October 2019 up to the advisory review report that was 
produced by SJP and issued to her in 2020.
Ms E maintained SJPs ongoing service into 2020 aware of the complaints she had 
already referred to this service and aware of her concerns about SJP. The implication 
that arises is that it was a conscious decision on her part to do so. I do not comment 
on or criticise this in any way, and I acknowledge her discretion and right to make 
such a decision. However, for the reasons given above, I do not consider that she 
was deprived of SJPs ongoing advice service after February 2019 or that she was 
unaware of the service or that she retained the service (at cost) against her will. As 
such, and on balance, I consider that her claim for a refund of fees from 2019 (that is, 
the part of 2019 not covered by the previous Ombudsmans decision) onwards falls 
away.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ms Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 May 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman