DRN-3512573
The complaint
Miss A complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a new account card request.
What happened
Miss A says she asked Barclays for a new account card on 15 January 2022 and was told it 
would take five working days to arrive. She says she called Barclays on 17 January 2022 to 
ask if the card could be delivered earlier and was told the card hadnt been ordered. Miss A 
says she then saw on her online banking that a savings account card had been ordered and 
so spoke to Barclays again. She says the account card arrived the following week and that 
the £25 compensation isnt enough. Miss A says she was seven days without an account 
card, she could not buy essential items and a trip away was ruined.
Barclays apologised for what took place and says it paid £25 compensation which Miss A 
accepted. It says its records show Miss A withdrew £300 cash from her account on 19 
January 2022 and was using her new account card on 21 January 2022 which is within the 
five working days in any event.
Miss A brought her complaint to us and our investigator thought Barclays had dealt fairly with 
it by apologising and paying appropriate compensation. The investigator accepted Miss A 
had been caused inconvenience but didnt think the mistake was significant as she was able 
to access her money and must have received the new card by at least 21 January 2022 as 
the statements show it was being used.
Miss A doesnt accept that view and says she was caused stress as a result of what took 
place. She doesnt accept she received the account card on 21 January 2022 and maintains 
it was the following week. Miss A would like further compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Barclays has dealt fairly with this 
complaint by apologising and paying appropriate compensation.
There is no question here that Barclays made a mistake by not ordering a new account card 
when Miss A asked it to on 15 January 2022 and by ordering the wrong card. I have no 
doubt Miss A was inconvenienced in contacting Barclays again and accept that if Miss A 
hadnt asked for the account card earlier than the five working days, then the mistake may 
not have been noticed. But I have to consider what did happen and can see that on 15 
January 2022 Barclays told Miss A she would received the new card in five working days 
which would have been by 21 January 2022.
Im satisfied that Barclays has fairly apologised for the mistake and paid what I think is a fair 
and reasonable compensation award. Im also satisfied that Miss A would have had to spend 
some time asking Barclays for a new account card in the first place. I dont think Miss A 
suffered any financial loss as a result of the mistake and I cant see that the impact was 
significant. I have looked carefully at Barclays records and Miss As account statements and 
can see that she was able to withdraw £300 cash on 19 January 2022. And I can also see 
that Miss A was able to use her new account card on 21 January 2022 which must mean it 
was received by that date. Im satisfied that Miss A did receive her new account card within 
the promised five working day period which is what she would have had to wait even if the 
card was ordered on 15 January 2022. So, I dont think the mistake resulted in a longer wait 
time.
I appreciate Miss A says her trip away was ruined. I dont think Miss A is clear about why 
she says that. I have made clear that I find Miss A received the new account card within the 
promised time period, she was able to withdraw money and used the account card on 21 
January 2022. I cant see how the account card could have been used on 21 January 2022 if 
Miss A didnt receive it until the following week. I appreciate Miss A says she was vulnerable 
and scarred as a result of what took place and caused embarrassment. But I think Miss A 
was able to withdraw money and would have been without her account card that week in any 
event.
Overall, I accept Barclays made mistakes, but Im satisfied they didnt result in a delay to 
Miss A receiving her new account card and am satisfied that its apology and compensation 
is fair and reasonable. I dont consider Miss A was caused inconvenience that justifies 
further compensation and think it inevitable she would have been caused some 
inconvenience in ordering and waiting for a new account card.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman