DRN-2196771
The complaint
Mrs S says Evergreen Finance London Limited trading at the time as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
irresponsibly lent to her.
What happened
This complaint is about two loans MoneyBoat provided to Mrs S on 19 August 2019 and 30 
October 2019. Mrs Ss borrowing history is set out in the table below as follows:
Loan Date Taken 
Out Date Repaid Instalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 19/08/2019 25/10/2019 2 £200 £138.27
2 30/10/2019 Outstanding 6 £600 £181.49
In her complaint to this service, Mrs S told us that the loans given to her were unaffordable. 
She said she was in a financial mess with payday loans and her credit file was in a very poor 
state.
In its final response to Mrs S, MoneyBoat told her it would not uphold her complaint. It said 
for each application it performed credit checks and it also assessed the affordability of the 
loan by requesting Mrs Ss income and expenditure and her declared salary was verified via 
pay slips. It told Mrs S it was reasonable to assume that the lending was affordable to her 
based on its proportionate checks.
Our adjudicator upheld Mrs Ss complaint about both loans 1 and 2. She said the information 
MoneyBoat had obtained about her circumstances showed she was having problems 
managing her money. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with this view. It said it considered the checks it carried out were 
proportionate especially given the infancy of the lending relationship. It said we may make 
the assertion that as it had the information it should have looked at it however, given the 
nature of the market and the speed in which short term loans are needed, it would be 
impractical to sit and review every line of the credit check results for every loan. It also 
challenged the conclusion that the debt indicated against Mrs Ss income was a cause for 
concern.
MoneyBoat asked that the matter be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. So, the 
complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
 the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MoneyBoat was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet the 
repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to 
realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely 
to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint. Ive decided to uphold this case and I 
will explain why.
As I explained above, MoneyBoats checks needed to be proportionate. Ive looked to see 
what checks MoneyBoat carried out before it gave Mrs S her loans.
First of all, for loan 1, Mrs S declared her income to be £2,300 and her outgoings as £650 
plus a sum of £500 for credit commitments per month. So, on the face of it, this left Mrs S 
with a disposable income of £1,150, so it looked as if she might be able to afford to take out 
this loan based on what she had declared.MoneyBoat has provided a credit check it carried out before lending to Mrs S. Ive looked 
carefully through it to see what it saw and ought to have made a different to the lending 
decision that it made. I can see there were indebtedness indicators which showed that the 
total of all balances of loans, instalment credit and revolving and budget credit was £8,611 
with her total balances for loans and instalment credit of £4,197 and her balances for 
revolving credit and budget credit was £2,486 with her limit of £2,250.So it seemed Mrs S 
was over her credit limit on some or all of her revolving credit facilities. 
In my view the report highlighted Mrs S was already highly indebted. However, I dont think 
the amount of debt she had was an automatic red flag not to lend. But I note the report also 
showed that Mrs S was at 110% of her limit for revolving and budget credit and it also 
showed that she had opened five new accounts within the last six months, as well as having 
12 active accounts on her file. Shed also had three defaults on her accounts in the previous 
12 months. These defaults look like they had occurred not long before Mrs S took out her 
first loan. Taking the whole picture of her indebtedness and coupled with the fact there were 
12 accounts outstanding, with 5 (almost half) of her accounts opened in the last six months I 
think Moneyboat should have carried out further checks to verify what Mrs S was saying 
about her monthly expenditure.
From the statements I can see that Mrs S was repaying several loans in the weeks before 
she took out loan 1. In particularly I note that Mrs S was repaying around seven loans 
including short term lending and high cost credit in the month prior to her requesting the loan 
from Moneyboat. She was repaying significant amounts towards these loans which 
amounted to more than double the amount she had declared for her credit commitment. I 
think it would have noted that this loan was unaffordable, and that Mrs S was having 
problems managing her money.
Loan 2 was for three times the amount of loan 1. It was taken only five days after loan 1 had 
been repaid. This time Mrs S told MoneyBoat that her income was £2,600 and her expenses 
were £1,120 with a further amount for credit commitments of £250. So, it looked again that 
she had around £908 in disposable income, and she might have been able to afford the 
repayments for loan 2.
The credit check which MoneyBoat carried out for loan 2 however, showed that Mrs S had 
16 active accounts with nine accounts opened in the last six months. Bearing in mind her 
Moneyboat loan accounts opened in a short period of time of each other suggests that there 
had been a deterioration of Mrs Ss financial situation. And, I think MoneyBoat should have 
done more.
Mrs S looks like she also took out a further five loans in the couple of months prior to getting 
loan 2. I think if Moneyboat had done further checks it would have realised Mrs S was simply 
servicing her debt and by the time she requested money from Moneyboat, she was likely 
having problems managing her money and therefore Mrs S wasnt in a position to repay this 
loan sustainably.
So Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint about loans 1 and 2 and MoneyBoat should put things 
right.
Putting things right
MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent loans1 and 2 to Mrs S. I understand loan 2 is still outstanding. If that is the case and MoneyBoat has sold the 
outstanding debt, it must buy it back if it is able to do so. If it is not able to buy it back, it must 
liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below:
a) MoneyBoat must add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything that has already been refunded;
b) MoneyBoat must calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by 
Mrs S which were considered as part of paragraph (a) from the date Mrs S originally 
made the payments to the date the complaint is settled;
c) MoneyBoat must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any 
upheld outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mrs S as though they 
had been repayments of principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mrs S 
having made overpayments, MoneyBoat should refund these overpayments with 8%* 
simple interest calculated on the overpayments from the date the overpayments 
would have arisen to the date the complaint is settled. It must then refund the 
amounts calculated in paragraphs (a) and (b) and move to step (e); 
d) If there is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts calculated in (a) and (b) 
should be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this 
results in a surplus, then the surplus must be repaid to Mrs S. However, if there is still 
an outstanding balance, MoneyBoat should try to agree an affordable repayment 
plan with Mrs S. It must not pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has 
already written off;
e) MoneyBoat must remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Ss credit file in 
respect of loans 1 and 2 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Evergreen Finance London 
Limited, trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, should pay Mrs S compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2020.
 
Nicola Woolf
Ombudsman