DRN-3765105
The complaint
Mr C  as trustee of the BDC trust  complains about a delay withdrawing trust money from 
an investment account held with Invesco Fund Managers Limited.
What happened
The trust here was established in 2004. Mr C was one of three trustees at that point  Ill 
refer to the other two as RC and PC to keep things both anonymous and clear.
Mr C asked Invesco for the trusts money in March 2020. But he didnt receive it until 
mid-September. One reason for the delay was that the investment account had been set up 
as a joint account, rather than a trust account. Another is that once the account was 
changed, Invesco wanted details about the trust before theyd release its money to Mr C. 
I made a provisional decision for this case in September 2022. I wrote about some key 
documents wed been shown during our investigation. Specifically:
A cover letter RC wrote to Invesco in 2005 with his application to open a joint 
account. The letter explained the investment was to be held by the trust. And it 
referred to a phone call where the non-UK residence of one of the trustees had been 
discussed.
A letter Mr C wrote to Invesco in 2019, which again explained the investment was 
held by the trust. 
Invescos response to the complaint from August 2020, which confirmed the following 
timeline of events:
oInvesco had requested and received anti-money laundering (AML) 
information from Mr C in April 2019.
oMr C acknowledged in March 2020 that Invesco needed AML details for PC.
oInvesco received these on 3 July 2020.
oInvesco had already asked for these in October 2019, after theyd got Mr Cs 
AML information. PC had not provided the information at that point.
oFrom 23 March, Invesco sent some letters to Mr C asking for details about the 
trust. But Invesco acknowledged that calls in April hadnt been clear about 
what was needed. They said they hadnt reminded Mr C the details were 
needed. Mr C says he was told the request letters were automated and could 
be ignored.
oInvesco received details about the trusts UK tax status on 25 July.
oThey received a copy of the trust deed on 15 August.
oWith this information, Invesco allowed the money to be released to the 
trustees.
oAlthough Mr C had provided the trusts building society account details in 
March 2020, this wasnt used when paying the investments proceeds. 
Instead, the money was issued by cheque on 29 August. The trustees 
received this in mid-September.
In his complaint, Mr C said Invesco should have set the account up as a trust account from 
the beginning. In response, Invesco said the 2005 application to open a joint account made 
no mention of a trust, so it had been reasonable to set up a joint account.
Mr C also felt Invesco gave unclear explanations about what they needed from the trustees. 
He felt the delays that resulted had led to the trust missing an opportunity to reinvest the its 
money. Adding a further element to his complaint, he felt Invescos complaint handling had 
been poor. 
In my provisional decision I said why I found Invescos service hadnt been reasonable. I 
explained how this added a delay to the withdrawal, which would need compensation to put 
right. I asked Mr C and Invesco to respond by 3 October to my decision. 
Mr C said he didnt fully agree with my decision, but hed accept it if Invesco did too. He also 
explained what hed done with the trusts money after he received it in mid-September 2020. 
Ill show later on how Ive factored that in to my decision. 
Invesco wrote to us on 5 October, and asked for two more weeks to respond. They wrote to 
us again on 24 October apologising for the delay, and said theyd let us have their response 
by Wednesday (26 October). As I write, its Friday 28 October and we havent heard 
anything further. 
DISP 3.5.14 allows me to continue with my consideration of the complaint where a 
respondent hasnt complied with a time limit Ive set. Ive decided to do that here, as I feel 
Invesco have had enough time to respond. This final decision is based on what weve 
received to date. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not received anything thats changed my view about this case. So my decision remains 
as it was  Invesco havent treated Mr C reasonably. Ill repeat my reasoning, and explain 
what needs to happen now to put things right. 
As Ive noted above, since this account was first opened Invesco had received information 
that showed this investment was owned by a trust.
RCs cover letter  addressed to Invesco  made that clear enough. That letter also referred 
to a telephone conversation about one of the trustees being a non-UK resident. Thats 
consistent with the sort of questions Id have expected Invesco to have asked when told 
about the trust. So it tells me there was a discussion between RC and Invesco that 
mentioned the trust. Id have expected that discussion to result in RC being told what form he should fill out to set 
up the account needed for the trusts investment. The fact RC then went on to fill out an 
application for a joint account suggests he wasnt given the correct information.
In any case, it should have been clear to Invesco that a joint account didnt quite match with 
what RC had said in the cover letter. That should have prompted them to go back to him and 
suggest he use a trust account instead. Had that been done, Im satisfied RC would have 
completed an application to set up the trust account back in 2005.
That would have meant Invesco wouldnt have needed the trust deed or confirmation of the 
trusts UK tax status later on, as theyd likely have already had it.
There was also a second opportunity for Invesco to see  before 2020  that a joint account 
wasnt quite right here. Mr Cs letter in 2019 was clear enough about this being a trust owned 
investment. Id have expected Invesco to have realised at that point that they needed more 
details about the trust.
If theyd got those details in either 2005 or 2019, some of the delay in 2020 need not have 
happened. So I find some of the delay here does follow from Invescos failings. 
With that said, the time taken to get AML information from PC doesnt seem to be due to a 
failing by Invesco. I havent seen the request Invesco referred to from October 2019  I 
understand they no longer have a copy. But taking it as theyve said  which is after all 
consistent with having asked Mr C for AML details in April 2019  Invesco arent responsible 
for PC not then providing the details.
That meant a further request was needed in 2020. The time taken to get that information  
up to 3 July 2020  wasnt therefore a delay that follows from a failing by Invesco.
After that point though, it appears the delays were down to needing information about the 
trust. As Ive found Invesco should have seen the trusts involvement much earlier, I find it 
was unreasonable they didnt already have that information. So the delay from 3 July 
onwards is for Invesco to put right.
I asked last time for an explanation for why the trusts money couldnt be paid directly to its 
building society account. Ive not had anything further on this point. But I cant see a mistake 
by Invesco created the need to use a cheque instead. So although it probably took longer to 
send the cheque, Invesco dont need to do anything to remedy that delay.
That pushes the 3 July date on by a couple of weeks, to reflect the time a cheque would 
have taken to issue and send. Im currently of the view mid-July  15 July, rather than 
mid-September  should have been when the trustees received the money. That means 
there was a two-month period where the trust was unreasonably without its money.
Putting things right
When he brought the complaint to us, Mr C felt the delays withdrawing the money had kept 
the trust from making gains in the rising market of mid-to-late 2020. I agree the remedy to 
this case should acknowledge that the trustees could have reinvested the trusts money 
sooner, if Invesco had given it to them sooner.
Its difficult to say exactly what the trustees would have chosen to invest in if theyd had the 
money two months earlier. But I feel its fair to say the trust was aiming for capital growth, 
and the trustees were willing to accept some risk to achieve that.The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It would be 
a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
Although its called an income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given the trust's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
So Ive decided Invesco should work out what the money would have achieved if invested in 
this index from mid-July to mid-September 2020. If the trust would have lost money, then 
Invesco wont need to pay any compensation. But if the trust would have increased in value 
during this period, Invesco should compensate the trust for that lost gain.
Any gain would then have been available to the trustees to invest  in line with the rest of the 
trust funds  from mid-September.
Mr C has explained that once the money was received in mid-September 2020, the trustees 
chose to keep it in the building society account they had in the trusts name. So 
compensation of the lost gain should factor that in. Once Mr C has shown Invesco what the 
building society account returned from mid-September  presumably some rate of interest  
Invesco should apply that to any compensation being paid for the lost investment gain. 
Ive thought as well about non-financial impacts. I can see Mr C spent time and effort on the 
phone and in writing trying to sort out the problems with the investment account. Mr Cs also 
mentioned how the trustees felt insulted by Invescos suggestion that RC hadnt set up the 
investment properly.
Im currently of the view this effort  and certainly the upset caused  would have been less 
if Invescos service had been reasonable. So to acknowledge that, Ive decided 
compensation should be paid directly to Mr C.
Picking an amount is a matter of opinion. But here Ive found the issues added about two 
months to something that would still have taken four months if Invesco had acted more 
reasonably. And some time and effort would have been usual for the trustees to discharge 
their duties properly. But I agree with Mr C that some of what Invesco were telling him wasnt 
clear. That would have added to the frustration he had in this matter.
With that said  as much as Im able to comment on it as a complaint in its own right  I 
actually find Invescos complaint handling was alright. Their letter in August 2020 was 
particularly useful for understanding what the problems were here. And it made Invescos 
position clear  even though I disagree with some of that position.
That all leads me towards a modest figure for the compensation here  £100. I intend this to 
acknowledge that extra time and effort was needed, rather than compensating for the effort 
involved more generally in being a trustee.
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold Mr Cs complaint about Invesco Fund Managers Limited. If Mr C 
accepts this decision, Invesco must do the following to put things right:
Work out what the trusts money would have achieved if invested in the FTSE UK 
Private Investors Income total return index from 15 July to 14 September 2020.
Pay any gain in value to the trust, along with what Mr C can show that gain would have achieved if held in the trusts building society account from 15 September to the 
date its paid.
Pay Mr C personally £100 to acknowledge the added upset and inconvenience hes 
been caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C of 
the C Trust to accept or reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman