DRN-3608765
The complaint
Mr M and Miss R complain about Royal & Sun Alliance Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
made under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr M and Miss R have a home insurance policy underwritten by RSA which covers their 
contents and buildings, amongst other things. They bought the policy when they purchased 
their current home, in September 2020.
In May 2021, Mr M and Miss R noticed a problem with the skirting boards in their bedroom. 
They appointed surveyors, who found a problem with dry rot. 
When work to rectify the problem began, it was found that the issue was more extensive, 
with the dry rot affecting the bathroom and dining room as well as the bedroom. And a leak 
in a lead main pipe was discovered when the bathroom was stripped.
Mr M and Miss R then raised a claim with RSA, who appointed their own surveyors to 
inspect the property. 
RSA declined the claim, which led to Mr M and Miss R making a complaint to RSA. The 
complaint wasnt upheld, so Mr M and Miss R brought it to us.
RSA have declined the claim for several reasons. They say policy exclusions apply. These 
relate to dry rot specifically, gradually operating causes in general, non-occupancy and 
damage which occurred before the policy was in place.
Our investigator looked into it and thought RSA had unfairly declined the claim. She said the 
exclusions relied upon by RSA couldnt be fairly applied in this case. And she asked RSA to 
deal with the claim. She also asked them to pay 8% interest on any settlement given that 
Mr M and Miss R had already paid to get the repair work carried out.
RSA disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its useful first of all to establish the facts relating to this complaint. Theres no dispute 
about most of the facts  the dispute is more about how the terms of the policy apply in 
these circumstances. If there are any disputes about the facts, I think theyre relatively easily 
resolved.
It's agreed that the property was affected by dry rot. And given the extent of the dry rot within 
the property, its also reasonable to assume with some degree of certainty that the rot had 
manifested itself before Mr M and Miss R bought the property  and before they were on 
cover with RSA. 
Its also reasonable to assume  although two surveyors appointed by RSA dont mention it 
specifically - that there was a water leak from the lead main pipe identified by Mr M and 
Miss Rs surveyor / contractor. I dont think RSA dispute this in light of their recent comments 
to us.
I think its more likely than not that the water leak created the conditions which allowed the 
dry rot to develop. Again, I dont think this is in dispute. Even if it is, Im satisfied the 
evidence suggests the leak most likely caused the dry rot.
I dont think theres any dispute that the damage to the property has worsened since the 
purchase of the home and the inception of the policy. 
It would defy scientific logic if that were the case. And Mr R and Miss R clearly only noticed 
the damage to the skirting board in May 2021, despite extensively re-decorating after they 
bought the property.
Im satisfied, in other words, that some but likely not all of the damage has occurred whilst 
Mr M and Miss R were on cover with RSA.
Finally  in terms of the facts underpinning this case - Im also satisfied that Mr M and 
Miss R werent aware of the damage until May 2021. I say that for several reasons.
One, as I say above, they re-decorated their home  in the areas affected by the dry rot  
and didnt at that point notice the issues which they later noticed in May 2021. 
Two, they immediately took action, in May 2021, to investigate the issues - with the aim of 
carrying out any remedial work as soon as possible. That suggests they would have acted in 
the same way had they noticed the issues earlier.
RSA have said that the survey carried out before Mr M and Miss R bought the property 
suggested there may be a damp problem and recommended further investigation. 
And if Mr M and Miss R had acted on that recommendation, the issues now apparent would 
have been discovered much earlier  before the property was purchased and before Mr M 
and Miss R were insured by RSA.
However, I can see that the survey mentioned a possible damp issue in a completely 
different part of the building (which contains more than one dwelling). And Mr M and Miss R 
had assurances from the previous owner that remedial action had already been taken. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable for them to decide not to have a damp survey carried 
out. And I dont think RSA can reasonably argue that Mr M and Miss R should have been 
aware of the dry rot, because they should have had the damp survey carried out.
Ill turn now to Mr M and Miss Rs policy. Again, I dont think theres any real dispute about 
what that says.
In Section 2  which sets out the buildings cover  its clear that the policy will cover escapes 
of water from fixed water systems. So, the leak from the water pipe discovered when the 
bathroom was stripped is an insured event under the terms of the policy.
The exclusions are also set out very clearly. The policy doesnt cover damage which 
happens gradually or  very specifically - damage caused by dry rot.
Theres also no cover for damage which happened before the policy was taken out. And damage caused by escape of water isnt covered if the home has been unoccupied for 60 
days in a row.
Those are the exclusions RSA tell us theyre relying up on to decline the claim. And I think 
its important to say at the outset that RSA would be entitled to decline the claim if one were 
to accept a very strict and literal interpretation of the terms of the policy.
However, as RSA know, we take the view that a strict application of the type of gradual 
causes exclusion included in this policy may often mean that customers arent treated fairly 
by their insurers.
We think its unfair to decline a claim on the basis that the damage occurred gradually if the 
customer wasnt aware that the damage was occurring  and it couldnt reasonably be said 
that they ought to have been aware. 
As Ive already said above, Im satisfied on balance that its very likely that Mr M and Miss R 
werent aware of the damage to their home until May 2021. Nor do I think its reasonable to 
suggest they should have been aware of the damage before then. And on that basis, Im 
satisfied it wouldnt be reasonable in this case to apply the exclusion for gradually operating 
causes.
A similar logic applies when I consider the dry rot exclusion. This is set out in the policy 
separately to the gradual causes exclusion. But that doesnt alter the fact dry rot is one 
example of a gradually operating cause.
That being the case, we would apply the same reasoning to this specific exclusion  and say 
that it would be unfair to apply the strict terms of the policy where the policyholder wasnt 
aware - and had no reason to suspect - that damage was occurring.
As I said above, we can be reasonably sure that not all of the damage to Mr M and Miss Rs 
property occurred whilst they were covered by their policy with RSA. Its very likely, if not 
entirely certain, that the leak and the dry rot began during the period before they purchased 
the property when the previous owner had cover with a different insurer.
We can be equally sure that the damage, given the nature of it, has continued to occur 
between September 2022  when Mr M and Miss R bought the home and the insurance 
policy  and May 2021, when the damage was discovered.
I acknowledge that the policy explicitly excludes cover for damage which occurred prior to 
the policy being taken out. But again, we have to consider whats fair and reasonable for the 
policyholder in these kinds of situations.
Our view is that, in these kinds of circumstances, whilst RSA may not strictly be liable for any 
of the damage which occurred before September 2020, it would be impractical - if not 
impossible  now to try to distinguish which insurer was responsible for repairs to which part 
or proportion of the damage.
That being the case - and bearing in mind the need to treat Mr M and Miss R fairly - wed 
expect RSA to handle the claim. And that would remain the case whether or not RSA may 
be able to negotiate with the previous insurer about which of them should cover what 
proportion of the costs.
I might take a different view if Mr M and Miss R had been on cover with RSA for a much 
shorter period before the damage was discovered, but they had the policy for around eight 
months. Their property clearly suffered further - and very likely significant - damage over that quite prolonged period of time.
RSA have also sought to rely on the exclusion for damage to property unoccupied for a 
period of time. I cant agree with this argument - which is based on the idea that Mr M and 
Miss R, the policyholders, werent occupying the property when some of the damage 
occurred, before they bought their home.
I dont think the property was unoccupied. It was occupied by someone else. At a time 
before the policy existed and before there were policyholders who might not or might not be 
in occupation.
In other words, whilst I can understand the argument RSA are making, I think it simply 
amounts to the same as saying RSA wont cover damage which occurred before the policy 
was incepted. And my arguments on that are set out above.
In summary, I dont think RSA can reasonably or fairly apply any of the exclusions theyve 
argued they should be able to rely upon to decline the claim. 
There was an insured event  the escape of water - which caused the damage. Applying the 
strict terms of the gradual causes or dry rot exclusions would be unfair. And to treat Mr M 
and Miss R fairly, RSA should handle the claim because a significant part of the damage 
occurred whilst Mr M and Miss R had cover with RSA.
Putting things right
Given that Im satisfied none of the exclusions RSA have sought to rely on in declining the 
claim should apply in this case, RSA must handle the claim in line with the remaining terms 
and conditions of the policy.
And given that Mr M and Miss R have already paid for the necessary remedial work to be 
carried out, RSA should pay 8% simple interest on any settlement figure paid to Mr M and 
Miss R. That interest should be calculated from the date Mr M and Miss R paid their 
contractor(s) to the date they receive the settlement from RSA. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr M and Miss Rs complaint.
Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited must reconsider the claim in line with the remaining 
terms and conditions of the policy. And pay Mr M and Miss R 8% simple interest on any 
payment made in settlement of the claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Miss R 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 September 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman