DRN-2587257
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Gain Credit LLC trading as Lending Stream was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr M was provided with four loans by Lending Stream. He says the loans were unaffordable 
and caused him stress and anxiety.
Loan Amount Date
1 £50.00 09/12/2016
2 £60.00 28/06/2018
3 £50.00 30/06/2018
4 £590.00 05/07/2018
Lending Stream issued a final response to Mr Ms complaint dated 13 December 2019. It 
didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said before each loan was provided adequate and 
proportionate affordability checks were carried out and based on these the loan repayments 
were affordable.
Mr M didnt accept Lending Streams final response and referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He didnt think it would have been 
proportionate to ask for the amount of information needed to show the loans were 
unsustainable. He said based on the information provided the loans appeared affordable. He 
didnt think the number of loans or overall period of borrowing on its own showed that Mr M 
was experiencing underlying financial difficulties. 
Mr M didnt accept our investigators view. He said that had Lending Stream carried out 
proper checks it would have seen his debts and other payday loans. He said it allowed him 
to declare zero expenses which wasnt responsible. He said he was desperate at the time 
and had Lending Stream checked his situation properly it would have realised he couldnt 
afford the loan repayments. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customer's income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M took out his first loan with Lending Stream in December 2016. The loan was for £50. 
Before the loan was provided information about Mr Ms income and expenses was gathered. 
Mr M said he was in full time employment and had a monthly income of £840. as this was 
Mr Ms first loan and given the size of the repayments compared to his declared income I 
find the checks carried out were proportionate. I wouldnt require any further checks to take 
place at this time and as the checks suggested the loan was affordable I do not find I can 
say this loan shouldnt have been provided.
Mr M repaid his first loan early on 30 December 2016. He then didnt take out another loan 
until June 2018. Given the gap in his borrowing from Lending Stream I find it reasonable that 
his second loan was considered as the first in a new lending chain.
Mr Ms second loan was for £60 repayable over six monthly instalments, At the time Mr M 
was recorded as being in full time employment with a monthly income of £1,150. Information 
about Mr Ms expenses was also gathered however given how low the recorded amount 
was, I would have expected a higher number to have been included in the assessment. That 
said, I find that given this was the first loan in the lending chain and noting the size of the 
repayments compared to Mr Ms income I do not find that I can say that this loan shouldnt 
have been provided.
Mr M took out another loan a couple of days later. This was for £50 and repayable over six 
monthly instalments. As this loan was taken out at the same time as the previous loan, I 
have considered the total amount lent at this point as being £110. The combined monthly 
repayments for the two loans was less than £35. Considering the repayments compared to 
Mr Ms declared monthly income (which had reduced to around £1,000 at this time) and 
noting this was early in the lending relationship, I do not find that Lending Stream was 
required to carry out further checks that could have raised concerns. Based on the 
informaiton it had the loan repayments appeared affordable.
Mr M then took out a third loan five days later. This was the third loan in around a week. This 
brought the total amount borrowed at this time to £700. The repayments were due over six 
monthly instalments and so Mr M was now required to make monthly repayments of around 
£225 for the outstanding loans. Mr Ms income was recoded as £1,400 at this time but given 
the changes in his income recorded for these three loans I would have thought it prudent to 
have used the lower figure provided. Mr Ms expenses are recorded as £40 compared to £275 for the loan taken out on 28 June. Had the highest expenses amount recorded for the 
three loans (£275) and the lowest income amount (£1,000) been used, Mr M would have had 
a disposable income of around £775. This would suggest the loan was affordable.
While taking out the loans in such close succession could be an indication that Mr M was 
struggling financially (and had further loans been taken out I would have expected further 
checks to take place) it could also be considered that Mr M had needed to take out a higher 
amount loan at the outset and had done this over the week. That is why I have considered 
the total amount borrowed over the three loans in my assessment. And while noting a 
pattern was emerging I do not find at this point there was enough to say that Lending Stream 
should have carried out further checks. 
Having considered the total amount borrowed at the time and the total repayment amounts 
due compared to Mr Ms income I do not find I can say that Lending Stream were required at 
this stage to carry out further checks. 
As the information received through the checks suggested the loans were affordable I do not 
find that I can say this complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Gain Credit LLC trading as 
Lending Stream.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman