DRN-2147186
The complaint
 Miss M has complained that George Banco.com Limited (Banco) acted irresponsibly when it
accepted her as guarantor for a loan.
 
What happened
Miss M entered into a guarantee and indemnity agreement in respect of a £2,600 loan that
Banco provided to the borrower, in October 2017. The loan was due to be repaid in monthly 
instalments of around £166. From what Ive seen, the total amount to be repaid over the 
original loan term was just over £3,985 including interest. The borrower made 13 payments 
towards the loan but after a period of time where no payments were made, Banco invoked 
the indemnity agreement and Miss M was then asked to make the repayments.
Miss M says she couldnt afford to act as the loan guarantor and that Banco should have
realised this, if it had carried out proper checks at the time. She also said she didnt 
understand the implications of being a Guarantor at time and Banco didnt make this clear.  
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Ms complaint. She thought that Banco shouldnt
have accepted Miss M as the loan guarantor. Ive not seen a response from Banco to the
findings made in the adjudicators assessment, other than a short message from it to say it 
will seek advice, but this was several months ago now. As Miss Ms complaint has not been 
resolved informally, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Weve set out our approach to complaints about high cost credit and guarantor loans on our
website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law.
Banco needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't act irresponsibly when it
accepted Miss M as guarantor.
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context
and what it means for Miss Ms complaint. In doing so, I have considered the overarching
questions:
Did Banco obtain Miss Ms properly informed consent to become guarantor for the
loan?
Did Banco carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Miss M
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the
time?
Ultimately, did Banco make a fair lending decision (as Miss M would be equally liable
for this loan with the borrower).
There is limited information available about what happened at the time, when Banco sought 
consent from Miss M to becoming the loan guarantor. But I dont need to make a finding on 
Miss Ms complaint about whether Banco gained her consent as Im going to uphold her 
complaint anyway.
This is because I think Banco made an irresponsible lending decision when it accepted
Miss M as the loan guarantor. I will explain why.
The rules and regulations required Banco to carry out a reasonable and proportionate
assessment of whether Miss M could afford to repay this loan sustainably, as guarantor, if
she was called to do so - as she was equally liable with the borrower for this debt. Banco 
had to carry out this guarantor-focussed assessment in addition to the proportionate checks 
it was required to undertake in relation to the borrower. In effect this meant that Banco had 
to ensure that, if the guarantee was enforced against Miss M, it wouldnt adversely impact 
her financial situation. There was no set list of checks that the lender had to do, but it could
consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the length of the loan term,
the repayment amounts, and the guarantors overall financial circumstances.
Banco hasnt been able to provide all of the information needed about this loan and how it 
was granted, but in any case, from what it has provided I can see that it asked Miss M for 
information about her income and expenditure; it also says it acquired a credit report. Banco 
says that sufficient checks were carried out and that Miss M could afford to guarantee the 
loan.
The assessment Banco made on Miss Ms finances at the time it granted the loan,
seems to suggest she could have covered the loan repayment each month, if called to do 
so. But like our adjudicator, I dont think it did enough to verify Miss Ms income or 
expenditure and I think it should have gone further with this taking into consideration the size 
of the loan in relation to Miss Ms proposed monthly income and the term. The loan was due 
to be repaid over 2 years and I think Banco should have done more based on what it had in 
front of it, to find out more and ensure that Miss M could sustainably meet the instalments if 
called upon. Overall, I cannot fairly say that I think the checks Banco carried out were 
reasonable or proportionate.
Miss M has provided us with copies of her bank statements leading up to her application to
act as loan guarantor. So, I can determine what better checks might have shown Banco at
that time. And I have considered this information in light of what Ive set out above. Of
course, different checks might show different things. But I think if Banco had carried out what
I consider to be proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered more about
Miss Ms financial position.
I have gone through the statements provided by Miss M and can see there are regular direct 
debits and monthly expenditure that add up to a lot more than the figure Banco arrived at 
when it assessed her expenditure. In addition, Miss Ms monthly income was lower than she 
had declared at around £1000 a month rather than £1200. In short, Banco would have 
uncovered that Miss M had a lot less disposable income that it had assessed when it 
granted the loan. 
I can also see that Miss M regularly had unpaid direct debit transactions on her statements 
and incurred bank fees for this. She was also close and sometimes over her agreed 
overdraft limit on a regular basis. All indicating to me that she was struggling to manage her 
finances.I think if Banco had carried out proportionate checks and seen the information that is on Miss 
Ms bank statements, it ought reasonably to have concluded that it was not appropriate to 
accept Miss M as loan guarantor on this loan.
I think Banco acted unfairly when it accepted Miss M as guarantor so Banco must now put 
things right.
Putting things right
 Where I find that a business has done something wrong, Id expect that business  in so far
as is reasonably practicable  to put the consumer back in the position they would be in now
if that wrong hadnt taken place. In this case, this means Banco putting Miss M in the 
position shed now be in if she hadnt unfairly and unreasonably been accepted as a 
guarantor on this loan.
So, Banco should put things right by:
a) Releasing Miss M from any obligations under the guarantee and indemnity agreement
and then terminating it.
b) Refunding any payments made by Miss M as guarantor. Banco must add 8%* simple
interest a year to each of those sums, from the date Miss M paid them to the date the
refund is paid to her.
c) Removing any information about this loan from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Banco to deduct tax from this interest. Banco should give
Miss M a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
 
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint and direct George Banco.com Limited 
to put things right as set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman