DRN-2070212
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy she was charged fees and commission on a new motor insurance policy 
she took out through Herts Insurance Consultants Ltd trading as HIC.
What happened
HIC are an insurance intermediary who search the market for the best deals they can obtain. 
Theyre not an insurer and they dont provide or underwrite the insurance policy itself.
Miss J insured her motorhome on a policy shed taken out through HIC. In August 2019 she 
called HIC to cancel this policy as shed sold the motorhome, and she wanted to insure her 
car. Miss J says that HIC told her that if she took out a new policy for her car, she wouldnt 
be charged any fees or commission.
Miss J took out a new policy for the car through HIC, which was provided by a different 
insurer to the policy for her motorhome. Miss J has complained that shes been charged fees 
and commission on the new policy, despite HIC saying this wouldnt happen.
Miss J is also unhappy that fees like this arent justified when computers do all the hard 
work. So she also wants to know how to stop excessive fees and charges when shes 
legally obliged to insure her car.
Our investigator said Miss J was told HIC would take off their fees and commission, which 
meant that shed get a refund of £93.78 towards her new policy. And this refund was applied 
to the premium Miss J paid. But HIC also explained to Miss J that there were fees applied by 
the insurers that they couldnt waive. Because Miss J went ahead with the policy after being 
told this, the investigator didnt think HIC needed to do anything more.
The investigator also explained that we can only deal with individual complaints between 
financial businesses and their customers, so we cant consider her complaints about why 
businesses were allowed to make charges.
Miss J didnt agree with the investigator. She says she was told I wouldnt pay any fees {so} 
being charged anything other than 0.00 in charges is plainly WRONG. Shes also said she 
only insured her car through HIC because shed have lost more money if she cancelled. And 
she thinks its wrong on every level that consumers are just stick with whatever charges all 
and sundry want to charge us. So shes asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. I can understand this is likely to come as a disappointment to 
Miss J, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. Ive 
focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific 
point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Firstly, I want to recognise the upset this situation has caused Miss J. But my role is to 
consider the service she was provided by HIC. It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service to decide what policies financial businesses should have in place. And this includes 
what charges theyre allowed to make. This is a decision HIC and the insurers can make in 
line with their regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority. For this reason I wont comment 
further on this specific point.
Ive listened to the call between Miss J and HIC. On this call the first operator explained that 
the motorhome policy couldnt be transferred to Miss Js car. So shed need to cancel the 
motorhome policy and set up a new policy for the car. They also explained that, if Miss J did 
this, well remove all of our admin fees, and our commission, and youll get a refund of 
£93.78 towards your new policy. Miss J was then transferred to another operator to arrange 
for the new policy.
The second operator explained an additional fee of £35 could be charged, but only if Miss J 
gave false information which resulted in her policy having to be changed later. This is a fee 
that would only apply in a specific circumstance  if Miss J didnt give HIC the correct details 
when setting up her policy. So I dont consider this to fall within the admin fees and 
commission referred to by the first operator. 
The second operator also explained that most of our cancellation fees had been waived, 
but there were some fees that couldnt be waived. It was also explained these were the 
cancellation fees being charged by the insurer, which HIC werent able to waive. And the 
£93.78 refund was applied to the cost of the new policy.
I agree that all of our fees is different to most of our fees. But the second operator 
explained what fees were still being charged and why. And the fees that were being charged 
were being charged by the insurer, not HIC. So HIC didnt actually make any charges 
themselves, and Miss J was in a fully informed position when she agreed to take out the new 
policy on her car. 
I appreciate that Miss J thinks that when HIC said theyll waive the fees and commission, 
then this should apply to all fees and commissions. But HIC are only responsible for their 
fees  not for any fees applied by insurers. Because HIC and the insurers are separate 
businesses, HIC cant influence the insurers as to what fees they may or may not charge. 
So I dont think HIC did anything wrong, and they dont need to refund any of the premium 
back to Miss J.
Miss J has referred to the policy documents showing that the insurers have charged more 
fees than just the cancellation fees mentioned by HIC. If Miss J remains unhappy with these 
fees, then this needs to be raised directly with the insurers. For the reasons already given, I 
cant hold HIC responsible for what fees the insurers may or may not charge.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Miss Js complaint about Herts Insurance 
Consultants Ltd trading as HIC.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2020.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman