DRN-3659120
The complaint
Mr M complains that a car acquired with finance from BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr M was supplied with a brand new car and entered into a hire agreement 
with BMWFS.
Mr M experienced an issue with the car making a grinding noise when turning. He took the 
car to the dealership several times. Parts were replaced but the issue wasnt resolved.
Mr M says the manufacturer has told him that this is a known issue and that he can expect it 
to be fixed soon. However, Mr M says he was told the same thing by the dealership in 2021 
and nothing has been resolved.
Mr M complained to BMWFS. He asked for a replacement car and compensation for the 
numerous trips hed had to make to the dealership.
In response, BMWFS acknowledged that there was an issue with the car but said the noise 
hadnt affected Mr Ms ability to use the car. In recognition of Mr Ms visits to the dealership, 
BMWFS offered a goodwill gesture of £200.
Mr M remained unhappy and complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said that Mr M should be compensated for his 
loss of enjoyment and the distress and inconvenience caused to him. The investigator said 
that BMWFS should refund 25% of all monthly payments made and pay £350 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.  
Mr M didnt agree. He felt that his initial rental payment should also be refunded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BMWFS has accepted that there is an issue with the car. There have been several attempts 
by the dealership to repair the fault but it hasnt been resolved. 
Theres no real dispute that the car isnt of satisfactory quality. The issue here is about 
whether the redress offered to Mr M by BMWFS was fair and reasonable.
The issue with the car is a grinding noise. Theres no evidence to suggest that the noise has 
impacted on Mr Ms ability to use the car, or that the safety of the car has been 
compromised. However, its clear that Mr Ms enjoyment of the car has been affected. I dont 
think a reasonable person would expect a brand new premium car to make grinding noises 
whilst driving. Its fair to say that Mr M hasnt had the driving experience he reasonably 
expected. 
Taking this into account, I dont think BMWFSs offer goes far enough. I think its fair to ask 
BMWFS to refund a proportion of Mr Ms monthly payments to reflect his loss of enjoyment.
Putting things right
Ive thought about what proportion of Mr Ms monthly payments should be refunded to 
achieve a fair and reasonable outcome here. Mr M has said that any refund should also 
include his initial rental payment. I dont agree that the initial rental payment should be 
subject to any refund, because Mr Ms complaint wasnt raised until the end of the 
agreement. But as Ive already said, I think its fair to ask BMWFS to refund a proportion of 
the rental payments. A refund of 25% is fair and reasonable to reflect the loss of enjoyment 
suffered by Mr M.
Ive gone on to consider the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr M as a result of being 
supplied with a car which wasnt of satisfactory quality. Mr M has had to return the car to the 
dealership several times in a relatively short period. BMWFS has recognised that this 
caused inconvenience to Mr M, but I dont think the offer of £200 goes far enough.  I agree 
with the investigator that the sum of £350 is fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited must:
Refund 25% of all monthly rental payments made by Mr M to reflect his loss of enjoyment
Pay 8% simple interest per annum on all refunded amounts from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement
Pay £350 compensation for distress and inconvenience 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman