DRN-3925921
The complaint
Mr M complains that Aviva Equity Release UK Limited mis-sold him a lifetime mortgage. 
What happened
In 2009, Norwich Union recommended that Mr M and another borrower, Ms G, (who has 
now passed away) take out an equity release mortgage for £27,000, with a further £23,000 
available to drawdown. Norwich Union is now part of Aviva  and I will refer to Aviva 
throughout this decision.
Mr Ms son, who has power of attorney for Mr M, complains that the equity release mortgage 
was mis-sold for a number of reasons, including:
Mr M did not need the money  he still has two third of the proceeds of the mortgage.
The mortgage has accrued large interest charges, which have not been managed or 
reviewed to make sure the mortgage is right for him. Aviva has received a greater 
financial amount than expected over the life of the mortgage.
The ERC is unreasonable.
Mr M was coerced to take out the loan.
This matter is having an ongoing impact on Mr Ms mental health.
The investigator did not think the complaint should be upheld. 
Mr Ms son did not accept what the investigator said. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We only have Mr Ms consent to deal with the complaint. Ms Gs estate is not involved in this 
complaint. This is a joint mortgage and Ms Gs estate is eligible to bring a complaint about 
the sale and administration of the mortgage. The assessment of suitability would have taken 
into account the other partys needs and circumstances  and usually we would look for all 
eligible complainants to join a complaint. Given Mr Mss sons comments regarding the other 
party I dont consider it would be appropriate for the estate of the other party to join the 
complaint. 
advice
The fact find sets that Mr M and Ms G had around £130 a month left after outgoings. They 
had £3,000 in savings and they wanted around £15,000 for home improvements and 
£10,000 to buy new cars. Those were all legitimate reasons for someone to take out an 
equity release mortgage. 
The recommendation letter sets out that other ways of raising the money were explored 
(such as an interest only mortgage) but were ruled out. Mr M had expressed a need for the 
funds raised by the mortgage and based on the information given to Aviva had no other way 
of raising the amounts he needed. So, I dont consider it was unreasonable for Aviva to 
recommend that he should take out an equity release mortgage. 
I also consider the evidence we have shows that Aviva set out the key features of the equity 
release mortgage  including the interest rate, how the balance would increase because of 
compound interest and the ERC  in a clear, fair and not misleading way.
While Mr Ms son said that Mr M did not use all of the proceeds of the mortgage, it does not 
follow that the advice to take the mortgage was unfair or unreasonable. Aviva had no control 
over what Mr M did with the funds from the mortgage. It did include a warning that the 
interest rate on a deposit account was likely to be less that the interest rate on the mortgage 
and therefore leaving money on deposit was likely to erode its value. 
And I note Aviva said that Mr M drew down further funds from the mortgage. That was less 
likely to happen if the funds from the original advance were still available.
coercion
I dont consider that Mr Ms son has put forward a persuasive argument or provided sufficient 
evidence that Mr M was coerced into taking the mortgage.
Mr Ms son said that Aviva coerced Mr M to take out the loan as its adviser drove Mr M to 
the solicitor, Mr M has no memory of meeting with Aviva before 2009 and there are 
discrepancies in the paperwork including (but not limited to) Mr Ms intended retirement date, 
whether Ms G owned the property and Ms Gs son. Mr Ms son feels that Aviva manipulated 
the application to ensure the sale of the product. 
Ultimately, none of the things Mr Ms son has brought up affect the overall suitability of the 
mortgage. In other words, the mortgage would still have been suitable for Mr M if what his 
son said was the correct information had been recorded. So there was no advantage for 
Aviva or anyone else in falsifying the information in the way Mr Ms son alleges  it did not 
make the mortgage any more or less suitable for Mr M. 
interest rate
The interest rates on equity release mortgages are generally higher than on conventional 
mortgages. Ive already found that Aviva explained the interest rate, that it was compound 
and what that would mean for the amount Mr M owed in a clear fair and not misleading way.
Mr M accepted Avivas offer  and hed received independent legal advice before accepting 
the offer. So Mr M had accepted the terms of the mortgage including the interest rate. I dont 
see how it would be fair for me to say that Aviva should alter the terms of the contract  just 
as it wouldnt be fair if interest rates went up and Aviva decided to increase the rate it 
charged Mr M. 
I cant see that Aviva ever promised to review or reassess the suitability of the mortgage 
over the life of the mortgage and there was no obligation for it to do so. There was no mechanism under the contract where Aviva could revise the interest rate without the 
mortgage being repaid and a new contract being entered into  but in those circumstances 
Aviva would be entitled to apply an ERC.
ERC
The ERC was set out clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. By accepting the offer 
Mr M agreed to be bound by the terms of the offer, including the ERC.
Aviva did not have a free hand to set whatever ERC it wanted. The relevant rules say that 
the ERC must be a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to Aviva of the mortgage being 
repaid early. I am satisfied that by calculating the ERC by reference to gilt rates is a fair way 
for Aviva to estimate the cost to it of the mortgage being repaid. I dont consider the ERC is 
unfair.
conclusion
Mr Ms son considers that Aviva should exercise flexibility in administering the mortgage. But 
as far as I can see Aviva is administering the mortgage in the way it said it would. There is 
no facility to change the interest rate or ERC. Nor is there anything hes told us about Mr Ms 
circumstances that would lead me to conclude that Aviva is acting unfairly or unreasonably 
by not agreeing to the concessions Mr Ms son wants. 
I understand why looking at things now Mr Ms son is concerned about the sale of the 
mortgage, the interest rate and the ERC  particularly because of the ongoing impact on Mr 
Ms mental health. But, looking at everything hes said and the evidence available to me I 
dont consider that Aviva has acted unfairly or unreasonably or that in the circumstances it 
would be fair for me to require it to change the terms of the mortgage.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman