DRN-4007231
The complaint
Ms N complains that William Russell Europe (WRE) changed her country of residence 
when her private medical insurance policy renewed.
What happened
Ms N holds an international private medical insurance policy with an insurer. Her premium
increased because WRE changed her country of residence at the 2022 renewal. She says
WRE should not have done so, as she is only temporarily staying in that country. Ms N
complained to WRE on that basis. When WRE did not uphold her complaint, she brought the
matter to this service.
Our investigator ultimately concluded that we couldnt look at Ms Ns complaint. She said
that WRE were acting as the insurers agent, and so Ms Ns complaint should be against the
insurer.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 March 2023 against William Russell Limited (WRL). 
Heres what I said:
First of all, Im satisfied that this complaint does fall within our jurisdiction. Our rules (the
DISP rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, which is available online) sets out the
complaints we can consider. DISP 2.3.1 R explains we can only consider a complaint about
acts or omissions by a firm, or its agents, in carrying on any of the activities set out in the
rules. For insurance, that includes arranging (bringing about) deals in contracts of insurance.
WRL has confirmed that the renewing entity was William Russell Europe, through its UK
branch (WRL). WRL is regulated in the UK. As WRL arranged the renewal of an insurance
contract, Im satisfied that this was a regulated activity and therefore falls within our
jurisdiction.
Ill now consider the merits of the complaint.
WRL made the decision to change Ms Ns country of residence so that she paid the correct
premium for someone living in that country. WRL has confirmed that the premium and terms
applied for each country are determined by the insurer, and it has a binding authority with
the insurer to offer the products at the premium rates provided to it by the insurer.
Ive carefully considered Ms Ns arguments, but Im satisfied it was reasonable for WRL to
change Ms Ns country of residence to the country where she was living at the time of the
renewal. I say that because Ms N had been living in that country for around six months
before the renewal offer was made.
I understand WRL had asked Ms N for confirmation of her country of residence at a previous
renewal, and so she thinks it ought to have done so in 2022. However, WRL was aware that
Ms N had been receiving regular medical treatment in the country where she was living for
around six months before the 2022 renewal. I think it was apparent from this that she was
living there and not merely visiting. So I see nothing wrong with WRL making the change to
the country of residence in the renewal offer without asking Ms N to confirm this.
I understand the insurer has said that the change to Ms Ns country of residence by WRL
was appropriate. Therefore, this could not now be changed by WRL without the insurers
permission in any event. As our investigator has explained, the insurer is not regulated in the
UK and so we cannot consider a complaint about it.
I asked both parties for any further comments they wished to make before I made a final 
decision.
WRE has said that WRL is not its UK branch, and so it thinks the complaint should be 
against WRE.  
Ms N responded and made the following main points:
She holds a global policy and thinks she should be able to travel for short periods 
without being considered a resident in the country. 
It is factually incorrect to say she was living in the country for six months when the 
policy renewed, and says it was more like over three months.
She was not working in the country or paying taxes there, and kept her job in the 
previous country where she was living.
She thinks the insurer will take on board what I say, even though it is not regulated in 
the UK. 
She has asked for some guidance about the UK legal system. 
She asked this service to mediate with WRE as she has now returned to the country 
where she was previously living, and so thinks the premium rates for that country 
should now apply to her policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
WRL (in the UK) had previously advised this service that it handled the renewal. WRE also 
advised us that the renewal was through its UK branch. However, WRE has now clarified 
that it meant WRE was regulated in the UK at the time under the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Temporary Permissions Regime, and that WRL is not its UK branch. It has 
confirmed that responsibility for the renewal rested with WRE. The respondent business has 
therefore been changed to WRE. Id like to reassure Ms N that this has no impact on her 
complaint.
Ive considered Ms Ns points. I was already aware that Ms N wasnt working in the relevant 
country, and had retained her job in the country where she was previously living. However, I 
remain of the opinion that it was appropriate for WRE to have changed her country of 
residence, given the length of time she had been living there. Ms N says she had only been 
living in the country for over three months when shed received the renewal notice. But WRE 
makes the point that she had been having regular medical treatment in that country from 1 
July 2022, which meant she had been there nearly six months when the policy renewed on 
29 December 2022. If Ms N had left that country before the policy had renewed, I might have 
made a different finding, but that didnt happen.
As I said in my provisional decision, WREs action was taken based on its binding authority 
with the insurer to apply the appropriate premium rate for that country. And the insurer has since confirmed that it agrees with WREs decision. So I dont require WRE to change 
Ms Ns country of residence for the 2022 renewal.
If Ms N wishes to have the country of residence amended retrospectively, she may wish to 
continue to pursue her complaint against the insurer directly. Ms N is aware that this service 
is not able to consider a complaint about the insurer, as it is not regulated in the UK.
Ms N has asked for some advice about the UK legal system, but Im afraid I cannot provide 
this. She would need to seek independent legal advice about this.
Ms N has also asked this service to mediate with WRE about a change to her premium rate, 
as she has returned to the country where she was previously living. However, as our 
investigator has advised, Ms N would need to contact WRE/the insurer about this directly in 
the first instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
Ombudsman