DRN-4121457
The complaint
Mr B complained that he was given unsuitable advice to transfer his defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a type of personal pension plan, in 2017.
True Potential Wealth Management LLP is responsible for answering this complaint and so 
to keep things consistent, Ill refer mainly to True Potential.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits to 
a personal pension arrangement.
In May 2017, the Pension Protection Fund (PPF) made the announcement that the terms of 
a Regulated Apportionment Arrangement (RAA) had been agreed. That announcement said 
that, if risk-related qualifying conditions relating to funding and size could be satisfied, a new 
pension scheme sponsored by Mr Bs employer would be set up  the BSPS2.
In October 2017, members of the BSPS were being sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choices was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017). 
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his preserved benefits in the BSPS. He was unsure what to do and was referred to True 
Potential which is responsible for providing the pension advice. Information gathered about 
his circumstances and objectives at the time of the recommendation were broadly as follows:
Mr B was 50 years old, married. He was described as being in good health and at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs B lived in a home valued at around £80,000 with a 15-year mortgage 
outstanding of around £60,000. 
Mr B earned around £38,000. Mrs B also worked. After expenses they had some 
disposable income left over. They had modest joint savings.
The cash equivalent transfer value (CETV) of Mr Bs BSPS was approximately 
£179,500. The normal retirement age (NRA) was 65 although he had evidently 
expressed a desire to retire earlier, if possible, at the age of 60.
Mr B had joined the new defined contribution (DC) TATA pension scheme as a 
consequence of BSPS closing to new contributions. He also held a separate and 
unconnected overseas pension worth around £130,000.
True Potential set out its advice in a suitability report on 11 November 2017. In this it advised 
Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS and invest the funds in a type of personal pension plan. 
True Potential said this would allow Mr B to achieve his objectives. Mr B accepted this 
advice and so transferred out. In 2021 Mr B complained to True Potential about its advice, 
saying he shouldnt have been advised to transfer out to a personal pension. 
Mr B later referred his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said it should be upheld. They also said Mr B ought to be paid £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
In response, True Potential said it hadnt done anything wrong and was acting on the 
financial objectives Mr B had at the time. However, True Potential has since said it would like 
to settle the complaint. It said it would do this in full and using a specific redress calculator 
which the financial regulator has established for these cases. So, True Potential asked for 
Mr B to supply details of his transferred pension value so it can begin the process of 
establishing if there has been a loss. True Potential said if there was a loss, then it will pay 
what is due under the guidelines issued by the financial regulator.
Having provided these details there is still no apparent loss. True Potential says the personal 
pension has grown to an extent that Mr B could now buy back broadly the same benefits he 
would have obtained if he hadnt transferred and that hed still have a little amount left over. 
Mr B still disagrees with the methodology used to calculate the redress. He says he knows of 
friends and colleagues who have received pay-outs and that the redress calculations should 
reflect this.
So, even though I can see True Potential is apparently willing to settle this complaint using 
the approach we endorse, it cant evidently be resolved informally. Its therefore come to me 
for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
I reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely 
than not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of True Potential's actions 
here.
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them 
fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and 
communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability and the provisions in COBS 19 which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
I have further considered that the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in 
COBS 19.1.6 that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is 
unsuitable. So, True Potential should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests. 
Ive used all this information we have to consider whether transferring away from the BSPS 
to a personal pension was in Mr Bs best interests. I have also carefully considered the latest 
responses whereby True Potential is offering to use the redress methodology and approach 
that we endorse.
Having done all this, Im upholding Mr Bs complaint about the transfer advice being 
unsuitable. 
Because I understand True Potential has agreed to carry out a loss calculation in line with 
the approach Ive mentioned above, I therefore dont see the need to address the suitability 
of True Potentials advice to Mr B in the same detail as I would normally. However, to be 
clear, I fully agree with the Investigators View that the advice was unsuitable, and I do so 
largely using the same rationale. 
True Potentials transfer advice was unsuitable for the following reasons:
At the age of 65, which in this case was the NRA, the critical yield, the investment 
return required to replicate the benefits available to him through the BSPS2, was 
7.24%. For a proposed retirement at the age of 60 the critical yield was 9.16%. 
Conversely, the discount rates for the above scenarios were only 4.2% and 3.7% 
respectively (for 14 years or 9 years to retirement). So, I think this was already 
showing that by transferring away from the DB scheme, Mr B was unlikely to be able 
to grow his pension to a degree which made transferring financially viable.
True Potential also wasnt specific enough about what Mr Bs attitude to risk (ATR) 
really was. However, it implied he was willing to accept high market risks to help 
grow his transferred funds. But I think the evidence in his case shows Mr B had only 
a moderate knowledge of investing and I think the categorisation of him having a 
higher-end ATR was too high. Actually, there was no evidence he fully understood 
these higher risks or that he had properly assessed his overall capacity for loss. In 
any event, and as I explain below, the high ATR applied to Mr B still wouldnt change 
anything, but it was set far too high. I think this is a good example or True Potentials 
failings in this case.
Nevertheless, Ive kept in mind that the regulator's upper projection rate at the time 
was 8%, the middle projection rate was 5%, and the lower projection rate was 2%. 
But Ive also considered the higher costs associated with a personal pension and that 
Mr Bs knowledge of investing would have probably required on-going support and 
management from a professional adviser. Everything Ive seen shows  that when 
viewed from the point of advice in 2017 - he would likely receive lower pension 
benefits in the longer term as a result of transferring away from the DB scheme.
Ive noted too, that True Potentials own transfer analysis said that in order to 
purchase an annuity to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits 
provided by the existing scheme, the estimated fund required at what True Potential 
says was Mr Bs preferred retirement age (of 60) was £290,604. Because this is far 
above Mr Bs CETV, it represents, in my view, a revealing window into the real value of the guaranteed pension Mr B could be giving up by transferring away to a personal 
plan, rather than a similar DB scheme that was on offer here.
Elsewhere in its transfer analysis, True Potential also made mention of the PPF, 
which it described as a compensation scheme providing a safety net for pension 
schemes when the sponsoring employer becomes insolvent. The critical yields to 
match the benefits available through the PPF were lower. But these yields related to 
the reduced benefits available with the PPF and True Potential itself says Mr B 
wouldnt have wanted to transfer to this scheme.
I think its also important to focus on Mr Bs comparatively young age by pension 
standards. With over 14 years still left to when hed be actually contemplating retiring 
if using his NRA (over 9 years if using 60 years of age), theres simply no way that 
what he might possibly use the money for, should have been a major influence in him 
deciding to irreversibly move away from a DB scheme. Doing so involved an 
investment risk which Ive showed above could mean lower overall financial benefits 
at retirement.  So whilst Im sure, like most people, Mr B probably wanted to stop 
working as early as possible, I think what he and the adviser discussed could only 
ever have been general retirement aspirations on his part. In reality, there was no 
plan to retire early. It was simply far too early to speculate about this.
Ive seen nothing that showed Mr B required changing how his retirement benefits 
ought to be paid. I dont think this could have been predicted whilst still so far away 
from retirement age. He already had a new and more flexible DC pension with his 
existing job as a consequence of the old BSPS scheme being closed to new 
contributions. This DC pension was being significantly contributed towards by both 
Mr B and his employer. Theres no reason why by retirement this DC pension 
couldnt have contained a significant sum. Mr B also seemed to have the capacity to 
raise his contribution levels. He also had an overseas pension of a reasonable value. 
So, these other pensions would have afforded Mr B any flexibility he might have 
needed in the years ahead.
This means Ive seen nothing explaining why Mr B wouldnt want to continue 
membership of a DB scheme and to use that scheme in exactly the way it was 
originally intended. Indeed, I think that by retirement, whenever it eventually came, 
Mr B could have been in an agreeable position. On one hand hed have an existing 
deferred DB scheme of considerable value. This would contain all the guarantees 
and benefits that such schemes normally bring which tend to include a promise to 
pay a known pension for life. Significant indexation guarantees also existed within 
BSPS2 and the scheme was still underpinned by the PPF. On the other hand, he had 
two other pensions; hed have built up a substantial DC scheme, for example, over a 
long period of time  up to 14 years. So, if Mr B ever found he needed so-called 
flexibility, then hed be able to use the latter, rather than transferring away from the 
former.
Ive also seen no evidence that Mr B had either the capacity or desire to exercise 
control over his funds. I think he would have found the complexity, scale and 
responsibility of managing over £179,000 of transferred funds to be onerous in the 
years ahead. What Ive seen tends to show Mr B would have required ongoing 
financial advice and support, all of which would cost him money which his DB 
scheme didnt require from him.
Death benefits - the BSPS2 contained certain benefits payable to a spouse and 
children if Mr B died. Mr B was married so I think the value of these benefits were 
most likely underplayed because the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 would have been useful to Mrs B if he predeceased her. I dont think True Potential made 
the value of this benefit clear enough. This was guaranteed and it escalated  it was 
not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was.
I think the adviser told Mr B that hed be able to pass on the whole value of a 
personal pension, potentially tax-free, to anyone that he nominated. So the lump sum 
death benefits on offer through a personal pension were probably made to look like 
an attractive feature to Mr B. But this needed carefully explaining. Whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr B might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer the BSPS to a personal pension because of this, the priority 
here was to advise him about what was best for his retirement provisions. Mr B was 
only 50. An obvious drawback with a personal plans death benefits is that the 
amount left to pass on  to anyone  may be substantially reduced as the pensioner 
starts to withdraw his or her retirement income. To this end, if Mr B had lived a long 
life there could be nothing left at all in his personal pension plan. It also doesnt 
appear that True Potential took into account the fact that Mr B could have nominated 
a beneficiary of any funds remaining in his other (TATA) DC scheme. So, to this end, 
Mr B already had options ensuring part of his pension wouldnt die with him.
Its clear that Mr B, like many employees of his company, was concerned about his 
pension. However, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, I think 
that True Potential should have reassured Mr B that the scheme moving to the PPF 
wasnt as concerning as he thought. The income available to Mr B through the PPF 
would have still probably provided a significant portion of the income he would have 
needed at retirement, and he was still unlikely to be able to exceed this by 
transferring out, given his real ATR and the effect of pension charges and fees. And 
although the increases in payment in the PPF were lower, the income was still 
guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. So, I dont think that these 
concerns should have led to True Potentials recommendation to Mr B to transfer out 
of the DB scheme altogether.
Summary
I dont think the advice given to Mr B was suitable. 
He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income within the BSPS2. By 
transferring to a personal pension, the evidence shows Mr B was likely to obtain lower 
retirement benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify the transfer and outweigh this. 
So, I dont think it was in Mr Bs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension when he had the opportunity of opting into the BSPS2. On this basis, I 
think True Potential should have advised Mr B to opt into the BSPS2.
In light of the above, I think True Potential should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable 
advice, using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible, into 
the position he would now be in but for True Potentials unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B 
would have most likely opted to join the BSPS2, rather than transfer to the personal pension 
if he'd been given suitable advice and compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual assumptions in the FCA's guidance. True Potential 
should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 for comparison purposes.
True Potential must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for 
calculating redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement 
PS22/13 and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
I appreciate that Mr B says the delay in his complaint reaching the stage of an ombudsmans 
final decision has contributed to the redress calculation being different to that he expected. 
However, our aim is to put consumers like him back into a position as if the unsuitable 
advice had never occurred in the first place. DB pensions have a relationship with bond 
yields and these have seen substantial changes recently. However, the calculator establish 
by the regulator takes account of this and assumes Mr B can get back into the position of 
having a pension with broadly the same benefits. And in his case, he wont be any worse off.
True Potential should use the FCAs BSPS-specific redress calculator to calculate the 
redress. A copy of the BSPS calculator output should be sent to Mr B and our Service upon 
completion of the calculation.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken 
or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Bs 
acceptance of my final decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, True Potential should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment,
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
- their redress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently 
(in line with the cautious investment return assumption used in the 
calculation), and
- a straightforward way to invest their redress prudently is to use it to augment 
their DC pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum,
if Mr B accepts True Potentials offer to calculate how much of their redress could be 
augmented, request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the 
calculation, even if he ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, 
and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, 
given the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.
Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum will be treated as income for tax purposes. So, in 
line with DISP App 4, True Potential may make a notional deduction to cash lump sum 
payments to take account of tax that consumers would otherwise pay on income from their 
pension. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would 
have been taxed according to Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 
20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. Our investigator recommended that True Potential should pay Mr B for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the unsuitable advice. I have considered the impact this would 
likely have had on Mr B in his particular circumstances. This pension at the time represented 
most of his retirement provision. In his situation I think the thought of losing material benefits 
would have impacted upon Mr B. So I agree the recommended payment of £300 for distress 
and inconvenience. True Potential should pay Mr B this amount in addition to the redress 
Ive set out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I am upholding this complaint and I now direct True 
Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the 
steps above, up to a maximum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
True Potential Wealth Management LLP pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally 
recommend any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts my final decision, the money award becomes binding on True Potential 
Wealth Management LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 October 2023.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman