DRN-2036226
The complaint
Mr W complains that he was mis-sold a life and critical illness policy by an adviser from 
HSBC UK Bank Plc alongside the sale of a loan in September 2000. He says he was made 
to believe he could not secure the loan without taking the policy. Further, he didnt need the 
policy as he had other life assurance provisions available.  
What happened
In July 2019, Mr W complained. He initially submitted a questionnaire to HSBC concerning 
the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI). This related to the sale of a policy alongside 
his £52,000 loan taken out for a 20-year term in September 2000.  
He explained that at the time he had applied for lending with HSBC, he had been in a difficult 
position. He already held a mortgage, but it was too costly for him as he was no longer 
employed. He approached HSBC with a proposal for lending, where he had presented the 
adviser with a business plan. Mr W intended to downsize to a smaller property, and he had 
secured three lodgers to ensure repayments could be met. HSBC agreed to a loan, though 
because Mr W was unemployed, it was unable to provide a residential mortgage.  
Mr W said he placed complete faith and reliance in the HBSC adviser, as advertising had led 
him to believe that HSBC would be acting in his best interests. However, with reflection he 
said that it did not do so because it sold him cover he had no need for, because he held two 
endowment savings policies at the time. Mr W believes the sale was driven by the adviser 
wanting to be paid commission. He therefore decided to complain about the sale of his policy 
in 2019, once he was aware of the extent of historical mis-selling.
Though he had stopped paying for both endowment policies when he was made redundant, 
Mr W said the premiums paid for the term assurance policy could have been better used to 
ensure he retained the endowment policies since he took the view that an endowment 
savings policy is superior to any form of term assurance.  
HSBC rejected the complaint regarding the sale of the policy. It reiterated how the policy Mr 
W had been recommended wasnt PPI, it was a term assurance policy. 
HSBC said that it could not find evidence that such a policy was an express condition of the 
lending. However, it said that at the time of the sale in 2000, it did require protection policies 
to be taken out alongside residential mortgage lending. It also noted that the HSBC 
endowment savings policy had a sum assured that was significantly lower than the 
borrowing Mr W was arranging and therefore this was not a suitable means of providing 
protection for the event of death or diagnosis of a critical illness. HSBC said the protection 
policy was also cheaper and the potential of a maturity value of £40,000 for the endowment 
policy was based on several variables, meaning the target value was not guaranteed.  
However, it did accept that Mr Ws policy was set up on a level term basis, which was the 
type of policy recommended for interest-only mortgage lending, not repayment loans. So, it 
agreed the adviser should have offered Mr W a decreasing term policy, and it compared the 
cost of the two. It found that Mr W had paid an extra £1866.44 in premiums to date 
(September 2019). To this sum it added interest at 8% simple for the entire period, and it 
deducted £279.84 for basic rate tax. 
Mr W didnt accept the offer, and instead referred the complaint to this service. He said 
though he had received the settlement form from HSBC for a value of £2,895.93, he felt his 
claim was worth considerably more. 
An investigator from this service looked into the complaint but she did not think it should 
succeed. She said she felt the recommendation for the policy was suitable for Mr Ws 
circumstances and believed the wording of the loan set out that it was a condition of the 
lending. She also did not consider that Mr Ws endowment savings policy meant that the 
adviser shouldnt have proposed the term assurance policy, since it offered a different type 
of cover and was notably of a lower value than the lending.  
Our investigator did agree that the most appropriate type of policy would have been a 
decreasing term one, so she felt HSBCs proposed redress had been fair. 
Mr W said he didnt entirely accept the outcome of the investigators view and asked that the 
complaint be passed to an ombudsman. He considered that interest payable to him should 
not be at a rate of 8% but should accord with the APR on his HSBC credit card 
(approximately 16%), a borrowing which he could have repaid if he wasnt tied to paying 
HSBCs policy premiums. Alternatively, the interest could align with his overdraft interest 
rate, which he had used for the last twenty years. 
Mr W also said the interest should be payable up to the date of an ombudsmans decision, 
not in 2019 when HSBC gave the outcome to the complaint. He felt the final response to the 
complaint was misleading  he said it failed to make clear that he could have accepted the 
offer and still brought the complaint to this service. If he had known that, he would have done 
so. Since the complaint was still ongoing, Mr W says the interest ought to continue to run.  
Our investigator put Mr Ws further comments to HSBC. It agreed to pay interest up to July 
2020, as a goodwill gesture. It did not accept that interest should be calculated at a figure 
other than 8%. 
Mr W reiterated that he would like his complaint to be reviewed afresh by an ombudsman, so 
the complaint has now been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked carefully at everything before me, I have reached the same outcome as our 
investigator and on the same basis. 
The sale of the policy
I appreciate Mr W feels strongly that the recommendation made to him at the time of the sale 
was unsuitable, and that he was pressured into taking out the policy. However, the loan offer 
dated 4 July 2000 does indeed suggest HSBC required security for the lending in the form of 
a protection policy. The document sets out that:
The repayment and discharge of all monies at any time owing in respect of the Loan 
will be secured by all security at any time held by us in respect of the Borrowers 
liabilities to us. Without limiting the above, the following security is to be held:Charge over freehold property known as [Mr Ws address]
£52,000 level term assurance policy (HSBC Life) in the name of [Mr W].
At that time, term assurance policies were also a condition for mortgage lending by HSBC. If 
Mr W had been unhappy with the provision that he hold such a policy, then he could have 
decided to apply for his lending elsewhere. HSBC could reasonably decide the criteria for 
which it was prepared to lend funds. Further, irrespective of the requirement for such cover, I 
believe the proposal for the protection policy was a reasonable recommendation for the 
adviser to have made anyway.  
Though Mr W was not in employment at the time of the lending, this was not a barrier to 
taking out personal protection. Mr W has explained how very shortly after the lending was 
approved (in early 2001) he had found new employment. Taking out insurance to provide for 
the repayment of a debt in the event a person falls seriously ill or passes away is a sensible 
consideration.  
I realise Mr W has said that his endowment savings policies provided similar cover, but I 
dont agree. Endowment savings policies operate in a different way. They are fixed premium 
policies with a target or guaranteed amount payable to a policyholder at a pre-determined 
maturity date. In the two decades prior to Mr Ws lending, these types of policies were often 
sold alongside interest-only mortgages. The aim was to build up enough funds in the policy 
to repay the mortgage in full at the end of the term, though where the maturity value wasnt 
guaranteed, the actual maturity value may fall short depending on the underlying investment 
performance and costs or fees.  
Contrastingly, a term assurance policy has a set sum assured for the policy term, either a 
level sum or a decreasing sum reducing broadly in line with the repayments of a debt. As the 
sum assured reduces in the case of a decreasing term policy, the latter will almost always 
have lower premiums in total. These are calculated for the policy term so that the 
policyholder has a set monthly premium throughout. 
Mr Ws HSBC endowment policy wasnt a comparable means of providing protection for Mr 
Ws new debt at the time for several reasons. At the time of the sale, Mr W had stopped 
paying the premiums for his HSBC endowment policy in the previous year (December 1999). 
Life cover ended under the policy in 2001 and Mr W was paid a maturity value of £8,073 in 
2015. Further, the target maturity value was £40,000 which was less than the new 
borrowing. Finally, the policy was not held by Mr W alone, at the time it was in his and his 
ex-wifes names jointly.  
There is no evidence submitted showing any details for the second policy Mr W says he had 
or any other comparable insurances. Nonetheless, I remain of the view that the proposal for 
a term assurance policy with critical illness benefit was a sensible suggestion in any event. 
Mr W did not hold insurance of that kind and he has had the benefit of a policy that (if sold 
correctly as a deceasing term policy) would have made a payment equivalent to his 
remaining mortgage lending (either as a lump sum or monthly payment) should he have 
become seriously ill or passed away.
It follows that I do not find the policy to be mis-sold and I cannot uphold the complaint on that 
basis.  
The redress offered by HSBC
Like our investigator, I agree that the offer made by HSBC before the complaint was referred 
to this service was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. The type of policy that ought to 
be recommended for a long term repayment lending is a decreasing term policy  since the amount outstanding reduces proportionately with each repayment. HSBC has therefore 
rightly calculated the difference in premiums and proposed to return this to Mr W, with 
interest up to July 2019 (now July 2020).  
I do not believe that HSBC should calculate interest any differently than it has. I note Mr W 
disputes that interest should be added at 8% but HSBC has applied the correct interest rate. 
If an award had been made by this service to return all or part of historic policy premiums to 
a complainant, we sometimes include interest awards on top of compensation awards we 
make when redressing a loss a consumer has suffered. This separate interest award (in 
most cases, simple interest of 8% after April 1993) is intended to compensate a consumer 
for being deprived of money that he or she would otherwise have been able to use 
elsewhere but for the business having made a mistake of some kind. 
I have considered Mr Ws submissions, but I dont believe that because Mr W had an 
overdraft through this period at a differing rate of interest means this 8% interest calculation 
should be varied. The difference in premiums that Mr W had overpaid across the 19-year 
period is approximately £8.18 per month. Mr W has told our investigator that he had 
substantial debts across three credit cards along with an overdraft facility ranging from £700 
to £1900 each month. 
Whilst I realise Mr W had additional debts at the time, I do not believe that having the benefit 
of an additional £8 per month in his disposal income would have influenced Mr Ws decision 
to operate within his overdraft or that it would have materially affected his position in holding 
three credit cards. It cannot conclusively be determined what Mr W may have done with that 
money. If he would have saved it, for example, interest rates (notwithstanding the difference 
in simple and compound rates) since that time have always been less than 8% and for the 
most part, significantly lower than that. Ive not seen any clear evidence that Mr W would 
have done something differently such that it can be said the cost of being deprived of an 
additional £8 per month ought to equate to a higher rate of interest over the 19-year period. 
I therefore leave Mr W to liaise with HSBC about accepting the redress offer, if he still 
wishes to accept it.  
My final decision
Since I do not agree Mr Ws term assurance policy was mis-sold, I do not uphold this 
complaint, nor do I make any award.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2020.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman