DRN-4396135
The complaint
Miss H and Mr M are unhappy with how British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim under 
their home emergency insurance policy. 
Because Mr M is leading on this complaint, Ive referred to him throughout my decision. Any 
reference to British Gas includes the actions of its agents.   
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
events. 
In February 2023, Mr M reported a suspected leak to British Gas and made a claim 
under his HomeCare Three policy. British Gas attended and said there was a burst 
mains water pipe and that this needed to be passed to the mains water provider. 
In March, it was confirmed that there was a leak under the drive / garage of Mr Ms 
property, and that a new entry point was required for the mains water supply  the 
original point of entry having been in the utility room.  
By early April, British Gas had installed a new entry point for the mains water supply. 
Mr M says shortly after this repair his kitchen floor started to rise and split, and so, he 
requested British Gas reattend.
Mr M says a British Gas engineer told him the leak in the kitchen was resolved by 
capping off the old water mains supply  which ought to have been done when the 
original repair was carried out. Considering British Gas to be responsible for the 
damage to his flooring, Mr M complained to it. 
British Gas said the damage was connected to the original leak and was not a result 
of its contractors workmanship. But it paid £150 compensation to recognise multiple 
visits had been made to Mr Ms property. 
Mr M remained unhappy and so, brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator 
considered it but didnt uphold it. She wasnt persuaded there was sufficient evidence 
to show the damage was attributable to poor workmanship and was more persuaded 
it was connected to the original leak. 
Because Mr M disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome our Investigator reached  Ill explain why. 
This complaint centres on whether theres enough evidence to show the damage to 
Mr Ms kitchen and downstairs bathroom flooring can reasonably be attributed to a 
poor workmanship by British Gas when it was repairing a separate leak.
Mr Ms argument is that British Gas failed to cap off the water supply pipe in the utility 
room which caused a leak and the damage to his flooring, and he says British Gas 
engineer confirmed this. But when I consider the available evidence, Im not 
persuaded hes demonstrated British Gas were at fault.
First, the engineers note from May 2023 - when the old cold main supply was 
capped off  says: I found the old existing cold main hadnt been capped, capped off 
old main and done a pressure test which is now holding. Whilst I agree it shows the 
old supply hadnt been capped off, it doesnt confirm the damage to the flooring was 
caused by this. 
Second, British Gas has said the water damage to Mr Ms flooring was caused by the 
original mains water pipe leak. It said its engineers notes and photographs show the 
affected areas were dry or were drying out  which is indicative of the damage having 
been caused by the original leak, and not recently. So, Ive looked at this evidence to 
see if I agree. 
Ive reviewed the photographs taken by the engineer in April  before the old water 
supply was capped off - these appear to show the joists and flooring beginning to dry 
out, which isnt indicative of an existing leak. 
Furthermore, the engineers notes support the position that the damage hadnt been 
caused by an ongoing leak and wasnt therefore, new. I say this because when 
British Gas reattended - following Mr M raising fresh concerns about damage to his 
flooring  the engineer noted:
No water is seeping up from the flooring and the flooring is not waterlogged 
at the joins that can easily move up and down. Old stop cock in the utility is 
off and the flooring in inspection hatch shows no sign of water.
And when British Gas later attended in June  following Mr M saying the damage had 
worsened and his boilers pressure had dropped - the engineer noted:
Check under the kitchen units. No water damage or signs of a leak. Check 
old mains stopcock and capped cold-water pipe in the utility boxing. No leaks 
on heating pipework and tighten old water pipe cap slightly more. No water 
weeps and all pipework is dry. Lift the flooring in the stairwell cupboard, 
access to kitchen area by brickwork gap. Take photos of flooring and joists 
from below as well as the floor.
Flooring and joists water damaged. But no signs of an ongoing leak. Cause 
old main pipe that has stopped leaking after the mains to house was 
redirected. Ground floor is not wet or any puddles on it. No Leak Seen 
underfloor. Put access boards back down. 
As an ongoing leak couldnt be identified, there wasnt recent water damage, and the 
engineer concluded the cause was the old main pipe that has stopped leaking after 
the mains to the house was redirected, the evidence doesnt support Mr Ms position 
that the uncapped water supply pipe caused the damage. 
Ive also thought about the original leak being described as decent by the attending engineer  which I take to mean sizeable and/or extensive  and so, it doesnt seem 
implausible that it could have spread to Mr Ms kitchen and downstairs bathroom, 
given the proximity of this area to the original leak and the extent of the leak.
So, when I consider all the above, and the fact I dont have any independent expert 
evidence to support Mr Ms position, Im not persuaded British Gas can reasonably 
be held accountable for the damage to Mr Ms flooring. And so, I wont be asking it to 
take further action. 
Mr M may have recourse under his home insurance policy. If he does, and new 
evidence comes to light regarding the source of the damage, then I would expect 
British Gas to consider this. 
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr M, but as it stands, I dont have 
sufficient evidence to persuade me the damage to his flooring is attributable to poor 
workmanship on British Gas part.
Understandably, the numerous visits Mr M received from British Gas would have 
been inconvenient for him and it has paid £150 to recognise this. And I consider this 
to be fair in the circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman