DRN-1574209
The complaint
Mr O complains that TSB Bank Plc failed to apply payments to his loan account correctly. He 
says this caused him to be in arrears and has affected his credit file. 
Background
Mr O has a loan with TSB. In mid-2019, he completed a direct debit mandate to change the 
account his monthly payments were taken from. It took some time for TSB to receive and 
process Mr Os request, so he was told to make manual payments to the loan until the direct 
debit was in place.
In July and August 2019, Mr O made manual payments to the loan account. Following this 
he received a letter saying he was in arrears by two months, and that charges would apply. 
On investigation, TSB explained that its system had treated the manual payments as 
overpayments to the account. And it had recorded the monthly payment as being missed. 
TSB rectified the payments and refunded the late charges. It also offered Mr O £25 of 
compensation and £14 towards his calls. Mr O accepted this in resolution of his complaint. 
In September 2019, Mr O got back in touch with TSB as his credit file had been affected by 
what had happened. He said he hadnt realized this had happened until he tried to take out a 
phone contract for his daughter, which was declined. TSB agreed to amend his credit file to 
show the payments hed made were on time.
Following this, Mr O was told his direct debit still hadnt been set up and that hed need to 
keep making manual payments. It said these would be treated as overpayments and would 
need to be manually rectified. Mr O was unhappy with this as he didnt want to continue to 
be told he was in arrears, incur charges, and have problems with his credit file again. Instead 
he stopped making payments to the loan. He also complained to this service.
Our investigator considered Mr Os complaint. She concluded that she couldnt ask TSB to 
amend Mr Os credit file from September 2019, because hed stopped making repayments at 
that time. But she also thought TSB should do more to put things right in relation to the 
trouble and upset theyd caused. Because of this she recommended a further £100 be paid 
to Mr O.  
TSB didnt agree. It said Mr O accepted their offer of compensation in August 2019 and 
nothing additional had happened since then, so it shouldnt have to pay anything more. 
Mr O hasnt responded to say if he accepts the investigators recommendations. But he has 
said that TSB is continuing to chase him for arrears, despite his direct debit now being in 
place with payments being taken. Hes also said TSB has instructed debt collectors to 
pursue him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Its not in dispute that TSB incorrectly recorded arrears on Mr Os loan account in July and 
August 2019. TSB accepts that Mr O made these payments manually, but its system 
recorded these as overpayments. So I need to decide whether TSB has done enough to put 
things right. I dont think it has. And Ill explain why. 
When Mr O accepted TSBs offer of compensation in August 2019, he wasnt aware that his 
credit file had been affected. Im persuaded that he wasnt aware of this until September 
2019, when he tried to take out credit. I think that if hed known the extent of TSBs mistake, 
and the problems this would cause, he wouldnt have settled for £25 in compensation. 
In addition, I dont think Mr O realised in August 2019 how long TSB would take to activate 
his direct debit. My understanding is that it still wasnt set up in December 2019. I havent 
seen a reasonable explanation for this. Because of this, I think Mr O is entitled to more 
compensation. And I think our investigators recommendation of a further £100 is fair. 
I know that Mr O stopped making repayments in September 2019 because he was worried 
about the same problems hed experienced happening again, but I cant ask TSB to amend 
his credit file from this date onwards. Thats because he didnt make any repayments during 
that time. A credit file must be a true and accurate reflection of an account. So whilst I 
understand Mr Os frustration, his loan agreement required him to make monthly 
repayments. And TSB had agreed to adjust any manual payments he made, so I cant say it 
treated him unfairly. Because of this, I wont be asking it to do anything beyond what Ive 
said above. 
I understand Mr O is still being pursued for a loan arrears and that its instructed debt 
collectors. As TSB is yet to address this point and its not already been considered by our 
investigator, a new complaint should now be opened to address these issues. 
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive set out above, my final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should pay Mr O 
£100 in compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2020. 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman