DRN-4367447
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. Hes also unhappy about the way Nationwide Building 
Society carried out a recent review of the case.
What happened
Mr P took out the PPI when applying for the credit card in 2000. 
He originally used the services of a claims management company (CMC) to make a 
complaint in 2017. Nationwide then sent its final response letter on 16 February 2018. It 
didnt uphold the mis-sale complaint, but it did offer to refund payment of unfair commission 
and profit share. The payment for this was made on 26 February 2018.
In 2022 Nationwide contacted Mr P to say it was carrying out a review of both this complaint 
and another complaint hed previously made about mortgage PPI. Nationwide spoke to Mr P 
over the phone and then sent a new final response letter, again rejecting the complaint, on 
27 October 2022.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr P disagrees with the investigators view and 
so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Part of Mr Ps dissatisfaction is that, during the phone call he had with Nationwide, it focused 
solely on the mortgage complaint and there was no mention of the credit card. Also, in the 
subsequent final response letter, although the heading states that the letter is about both the 
mortgage and the credit card, there is no further reference to the credit card in the main body 
of the letter.
In its correspondence with us, Nationwide has acknowledged this error and has asked us to 
pass on its apologies to Mr P. Overall, I consider an apology is a sufficient response to this 
part of Mr Ps complaint. Thats mainly because I dont think it would have made a difference 
if there had been further discussion about the credit card sale, which Ill explain below.
Mr P says it wasnt sufficiently explained that the PPI was optional and not a necessity of 
furthering his application.
Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form that Mr P completed. He filled it in at 
home and then returned it by post, so there was no input from Nationwide during the sale.
The application form has a separate section for PPI. Theres a brief description of the 
benefits and the cost, with the applicant being referred to further enclosed information about 
the policy. The applicant then has a choice of two boxes to tick  one to accept PPI or 
another to confirm that it is not wanted. Mr P has ticked the yes box. 
My view is that the wording on the application form is fairly neutral and doesnt show any 
bias or is trying to influence applicants to choose the yes option. The no option is equally 
as prominent. Based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded that Mr P wouldnt have 
understood that he had a choice about whether to take out the PPI or not.
The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if Mr Ps recollection of events 
has faded. It seems to me that he decided to buy the PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, 
even if he no longer remembers doing so.
Nationwide didnt make a personal recommendation that Mr P should purchase the PPI, so it 
didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. But it did need to provide Mr P with sufficient 
information for him to make an informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for 
him.
I think Mr P would have known something about the PPI  that it would have covered his 
credit card repayments in the event he was unable to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment  because I doubt hed have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all 
about it. And the application form set out the cost as 60p per £100 of outstanding credit, so I 
think Mr P would have had a reasonable idea of what hed be paying for it. I accept that 
Nationwide didnt sufficiently highlight that the policy limited the number of monthly benefit 
payments to twelve per claim.
Mr Ps employer would have given him sick pay of between six and twelve months. But the 
policy would have paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than he 
would have received full pay for.
Mr P says he had some savings at the time. But having the PPI would have allowed him to 
retain any savings or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult 
time. He also says his parents would have helped financially. But the PPI would have meant 
he wouldnt have to ask his parents to pay his credit card bill for him.
In addition, the policy had the potential to clear the outstanding balance in full in certain 
circumstances. So, while Mr P didnt know some things, the ultimate position in the event of 
a successful claim wasnt dissimilar to what he would reasonably have thought from the 
information he based his decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable.
It's possible that Nationwide didnt provide as much information as it should have about the 
policy, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Mr P wasnt affected by any of 
those things. For example, he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy terms. As I consider that he had an interest in the PPI and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his 
mind. So, he is no worse off as a result of anything Nationwide may have done wrong, so 
theres nothing Nationwide needs to do to put things right.
Our investigator thought that Nationwides commission refund was a fair way to resolve the 
case. Mr P says he now disagrees with that, although I note that he did not refer the 
complaint to us in 2018 after receiving the initial final response letter and refund. In this case, 
Nationwide made Mr P an offer of compensation in relation to the level of commission it 
received thats in line with the methods set out by the Financial Conduct Authority. Overall, I 
consider that to be fair redress in the circumstances.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman