DRN-4073969
The complaint
Miss N complains about the quality of a car that was supplied to her under a hire purchase 
agreement with MotoNovo Finance Limited. 
What happened
On 1 February 2022, Miss N took out a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo for a used 
car. At the time it was just under nine years old and had travelled approximately 87,254 
miles. The cash price of the car was £6,699. Miss N paid an additional £999 for a warranty, 
bringing the total price to £7,698. She paid a deposit of £200, with the remaining amount 
repayable over 49 months using the finance agreement. 
Miss N says she got the car nine days later. She told us she noticed it smoked a little bit 
after starting within the first couple of days - and within two or three weeks she realised it 
was drinking a lot of oil. She says it then started smoking heavily. 
On 29 March 2022 Miss N raised a complaint to MotoNovo. She told them that shed taken 
the car to a local mechanic whod advised her that it needed an engine rebuild, costing in the 
region of £2,500-£3,000. She said the warranty company would only pay up to £1,000 
towards the repair cost, and that she wanted to reject the car. 
MotoNovo arranged for an independent engineer to inspect the vehicle on 4 May 2022. The 
engineers report recorded the cars mileage to have been 90,537 at that time. The report 
said:
On a diagnostic check one relevant code was present 122004 blow off valve activation 
line disconnection.
as the engine warms after approximately 5 minutes there was excessive blue smoke 
emissions from the exhaust tailpipe and there was also an odour of burning oil.
We do suspect possible turbo issues but would require further investigation and 
dismantling to confirm. 
Taking into consideration the time and mileage covered by the vehicle since the point of 
inception we do not consider this would have been present or developing at that point.
We do consider the vehicle has been durable.
MotoNovo sent their final response to Miss N, saying they hadnt upheld her complaint due 
to the information the independent engineer had provided. Unhappy with this, Miss N 
brought her complaint to our service. She told us that shed been unable to drive the car due 
to the issues with it, so shed had to buy another car. 
Miss N provided video clips showing noise from the engine and smoke from the exhaust. 
She also provided a copy of a report shed obtained from the local mechanic, dated 15 April 
2022. This report noted the same problems with excessive smoke, a smell of burning oil and 
fault code relating to blow off valve line disconnection. But it said:
In my opinion the vehicle will need a whole bottom end rebuild due to piston ring damage 
and timing chain which could cost anywhere in the region of £2500-£3000.
Our investigator thought it was more likely that the faults were present or developing at the 
point of sale, given the short period of time in which the problems arose. So, she didnt think 
the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
The investigator said she thought the fairest way to resolve things was for the car to be 
rejected, because a repair would be disproportionately costly. She was satisfied that Miss N 
hadnt been able to use the car since the independent engineers inspection on 4 May 2022, 
so she thought MotoNovo should refund any payments made from that point onwards. And 
she said MotoNovo should pay Miss N £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused.
Miss N said she thought our investigators view was fair. MotoNovo disagreed - Ill 
summarise the main points they made:
The car passed an MOT on 19 October 2021 at a mileage of 85,645. Nothing in the 
MOT history suggests there were any engine issues. 
Miss N contacted them on 29 March 2022, saying the car had started smoking 
heavily a week earlier.
On 4 May 2022, when the independent engineer inspected the car, the mileage was 
90,537. This meant the car had travelled 3,283 miles since it was sold.
The independent engineer confirmed that, due to the time elapsed since the point of 
sale and the mileage travelled, the fault wouldnt have been present or developing at 
the point of sale.
The investigator had said Miss N stopped using the car after approximately one 
month. So this would mean shed travelled over 3,000 miles in one month, which is 
unlikely, or she continued to drive the car after shed noticed the issues, which could 
potentially cause further damage.
MotoNovo have evidence that she was still driving the car when she contacted them 
on 29 March 2022, because shed told them the car was driven to the garage for 
inspection rather than being recovered. 
MotoNovo had no evidence of what it would cost to repair the car, or that it would be 
uneconomical to do so.
The investigator said she was satisfied that Miss N hadnt used the car since the 
independent inspection on 4 May 2022, which was why shed recommended payments 
should be refunded from this point onwards. She said Miss N had also provided evidence 
from a third party, dated 15 April 2022, confirming the faults present and estimated cost of 
repair. She remained of the view that, due to the short period of time in which the fault was 
evidenced, it was most likely to have been developing when the car was supplied. 
MotoNovo asked for an ombudsman to review things again, so the case was passed to me 
for a decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The agreement Miss N entered into was a hire purchase agreement, so this service can 
consider complaints relating to it. Under this type of agreement, MotoNovo is also the 
supplier of the car and is therefore responsible for a complaint about its quality.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. It says that 
under a contract to supply goods, theres an implied term that the quality of the goods is 
satisfactory.
The CRA says the quality of goods includes their state and condition. It says things like 
fitness for purpose, freedom from minor defects, and durability can be aspects of the quality 
of goods. 
The standard thats applied is whether a reasonable person would consider the quality of the 
goods to be satisfactory, taking into account the way they were described, the price and all 
the other relevant circumstances. It seems likely that in a case involving a car, the relevant 
circumstances a court would take into account might include things like its age, mileage, and 
history.
In this case, I bear in mind that the car was just under nine years old and had covered 
approximately 87,254 miles when it was supplied to Miss N. I also take into account that it 
cost £6,699, which is significantly less than it wouldve cost when it was new. 
I dont think a reasonable person would have the same standards for this car as they would 
a newer one with less mileage. I think theyd probably expect some repair and maintenance 
work to be needed in the future, due to age-related wear and tear. But I think theyd still 
expect it to be free from anything other than minor faults when it was supplied - and to be 
able to drive the car for a reasonable amount of time without major issues.
It isnt disputed that theres now a fault with the car. Ive seen a copy of the independent 
engineers report of the inspection on 4 May 2022, which confirms:
On initial start up there were no heavy emissions however after approximately 5 minutes 
with the engine idling we noted blue smoke from the exhaust and an odour of burning oil.
Having reviewed the reports provided by both parties, Ive seen that they give different 
opinions as to the most likely cause of the problem. The report Miss N has provided 
suggests theres piston ring damage, whereas the independent engineers report suggests 
possible turbo issues. 
I dont consider it necessary for me to decide whether the problem was most likely to have 
been caused by an issue with the piston rings or the turbo. Im satisfied that this was a 
significant fault because the evidence from both parties shows the car was giving out 
excessive amounts of smoke and a smell of burning oil. I wouldnt consider the car to be of 
satisfactory quality in that state. Ive gone on to consider whether this means it wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss N, in February 2022. 
MotoNovo have provided a copy of their records showing the information Miss N gave when 
she first contacted them on 29 March 2022. She told them the car had started smoking 
heavily the previous week - and that the dealer had been dismissive when shed contacted 
them about it. I assume MotoNovo asked her about the mileage because the record states: 
Current Mileage: 90,000 approx. Ive also seen that the independent engineers report 
recorded the car to have travelled 90,537 miles on 4 May 2022. 
Having reviewed this evidence, Im satisfied that Miss N had only had around seven weeks 
use of the car when she complained to MotoNovo. And in broad terms, it had travelled somewhere in the region of 3,000 miles in that time. Given how soon this fault came to light, 
I consider it most likely that it was present or developing when Miss N got the car. 
MotoNovo have pointed out that the independent engineer said the fault wouldnt have been 
present or developing at the point of sale, due to the time that had elapsed and mileage 
travelled. Ive considered this. 
But I note that the independent engineer drew no firm conclusions as to what was causing 
the problem. His report says it would require further investigation and dismantling to 
confirm. As the engineer was unable to diagnose the fault, I dont find his evidence 
persuasive as to when it was likely to have developed. 
And even if the issue that was causing the excessive smoke wasnt present or developing 
when Miss N got the car, I think she was reasonably entitled to expect it to last longer than 
this without experiencing major issues with the engine or turbo. I note that the independent 
engineer considered the car to have been durable. But in the absence of any information as 
to why he held that view, I dont find it persuasive. For these reasons, I find the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied. 
MotoNovo have also highlighted that the car passed an MOT test on 19 October 2021 at a 
mileage of 85,645, with nothing recorded to suggest there were any engine issues. Im 
aware that the test includes a check on the cars emission levels. But the fact that the car 
passed an MOT in October 2021 doesnt affect my decision as to whether it was reasonably 
durable and of satisfactory quality in February 2022, when it was supplied to Miss N. 
MotoNovo have expressed concern that Miss N was still driving the car around the time she 
complained to them on 29 March 2022  and that shed driven it to a local garage instead of 
having it recovered. They feel she may have caused further damage by driving the car after 
she noticed there was a problem. 
Ive seen no explanation for the five-week delay between Miss Ns formal complaint to 
MotoNovo and the independent engineers inspection of the car on 4 May 2022. I think its 
possible that the car was driven during this period. 
But I havent seen anything to suggest Miss N was advised not to drive the car - or that it 
would have been unreasonable for her to drive it to a local garage. Nor have I seen any 
supporting evidence to show further damage was likely to have been caused, or was in fact 
caused, by doing so. So, this doesnt affect my decision.
Putting things right
The CRA sets out remedies for consumers whose statutory rights under a contract such as 
this one havent been met. This generally includes the right to a repair  but not if this would 
impose disproportionate costs on the business. 
When thinking about this, I take into account the cash price of the car was £6,699. I also 
need to consider how significant this issue is likely to be to resolve, before deciding whether 
any of the other remedies provided by the CRA would be more appropriate here.
The report Miss N obtained estimated the cost of repair to be anywhere in the region of 
£2,500 - £3,000. But this document doesnt include any information as to where, or by 
whom it was produced. Without that information, I find it difficult to assess how much 
reliance I can place on this estimated cost.MotoNovo say theyve seen no evidence to show what the cost of carrying out a repair would 
be - or that it would be uneconomical. The independent engineers report isnt of much 
assistance here, simply saying We would recommend removal of the turbo and inspection 
in the first instance. 
Im unable to determine whether replacing the turbo would fix the issue. I also remind myself 
that this car hasnt been driven for a significant period of time. So, I need to bear in mind that 
repairing it might also involve other unexpected costs. 
I appreciate theres something of a lack of evidence here. But given the market value of this 
car, on balance, I do think the cost of repair is most likely to be disproportionate in this case. 
So, I think the fairest remedy would be for Miss N to be given the right to reject the car. This 
means the agreement should come to an end, and her £200 deposit should be refunded. 
MotoNovo should make arrangements for the car to be collected at no cost to Miss N.
Ive seen evidence showing the car has travelled around 3,283 miles whilst Miss N has had 
it. I think its fair that she should pay for her use of the car. Im satisfied that Miss N stopped 
using the car altogether by 4 May 2022 due to the issues with it. So, I think MotoNovo should 
refund any monthly payments shes made with effect from that date.
But I think its clear that there was a significant fault with the car by 29 March 2022, when 
Miss N complained to MotoNovo. As Ive explained, I cant say whether she had some 
further use of the car in the five week period between her complaint and the independent 
engineers inspection. Ive seen no explanation for that delay. I think it would be fair for 
MotoNovo to refund 75% of the payments Miss N made for this period. 
I think Miss N has suffered additional stress and inconvenience because she was supplied 
with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality. Shes told us that she had to source another car 
to use because this one was undriveable. She says keeping up with the repayments has 
caused a great deal of financial strain and worry, at a time when shed reduced her working 
hours because she was pregnant. I can appreciate that this would be very stressful for her. I 
think MotoNovo should pay Miss N £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
shes been caused. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo 
Finance Limited to:
End the agreement and arrange for the car to be collected at no further cost to Miss N.
Refund the £200 deposit.
Refund 75% of the payments Miss N has made for the period between 29 March 2022 
and 4 May 2022.
Refund 100% of the payments Miss N has made since 4 May 2022.
Pay interest on each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Miss N £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Miss Ns credit file in respect 
of repayments that would have become due after 4 May 2022.
If MotoNovo consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Miss N how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if shes eligible. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider. Miss N responded, saying she understood my provisional decision and felt it was fair. She 
said MotoNovo had agreed a payment break until a final decision is issued. She provided a 
copy of the expenditure form shed filled out, in case this was disputed. 
MotoNovo also responded, saying they accepted my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, I see no reason to change my mind.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct MotoNovo Finance Limited 
to:
End the agreement and arrange for the car to be collected at no further cost to Miss N.
Refund the £200 deposit.
Refund 75% of the payments Miss N has made for the period between 29 March 2022 
and 4 May 2022.
Refund 100% of the payments Miss N has made since 4 May 2022.
Pay interest on each of the refunded payments, calculated from the date of payment 
until the date of settlement at 8% simple per year. 
Pay Miss N £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been caused.
Remove any adverse information thats been recorded on Miss Ns credit file in respect 
of repayments that would have become due after 4 May 2022.
If MotoNovo consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Miss N how much theyve taken off. They should also give her a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if shes eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman