DRN-1902782
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint about Home Retail Group Card Services Limited trading as Argos (Argos) 
relates to an outstanding unpaid balance on his Argos account.
What happened
Mr M went into an Argos store on 4 May 2017. He bought a telephone and paid for it in cash. 
He was invited to open an Argos store card account but as there was insufficient time to 
complete this he was asked to come back the next day, which he did, and he then opened 
the store account. 
Argos say that Mr M also purchased another mobile phone on 5 May for £19.95 and paid for 
it using his new store card. Mr M strongly denies this. Statements for the account were sent 
by Argos to the address Mr M gave when opening the account. In addition, letters were sent 
on 17 July advising his account was in arrears. Mr M said he moved address on the 1 
August. Further letters were sent to Mr M on 4 August and 16 August, the latter being a 
default notice, but that went to his previous address. Argos say Mr M did not advise them 
that he had moved though. A default was later registered on 1 October.
Mr Ms account was eventually assigned to another company who pursued Mr M resulting in 
him making a complaint. Argos have not upheld his complaint and maintain the balance 
outstanding is correct.
Mr M was unhappy with Argos final response and so approached this service to see if we 
could assist in resolving the dispute. Our investigator looked into his complaint but thought 
that Argos hadnt done anything wrong. Mr M didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My summary of what happened is brief and I know Mr M has provided a lot more detail. Im 
going to focus on what I think are the key issues. Our rules allow me to do this and it reflects 
the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts. So, if theres something Ive 
not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it, its because Im satisfied that I dont need to 
comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Ive taken account of both sides views when considering whether Argos acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. 
In his complaint form to this service Mr M accepts he opened the store card account with 
Argos. Ive looked at the agreement and the address recorded as his is correct for that time. 
Argos have also provided evidence that a mobile phone was purchased on the same day he 
opened the store account, and that his store account was used to purchase it. Mr M has said 
he never used the store card to purchase anything with and that is borne out by the 
statements up to November 2017.
Mr M disputes buying this phone on his store card, but Argos have explained that the 
purchase would have been automatically applied to his account when he opened the 
account. So, I accept that on a balance of probabilities it is more likely that Mr M purchased 
the phone at the same time he opened his account. I can also see he was sent statements 
on 4 June and 4 July which show a balance being due. The 4 July statement also shows that 
payment had been missed. Mr M then received a further letter on 17 July advising him that 
his account was in arrears. All of this was before Mr M moved address. Argos say they sent 
these letters and there is no evidence to dispute that. Mr M says he didnt receive any 
letters, but I find it more likely than not that he did, because he has produced no evidence to 
show that his post was being interrupted, or it was otherwise not getting to him. 
It would seem therefore, more likely than not that as Mr M says he never used the store 
card, then he would have contacted Argos when the first statements arrived to dispute it. But 
he didnt. 
I do accept that Mr M wouldnt have received correspondence sent by Argos after the 31 
July but that is because he didnt provide Argos with his updated address. But again, despite 
that I think it is likely Mr M knew he had a balance on his account as statements were sent 
out to him before he moved.
So, I find that on a balance of probabilities Mr M did buy the phone on 5 May 2017 using his 
store card. Ive looked at how the balance increased, and this was due to added interest and 
late payment fees being added prior to the account being defaulted. So, I cant say Argos 
have acted unfairly here.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Home Retail Group 
Card Services Limited trading as Argos.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2020.
 
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman