DRN-2770841
The complaint
Miss N complains that Pinnacle Insurance Ltd (Pinnacle) have declined her claim for 
treatment provided to her dog B.   
     
What happened
Miss N purchased a pet insurance policy from Pinnacle for her dog B on 12 January 2020. It 
was a time limited policy with cover of up to £2500 per condition for a maximum of 12 
months from the first date of treatment. 
On 4 June 2020 Miss N took B to the vets with atopic dermatitis on all four paws, 
inflammation in both ears and skin trauma to the ears from scratching. There was also 
dermatitis in the facial skin folds and around the eyes, and some hair loss. The vet 
discussed food trials, environmental issues and immunotherapy. The vet also ran some 
allergy tests and Miss N decided to go ahead with the immunotherapy.  The treatment 
commenced in August 2020. 
On 27 August 2020 Pinnacle declined Miss Ns claim for the costs of treatment for B. They 
said that following the claim they had reviewed Bs medical history and noted that there had 
been an attendance at the vets on 28 December 2018 for pinnae erythematous and an 
attendance on 2 May 2019 for a hot spot on Bs face. These visits to the vets had not been 
declared on the original application for insurance, and they therefore applied exclusions from 
the start of the policy for ear problems and skin problems. They said that although Bs recent 
condition may not be directly related to the previous issues, the current issues would fall 
under the exclusion that they had now been applied. That was the reason for declining the 
claim. 
Miss N wasnt happy with this decision and complained. Miss Ns vet has provided a further 
statement which says that a dog can get an ear infection or a hot spot at any time, and that 
would not be related to allergic skin disease which is the condition on the claim in question.  
On 14 October 2020 Pinnacle issued a final response which said that they had correctly 
declined the claim. They said that had they known at application about the previous 
attendance at the vet for a skin condition, they would have placed a skin condition exclusion 
on the policy at the start of the policy.
Miss N was unhappy with this outcome and she made a complaint to us. 
One of our investigators has looked into Miss Ns complaint. She thought that Pinnacle had 
acted fairly in applying the exclusion and declining the claim.  
Miss N disagreed with our investigators view. She didnt think she had been asked about 
previous visits to the vet, and she felt that the visits prior to taking out the policy were of little 
consequence, and for minor issues. She thinks vets need to be clearer about the 
implications of ailments and care, and insurers need to be clearer in their questions. and so 
the case has come to me to review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have decided not to uphold Miss Ns complaint, and I will explain why below. 
Pinnacle have told us that they consider that Miss N has made a careless misrepresentation 
at the point of sale because she answered No to the question asking if B had been to the 
vets for anything other than her annual health check, routine vaccination, or other 
preventative care. 
Pinnacle say that this misrepresentation is a qualifying misrepresentation under the 
Consumer Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act (CIDRA), and allows them to 
consider what action they would have taken if the correct disclosure had been made and 
they can then put it right. 
I have therefore considered whether I agree with Pinnacle that Miss Ns response is a 
qualifying misrepresentation for the purposes of CIDRA. If it isnt, Pinnacle cant take any 
action at all. 
To be a qualifying misrepresentation, there are two factors to consider:
did the consumer take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, and; 
has the insurer shown that without the misrepresentation they would not have 
entered into the contract at all, or would only have done so on different terms. 
I can see that when she applied for the policy, Miss N was asked whether B had had any 
sign or symptom of illness or injury, or been unwell, either now or at any time in the past. 
Miss N answered No to that question on the application. 
She was then issued with a policy schedule which said:
At application you confirmed that B has not had any sign or symptom of injury or 
illness, or been unwell, either now or at any time in the past. 
If any medical history obtained whilst considering a future claim indicates there had 
been symptoms of an illness or injury prior to your application which you did not tell 
us about, we may place specific exclusions as required at that point.
Bs vet records show that prior to the application for the policy, Miss N had taken B to the 
vets on the following occasions: 28 December 2018 with a sore and waxy ear, 1 and 7 
February 2019 with diahorrea, 2 May 2019 with a hot spot on right hand side of her face, and  
30 October 2019 with a possible pregnancy.  
I can see how Miss N thought that these visits were for minor issues, and I accept what she 
says about not realising that she needed to declare every minor ailment. However, the 
question on the application is deliberately broad, and in asking for any sign or symptom of 
injury or illness it is designed to obtain full disclosure of all previous health issues, including 
minor ones. Im satisfied that this question is clear, and I think its fair to say that given the 
history above, the answer given by Miss N was incorrect. She knew that B had been to the 
vets with a variety of minor ailments, and she should have realised from the question that 
she should disclose it. 
In view of this, I dont think Miss N took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.    I also appreciate what Miss N has said about the hot spot and the new ongoing skin 
condition being unconnected, and I accept the vets evidence on this. However, for the 
reasons I have given above, it doesnt make any difference to what should have been 
disclosed. 
In respect of the second factor, Pinnacle needs to show they would have treated Miss Ns 
application differently if they had known about the medical history.  
Pinnacle have provided their underwriting criteria which shows that if an application for 
insurance discloses that there has been previous treatment for a hot spot or erythema, they 
will apply an exclusion for all skin problems for a period of two years. 
In accordance with this, Pinnacle have therefore applied a policy exclusion from the start of 
Miss Ns policy, which is what they would have done if they had known about the hot spot at 
the outset. 
I therefore find that this exclusion has been fairly applied, in the same way that it would have 
been from the outset if Miss N had disclosed the hot spot on her application.  
I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Miss N as she has incurred significant expense 
in the treatment of Bs skin issues, but I hope that I have given her a clear explanation of my 
reasons for not upholding her complaint. 
 
My final decision
My decision is that Pinnacle Insurance Plc do not need to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 June 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman