DRN-4007125
The complaint
Mr A complains about the settlement that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited paid 
him for the total loss of his car following a claim made on his motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr As car was damaged, and he made a claim to Watford. It declared the car to be 
uneconomical to repair and it offered Mr A £7,012 in settlement of his claim. Watford said 
this was based on valuations provided by two motor trade guides less deductions for the 
policy excess and for the car being a previous total loss. Mr A complained and Watfords 
engineer increased the valuation to £7,850. But Mr A remained unhappy as his research had 
found that he couldnt replace the car for less than £9,500.
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She looked in four of 
the motor trade guides we use and found that the average valuation provided was 
£10,367.75. She thought Watford had fairly deducted the policy excess and 20% for the 
previous total loss. And so she thought it should increase its valuation to £8,294.20 and pay 
Mr A interest on the difference. She also thought it should pay Mr A £150 compensation for 
the trouble and upset it had caused him. 
Watford replied that it didnt use one of the guides we use for valuations. It asked for an 
Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr A wants a fair settlement for the loss of his car. He said he wasnt 
aware that it had been a previous total loss. But our Investigator explained that this 
information is on the cars V5 registration document, and it is the consumers responsibility to 
check this and ensure that the car is in a roadworthy condition.
Mr A thought Watford should pay him the cost of replacing his car. But I can see that his 
policy provides for the cars market value in the case of its total loss. The Investigator has 
also explained this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations for cars 
but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether a reasonable offer has been made, we obtain valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive, largely because their valuations are based on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available evidence into account, for example, engineers reports.
Our Investigator thought Watfords valuation of Mr As car was too low. So Ive checked how 
she came to this conclusion. I can see that she looked in the four motor trade guides we use 
for cars of the same make, model, age, mileage and condition as Mr As car at the date of its 
loss. The valuations she found were wide spread. And we would usually discount any 
outliers. But, in this case, Im satisfied that this wouldnt be fair due to the even spread. And 
so Im also satisfied that a fair valuation would be the average of the four valuations. 
Watford said it didnt use one of the guides we rely on. But, as it had provided a valuation for 
Mr As car, I think it would be unfair to Mr A to discount it. 
I think, in keeping with our approach, that a 20% deduction should be made from this 
settlement due to the previous total loss. This is because the previous total loss would make 
the car less attractive to potential buyers. And I also think Watford is entitled to deduct the 
policy excess as this is always the first part of a claim to be paid. 
This means that a fair and reasonable settlement for the loss of the car would be £8,294.20. 
Watford has already paid Mr A £7,850. So I think it should now pay him the difference 
between these amounts, adding interest as Mr A has been without his money for some time. 
Mr A has also been put to the trouble of carrying out research into car valuations. And I think 
Watford should pay him £150 compensation for this. This is in keeping with our published 
guidance for the level of impact caused by its unfair valuation.
Putting things right
I require Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to do the following:
1. Pay Mr A the difference between £8,294.20 and its previous valuation of his car in 
settlement of his claim, adding interest to this amount at the rate of 8% simple per 
annum from the date of the initial settlement to the date of payment.  
2. Pay Mr A £150 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling 
of his claim.
If Watford considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 July 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman