DRN-1974675
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Ltd failed to make them aware of 
changes it made to its critical illness policies in 2015. Specifically, they are unhappy Aviva 
had amended what it was prepared to cover under its cancer definition which Mr and Mrs J 
say shouldve been applied to their policy and wouldve meant their claim (following Mrs J 
sadly being diagnosed with cancer) being covered. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said he didnt agree that 
Aviva shouldve made Mr and Mrs J aware that it was offering a different level of cover to 
new customers from 2015 or that any changes should also be made to existing policies. He 
said he felt Aviva would carry out reviews and add, remove or amend clauses in the terms 
and conditions of its new policies. He added that he didnt think the article provided by 
Mr and Mrs J was enough to show Aviva shouldve also made changes to existing policies.
Mr and Mrs J disagreed and have asked for an Ombudsman review. They feel Aviva failed to 
keep their customers up to date with changes that were being made to the cover on offer. So 
they didnt know about the changes.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a similar conclusion to the investigator. I realise this will be 
very disappointing for Mr and Mrs J and Id like to assure them I havent made this decision 
lightly. In doing so, Ive looked at and considered all the evidence they and Aviva have 
provided us  and Id like to assure them that if I dont mention a particular point, its not 
because I havent considered it, but to focus instead on whats important to the outcome.
Firstly, Mr and Mrs J accept that the policy they took out in 2009 doesnt cover the type of 
cancer Mrs J was diagnosed with. So, I havent considered that here. Ive focussed on 
whether Aviva has made an error or treated them unfairly when it didnt make them aware or 
make changes to their level of cover under their policy, following a review it carried out in 
2015. 
I note Aviva has explained it will periodically review the level of cover it offers and make 
changes or amendments to policies for new customers. It says Mr and Mrs Js policy hasnt 
been reviewed because it has already agreed a monthly premium based upon the level of 
cover it offered them in 2009. This is common practice and I dont consider it to be 
unreasonable. 
Ive seen the article Mr and Mrs J have supplied. But like the Investigator, as this wasnt 
written by Aviva, Im not persuaded it has correctly stated that the changes, as a result of the 
review in 2015, would also be applied to existing policies. I also agree with the Investigator 
that its not unreasonable for Aviva to make Mr and Mrs J aware they should review the level 
of cover they have (with or without an IFA) so they can make a decision on whether to 
continue with the cover they took out in 2009 or move somewhere else. 
If Aviva was going to make a change to their policy, then it should make them aware. But Im 
not satisfied Mr and Mrs Js policy had been reviewed or there were any changes to make so 
it didnt need to contact them or their IFA. 
Im not satisfied Aviva has made a mistake or treated Mr and Mrs J unfairly here. So, Im not 
going to ask it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 August 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman