DRN-3363798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policies in 2000 and 2004.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out the PPI at the same time as arranging the mortgages. Although they 
were joint mortgages, the PPI was set up on each occasion just to cover Mr K. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint and Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete (as it is here), inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what is considered most likely to have 
happened given the evidence that is available to me and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr and Mrs K say they were told that they had to agree to buy PPI for their mortgage 
applications to be considered.
There is some paperwork available from the 2000 sale. The mortgage application form has a 
separate section for PPI that Mr K has signed and dated. He has then completed a separate 
PPI application form. 
There isnt much paperwork available from the 2004 sale, although we have seen samples 
of the sorts of forms that were in use at the time.
The sales happened a long time ago. I have no doubt that Mr and Mrs K have provided their 
genuine recollection of events, however it wouldnt be surprising if their memory of the sales 
has faded somewhat. 
From what we know of BoSs branch sales process at the time, the PPI was usually 
presented as optional. I havent seen any evidence to persuade me that something different 
happened in this case. Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs K have said but, 
overall, Im unable to conclude that they werent given a choice about taking out PPI. I find it 
equally as likely that they decided to buy it, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no 
longer remember doing so.
These were advised sales, meaning that BoS recommended that Mr and Mrs K buy the 
policies. In doing so, BoS had to ensure that the PPI met their needs. And from what I know 
of Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, the policies were suitable for them.
Mr K would have received some sick pay from his employer. However, the PPI would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than Mr K would have received 
full pay for. The PPI had the potential to pay out for up to 24 months in the event of a 
successful claim. 
Mr K has said that he had other cover  which is a workplace pension scheme that also 
includes life and ill health cover. The PPI would pay out after a period of 30 days if Mr K 
were unable to work due to accident and sickness and would cover the monthly mortgage 
payments. It also provided cover for unemployment. Mr Ks life cover would only pay out in 
the event of his death. And his ill health cover would, under certain criteria relating to 
permanent ill health, entitle him to receive his pension early together with a lump sum. So 
Im not persuaded that the PPI was replicating his existing cover.
Mr and Mrs K had originally said that they had £5,000 in savings. However, they have more 
recently said that they had £50,000 in savings, although the supporting documentation 
provided seems to apply only to their circumstances at the time of the 2004 sale.
Mr and Mrs K have provided evidence to show that in 2004 they were selling their house for 
£185,000, having bought it for £85,000 four years previously. They therefore say that 
created a substantial amount of savings. They certainly did have a large amount of equity in 
the property they were selling but that doesnt necessarily mean that they subsequently kept 
it all as long term savings. Mr and Mrs K were taking out an £130,000 mortgage in 2004 to 
buy a new property.
Having said that, based on the available evidence, I consider it likely that Mr and Mrs K did 
have some savings, both in 2000 and 2004. However, that in itself didnt make the PPI 
unsuitable. Having the PPI would have allowed them to retain any savings or use them to 
cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time.
BoS had to provide Mr and Mrs K with sufficient information for them to be able to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the policy was right for them. I think that Mr and Mrs K 
must have known something about the PPI  that it would cover their mortgage repayments 
if Mr K was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  because I dont 
think theyd have decided to buy it without knowing anything at all about it. 
Its possible that BoS could have provided more information about the PPI, particularly about 
the things that it didnt cover. But Mr K wasnt affected by any of those things. For example, 
he didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have limited his ability to claim 
under the policy.
As I consider that Mr and Mrs K had an interest in the PPI and decided to buy it, I dont think 
that more information would have caused them to change their minds about buying it. So Mr 
and Mrs K are no worse off as a result of anything BoS may have done wrong, so there is 
nothing that BoS needs to do to put things right.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman