DRN-1141346
The complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the damage caused to her carpet by an engineer called out under her 
Homecare Four policy, underwritten by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas).  
What happened
An engineer from D, on behalf of British Gas, came to fix a leak in Mrs Cs property.  Mrs C 
was unhappy with the way the engineer left her property, in particular her bathroom carpet, 
which hed lifted to try to fix the leak.  Mrs C says the bath panel was not reattached 
properly, a gripper rod was left broken and the carpet was left lose with frayed edges visible 
around the sink and toilet.  The leak was eventually fixed by another engineer who made a 
hole in the kitchen ceiling.  The ceiling was repaired under Mrs Cs cover.
Mrs C complained to British Gas.  Mrs C says she told British Gas she was unhappy about 
the engineers negligence in the way he took up the carpet, about the state hed left the 
bathroom in and that hed broken a gripper rod. 
British Gas Final Response Letter said: 
it did not send anyone to re-lay the carpet as this isnt covered by Mrs Cs policy
the engineer tried to return the flooring as best as he could but because its engineers 
arent qualified carpet fitters, the floor might not go back down exactly the same
it would sent Mrs C a cheque for £10.00 to cover the cost of the broken gripper rod. 
 
Mrs C brought her complaint to us.  Despite Mrs C expressing her unhappiness about her 
bath panel to British Gas, the complaint Mrs C brought to us concerned her carpet and her 
gripper rod. She said her complaint was about the negligence of the engineer when he lifted 
the carpet rather than how it was re-laid.  Mrs C felt the policy should cover damage caused 
by negligence.  She said she wanted British Gas to arrange and pay for her carpet to be put 
back to as close a manner as it was laid previously, replacing the broken gripper rod at the 
same time. Mrs C sent us links to photos of the damage to her bathroom carpet. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Her view was that British Gas had treated Mrs 
C fairly and reasonably because:
the terms and conditions of Mrs Cs policy, said it wont replace or restore the 
original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or 
plants, so British Gas werent responsible for putting the carpet back
the policy didnt cover re-laying the carpet as closely as possible to its original state, 
which is what Mrs C said she wanted British Gas to do 
British Gas offered Mrs C £10.00 to cover the cost of the gripper rod, even thought it 
said the rod was already broken. 
 
Mrs C was unhappy with this view. She said shed signed a disclaimer on the engineers 
arrival at her property that excluded any damage caused by negligence and so felt any damage caused by the engineers negligence should be paid for by British Gas. She 
disagreed that the rod was already broken. Mrs C said she was unsure how British Gas 
knew the carpet had been put back as best as possible when it didnt inspect the carpet or 
ask to see photos. 
Mrs C requested an ombudsmans decision.  
I asked Mrs C to resend the photos because the links sent by her previously no longer 
worked. Mrs C said she was unable to do this because her husband had deleted the original 
photos and - because she had already resolved the damage to the carpet herself in the 
meantime - she was unable to take and send new photos. Mrs C also said she no longer had 
the cheque from British Gas for £10.00.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint and in doing so, I shall not be upholding 
Mr Cs complaint. I appreciate this is not the outcome Mrs C was hoping for, so I shall 
explain why Ive reached this decision.
Ive considered whether:
the policy covered restoring property to its pre-emergency condition and if it didnt, 
whether this was clearly explained
the damage to the carpet was necessary and unavoidable or negligent 
 
Page four of Mrs Cs renewal documentation refers the policyholder to the terms and 
conditions for complete contractual information about the cover.  Page four of the terms and 
conditions (in the HomeCare Range Terms and Conditions booklet) sets out under the 
access and making good sub-heading of the Definitions section:
we wont replace or restore the original surface or coverings, for example, tiles, floor 
coverings, decoration, grass or plants
I am satisfied then that the policy documentation explained clearly that flooring will not be 
returned to its original state and that the definition of floor coverings would include carpets. 
Its not in dispute that the engineer needed to lift the carpet to try to fix the leak. Whats in 
dispute is whether the engineer was negligent in the way he lifted the carpet and whether the 
damage described by Mrs C was caused by the engineers negligence. I have looked at 
whether British Gas acted fairly and reasonably in line with Mrs Cs policy wording.  Any 
points concerning negligence are arguments better dealt with by the courts. 
Ive considered whether the damage to the carpet was necessary and unavoidable.  Theres 
no longer any photos of the damage, so Ive relied on Mrs Cs description of how she says 
the carpet was left.  
The damage to the carpet described by Mrs C sounds, on balance, to have been necessary 
and unavoidable.  Carpets are usually attached to the floor at the edges. It is reasonable to 
expect that lifting the carpet would have led to some fraying of the edges of the carpet given 
that carpets are usually woven.  The damage described by Mrs C seems, on balance, most 
likely to have been necessary and unavoidable if the engineer was to access the leak.  Mrs C also complained that the carpet was left loose. To have avoided this, the engineer 
would have had to re-attach the carpet to the floor. I am of the view that this would be 
restoring it when the policy wording is clear that restoring floor coverings is not covered.  
Also, Mrs C did not say the carpet was left unsafe or that it presented a trip hazard. If the 
way the carpet had been left posed a trip hazard and was unsafe, we might have expected 
the engineer to have done more to secure it.  But as Mrs C made no mention on this, what 
the engineer appears to have done here seems reasonable. 
Mrs C felt that British Gas should have sent someone round to inspect the carpet or have 
asked for photos of it. Based on what Ive outlined already, its not unreasonable for British 
Gas to have concluded from Mrs Cs description that the engineer left the carpet as best he 
could.  So, I dont think that British Gas did anything in wrong by not requesting photos and 
not sending someone round to look at the carpet. 
When the engineer arrived at the property, Mrs C says he asked her to sign a disclaimer that 
excluded damage caused by negligence.  Given that I am satisfied that the damage 
described by Mrs C was necessary and unavoidable, I have not felt it necessary to further 
pursue this further with British Gas. 
Mrs C says the engineer broke a gripper rod holding down the carpet. British Gas says the 
rod was already broken when the engineer lifted the carpet. Despite this, British Gas has 
sent Mrs C a cheque for £10.00 to cover the cost of the broken gripper rod.
In conclusion, I feel the damage to Mrs Cs carpet was necessary and unavoidable. The way 
the carpet was left by the engineer, according to Mrs Cs description, was in line with Mrs Cs 
policy. Also, the cheque for £10.00 British Gas sent to Mrs C to cover the broken gripper rod 
seems fair and reasonable. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mrs Cs complaint. British Gas should send Mrs C a replacement cheque for 
£10.00 if this has not already been cashed by Mrs C, but I do not instruct British Gas 
Insurance Limited to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman