DRN-3572027
The complaint
Mr G complains that a vehicle hire agreement with PSA Finance UK Limited was mis-
sold.
What happened
In 2018 Mr G entered a hire agreement with PSA to acquire a new car. He says that 
when he took out the agreement he was told it included maintenance. He says he was 
specifically told it covered tyres and MOT. Hes paid £1,384.72 in total over the three-
year term of the agreement for maintenance.
Mr G says the car needed new tyres towards the end of the term. He asked the dealer 
to change the tyres. He was told he would have to pay for the new tyres himself as it 
wasnt covered under the maintenance agreement. The agreement only covered 
servicing. Mr G complained to PSA about what happened.
PSA investigated his complaint. It said it couldnt comment on what was said between 
the dealer/broker and Mr G at the point of sale. But, it referred to Clause 20 of the terms 
and conditions for the agreement. It said this made clear that maintenance was subject 
to Clause 20 and the Services Schedule. The Services Schedule had not listed tyres or 
MOT. So, it said these werent covered. Mr G didnt agree. He complained to our 
service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Gs complaint. He considered whether thered been a 
misrepresentation at the point of sale. He said his investigations indicated that to get the 
level of cover Mr G says hed requested, hed have had to pay more at the time. More 
expensive cover wouldve included replacement tyres and a courtesy car.
Mr G produced evidence to show that when hed got his vehicle serviced, hed been 
given a courtesy car. But, our investigator didnt change his mind. He said it wasnt 
unusual for a courtesy car to be provided by a garage when a vehicle was left in for 
servicing.
Mr G didnt agree. He said the Services Schedule referred to PCH maintenance but 
there was no document which described what that meant.
Because Mr G didnt agree, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued a 
provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold Mr Gs complaint, in part. Ill explain 
why.
Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974
Mr G says he was told orally by the salesperson in the dealership that 
replacement tyres, MOT and servicing were included in the maintenance 
agreement. And, he says the amount he was paying each month also 
caused him to believe that this was the case.
Under s56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, we can consider some 
complaints about what was said before the agreement was entered into. 
But s56 doesnt apply in all circumstances where the complaint is made 
against the finance provider. The agreement here is a Hire Agreement. 
That means, insofar as PSA is concerned, I can only consider a 
complaint about misrepresentation during any negotiations before the 
agreement was entered into, if the dealer/broker was acting as an agent 
of PSA. PSA has now confirmed that the dealer was acting on its behalf 
in arranging the hire agreement. So my view is that s56 does apply here 
and PSA can be liable for any misrepresentation made by the dealer 
during the course of the negotiations before the contract was signed.
In order to make a finding that there was a misrepresentation, I would 
need to be satisfied that there was a false statement of fact, on which Mr 
G relied and that he only entered into the agreement because of his 
reliance on that statement.
The conversations between Mr G and the dealer were oral and no 
statement has been made available from the dealer because the 
salesperson no longer works there. So, Ive had to consider what Mr G 
told us, together with the documentation that was signed at the time.
Mr G says he specifically queried with the dealer whether the 
maintenance agreement included tyres. He says this was important to 
him and the dealer confirmed to him during a telephone conversation that 
the tyres would be includedand that it would be charged at the amount 
signed for in the contract.
It appears this telephone conversation may have taken place after the 
contract was signed. So, it wouldnt have formed part of the antecedent 
negotiations  that is conversations that took place before the contract 
was signed. Ive also looked at a document called Vehicle Delivery 
note. It was signed by both the salesperson and Mr G at the time. It 
included some mention of the maintenance agreement.
The vehicle delivery note states Maintenance included and beside this 
Yes is circled. It also has a checklist with ticks against each item to 
confirm that it has been covered in the conversation. In relation to 
maintaining the vehicle there are three items on the checklist. These all 
relate to servicing of the vehicle. The only reference to tyres is to say 
that Mr G has been made aware of the need to check tyre pressure.
The checklist then includes a section about end of contract. This 
includes the following statement
The vehicle must be roadworthy upon return and have a valid 
MOT Certificate and road legal tyres.There is nothing on this checklist to suggest that the maintenance 
agreement covered anything other than servicing.
So, having considered the information provided, Im not satisfied, on 
balance, theres enough evidence to support what Mr G has told us 
about a false statement of fact having been made to him during the 
antecedent negotiations.
It is the case that Mr G says he believed the tyres were included in the 
maintenance contract. He says that was confirmed to him during the 
telephone conversation referred to above and hes also commented on 
the documentation which he received from PSA. So, when considering 
whether PSA has acted fairly and reasonably here, Ive looked at the 
documents Mr G received to see if they made clear to him that tyres 
were not included in the contract.
The documentation provided to Mr G
Mr G was given a number of documents. Ill consider each of these and 
comment on what they say about what was included in the maintenance 
agreement.
The Hire Agreement
The Hire Agreement is the legal contract between Mr G and PSA. So, Id 
expect it to be clear on its face. It refers to the payments Mr G was 
required to make. These were an initial rental payment followed by 35 
monthly rental payments and an initial service charge of £109.32 
followed by 35 monthly service charge payments of £36.44. Over the 
term of three years Mr G would pay £1,384.72 for service charges.
The Hire Agreement also had a section entitled key Information. 
Although there is no specific reference to a service charge in this section 
there is extensive reference to clauses in the Terms document. Mr G 
says he didnt get that document. But, I think the wording in the Hire 
Agreement which he signed wouldve drawn his attention to the fact that 
there were Terms and it was important for him to read them.
Apart from the cross reference to the Terms, the Hire Agreement itself 
doesnt set out any further details other than the amount of the service 
charge.
The Terms
The Terms also form part of the legal agreement between Mr G and 
PSA.
Clauses 20 and 21 of the Terms set out what PSAs servicing and 
maintenance obligations were and what Mr Gs obligations were. Ive set 
out what the relevant Clauses in the Terms say below:
20.1 If you have chosen maintenance on the services schedule 
you will pay the services charge shown overleaf and we will 
arrange for the vehicle to be maintained throughout the period of hire on the terms set out in the clause and the terms (if any) set 
out in the services schedule.
20.3 Provided that you carry out your obligations under clause 
22 and the vehicle is in the United Kingdom the maintainer will 
arrange for:
20.3.1 the servicing of the vehicle at the intervals recommended 
by the manufacturer;
20.3.2 the supply during servicing of oil or lubricants 
recommended by the manufacturer;
20.3.3 the supply of anti-freeze either during servicing or each 
autumn ass the maintainer may select; and
20.3.4 all necessary repairs and replacement parts (including 
batteries) except for those referred to in clause 21.4
20.4 Our obligations under Clause 21.3 will not cover repairs 
maintenance or replacement parts which are stated in the 
services schedule and Clause 21 to be your responsibility.
21.2 You will be responsible for:
21.2.1 arranging the service of the vehicle by the repairer at the 
intervals recommended by the manufacturer or whenever 
21.2.2 necessary and ensure that the repairer stamps the 
vehicles service book;
21.2.3 providing the vehicle on a day to day basis with the 
correct type and amounts of fuel, oil, lubricants, water and 
additives;
21.2.4 maintaining the vehicle on a day to day basis in 
accordance with the manufacturers recommendations;
21.2.5 having all missing or unfit part of the vehicle for which you 
are responsible under Clause 22.3 replaced by the dealer;
21.2.6 checking the tyres regularly to ensure that they comply 
with any legal requirements and are in good condition; and
21.2.7 having all necessary repairs and maintenance carried out 
promptly by the dealer.
21.3 You will
21.3.1 pay for and have carried out any repairs, maintenance or 
replacement parts which are stated in the services schedule or 
Clause 22 to be your responsibility;
21.3.2 arrange for this work to be carried out and parts to be 
supplied and fitted in accordance with Clause 22.4 below.
21.4 When servicing or any other work needs to be carried out on 
the vehicle, you will, at your cost, take the vehicle to the dealer
Id just comment firstly that there are several cross references above to 
Clause 22. These cross references appear to be erroneous since Clause 
22 deals with Relief vehicle. Whilst this is unhelpful to the reader, I think 
the references to Clause 22 should infact be references to Clause 21, 
and that is how I have construed the meaning here.
The Terms at Clause 21.3.1 state that Mr G was responsible for paying 
for and having carried out any repairs, maintenance or replacement parts 
which were not stated in the Services Schedule or Clause 21 (as I have 
interpreted it) to be his responsibility. The phrase repairs, maintenance or replacement parts is not defined. In relation to the tyres, Mr Gs 
responsibility was to check the tyres regularly and ensure they complied 
with any legal requirements. Having looked at this it isnt clear to me that 
this meant he had to pay to replace the tyres.
When reaching that view Ive looked at the list of items in Clause 21.2. 
These included arranging the service of the vehicle. There is no dispute 
that Mr G wasnt responsible for paying for the service of the vehicle. So, 
Im not persuaded, on balance, the Terms, on their own, precluded Mr G 
from thinking that tyres and MOT were included in PCH maintenance.
The Services Schedule
The Services Schedule referred to a service type PCH Maintenance. 
The description of this service also states PCH Maintenance. There is 
no further detail included about what this means.
There are other items on the services schedule which are also not 
explained in any detail. For example, it refers to Contract management 
and Accident management but no detail is provided.
Clause 21.3 of the Terms stated
21.3 You will
21.3.1 pay for and have carried out any repairs, maintenance or 
replacement parts which are stated in the services schedule or 
Clause 22 to be your responsibility
Having looked at the Services Schedule there is no mention there of any 
repairs, maintenance or replacement parts which were Mr Gs 
responsibility.
PSA has provided our service with an example of a Services Schedule 
where it says the customer was provided with cover for tyres. The 
Services Schedule in that case included PCH Maintenance and a 
separate type of service referred to as Tyres. PSA says this shows that 
if Mr G had selected cover for tyres, this wouldve been reflected on the 
Services Schedule. It also says the price he was paying shouldve put 
Mr G on notice that tyres were not included in PCH maintenance.
Ive thought about what PSA has said here. But, it doesnt change my 
current view. Mr G wouldnt have been familiar with how different 
services were set out on Services Schedules for other customers. And, I 
dont think its fair or reasonable to have expected him to know what was 
and wasnt covered by the phrase PCH Maintenance when there was 
no further information about that in any of the documentation hed been 
provided with.
Ive also thought about what PSA told us concerning the relative price the 
consumer paid where the Services Schedule included tyres. As Ive 
already mentioned Mr G wouldnt have had knowledge of what services a 
different customer had selected  or what that customer wouldve paid. 
So, I think its fair and reasonable to look only at what was presented to 
Mr G and what he should reasonably have been aware of.PSA has provided a breakdown of how the monthly service charge was 
made up.
Road Fund Licence - £9.98 
Contract maintenance £9.49 and 
Maintenance £16.97
PSA says the figures show that Mr G was paying £16.97 per month for 
routine servicing costs. It says that an average annual service costs 
around £200. So, it says Mr G wouldve reasonably known that tyres 
were not included.
Id just point out that I dont see where this breakdown of the monthly 
service charge was provided to Mr G  so he would only have been 
aware of the overall charge he was paying for services. Its also not 
clear, from the information PSA has provided, what is covered under 
Contract maintenance and what is included under Maintenance. So, 
Im not currently persuaded, on balance, its reasonable to say that Mr G 
shouldve known, because of the price he was paying, that tyres were not 
included.
The Adequate Explanations Document
There is a reference to services in the Adequate Explanations 
document. It says only that the customer can opt for additional services 
and if the service charge is nil then no services have been provided. But, 
that wasnt the case here  there was a charge for services.
The purpose of the Adequate Explanations document is described in the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook  the section known as 
CONC (the Consumer Credit Sourcebook). CONC 4.2.5 R says that 
before making the agreement the firm must provide the customer with an 
adequate explanation about certain matters. The purpose of that 
document is:
 to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers need and financial 
situation.
The matters which should be explained include the features of the 
agreement which may make the credit to be provided unsuitable for 
particular uses.
Having looked at the Adequate Explanations document, I dont think it did 
adequately explain what was included under Services in the 
agreement. And, it didnt refer Mr G to any other document where he 
wouldve been able to get more information. I dont think it was enough to 
simply include a statement to say he could telephone if he had any 
questions. I wouldve expected the Adequate Explanations to have 
detailed what was included in the services and to tell Mr G about any 
exclusions or unusual terms that applied. He could then have made an 
informed decision about whether or not it met his needs and financial 
situation.Having considered everything here, Im currently persuaded that PSA 
didnt do enough to adequately describe the services Mr G had acquired 
when he entered the agreement. For that reason, I think PSA needs to 
take action to put things right.
What needs to be done to put things right
Ive set out above the breakdown of the monthly service charge provided 
by PSA. It is the case that Mr G has received value under the agreement 
in that the car has been serviced during the period of the contract and 
the road fund licence has been provided. Apart from what hes told us 
about tyre replacement, Mr G has received what he thought he would 
receive under the contract. So, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable 
to require PSA to have to refund these payments to him.
Mr G believed that the services hed acquired included replacement 
tyres. Hes told us he paid £179.04 for the replacement tyres. Having 
looked at everything here, I currently think it is fair and reasonable to 
require PSA to refund this sum to him.
Ive also thought about the inconvenience Mr G has experienced as a 
result of what happened here. He had to make arrangements to pay for 
the tyre replacements himself. And, hes had to progress his complaint 
with PSA and then to our service. In the circumstances, I currently think 
its fair and reasonable to require PSA to pay him £100 for the 
inconvenience he experienced.
My provisional decision
For the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I intend to 
uphold this complaint, in part, about PSA Finance UK Limited.
I intend to require it to:
Upon receipt of evidence of payment, pay Mr G £179.04 for the 
price of replacing the tyres on the car together with 8%* simple 
interest on this amount from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Mr G £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened here.
PSA responded to my provisional decision. It said it had no further submissions to 
make.
Mr G also responded. He provided a copy of the cash sale invoice for the replacement 
tyres which is dated 13 May 2021. The invoice confirms he paid £179.04 for the 
replacement tyres. Mr G didnt make any further comments.
So, I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having considered the responses, neither party has given me any new information 
which persuades me to change my findings from those reached in my provisional 
decision. 
Mr G has provided a copy of the cash sale invoice for the tyres which confirms the 
information hed previously provided.
So, Ive not changed my view about how this complaint should be resolved or the 
reasons for my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint, in part, about PSA Finance UK 
Limited.
I now require it to:
pay Mr G £179.04 for the price of replacing the tyres on the car together 
with 8%* simple interest on this amount from the date of payment (13 
May 2021) to the date of settlement; and
pay Mr G £100 by way of compensation for the inconvenience he 
experienced as a result of what happened here.
* If PSA Finance UK Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off 
income tax from any interest due to Mr G it should tell him how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr G a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman