DRN-3183340
The complaint
Mr T complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Amazon Card declined his claim under section 
75.
What happened
In March 2020 Mr T purchased a sofa from a retailer using his NewDay credit card. Then 
amount paid was around £300. The sofa was delivered in August 2020.
In March 2020 Mr T contacted the retailer to complain that the material on the sofa had torn. 
The retailer advised Mr T to call a helpline to arrange for a technician to inspect the sofa.
An inspection was carried out. The retailer advised Mr T that the sofa didnt have a 
manufacturing fault and said the issue was caused by wear and tear. The retailer said it 
wouldnt refund or replace the sofa.
Mr T said the sofa was less than a year old and shouldve been more durable. But the 
retailer said the inspection had found evidence of a spillage which was likely to have caused 
the material to tear.
Mr T replied to the retailer and said there hadnt been any spillages. The retailer said it could 
only consider the inspection report but said that Mt T could obtain his own report if he 
wished.
Mr T complained to NewDay. It said it couldnt raise a chargeback dispute because of the 
length of time which had passed since the purchase date. It considered the claim under 
section 75 but said that based on the retailers comments about the inspection report it didnt 
think there was enough evidence to show that the sofa wasnt of satisfactory quality at the 
point of supply. NewDay acknowledged that it should have realised that the chargeback 
claim was out of time sooner than it did and offered £25 compensation for this error.
Mr T remained unhappy and complained to this service. He said he didnt obtain his own 
report because this wouldve cost him around £150.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that based on the available 
information, she wasnt able to say that the sofa was faulty at the point of supply or that it 
had a manufacturing fault. She didnt think NewDay had acted unfairly in dealing with Mr Ts 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer a right to claim against a supplier of 
goods or a provider of credit if theres been a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. In 
order to uphold Mr Ts complaint, I would need to be satisfied that theres been a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation, and that NewDays response to the claim under section 75 
wasnt fair or reasonable. 
Mr T hasnt said that theres been a misrepresentation so Ive focussed on whether theres 
been a breach of contract.
The relevant law says that goods must be of satisfactory quality and fit for purpose at the 
point of supply. If this isnt the case, then a breach of contract can be said to have occurred.
Ive looked at the available evidence including the photos provided by Mr T. I havent been 
able to look at the inspection report because this hasnt been made available by the retailer. 
Mr T has said he doesnt hold a copy. Ive taken into account what the retailer told NewDay 
about the contents of the report and Ive noted that Mr T disputes the conclusion that the 
damage was caused by spillage.
Based on what Ive seen in the photos, its clear that theres damage to the sofa. Theres a 
tear in the arm and the middle cushion. But I cant say, based on the photos alone, whether 
the damage is due to a manufacturing fault or due to wear and tear.
Ive taken into account what the retailer said about the inspection report. The report 
concluded that there wasnt a manufacturing fault and that the damage was due to wear and 
tear.
I appreciate that Mr T disagrees with the report. From what Ive seen, Mr T could have 
obtained his own report, but he chose not to. I understand the reasons for that.  However, in 
the absence of any evidence to the contrary, Im persuaded by the report which concludes 
that there wasnt a manufacturing fault.
I understand the point Mr T makes about the sofa not lasting as long as he expected, and 
not being durable. But on the available evidence, Im unable to conclude that the sofa wasnt 
durable. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think NewDays response to the section 75 
claim was unfair or unreasonable. So I wont be asking it to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman