DRN-2960554
The complaint
Mr H complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard misled him after sending 
him a persistent debt letter. 
What happened
In December 2020 Barclaycard contacted Mr H about his credit card and gave information 
about persistent debt. Mr H cleared the credit card balance in full in January 2021. 
Barclaycard confirmed Mr H could start to use his account again. 
In April 2021 Barclaycard contacted Mr H and explained it had taken the decision to close 
his credit card at the end of June 2021. Mr H complained and said he wouldnt have repaid 
the full outstanding balance if hed known the credit card would be closed a short time later. 
Barclaycard didnt agree and said it reviewed Mr Hs account after he repaid the debt and felt 
the decision to close his credit card was in line with its terms and conditions. 
Mr H referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They thought 
Barclaycard had dealt with Mr Hs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to reopen his credit card 
or do anything else. Mr H asked to appeal and said hed been misled by Barclaycard as he 
was told that if he cleared the balance he could keep the credit card. Mr H also said that if 
hed been told Barclaycard would still close his account he wouldve opted to enter a 
payment plan instead. As Mr H asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed ot me to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H says he wouldnt have paid back his full balance if hed known Barclaycard would close 
his account a short time later and feels he was misled. I take Mr Hs point but Barclaycard 
has explained the decision to close his credit card hadnt been taken when it wrote to him 
about persistent debt. At that stage, Barclaycard gave Mr H the option of either agreeing a 
repayment plan, which wouldve led to his account being closed to new spending, or 
repaying the balance.
I note Barclaycard wrote to Mr H about the position of his account in December 2020 and he 
made the payment to clear its balance the following month. It wasnt until April 2021 that 
Barclaycard undertook another review of Mr Hs account and took the decision to withdraw 
his credit card. Ive looked at Barclaycards terms and conditions to see whether its able to 
take that step. It says: 
This agreement has no fixed term. This means it will continue until you or we decide to close 
your account. You can close the account by writing to us, and we can close the account by 
writing to you well give you two months written notice. 
I accept Mr H was surprised Barclaycard took the step of closing his credit card, but Im 
satisfied it acted in line with the account terms. Im very sorry to disappoint Mr H but I didnt 
find anything that showed Barclaycard misled him following its persistent debt 
correspondence. 
As I havent found Barclaycard made an error or treated Mr H unfairly, Im not telling it to 
take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman