DRN-4447370
The complaint
Miss R complains that TransUnion International UK Limited (TransUnion) merged her credit 
file with her twin sisters file and failed to resolve this when informed of the error. 
 
What happened
Miss Rs sister contacted TransUnion in March 2021 about a mortgage that she didnt have 
showing on her credit file. In April 2023, she contacted TransUnion again to say that her file 
had been merged with Miss Rs. 
 
Miss R contacted TransUnion in July 2023, to complain about the merging of the two credit 
files, and its failure to rectify the error when previously notified.
In its final response, TransUnion apologised for the error and confirmed its database was in 
the process of being corrected. It said it would consider appropriate compensation once this 
has been completed. 
Unhappy with TransUnions response, Miss R brought her complaint to this service. She 
said:
Her personal, private and confidential details were visible on her sisters credit report, 
which is a breach of General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) and a violation of 
her Human Rights and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). This also caused an 
unnecessary rift between her and her sister.
She was unable to consolidate finances or apply for a new mortgage, which 
significantly impacted her ability to manage cost of living increases. She had to take 
on extra jobs to meet her financial commitments. 
This issue has had a huge impact on her mental health. 
Our investigator reviewed matters and concluded that TransUnion was at fault for the 
merging of the two credit files, and Miss R should be paid £300 compensation to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her. 
TransUnion accepted our investigators recommendation. Miss R disagreed and said £300 
wasnt enough to reflect the long-term impact on her living conditions and mental health. 
As no agreement has been reached, the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive taken into account the relevant industry rules 
and guidance, and what would be considered as good industry practice.
Its unclear from the evidence available what happened to cause the merging of the two 
credit files. But Im satisfied an error of some kind occurred and that TransUnion have taken 
responsibility for the error, so I dont need to decide that aspect  I just need to consider 
what TransUnion should do to put things right for Miss R. 
As this service is not the regulator, I cannot fine or punish TransUnion for the mistake it 
made. But I can consider the impact the error caused Miss R and this is what Ive thought 
about.
The files were separated in August 2023, which I believe to be within a reasonable 
timeframe from when Miss R contacted TransUnion about the merge in July 2023.
 
I agree that TransUnion shouldve looked into the issue back in 2021 for Miss Rs sister, 
when first notified something wasnt right. However, this has no bearing on Miss Rs 
complaint, as her first contact with TransUnion about the matter wasnt until July 2023. 
Regardless of the matter impacting both sisters, Miss R wouldve still needed to contact 
TransUnion separately about the incorrect information showing on her own credit file. Ive 
seen no evidence of this happening before July 2023. Neither have I seen anything to 
support that Miss Rs sister had authority to act on her behalf and did so within her 
communication with TransUnion.
 
Miss R has described significant impact to her living conditions and mental health over a 
two-year period, which she considers to be a direct result of this issue. In such 
circumstances, I wouldve expected to see Miss R make reasonable attempt to mitigate 
ongoing impact by contacting TransUnion directly and following this up. 
For this reason, in addition to lack of supporting evidence, Im not persuaded that the 
merging of the credit files was the sole and direct cause of Miss Rs health concerns and 
inability to obtain credit to consolidate finances over a two-year period.
 
I havent seen any evidence to support the error has resulted in financial loss. Miss R says 
the amount of soft searches on her file is enough to indicate her inability to obtain credit 
during this time. But this isnt enough for me to be able to conclude that TransUnion are 
responsible for Miss Rs inability to consolidate her debts. Multiple considerations are made 
by lenders following an application for credit, and there couldve been other reasons for 
credit applications being declined. So, Id need to see confirmation that the lending decisions 
made were solely based on the incorrect information showing on Miss Rs credit file, and that 
lending wouldve been approved had that incorrect information not been there. I dont have 
this evidence here, so there is no guarantee that different lending decisions wouldve been 
made had the error not happened.
I am sorry to learn of the severity of Miss Rs mental health struggles. Its clear from what 
Miss R has told us that she has been through a very difficult time. But based on the 
information available, I cant reasonably conclude that TransUnion are responsible for the 
decline of Miss Rs mental health.
I do accept though, that given what Miss R was already going through at the time, this matter 
wouldve exacerbated the anxiety she was feeling. I dont dispute that Miss Rs credit file 
being shared wouldve caused her distress and concern about the safety of her personal 
data. And I dont doubt the concern she reported feeling when she found out her sister had 
sight of her borrowing and financial standing, or the impact this had on their relationship. 
So, I do agree a compensation award should be paid to Miss R in recognition of this. And 
having considered the impact caused solely by the error TransUnion made, Im satisfied that 
£300 is in line with the level of distress Miss R has suffered and within our award ranges for 
situations such as this. In the absence of any evidence to support financial loss or detriment, I cant agree that 
TransUnion should increase the compensation from £300 to a higher amount.
Putting things right
TransUnion should now pay Miss R £300 compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint about 
TransUnion International UK Limited. I now require it to put things right as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Nicola Bastin
Ombudsman