DRN-3247175
The complaint
Mr B complains that AFH Independent Financial Services Limited  trading as AFH Wealth 
Management (AFH) recommended an unsuitable trust-based investment to his mother, and 
havent provided him with the advice service thats been paid for. Mr B brings his complaint 
to us in his role as trustee of the trust his mother set up. 
What happened
Mr Bs mother set up what appears to be a loan trust in 2011, following advice from a 
company later bought by AFH. When he complained, Mr B referred to himself as the sole 
trustee of this. But the documents show both he and his mother were trustees.
Over time, changes were made to the way the trust worked. A payment to Mr Bs mother 
was stopped. The investment was moved from a fund with a guaranteed value to one that 
was more flexible. And a fee was added for an advisory service. Authority for all of the 
changes was given by Mr B and his mother signing documents. 
Mr B complained in 2020. But AFH felt the agreements hed signed and the meetings theyd 
had with Mr Bs mother showed their service had been provided reasonably to the trustees. 
Unhappy with this, Mr B brought the complaint to us. But our investigator agreed with AFH  
the service had been provided in a fair and reasonable way. 
Mr B didnt feel this was right. He particularly noted that as a trustee he personally hadnt 
received any advice from AFH, saying documents were sent only to his mother. He said 
advice should have been given to him directly, not through his mother. And he commented 
that the trust seemed unsuitable because it was recommended in relation to inheritance tax 
planning, when his mother had no inheritance tax liability. 
With no agreement about how to resolve the complaint, its come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate it will be disappointing for Mr B to hear, Ive decided not to uphold his 
complaint. Ill explain why.
It seems to me that much of Mr Bs dissatisfaction comes from AFH providing their service 
more to his mother than to him. But I consider that reasonable, given the initial advice about 
how to invest was provided to her. And given most of the handling of the trust she set up has 
been driven by her, and not Mr B. This wasnt a personal service for Mr B  it was a service 
provided to him in his role as co-trustee. 
I note Mr Bs comments about the trust being recommended as part of inheritance tax 
planning. But I think that misses that this is a loan trust. Mr Bs mother hasnt given her 
money away  shes only lent it to the trustees to invest. Any gains made from those 
investments go to the trust. But the money that was lent remains the property of Mr Bs 
mother. That means it will still be part of her estate when she dies. 
So this doesnt appear to be a trust set up with inheritance tax planning as its main objective. 
Instead, it appears to have been a way for Mr Bs mother to use her money to help the trust 
beneficiaries in a way that allowed her to control when the money would go to them. That 
seems reasonable, given the details noted in AFHs record of their meeting with Mr Bs 
mother in 2011. 
The retention of loaned money seems to have been an early concern for this investment. I 
note the guaranteed value that its first investment gave. That makes sense, given the money 
still belonged to Mr Bs mother, and would need to be repaid at some point. 
But I agree with AFH that the circumstances for the trust have changed over time. When 
Mr Bs mother stopped having the capital regularly repaid to her, it would have become less 
critical that the value of the investment was guaranteed. It could better cope with the ups and 
downs of investments as the money was being left for longer. 
As such, I dont see an issue with the investment changing how it was invested over time. 
For the trustees, I find it was clear both Mr B and his mother needed to be involved. They 
both had to sign documents in order to make any change to the trust. And it seems clear 
Mr B was happy to follow his mothers lead on that. Hes said he simply signed documents 
she gave him without really reading them. 
I find it reasonable that AFHs advice and actions reflect that approach. Their interaction 
appears to have focussed on Mr Bs mother, with an expectation she would then pass that 
on to Mr B. I cant see that AFH could have known that something would happen in 2020 
that would lead to Mr B wanting more direct involvement with the management of the trust. 
As the approach taken by AFH was in line with the way Mr B and his mother were managing 
the trust up to 2020, I find theyve acted fairly here. I dont agree with Mr B that AFH should 
have done more to separately contact him about trust matters. It was enough for them to 
contact his mother  the main trustee interacting with them about the trust  up to that point.
My final decision
With the above in mind, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs M as 
trustees of the M gift trust to accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2022.
 
Paul Mellor
Ombudsman