DRN-3622369
The complaint
A company which Ill call D complains that Funding Circle Ltd treated it unfairly by defaulting 
its loan which was taken out in 2018.
The complaint is brought on Ds behalf by its director, Mr S.
What happened
D took out a loan with Funding Circle for around £30,000 in 2018.
Mr S told us:
D was repaying the loan without a problem and hadnt missed a repayment until 
March 2020 when it had to stop trading due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
From April 2020, Funding Circle called and emailed him around 6-7 times a day to 
chase the repayments that D couldnt make. He found this very distressing and felt 
he was being harassed.
He told Funding Circle that D wouldnt be able to start making repayments until 
around March 2021 as it was a seasonal business and asked for help from Funding 
Circle.
Funding Circle were advertising a twelve-month repayment holiday for their 
customers but when D asked for this, it was denied.
Funding Circle have unfairly defaulted Ds loan and are taking both D and him to 
court for repayment. He is unsure why he is personally being pursued for the debt as 
D is still trading. 
Funding Circle told us:
They had tried to support D and provided a three-month short term repayment plan 
with reduced repayments, but Mr S hadnt returned the documentation.
The twelve-month repayment holiday was only available to customers with a 
Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) and D had applied for this, but its 
application had been declined. 
Once Mr S had told them in August 2020 it didnt wish to speak to them on the 
phone, they hadnt called again.
Ds loan had been defaulted as it had accrued more than 90 days of arrears, and 
because Mr S hadnt engaged with them about repayment of the outstanding 
balance, theyd had to look to pursue him personally.  
Our investigator thought we could only consider Funding Circles actions against D regarding 
the loan, but only until 21 September 2020 as this was the date that Funding Circle called 
upon the personal guarantee. The investigator also didnt recommend the complaint be 
upheld. He didnt think Funding Circle had unreasonably contacted Mr S or unfairly defaulted 
Ds loan. He also said Funding Circle wasnt obliged to offer D a twelve-month repayment 
holiday as this wasnt applicable to Ds loan type.  
Mr S didnt agree. He said:
The investigator hadnt considered the harassment hed received from Funding Circle 
being called so frequently.
That the lump sum repayment hed made had been allocated to the wrong loan.
Funding Circle had openly advertised a twelve-month repayment holiday but not 
given this to D.
The investigator had ignored the lockdowns by saying Funding Circle had defaulted 
the loan fairly.  
Mr S asked for an ombudsman to review Ds complaint. So the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide. I am aware that Mr S has also complained on Ds behalf about another loan 
taken out in 2017. I have issued a separate decision on that complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it for broadly the same reasons as the
investigator.
Mr S has told us that he felt Funding Circle had harassed him as they had called and 
emailed him repeatedly, sometimes six to seven times a day. He says this was unnecessary 
and caused him distress. I recognise Mr S says Funding Circles actions have personally 
affected him, and I dont dispute thats the case. However, this complaint has been brought 
on Ds behalf, so D is the eligible complainant. This means that I cant look at any distress or 
inconvenience caused to Mr S in a personal capacity. And as D is a limited company, it cant 
be caused distress, which means I can only look at the inconvenience caused to it by 
Funding Circles actions. 
I acknowledge that Mr S believes Funding Circle contacted him excessively about Ds loan, 
but Im not persuaded thats the case. Ive looked at Funding Circles contact records with D 
and I can see that they only started contacting Mr S after the loan direct debit had been 
cancelled. The general pattern of all Funding Circles attempts to contact Mr S were that they 
called his mobile number, home number and then sent a follow up email to say theyd 
attempted to contact him and could he call back. For the first month, this was roughly every 
six days, and they attempted different times of the day to speak to Mr S  which I think was 
reasonable as hed cancelled Ds direct debit without notice or contact so this may have 
simply been an error which Funding Circle was trying to establish to prevent detriment to D.
The attempted contact increased in frequency to roughly every two days after D missed its 
next repayment and Mr S had also contacted Funding Circle to say D couldnt make future 
repayments and needed support. I can see that Funding Circle also sent Mr S details for a reduced short term payment plan (STPP) for three months for Ds loan and continued to 
attempt to contact him to put this in place. However, Mr S didnt return the form, and D didnt 
make any further repayments, so I think it was reasonable for Funding Circle to continue to 
contact him for an update so they could fulfil their obligations to both D as a borrower and 
the investors who had provided the loan.
Mr S says that Funding Circle treated D unfairly as hed made them aware it couldnt make 
the loan repayments and needed the twelve-month interest and repayment holiday, they 
were advertising. But I dont agree. Ive looked at the evidence from Mr S and Funding Circle 
and I think its clear that there were specific terms and conditions which a borrower needed 
to meet to receive the twelve-month repayment holiday. Funding Circle told us the 
repayment holiday was specific to the Coronavirus Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) 
Scheme, and not available to other loan customers. 
The CBIL Scheme was a government backed scheme which meant there were specific 
requirements lenders needed to meet to receive the government guarantee. I think it was 
reasonable that Funding Circle wasnt able to offer the same level of flexibility to customers 
not participating in the Scheme as the terms of the borrowing were different and I havent 
seen any advertising that says the twelve-month repayment holiday would be given to any of 
Funding Circles borrowers. 
Mr S is unhappy that Funding Circle defaulted Ds loan around five months after it had 
missed its repayments. He also believes D wasnt given any support by Funding Circle. But 
Ive looked at Ds loan agreement terms and conditions, which say that an event of default 
would occur if the borrower missed, failed to pay, or didnt make a full monthly payment 
when due. However, Funding Circle then extended this to four monthly payments to take into 
consideration the impact of the Coronavirus pandemic. 
This change was included in the terms of Ds STPP, and clearly explained that if the loan 
became four full repayments in arrears (i.e. 90 days from the first missed repayment) that 
Funding Circle would default the loan. And despite Mr S not returning the STPP or 
contacting Funding Circle, they didnt default the loan until 140 days had passed and Mr S 
still hadnt contact them. So I think Funding Circle did attempt to provide support to D for as 
long as it was able to, in line with their terms and conditions but Mr S wanted longer than 
Funding Circle was able to offer. As a service we wouldnt expect a lender to allow 
forbearance indefinitely as it would increase the indebtedness of the borrower and its unfair 
for any investors.
Mr S says that Funding Circle then took legal against Ds loan unfairly. He says he made an 
offer to settle the loan and when D had made a repayment, Funding Circle credited this to 
the wrong loan account. Ive looked at the timeline of events and Im not persuaded that 
Funding Circle acted unfairly in how it managed Ds loan account. I can see that as part of 
their attempts to contact Mr S, they sent emails and letters explaining what would happen if 
D didnt meet its loan repayments, and the accounts reached 90 days of arrears. So I think 
Funding Circle gave D sufficient warning and opportunity to clear the balance before the 
default was applied. 
I can also see that Mr S made several attempts to settle the loan, however Funding Circle 
wasnt able or obligated to accept the offers and I have to take into consideration when Mr S 
made those offers. Funding Circle acts as an intermediary between the borrower and 
investors and therefore has to balance the needs of both parties, so I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Funding Circle to decline Mr Ss initial offer which he wanted to repay over 
a three-year period was significantly less than D owed. I acknowledge that Mr S did make a further offer to clear the redemption balance quoted by 
Funding Circle in their correspondence. However, he offered to pay the outstanding balance 
which had been provided by Funding Circle several months earlier. Im satisfied Funding 
Circle had been clear that the balance would increase if Mr S didnt clear the balance or 
indeed contact Funding Circle to explain Ds intention to clear the balance. So by the time Mr 
S had made his second offer the additional applicable charges, fees and costs had been 
added. This was in line with Ds loan agreement and had been clearly communicated on 
numerous occasions to Mr S, so I dont think this was unreasonable. 
Mr S is also unhappy as he says he made a repayment of around £4,000 to Ds loan but 
Funding Circle applied this incorrectly. Whilst I recognise this may have been frustrating to 
Mr S, Im not persuaded this had a negative impact in the way he believes. I say this 
because Mr S repaid what he believed was the outstanding balance to clear one of Ds loans 
 but as I have already mentioned, Mr S didnt take into consideration the additional costs so 
this wouldnt have been sufficient. Furthermore the loan had already been defaulted and 
litigation proceedings had started so I cant see that crediting the repayment incorrectly 
before the loan were eventually cleared in full caused any detriment to D.   
I recognise that Mr S feels strongly about this, and hell be disappointed with my decision. 
But based on everything Ive seen, I dont think Funding Circle have done anything wrong, 
so I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2022.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman