DRN-3711755
The complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Capital One (Europe) plc provided credit to her which she feels wasnt
affordable for her at those times.
What happened
In September 2017, Mrs B applied for a credit account with Capital One. Mrs Bs application
was approved, and Capital One issued Mrs B with a new credit account with an initial credit
limit of £750.
In May 2018, Capital One increase the credit limit on Mrs Bs account from £750 to £1,750.
A further credit limit increase followed in September 2019, from £1,750 to £2,500.
In December 2021, Mrs B raised a complaint because she felt that in all instances, the credit
that Capital One had provided to her hadnt been affordable for her. Mrs B also felt that this
should have been apparent to Capital One, had they undertaken checks into her financial
position before providing the credit to her.
Capital One looked at Mrs Bs complaint. They confirmed they had undertaken checks into
her financial position before providing the new and further credit to her, and they felt that
there hadnt been anything resulting from those checks which should have given them any
cause to suspect that Mrs B might not be able to afford the credit being offered to her.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Capital Ones response, so she referred her complaint to this
service. One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they didnt feel that Capital
One had acted unfairly towards Mrs B by providing her with the credit that they had, and so
they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs B remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 24 August 2022 as follows:
Its for a business to decide whether it will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how 
much and on what terms. What this service would expect would be, that before 
approving a customer for a new line of credit, or before increasing the amount of 
credit available to a customer on an existing line of credit, the business would 
undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to ensure that any credit being 
offered to a customer is affordable for that customer at that time.
Capital One believe they did that here, and note that at the time of the application 
they took information from Mrs B about her employment and annual income, as well 
as obtained information about Mrs B from a credit reference agency so as to get a 
better understanding of her wider financial position. And Capital One contend that 
there was nothing resulting from that information that they feel should have given 
them any reasonable cause to believe that Mrs B might not be able to afford the 
credit she was subsequently approved for.
When Mrs B applied for the account in September 2017, she told Capital One that 
she had gross income of £14,100 per year. This equates to a net monthly income of 
approximately £1,100. Capital One also reviewed Mrs Bs credit file and noted that 
she had existing active credit commitments at that time totalling £1,300. Capital One 
then carried out an assessment of Mrs Bs income versus her debt, and based on 
this they felt that the provision of a new line of credit to Mrs B with an initial credit limit 
of £750 would most likely be affordable for Mrs B at that time.
Capital Ones assessment of Mrs Bs creditworthiness here appears problematic to 
me for several reasons. Firstly, Capital One have confirmed that they assessed Mrs 
B as having residual income after debt repayments of over £1,100. But as explained 
above, a gross income of £14,100 per year, as Mrs B had declared for herself, only 
equates to a net monthly income of £1,100, which means that Mrs B couldnt have 
had the disposable monthly income that Capital One assessed her as having.
Mrs Bs net income of £1,100 per month is a relatively low income amount, and as 
such theres an increased possibility that when all essential monthly spending is 
accounted for  such as housing, food, utility bills, etc  Mrs B might not have been 
left with much remaining income from which to make payments towards a new credit 
commitment. And when assessing Mrs Bs potential spending its also notable that 
Mrs B didnt provide any information to Capital One as to whether she had any 
dependent children, leaving that field of the application uncompleted, and that Capital 
One didnt seek to clarify that point.
Finally, its also notable from Mrs Bs credit file that she has several historical 
defaulted credit accounts. And while the defaults took place a few years before the 
Capital One application, Mrs Bs credit file showed a combined default balance of 
nearly £6,500, and its unclear whether Mrs B was engaged in any attempts to repay 
these default balances.
All of which means that I feel that the information that Capital One based their 
affordability assessment on wasnt complete, and didnt provide a detailed enough 
picture of Mrs Bs income and expenditure at that time to enable that affordability 
assessment to give Capital One a reasonable understanding of Mrs Bs financial 
position upon which to base their creditworthiness decision.
As such, I feel that Capital One should have undertaken more detailed checks into 
Mrs Bs financial position before approving her application for credit, so as to ensure 
that they werent providing credit to Mrs B that she couldnt reasonably afford.
Theres no set list as to what form such further financial checks should have taken. 
But I feel that in these circumstances they should in all likelihood have included a 
request to review Mrs Bs current account statements or to have spoken with Mrs B 
to discuss her circumstances in more detail.
As such, Ive reviewed Mrs Bs current account statements for the three months 
immediately prior to the credit application so as to understand what Capital One 
would have seen, had they reviewed those statements before approving Mrs Bs 
application.Having done so, its clear that Mrs B wasnt employed with an income of £14,100 per 
annum as shed declared, but that in fact Mrs Bs only source of regular income were 
benefits totalling roughly £158 per week, which equates to a net annual income of 
approximately £8,200.
It's also notable that these benefits include child tax credit, meaning that Mrs B did 
have dependent children and therefore the associated spending expenses  which 
hadnt been included as a factor in Capital Ones assessment.
Finally, Mrs Bs current account statements also demonstrate that Mrs B was 
maintaining her current account close to a zero balance at all times, and that she was 
receiving sporadic but regular payments from family members to supplement her 
benefit income and to enable her to get by.
All of which means that I feel that had Capital One undertaken more detailed checks 
into Mrs Bs financial position before approving her application for credit  as Im 
satisfied that they should have done  it should have been apparent from those 
further checks that Mrs B wouldnt in all likelihood be reasonably able to afford the 
new line of credit for which she was applying.
As such, my provisional decision here will be that Ill be upholding this complaint in 
Mrs Bs favour on the basis that I feel that by approving Mrs Bs initial application for 
credit as they did, Capital One did provide credit to Mrs B irresponsibly.
My provisional decision will also include that, to put things right, Capital One must do 
as follows:
Reimburse to Mrs Bs credit account all interest, fees, and charges incurred on 
the account from the point of opening.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mrs Bs favour, Capital One
must pay that balance to Mrs B along with 8% simple interest calculated to the 
date of payment.
oIn this instance, Capital One must also remove all adverse reporting 
relating to this account from Mrs Bs credit file.
If following the above instructed reimbursements there remains a balance
outstanding on the account for Mrs B to pay, Capital One must contact Mrs B to
arrange a suitable interest free repayment plan with her.
oIn this instance, when Mrs B had fully repaid any balance which might 
remain for her to pay, Capital One must then remove all adverse reporting 
relating to this account from Mrs Bs credit file.
In response to this provisional decision, Capital One may point out that they 
performed their creditworthiness assessment on the basis of information given to 
them by Mrs B. I appreciate this point, but as I hope Ive been able to explain above, 
it seems apparent to me that the information that Capital One did base their 
assessment on, including the information given to them by Mrs B, wasnt sufficient to 
allow a reasonable understanding of Mrs Bs financial position to be drawn at that 
time, such that further checks should have been undertaken by Capital One. And it 
remains my position that had Capital One undertaken such further checks, the 
unaffordability of new credit for Mrs B would have been evident.
In response to my provisional decision, both Mrs B and Capital One confirmed they were 
happy to accept it. As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision upholding this complaint on the basis outlined in my provisional decision above, and I can confirm that I do 
uphold this complaint in Mrs Bs favour on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Capital One must reimburse to Mrs Bs credit account all interest, fees, and charges incurred 
on the account from the point of opening.
If these reimbursements result in a credit balance in Mrs Bs favour, Capital One must pay 
that balance to Mrs B along with 8% simple interest calculated to the date of payment.
In this instance, Capital One must also remove all adverse reporting relating to 
this account from Mrs Bs credit file.
If following the above instructed reimbursements there remains a balance outstanding on the 
account for Mrs B to pay, Capital One must contact Mrs B to arrange a suitable interest free 
repayment plan with her.
In this instance, when Mrs B had fully repaid any balance which might remain for 
her to pay, Capital One must then remove all adverse reporting relating to this 
account from Mrs Bs credit file.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Capital One (Europe) plc on the basis 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman