DRN-3260481
The complaint
Mr T complains that NCO Europe Limited didnt clearly explain that it would apply a default 
to his account after he wasnt able to repay the outstanding balance.
Mr T says that the situation was further confused by the fact that he was also speaking to the 
business which owned the debt.
Mr T wants NCO to remove the default if he settles the outstanding balance. 
What happened
Since 2019, NCO has managed a debt in Mr Ts name on behalf of the business which owns 
the debt. After Mr T missed some payments between December 2020 and February 2021, 
NCO sent him a notice of termination. 
As Mr T didnt repay the outstanding balance, NCO reported a default to the credit reference 
agencies.
Mr T wasnt happy as the default prevented him from obtaining a mortgage. He told NCO 
that he could pay the outstanding balance if it would remove the default, but NCO didnt 
agree.
The investigator looking at Mr Ts complaint didnt recommend that it should be upheld. He 
thought NCO had recorded the default fairly. As Mr T couldnt repay the account balance by 
April 2021, the investigator didnt think that any confusion that may have been caused by 
NCO and the owner of the debt wouldve led to the default being registered.
Mr T disagreed with the outcome. He said the investigator was speculating when he thought 
Mr T didnt have clear funds available. Mr T said that he was concerned about the impact of 
Covid-19 on the future of his employer. This meant he was reluctant to clear the outstanding 
debt in case he was then made redundant. 
The investigator asked Mr T whether he was able to show that he had funds available at the 
time to clear the balance in full. Mr T gave this service details of some ISA transactions in his 
name that took place at the end of March 2021, but the investigators recommendation didnt 
change. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the difficulties Mr T is having because of the default on his credit file. 
It will come as a disappointment to him, but Im not requiring NCO to take any further action 
and I will explain why.
I dont think theres any dispute that Mr T missed some monthly payments to NCO. Account 
statements show that payments werent received between December 2020 and February 
2021. This led to NCO sending Mr T a notice of termination on behalf of the owner of the 
debt in February 2021. I cant find that NCO was wrong to take steps to default the account 
after at least three payments had been missed.
Ive listened to the call that Mr T had with NCO in March 2021. Im satisfied that the call 
handler explained to Mr T that unless he could pay the outstanding balance in full or agree a 
settlement by April 2021, a default would be applied as outlined in the notice of termination. 
And that even if Mr T restarted his payment arrangement, this wouldnt avoid the default. 
At no time did Mr T mention the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic or express his concerns 
about the future of his employment. Instead, Mr T said he couldnt pay the balance in full and 
asked whether he could avoid the default by paying off the arrears. As the call handler 
confirmed that paying the arrears wouldnt prevent the default, Mr T decided just to restart 
the monthly arrangement.
Mr T says that just because he didnt mention his concerns about the pandemic affecting his 
employment, doesnt mean his concerns werent real. I accept that Mr T was anxious about 
job security but given the significant impact a default was going to have on his credit file, I 
still think it wouldve been reasonable to expect him to say something more than he did at 
the time.
Mr T has given this service evidence of an investment in his name, but this doesnt show that 
he had cleared funds available to repay the outstanding balance. Although with the benefit of 
hindsight, Mr T says he wouldve paid the debt, I dont have enough evidence to conclude 
that this was the case at the time. And as Ive already said, Im satisfied that Mr T knew he 
owed the money and was told in writing and by phone that a default would be reported if he 
didnt repay the debt. 
I appreciate that Mr T says there were ambiguities over who he needed to contact about the 
debt. I should say that Im only able to consider Mr Ts complaint as it relates to NCOs 
management of the debt, including the reporting of the default on behalf of its client. If Mr T 
is unhappy with the communication he received from the business which owns the debt, he 
would have to raise that with the business first. 
However, Im not persuaded that any confusion Mr T may have felt about which business he 
should contact led to the default being applied to his account. This is because the account 
statements and correspondence gave NCOs contact details. Mr T contacted NCO in March 
2021 after receiving the letter about the debt. He was able to restart his payment 
arrangement and was told by NCO what would happen if he couldnt clear the outstanding 
balance in full. So, Mr T shouldve reasonably been aware of what he needed to do to avoid 
the default.
As I dont find that NCO made a mistake, I cant reasonably require it to remove the default.   
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman