DRN-3325494
The complaint
Mrs G complains about the handling of a credit limit decrease on her credit card with 
Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs G booked a trip abroad for her and her family. She paid the deposit of 
£884.28 on her Barclaycard at this time, and the outstanding balance of £1,627.16 in 
March 2020 by the same method. The trip was scheduled to take place in June 2020.
Unfortunately, due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the travel company, who Ill refer to as W, 
had to reschedule the trip for a year later, in June 2021. But they also altered the details of 
the trip, requesting that Mrs G and her family travel from a different train station to what had 
been originally chosen. This wasnt suitable for Mrs G, so she cancelled the trip and asked 
for a refund of the total amount. W confirmed that she would lose her deposit by cancelling. 
Mrs G wasnt happy about this and contacted Barclaycard in October 2020 to raise a 
chargeback for the deposit amount of £884.28. Barclaycard accepted the chargeback and 
put a credit on Mrs Gs statement for the deposit amount. The same month, Mrs G received 
the balance of £1,627.16 back onto her credit card from W. She transferred this amount to 
her current account the following day.
The day after Barclaycard applied the credit to Mrs Gs statement for the deposit, they wrote 
to her to tell her the credit limit on her card would be decreasing in a couple of days. They 
said it was being reduced from £3,500 to £2,900  although it was actually decreased to 
£3,100. When Mrs G received her next statement, dated 1 December 2020, she was just 
under her new credit limit, with an outstanding balance of £3,040.88.
While the chargeback was being looked into, W offered Mrs G a credit note for the value of 
her deposit, which she accepted. In mid-December 2020, Barclaycard wrote to Mrs G asking 
for some more information to proceed with the chargeback. As Mrs G didnt get in touch with 
them within ten days, Barclaycard assumed the matter had been resolved and re-debited the 
deposit amount of £884.28 from Mrs Gs credit card. This increased Mrs Gs balance on the 
card to £3,965.67 when she received her statement dated 4 January 2021.
Mrs G complained to Barclaycard. She said they shouldnt have decreased her credit limit 
while there was an amount in dispute, and their actions had impacted her credit file as it was 
now showing her borrowing was above its limit. She said that Barclaycard had initially told 
her that she would be able to transfer the chargeback credit to her current account, but shed 
been prevented from doing this in October 2020 when the credit had been applied. She also 
explained it had been a time of real hardship for her and family during the pandemic, as her 
husband had been furloughed with the potential threat of redundancy and they were having 
to home school their children.
Barclaycard responded to Mrs G. They accepted she had been given misinformation when 
she initially enquired about transferring out the chargeback credit, and they paid her £75 
compensation for that. They said that they wouldnt charge Mrs G any fees for being over 
her credit limit, and they agreed not to charge any interest on the full balance for four months 
to allow Mrs G the opportunity to reduce it to within the limit. Barclaycard did explain that, 
even if the credit limit hadnt been decreased when it had, the re-debit of the deposit amount 
would still have put Mrs G over her previous limit, albeit by a smaller amount. In relation to 
Mrs Gs credit file, Barclaycard said that they dont place markers on a credit file if an 
account limit is exceeded  they report the statement balance and the agreed credit limit 
only.
Mrs G remained unhappy and brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold it. She said she felt Barclaycard had dealt with the chargeback correctly. She 
accepted Mrs G had been given incorrect information but said Barclaycard had offered fair 
compensation for this. She also said that the credit limit decrease had been dealt with fairly 
and was a separate process to the chargeback. She said Barclaycard were able to reduce 
the credit limit as they had done. 
Mrs G didnt accept. She accepted the chargeback outcome but was still unhappy that her 
credit limit had been decreased at a time when a payment was in dispute. 
As Mrs G didnt agree, its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has explained to Mrs G that she feels the chargeback process itself has 
been followed correctly by Barclaycard in this case, which Mrs G has accepted. So, all I 
need to decide is whether Im satisfied that Barclaycards decision to reduce Mrs Gs credit 
limit when they did was reasonable. And in this case, Im satisfied it was. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mrs Gs Barclaycard allow Barclaycard to reduce Mrs Gs credit 
limit with a couple of days notice if they have concerns over how the account is being used. 
Barclaycard have provided their reasons to our service for reducing Mrs Gs credit limit in 
October 2020 and, having considered their reasons alongside Mrs Gs statements from the 
same time, Im satisfied Barclaycard acted reasonably. They were concerned that Mrs G had 
a high level of borrowing and was making very low, or minimum, payments to the account  
and this is borne out in Mrs Gs statements from around the time the credit limit was 
reduced. Within their correspondence to Mrs G at the time the credit limit was being 
reduced, Barclaycard explained why they were concerned, and that Mrs G could contact 
them or other organisations if she was struggling financially. This is what Id expect them to 
do, but Im not aware of Mrs G getting in touch to discuss their decision at that time. 
Mrs Gs main concern is that the credit limit was reduced at a time when she was disputing a 
payment through the chargeback process and theres always the possibility this amount 
would need to be re-debited, which would cause her to go above her new credit limit. I 
understand her point here, but I dont think she has done enough to try to mitigate any 
potential re-debiting of the chargeback amount. When Mrs G initially raised the chargeback 
and received the temporary credit onto her credit card account of £884.28, she also received 
the balance of the holiday back from the merchant, W, - this was for £1,627.16. Mrs G chose 
to transfer that amount from her credit card back into her current account immediately, which 
increased her balance on her credit card and reduced the amount of available credit. The 
reason for doing that is Mrs Gs, and Im aware shes confirmed it was a difficult time for her 
and family, but that decision to transfer those funds was a conscious one on her behalf and 
has, in part, led to the difficulties shes faced a couple of months later when the chargeback 
process was completed and the credit was taken back. Mrs G was always aware that the chargeback amount could be re-debited, so should have been aware of the impact removing 
£1,627.16 from the credit card account could have. 
When the chargeback process was completed and £884.28 was re-debited from Mrs Gs 
Barclaycard, it left her with an outstanding balance of £3,965.67 in December 2020. Prior to 
Mrs Gs credit limit reducing to £3,100 in October 2020, the limit had been £3,550. So, 
irrespective of the reduction of the credit limit by Barclaycard, Mrs G was always going to be 
in excess of the limit she had. I appreciate this would have been by a smaller amount had 
the credit limit not been reduced by Barclaycard, but Mrs G still wouldnt have been able to 
use the card until she had brought the balance back down to an acceptable level. And 
Barclaycard agreed not to charge any overlimit fees and agreed not to charge any interest 
on the total account balance for four months to allow Mrs G time to arrange to bring her 
account back into credit. Im satisfied that Barclaycard have dealt with Mrs Gs concerns 
fairly here and have acted reasonably to try and help Mrs G get back on an even keel with 
her credit card. Also, Im not persuaded that shes lost out financially due to her credit limit 
being reduced as her spending ability on the card would have been lost irrespective of the 
reduction in the credit limit. 
Mrs G is unhappy about the impact this has had on her credit file. Barclaycard have 
confirmed that they havent recorded any missed payments on Mrs Gs credit file. Theyve 
reported what the outstanding balance was and what the credit limit was each month. Mrs G 
has provided a snapshot of her credit file and this confirms no missed payments have been 
recorded by Barclaycard. Barclaycard have a responsibility to report Mrs Gs account history 
fairly and accurately to the credit reference agencies, and Im satisfied they have done. I 
wont be asking Barclaycard to anything more here. 
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs G, but overall, I think that Barclaycard have 
handled the reduction of her credit limit fairly. I wont be asking them to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Kevin Parmenter
Ombudsman