DRN-3624484
The complaint
Mr A and Mrs A have complained that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) 
unfairly declined a storm claim under their home insurance policy.
Mrs A dealt with the claim. So, for ease, I will normally only refer to Mrs A. Lloyds 
underwrites the policy, so I have referred to it throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs A contacted Lloyds to make a claim for storm damage when she saw that part of the 
roof guttering on her house had become detached. Lloyds declined the claim because it said 
there wasnt a storm around the time of the claim.
Mrs A complained to Lloyds. She said someone from Lloyds had phoned her and provided 
poor customer service. She was also concerned that it might have been this person who 
then declined the claim. When Lloyds replied, it agreed that the phone call hadnt been 
handled properly and it could understand why Mrs A wasnt happy about it. It offered £25 
compensation. However, it maintained its decision to decline the claim, as the damage 
wasnt covered by the policy.
So, Mrs A complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
it was reasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim as there wasnt evidence of a storm.
As Mrs A didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When we look at a storm claim complaint, there are three main issues we consider:
1.    do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
2.    is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Were only likely to uphold a complaint where the answer to all three questions is yes.
For the first question, Ive looked at weather reports for the period of a few weeks before Mrs 
A found the damage. Having done so, I didnt see any windspeeds which would be regarded 
as storm conditions. In the policy booklet, the minimum windspeed for a storm was 55mph, 
sometimes accompanied by rain. All of the windspeeds I saw were well below this speed. 
The rainfall was also low during this period. 
Im aware that Mrs A said she didnt know when the damage happened and that it might 
have taken a while for her to notice it. I looked at the weather over a few weeks and didnt 
see anything that would be considered a storm. So, I think the answer to the first question is 
no. As a result, I dont need to consider the other questions.
My understanding is that Mrs A had looked up at her roof and saw the broken guttering. She 
thought it might have been the result of a storm so contacted Lloyds. Lloyds checked and 
didnt find evidence of storm conditions. When Lloyds spoke to Mrs A about her complaint, it 
told her she could provide further evidence for the cause of damage if she wanted to do so. I 
think that was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mrs A was also concerned by a phone call she received from Lloyds. Lloyds reviewed the 
call and agreed it wasnt well-handled and that Mrs A would have been concerned about 
who was asking her to provide personal information and why. It offered £25 compensation. 
Having listened to the call, I think Lloyds response was reasonable 
So, having thought about all of the above, I dont uphold this complaint or require Lloyds to 
do anything further in relation to it.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman