DRN-1371063
 
The complaint
Miss D complains that TSB Bank plc didnt update her address properly, which led to delays 
in her receiving a new credit card.
What happened
In May 2019, Miss D phoned TSB to request a new card for her credit card account. 
However, her home address had changed so TSB said she would need to visit a branch to 
provide the information to update this, as she didnt have a personal security number to do 
this over the phone. 
Miss D recalls going to a branch with her new address details and requesting a new card, 
but she says this was sent to her previous address. She contacted TSB again about this and 
it agreed to pay her £100 for the inconvenience and £12 to cover her call costs. But Miss D 
still didn't receive a new card. She complained as she was left without a card until mid July 
during a time when she needed to use it to pay for her vets bill when her pet was unwell.  
TSB said that Miss Ds address had been updated on 3 June, and it didnt have any record 
to show she visited a branch before this date to change it. Her credit card was cancelled on 
28 May but a new card wasnt ordered at that time, as her address hadnt been updated. 
TSB had placed a block on her credit card account which wasnt removed until 18 June. So it 
said a card couldnt have been sent to Miss Ds previous address as the block was still in 
place at that time. A new card was ordered for Miss D on 2 July, but this couldn't be sent as 
her account needed to be reset. This happened a week later, and then Miss D received her 
card.
One of our investigators looked at the complaint and said that there was a note from when 
Miss D visited a branch on 3 June to change her address, but there was no record that she'd 
gone to a branch to do this before then. The investigator thought that, because the block had 
remained on Miss D's account, it was unlikely that a card wasnt sent to the wrong address. 
But, even if it had been, Miss D had said it had been returned to TSB by the new occupants 
of that property.
Miss D was unable to provide us with anything to show the vets bills that shed told us 
about. But investigator also looked at the available amount of credit on Miss Ds account at 
the time she didnt have her card, and thought it was unlikely that it wouldve been enough to 
cover the full cost of this.
However, the investigator thought TSB had delayed in sending Miss D a new card, and so 
she thought it should increase the compensation payment to £150 to recognise that Miss D 
was left without access to her credit card account. The investigator didnt think this should 
include the £12 of call costs, so she said TSB should pay a further £50, on top of the £100 it 
had already paid her.
TSB didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed. It 
said that it now didnt think Miss D shouldve been paid the original compensation of £100, as it couldnt show that Miss D had visited a branch to change her address when she'd said. 
So it felt this amount was sufficient to recognise the delay in Miss D receiving her card. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been sorry to hear that Miss Ds pet passed away. I can understand that this will have 
been an upsetting time for her, particularly if her circumstances were such at the time that 
she felt she needed to rely on her credit card to help her manage her finances.
Ive looked through the records that we have about the contact between Miss D and TSB 
about the new card. And Ive listened to the call recording from 21 May, when Miss D first 
phoned it to ask for a new card. 
Miss D recalls visiting a branch to change her address and asking for a new card to be 
ordered just after that call and I would expect to see some notes relating to that visit. But 
there aren't any such notes. It isn't until 3 June that the account notes show that a branch 
had verified her new address details.
I can see that Miss D called TSB again on 28 May. Her card was reported as lost at that 
time, and her account was blocked because her address hadnt yet been updated. And 
although a new card was ordered when her address was changed, it wasn't sent out as the 
block remained on her account. 
This block was eventually removed on 18 June but the account wasn't reset which would've 
allowed a new card to be issued. Miss D needed to contact TSB again a further two times 
before the new card was issued to her. 
TSB has paid Miss D £12 for her call costs and £100 to recognise what shed told it about 
the address not being updated; needing to visit the branch and a card being sent to her 
previous address. I appreciate the point TSB has made about there being no notes between 
21 and 28 June to indicate that she did visit a branch to change her address, and that the 
block placed on her account seems to indicate that a card couldnt have been sent to the 
wrong address. 
But overall I do think that Miss D was unnecessarily inconvenienced through the delays in 
receiving her card and the times she needed to contact TSB about this before she received 
her new card and could use it. There seem to have been a number of opportunities when the 
matter could've been resolved much earlier for her, if the account information had been fully 
updated to allow for a new card to be ordered. 
Miss D has told us about her particular circumstances, and why she felt she needed the use 
of her credit card facility at that time.  I think its likely to have been frustrating and worrying 
when she didnt receive the card after being told it would be ordered on more than one 
occasion.
Putting things right
Taking everything into account, I think that a total compensation of £150 would fairly 
recognise the upset and inconvenience Miss D was caused through the delay in her 
receiving her card. For clarity, this would mean an additional payment of £50 as I understand 
£100 has already been paid to her. I think the £12 TSB paid to cover Miss Ds call costs is 
sufficient in the circumstances.My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to pay Miss D a further 
£50 to recognise the upset and inconvenience she was caused through the delay in 
receiving a new credit card for her account. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman