DRN-3946105
The complaint
Miss E complains that a used car she acquired via a hire purchase agreement with 
MotoNovo Finance Limited had illegal number plates which has resulted in her being fined.
What happened
In August 2021 Miss E entered into a 5-year hire purchase agreement for a used car. The 
car was supplied with number plates which were of a 3D design.
In September 2021 Miss E was stopped by the police and issued with a fixed penalty ticket 
as it was found the cars front number plate had had stealth paint applied. This meant that 
one of the letters in the plate couldnt be read by an infrared camera. On receiving the ticket 
Miss E replaced the front number plate and complained to the dealer and then to MotoNovo. 
She said that the car been supplied with illegal number plates which were illegal.
MotoNovo arranged for the car to be independently inspected. The engineer reported that 
the front plate was now legal but the back plate, being a 3D design, was a stealth plate and 
was therefore defective and needed replacing. The engineer also examined the original front 
plate which had been stored in the boot and confirmed it was illegal. However, the engineer 
said that due to the length of time Miss E had had the car in her possession they didnt think 
the fault would have been present at the point of supply.
MotoNovo didnt uphold Miss Es complaint about the number plate. It said that the defective 
number plates would have picked up by the MOT which had been carried out both before 
and after Miss E had acquired the car. It said Miss E hadnt provided proof the plate on the 
car was the same one as when the car had been supplied to her by the selling dealer.
Miss E was unhappy at MotoNovos response and complained to this service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that her complaint was upheld. She said that she was 
satisfied on the evidence that had been provided that the number plates which had been 
supplied with the car had been legal. Our investigator also said that she thought it was likely 
that during an MOT the presence of stealth paint would have been picked up and so there 
wasnt evidence that supported the car had been supplied to Miss E with a defective number 
plate.
Miss E disagreed with the view of our investigator. She said she had wanted this service to 
look at other issues about the quality of the car and not just the number plate. Miss E also 
said that the independent engineers report was inaccurate and stealth paint, being invisible, 
was unlikely to be picked up during an MOT. Miss E also provided evidence that an MOT in 
November 2020 had been a failure as there had been an issue with the front number plate.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint was passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at this complaint I need to have regard to the relevant law and regulations, 
but I am not bound by them when I consider what is fair and reasonable.
As the hire purchase agreement entered into by Miss E is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. MotoNovo is also the 
supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about 
their quality.
Ive seen Miss E has asked that this service investigate other issues with the car and not 
just the number plates. However, while she has supplied photos to this service of the 
cars bodywork which she says is poor, I cant see that she has raised a complaint about 
that with MotoNovo. In order for me to be able to look at this, Miss E needs to have 
complained first to MotoNovo in order for it to have had the opportunity to investigate first. 
And while I appreciate Miss E has raised issues about a faulty seat belt, gearbox leak and 
the cambelt, this was when she first obtained the car. It isnt clear whether these issues 
were resolved, and a final letter sent to her by MotoNovo. If Miss E remains unhappy 
about those issues, then she should raise them with MotoNovo first to obtain a final that 
final view. 
So, as the final response letter from MotoNovo that has been provided to this service in 
relation to this complaint dealt only with the numberplate defect then that is the only 
matter I can consider.
It isnt disputed that the car was supplied to Miss E with 3D design number plates. Miss E 
has also supplied photos showing how the car was advertised and I can see the number 
plates letters were clearly 3D.
The supplying dealer has said these plates were legal at the time the car was supplied to 
Miss E but the law was changed in September 2021 and so it would have been Miss Es 
responsibility to change them. The independent engineer said that the 3D plates werent 
legal when they inspected the car as the 3D effect meant some of the letters or numbers 
couldnt be read when photographed. 
However, Miss E disagrees with the independent expert as she says that the police had 
only raised an issue with the front number plate, and this was because stealth paint had 
been applied. It was the paint that resulted in one of the letters being obscured when 
viewed under infra-red. She has also supplied a photo via an infra-red camera showing 
the gap in the number plate.
So, I think, looking at the evidence that there is some confusion about why these number 
plates may be defective. I asked the independent engineer to clarify why they had found 
the plates to be stealth, and they confirmed it was because they were 3D in design and 
had not been marked with the correct British Standard code to show they conformed with 
DVLA requirements. The engineer also said they didnt notice any obvious coating on the 
plates.
Ive seen that there has been a change of law as to what is legal in 3D plates and that a 
particular British Standard code is required to be stamped on these number plates to 
show they conform. However, looking at the photo taken by the independent engineer of the front plate that Miss E had removed and replaced with a standard number plate, I can 
see that it shows a British Standard mark. Ive also seen that this mark is the one which 
had required for the plate to have been considered legal prior to September 2021. I 
therefore think its more likely than not that both the front and back number plates, 
although being 3D, were legal at the cars point of supply to Miss E in August 2021.
Ive seen that the police had found that the front plate was illegal due to the presence of 
stealth plate rather than the 3D design, so I am satisfied it was this paint and not the 
design of the plates that made the front plate defective. Miss E says that this paint isnt 
obvious and had been applied before she got the car. She says that this isnt something 
that would have been picked up during an MOT and Ive seen the independent engineer 
didnt pick it up. But in regard to the independent engineer, Im not sure they were looking 
for it since they appear to have concentrated on the BS mark. They didnt, for instance, 
look at the number plates via an infrared camera.
Ive also seen that the MOT carried out in November 2020 had found a fault with the front 
number plate as it was illegible. As the car passed its subsequent MOTs, I think its 
likely this fault was rectified. I dont know whether the problem with the front plate at that 
time was due to stealth paint or something else, but as an issue with the number plates 
was picked up during an MOT, I think it more likely than not that the presence of this paint 
would have been noticed when the car undertook its MOT inspection prior to Miss E 
acquiring it.
I also think its fair to take into account the length of time Miss E has had the car (around 
15 months) and the number of miles she has driven before being stopped by the police in 
September 2022. So, while I appreciate this will be of disappointment to Miss E, looking 
at the evidence, I dont think I have enough to be able to reasonably say that the stealth 
paint was added before Miss E acquired the car. 
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding her complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding Miss Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss E to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman