DRN-2296072
The complaint
Mr S complains that he was unable to access his online banking app with The Co-operative 
Bank Plc (Co-op Bank) between December 2018 and June 2019. This was due to an IT 
issue and caused him a lot of inconvenience. Mr S wants Co-op Bank to pay him for the 
inconvenience caused.    
What happened
Mr S found he was unable to access his Co-op banking app in December 2018 following an 
app upgrade. He contacted Co-op Bank and asked them to look into it. 
The app was not allowing Mr S access, saying that his password was incorrect. Every time 
he went in and reset his password it would send him in a loop, and he could not get past the 
log in page. 
Each time Mr S contacted the Co-op Bank by telephone, they would reset the account and 
he could access it, but as soon as he logged out he would be unable to log in again. 
Mr S made a large number of calls to Co-op about this, and two formal complaints. 
The first complaint was made in December 2018 and was closed as upheld. Mr S was paid 
£100 compensation for inconvenience caused to him by not being able to access the app. 
As the issue did not resolve, Mr S made a further complaint on 8 March 2019 which was 
upheld in January 2020 and a further £200 payment was made. This complaint response 
dealt with the issues experienced by Mr S with his online banking, and also responded to the 
complaint of poor customer service in resolving the issue, including the banks failure to ring 
him back when they said they would. Mr S has come to us as he does not think that the 
payment offered is enough. 
Mr S told us that because of the issue with the app he has lost out on the purchase of a car 
in March 2019, and he has had to take out an American Express charge card to resolve the 
issue of being able to do transactions. The cost of that facility was £450. 
In respect of the car, Mr S told us he had a car accident in December 2018 and the car was 
written off. He needed to buy a new one, and paid £100 deposit by debit card for a car on 13 
March 2019. He needed to make an online transfer in the evening for the balance, but he 
could not do this because he could not access the app, and consequently lost the car to 
another buyer. Mr S then had to hire a car for a further 4 weeks until he found another car. 
Mr S has not provided us with any documents to support the loss of the purchase. 
The issue with the app was finally resolved in May 2019 when the Co op Bank provided Mr S 
with a new username and he was then able to access his account. 
One of our investigators has looked into Mr Ss complaint and has decided Co-ops offer of 
£200 was fair in the circumstances.  
Mr S disagreed with our investigators view, and so the case has come to me to review 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can fully appreciate the frustration Mr S experienced during the period from December 
2018  May 2019 in not being able to use the banking app. Many of us make extensive use 
of banking apps to more easily manage our finances. Having to make calls to the bank every 
time you need to access the app or make a transfer can be less convenient than an app, and 
I can understand the frustration that this would have caused.  
I also appreciate that the longstanding nature of this problem, and the repeated attempts to 
resolve it would have added to Mr Ss frustration. I have noted what Mr S says about not 
having the access just to check that payments have gone in and out as they should have 
and not having paper statements mean that he relied on online banking for this.  
However, I am equally conscious that although the app was not always available, Mr S still 
had full access to his accounts, including card payments, telephone banking, and could use 
cheques and withdraw cash. His access to funds was still possible, just a little more 
inconvenient.
I also note that as time went on with no resolution, Mr S should have been aware of the 
issue, and not relied on the app for his banking, using other methods to manage his money. 
I do think that the Co-op Bank could have done more to resolve this issue sooner. They were 
aware of the problem from December 2018 and taking six months to resolve the log on issue 
does seem unreasonable, given that it was eventually resolved by changing a username, 
which presumably could have been done much earlier. I think it is fair that Mr S receives a 
payment for the inconvenience caused between December 2018 and May 2019. 
In respect of the car payment, and the American Express card, I cant fairly say that the bank 
is responsible for the costs Mr S incurred. 
I consider that as Mr S was aware of the issues with his mobile banking app, it would not 
have been unreasonable for him to have explained the position to the car dealer, and 
thought about making the call to the bank sooner if securing the car was important to him, 
especially if he knew there was another buyer interested. 
With the American Express card, I am not convinced that taking out this card was the only 
option available to him. I cant see that Mr S discussed his situation with the Co op to see if 
they could offer him any other card facility, and as I have said above Mr S still had full 
banking and payment facilities available to him, just not through the app.   
I think that the inconvenience that Mr S suffered was the inability to reliably access online 
banking easily during the period December 2018 to May 2019 and the frustration of having 
to contact the Co-op Bank regularly to effect transactions and to find out what was 
happening with his complaint. 
For the reasons above I think that the service provided to Mr S by the Co-op Bank falls short 
of the customer service that should have been provided. The Co-op Bank accept that and 
have paid £200 in recognition in addition to the £100 they previously paid in December 2018.  
Having reviewed the complaint, Im satisfied that this offer is fair and reasonable.  
My final decision
The Co-operative Bank Plc have already paid the £200 to Mr S and so my decision is that 
they are not required to do anything further.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman