DRN-1979130
The complaint
A, a business partnership, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc did not tell it that a local 
branch was at risk of closure when it opened accounts.
What happened
A had existing accounts and facilities with a different financial business. It decided to switch 
to Clydesdale so it could still access a branch counter service locally. Its accounts were 
opened in March 2019, but in May 2019 it found out that the local branch it wanted to use 
was closing. A said that this was material information to its application and that it should 
have been disclosed when known. A said that it had paid for a valuation of its office building 
as security and had other legal costs. When it found out that the branch was closing it told 
Clydesdale that it wanted to abandon any services. It wants compensation for the costs it 
has incurred.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that the first 
forms for an account were completed on 19 December 2018 and the accounts were open on 
22 March 2019. On 8 May 2019 Clydesdale said it was closing both the local branch A had 
intended to use and five others on 22 August 2019. She said that Clydesdale only made the 
commercial decision to close the relevant branch near to A on 8 May 2019 and that branch 
staff would not have known about this in advance. It had committed to following the Access 
to Banking Standard and this meant that it should notify customers as soon as possible after 
a decision is made to close a branch and explain what that means and how banking services 
can continue to be accessed. It had done this and given 12 weeks notice here. She did not 
think it acted unreasonably.
A did not agree. It said that Access to Banking Standard was not relevant before the 
accounts were opened. And it referred to the Banking Code of Business Standards in the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. The risk that this branch would close was a material 
factor and it had made clear that its application was dependent on accessing services from 
this branch. Clydesdale must have had corporate knowledge of the decision to close it 
before 8 May 2019 and it wanted to know exactly when that was.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that in the final response Clydesdale states that I can confirm the applications to 
switch your account were submitted in February 2019 and we announced the branch 
closures on 8 May 2019. Therefore at the time of your application we were not aware this 
was happening. This is a statement on behalf of the corporate entity. While I understand As 
point that there must have been prior internal discussion and decision making, Im not 
persuaded that at the date of the deemed application here Clydesdale had made a firm 
decision to close this branch or that until it had done so it ought to have told A that it was 
considering this as that was commercially sensitive information. I also dont think it ought to 
have stopped accepting applications before a closure decision was made. It clearly has the 
commercial ability to decide which services to deliver and how to provide these and can 
make changes to those services with a period of notice. It has explained its reasons for this 
branch closure. That risk Im afraid was something inherent with the accounts.
It is not the case here that the application started or concluded within days or even a month 
of the decision to close being made. While I fully understand the particular consequences 
and costs here for A, I dont have a reasonable basis to find Clydesdale responsible for 
them. Unfortunately, it took a legitimate commercial decision to close the branch important to 
A. With that in mind I do think that the Access to Banking Standard principles are relevant 
to how that closure was dealt with. I do not consider that Clydesdale has departed from 
those based on what Ive seen.
I know the partners of A will be disappointed when I say that I wont be requiring Clydesdale 
to do anything further.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman