DRN-2982711
The complaint
Mr F and Ms M are complaining about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited
(LV) has handled a claim they made after they discovered a leak in their bathroom.  
What happened
In September 2020 Mr F and Ms M realised the floor in their bathroom was damaged and
wet underneath the tiles. They got a plumber out to look at it. The plumber reported that he
tightened the seals in the waste pipe beneath the bath, which had been leaking for some
time.
Mr F and Ms M contacted LV to make a claim for the damage the leak had caused, and LV
sent a contractor out to look at the room. The contractor had seen the room about six
months before and noted the sealant round the bath had been recently replaced. He said 
that on his earlier visit it had been clear the sealant was faulty, and he thought the damage 
likely hadnt changed. He arranged for the sealant and the waste pipe to be tested. The 
resultant report said the sealant still leaked a little but the pipe was dry.
LV said it wouldnt meet the claim. It said it had photos from about six months before Mr F
and Ms M made their claim, which showed that the sealant was in poor condition  and that
some of the floor tiles were cracked. It said it thought the damage was because of the faulty
sealant and not covered under the policy.
Mr F and Ms M got an independent report, which said the damage looked very much like
damage caused by a leaking waste pipe  and that the contractor was concerned about the
safety of the floor going forwards.
LV didnt change its stance on the claim, so Mr F and Ms M asked us to review their
complaint.
Our investigator looked at both reports and referred the one from Mr F and Ms M to LV,
asking if that would affect LVs conclusions. LV said it thought the second report reflected
what Mr F and Ms M had told the plumber. LV also said Mr F and Ms M hadnt taken steps to
prevent further damage to the room once they knew there was a problem earlier in the year.
The investigator thought this was reasonable, and didnt think the complaint should be
upheld.
Mr F and Ms M disagree, and say they never used the shower above this bath, so they dont
think that  even if the sealant did leak  this was the main cause of the damage. 
I issued my provisional thoughts on this complaint in July. In summary I said I thought LV 
hadnt been fair to Mr F and Ms M when it ignored the report they sent from an independent 
contractor saying the damage could have been caused by the faulty waste pipe. Nor did I 
think Mr F and Ms M hadnt done their best to limit damage caused by a possible source of 
water they knew about  which was leaking seals around the bath. Theyd done that by not 
using the shower attachment.
But I also said I couldnt say whether the damage to the floor was caused by the leaking 
waste pipe alone  or if it had also been previously damaged because of the leaking seals 
round the bath. So I didnt think either party had shown me what the main source of the 
damage was. 
This was important as damage caused because of leaky seals isnt covered by Mr F and Ms 
Ms policy  but damage caused by a leak from a pipe under the bath would be.
To resolve the situation I proposed LV pay for half the damage to the floor, but not the wall 
or bath panel. I said it could do that as it normally would by either completing the work and 
having Mr F and Ms M make a contribution  or make a cash settlement based on 
acceptable quotes provided by Mr F and Ms M. I did note the work might be more extensive 
than the surface damage suggested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LV has accepted my provisional decision.
Mr F and Ms M say they will accept my conclusions, although they have also said that if 
theyd been told about damage six months before they claimed (as LV maintained) theyd 
have done something about it. I appreciate that, but I did say in my provisional decision I 
didnt think LV could rely on the early comments, as they were made by someone on the 
premises for entirely different reasons. So that didnt influence my decision.
Other than this Mr F and s M havent provided any more evidence that would lead me to 
change my provisional decision.
Mr F and Ms M also say they want to complain about how LV treated them. If thats about 
how LV handled this claim  in that it didnt agree to settle it  then this decision is the 
resolution to that complaint and the final stage in our review process. If Mr M and Ms F have 
other issues they want to complain about, theyll need to take that up with LV.  
Putting things right
To put things right LV should settle the claim by paying for half the damage to the floor. It 
can do that by carrying out the work and asking Mr F and Ms M for a contribution (it should 
tell Mr F and Ms M what this is likely to be before work starts). Or Mr F and Ms M can get 
quotes for the work and LV can pay half the cost of an acceptable quote as settlement. If LV 
doesnt want to carry out the work  so only offers a cash settlement  then it will need to 
meet half the cost of the quote (or actual cost, whichever is higher, for the work required). In 
other words it cant limit a cash settlement to the amount it would pay as it might normally 
do.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited to meet the claim as described above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman