DRN-1679427
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Lifesearch Partners Limiteds actions led the provider of the life policy it 
had recommended to apply an arbitrary, discriminatory and unjustified increase to the 
premium and it should repay him the difference between the original quoted premium 
amount and the increased premium applied to his policy. 
What happened
In 2008 Mr O discussed taking out life cover with an adviser for Lifesearch. He then 
completed an application for a Level Term Assurance policy (LTA) that provided £250,000 of 
life cover over a term of 17 years at a premium of £25.
On receipt of the application the provider asked for a medical report, and on the basis of that 
report it offered to provide the cover Mr O wanted at a premium of £183. This was then 
discounted to £156 which Mr O accepted.
Lifesearch didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the adviser had warned Mr O before the 
application was sent that the provider was likely to increase the premium. It said that Mr O 
had decided to go ahead based on the increased premium and had ample opportunity to tell 
it that he didnt want to go ahead with the LTA given the information he was given both 
before and after the policy had started.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt uphold it as he didnt think 
Lifesearch had done anything wrong. In short he said:
Mr Os application for life cover was subject to further underwriting criteria of the 
policy provider before final terms were offered and the premium amount was 
finalised.
This was a requirement of the policy provider, not Lifesearch so he could not say it 
had done anything wrong.
The underwriting process is commercially undertaken by the provider and isnt 
something we have any authority over.
Mr O had a choice whether to pay the increased premium and couldve shopped 
around for a more competitive premium.
If the worst had happened and he had died the policy wouldve provided significant 
benefit to his family.
We cant assess issues of discrimination as this has to be something that is legally 
determined.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. In short he made the following points:
The investigator had excluded his complaint on discrimination and the dubiously 
inflated premium was clearly exploitative and extortionate.
The suggestion that he and his beneficiaries benefitted from the policy and that he 
couldve chosen not to accept the increased premium shows the investigator 
misunderstood the basis of his complaint.He didnt opt out of the increased premium because he was unaware it was 
discriminatory at the time and that it wasnt based on stated policy but was made up.
It cant be right to say it was a commercial decision as this means there is no fairness 
and no way of finding out what went on.
There is a need to compare his premium with what other people in his circumstances 
were charged to determine what happened.
As Mr O didnt agree with the investigator the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided - and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Os strength of feeling in this matter but I have to make my findings and 
decision on a balance of probabilities  what is more likely, than not  based on the evidence 
provided by the parties.
I think it is important to make clear that all I am looking at is the complaint against Lifesearch 
only and my findings relate to that complaint. The complaint Mr O has made about the policy 
provider is a separate complain. 
I have made this clear because Mr Os complaint is about the premium applied to his policy. 
This is something that the provider determines based on its underwriting criteria, which a 
broker such as Lifesearch has no input into. It would be very unlikely that Lifesearch couldve 
influenced the premium save by providing the wrong information in the application for life 
cover.
From the evidence I have seen I am satisfied that Lifesearch did what it shouldve done with 
regard to Mr Os application. This was completed by Lifesearch over the telephone with him 
and I have seen nothing in the application that appears to be inaccurate. 
The provider asked for a medical report because the application correctly identified that Mr O 
had been paralysed as a result of a car accident. The provider increased the premium to 
£183 having applied its underwriting criteria. The premium was then reduced to £156 
because the adviser contacted the provider asking for a new premium quote based on 
commission being sacrificed.
In summary I have seen no evidence that Lifesearch did anything wrong in relation to Mr Os 
application for life cover or that the premium he agreed to pay was higher than it shouldve 
been because it something wrong.
Mr O raised a number of issues in response to the investigators opinion which I will briefly 
comment on - although I think the issues he has raised relate mainly to the provider and not 
Lifesearch.
As I have said, the premium is a matter for the provider to determine, not Lifesearch. So any 
issue about the premium increase being arbitrary or discriminatory isnt relevant to the 
complaint against Lifesearch. 
I would comment however that the premium payable for life cover is based on the risk of 
having to pay out on the policy. Insurers assess that risk by reference to such things as age 
and health as well as other criteria. A disability is a relevant health consideration which can 
lead to the premium being increased. So the fact that someone with a disability may end up 
paying more by way of premium payments than someone without such a disability is not 
evidence that there has been discrimination.I agree that the fact Mr O and his family might benefit from the policy isnt relevant to his 
complaint, but this isnt something that I have taken into account in finding Lifesearch did 
nothing wrong.
I understand the point Mr O has made about businesses not being held to account if they 
can simply rely on what they do as being matters of commercial judgment. But it is not our 
role to hold businesses to account. Our role is to determine individual complaints made 
about a business and just because someone has complained about something doesnt 
necessarily mean this is something we are able to look into. 
There are various decisions by a business that can properly be considered as matters of 
reasonable commercial judgment which we generally will not comment on. How a premium 
is determined by an insurer for a life policy is one such decision. The premium will be 
determined by the particular underwriting criteria, costs and profit margins of each insurer 
which are not generally matters it is appropriate for us to comment on. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Philip Gibbons
Ombudsman