DRN-2653127
The complaint
Mr E complains about the delay in Great Lakes Insurance SE settling a claim under his 
travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr E had an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy which was underwritten by Great Lakes. 
The policy covered him from 6 November 2019 until 5 November 2019.
Mr E had booked a trip abroad between 3 and 19 April 2020. But before the trip was due to 
start, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel to 
the country in question due to Covid-19. So, Mr E cancelled his trip.
Mr E submitted his claim on 17 March 2020. Hed received refunds for most of the costs hed 
incurred from the providers, but he was claiming for the non-refundable costs totalling 
£541.68. These included all of the flights, as well as some train and accommodation costs.
Great Lakes responded on 6 April 2020 explaining the steps Mr E needed to take before 
making a claim. But Mr E responded to say hed already provided everything, so 
Great Lakes gave a more detailed list of what was missing on 8 June 2020.
Following this, Mr E confirmed that hed received a few more refunds. Great Lakes sent its 
final response to Mr E on 20 June 2020. It said that the policy only covered non-refundable 
costs. So, as Mr E had received credit vouchers from the airlines, these werent considered 
as non-refundable as per the terms of the policy.
But Great Lakes acknowledged that there had been some delays, so it agreed to settle the 
remaining claim of £391.45 as a gesture of goodwill. Mr E didnt think this was enough.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said that because Mr E had received credit 
vouchers from the airlines, these costs werent non-refundable as outlined by the terms of 
the policy. So, she didnt think Great Lakes needed to refund these costs to Mr E. But she 
noted that Great Lakes had paid the claim amount as a gesture of goodwill due to the delays 
in handling the claim. Overall, she thought Great Lakes had acted fairly and reasonably.
Mr E didnt agree. He said the fundamental issue was whether the flights qualified as non-
refundable. He didnt think they did  Mr E referred to a dictionary definition of a refund to be 
an amount of money that is given back to you. So, he didnt think the vouchers could be 
considered a refund. Mr E says he should be awarded compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience Great Lakes caused by delaying the resolution of his claim.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr Es complaint. 
Under the cancellation cover on Mr Es policy, the relevant term says the following:
What IS covered:
1. Unused non-refundable pre-booked travel and accommodation expenses which you 
have paid or are contracted to pay []
As Mr E says, the issue in dispute here is whether or not the credit vouchers he was offered 
by the airlines can be considered as non-refundable. Ive thought about what Mr E has said 
about the definition of a refund. But I dont think Great Lakes has acted unreasonably here. 
I dont think Great Lakes acted unreasonably by considering that these costs werent non-
refundable. This is because Mr E is able to use the credit to buy new flights. Based on the 
evidence Ive seen, at least one of the vouchers was valid for 365 days. I cant see an expiry 
date on the other voucher  it just says Mr E is able to use the value of the unused ticket 
toward a future trip. 
So, I dont think the terms of the vouchers were so restrictive and that it would be unfair or 
unreasonable for Great Lakes to expect Mr E to accept them. If Mr E remains unhappy with 
the offer of vouchers, or with the terms of the vouchers, hed need to take that up with the 
airlines concerned. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Great Lakes to conclude that 
Mr E had recovered his costs. 
Ultimately, Mr E says that Great Lakes shouldve paid all of these costs earlier. And because 
it didnt, it should pay him compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the 
delay, as well as interest. But as Ive explained above, I dont think Great Lakes needed to 
pay Mr Es claim when it did. So, while I think Great Lakes couldve responded to Mr Es 
correspondence sooner, I think settling the claim when it did, and in the way it did, is a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the complaint. I dont think theres anything else Great Lakes 
needs to do, to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2021.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman