The complaint
Ms W complains about the way her car insurance claim was handled by UK Insurance Ltd
trading as Churchill.
What happened
Ms W was involved in an accident with another driver, so she contacted Churchill to claim 
on her policy. She said the other driver turned into her car while she was driving down a 
road, and the other driver admitted liability at the scene of the accident.
Churchill took details of the accident and told Ms W that the garage would be in touch to
arrange the collection of her car - Ms W says this didnt happen. She also complains that 
she was told that she wouldnt need to pay an excess, as this would be waived - and it took 
22 days for her car to be collected by the garage.
Churchill looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. It found there were elements of its
service that could have been handled better, and it offered £50 to compensate Ms W. It 
went on to say that it never told Ms W that she didn't need to pay an excess, it told her the 
excess may be able to be waived once liability had been settled. It also said the delay in 
collection of the car was caused by Ms W - as she told the garage to put the claim on hold.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and thought it should be upheld. 
She recommended that the level of compensation should be increased to £200 due to the 
poor claim handling Churchill provided. She found Ms W took time off work and had to 
chase Churchill a number of times to move the claim along. She also found that Ms W was 
given different information on the claims process by each person she spoke to.
As Churchill didn't agree that the compensation amount should be increased, the 
complaints been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on 01 October 2019. This is what I said  
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Based on the information Ive seen from 
both parties, I currently intend to uphold this complaint, but award a lower amount than the 
investigator. Ill explain why -
Having listened to the first call made by Ms W when she reported the claim, Im satisfied that 
the advisor made her aware that the excess would still be payable at this stage. He told Ms 
DRN-1210962W that until liability is settled, the excess would still apply. Ms W says she wasnt asked 
to pay it at this point. Churchill have confirmed that the excess is payable once the repairs 
are completed - so I wouldnt have expected payment to be discussed during this call.
Ms W says she took two days off work to wait for collection of the car. At the point she took
the time off, I cant see that the garage had confirmed the day they would collect the car. I
understand the advisor at Churchill told Ms W that it would be within 24hrs, but Ms W still
had to make contact to arrange this. Although Ms W did try to call the garage albeit
unsuccessfully, I dont find Churchill at fault for the time she took off of work, as she hadnt
had conformation the car would be collected. Ms W also took delivery of the hire car during
this time.
Ms W then called Churchill again after speaking to the garage. In this call she is again told
that the excess could be waived, but only once liability is settled. I understand when Ms W
spoke to the garage, she says she was told that the garage wouldnt take the car until the
excess is waived. I can see why at this point there may have been some confusion. Ms W
didn't want to pay the excess and the garage needed a payment made if the car was
repaired before liability had been established. As Ms W didnt want to make a payment, I 
can understand why the car wasnt collected  and the garage directed her back to Churchill.
On the second call, the advisor told Ms W that they would call the garage to get to the
bottom of the collection and excess issue. Churchill said it called, but couldnt get through,
so sent an email. The advisor didnt follow this up. Although this was poor customer service
on the part of the advisor, if they had have spoken to the garage Im not convinced it would
have changed the course of events. Ms W was still unwilling to make the payment and
Churchill was unwilling to waive the excess  and the garage were unwilling to start repairs
without this. For that reason that Im satisfied the £50 offered by Churchill compensates Ms
W for the fact she didnt hear back from the garage or Churchill.
Once liability established and the excess waived, the car was collected by the garage and
taken in for repair.
In summary I havent found that Ms W was told that the excess would be waived before
liability was established and I wont be making an additional award for the delays in
collection and repair of the car.
Responses to provisional decision
Churchill accepted my provisional decision.
Ms W responded but didn't have anything to add. 
My findings 
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint, I see no reason to depart from my 
provisional findings. 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct UK Insurance Limited trading as 
Churchill to pay Ms W £50 trouble and upset payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2019.Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman