DRN-3537702
The complaint
Miss O complains about delays Vanguard Asset Management Ltd caused while dealing with 
her stocks and shares ISA transfer causing her a financial loss.
What happened
Miss O says she submitted an ISA transfer form to her previous ISA provider in October 
2020. She says she specifically asked for transfer of her stocks and shares and not her 
Lifetime ISA. She said she was told to transfer her stocks and shares to cash in order to 
speed up the transfer to Vanguard and did this so the cash was ready to be transferred. She 
says she repeatedly informed Vanguard that only the stocks and shares part of the ISA 
would be transferred and not the Lifetime ISA.
She says, Vanguard treated her request as a transfer of both her ISAs instead of just the 
stocks and shares ISA. She says this came to light when she called for an update and has 
had to repeat the request numerous times. She says she was informed the transfer would 
take 15-30 business days which would mean the transfer should have been completed 
between 19 November and 10 December 2020. However, in mid-November she was told 
Vanguard were still waiting for identification documentation which she says had already 
been sent a week prior. Her ISA transfer was rejected on 22 November 2020 and she was 
told her previous provider informed them she no longer wished to proceed with the transfer.
She says she gave no such instruction so her ISA transfer request was resubmitted on 3 
December 2020 and was told this would take 10-14 working days to complete so would have 
completed by 29th December 2020. 
This delay meant the transfer didnt complete until 19 January 2021 after payment was 
received from the previous provider - around 56 working days later. Because of the time it 
took to arrange the transfer, Miss O says she was unable to invest her money as planned 
and lost out on trading opportunities. To put things right, she would like Vanguard to pay her 
anticipated losses which she calculates to be between £555 and £1300.
She complained to Vanguard in January 2021. They said there is no way to be sure what 
investments Miss O would have made so could not say she had actually suffered a loss.  
They accepted the delays theyd caused and the incorrect information theyd given her so 
offered her £300 in compensation. She felt this didnt adequately resolve her complaint, so 
asked us to consider this. 
An investigator at this service considered the complaint and said she couldnt say for sure 
that Miss O had suffered a loss as a result of the delays. The investigator agreed with 
Vanguard that Miss O should be compensated for the delays, but as no financial loss has 
been incurred, this part shouldnt be upheld. She agreed that Vanguards offer of £300 
compensation was fair and didnt think they had to do more.
Miss O didnt agree with the investigators findings and so this has come to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
Both parties accept delays occurred in transferring the ISA from the previous provider and 
that Vanguard are responsible for these delays. It is also accepted that Vanguard gave 
Miss O incorrect information in relation to the previous provider withdrawing the transfer 
request. These points are not in dispute by Vanguard.
What hasnt been established is whether Miss O incurred a financial loss as a result of the 
delays. Vanguard say she hasnt actually suffered a loss, she claims for loss of trading 
opportunity, but they could not say for sure where Miss O would have invested the funds, 
if at all. They dont believe they should have to pay additional compensation to Miss O 
when she hasnt suffered an actual loss.
I agree with Vanguard. From the evidence Ive seen, Miss O hasnt told them that she was 
looking to invest her money in a particular trade or was subject to a specific deadline for 
investing. This isnt mentioned in any phone call or email communication and I think any 
comment on what she would have invested in is purely speculative with the benefit of 
hindsight. Given the importance she places on the need to have the transfer completed on 
time, I would expect the urgency of this would have been mentioned at some point but that 
hasnt happened here. So, this leads me to conclude Miss O wasnt clear on what she was 
going to invest in, if at all. Im also not persuaded that she has in fact suffered any loss as 
a result of the delays and wont be asking Vanguard to compensate this element of her 
complaint.
Putting things right
I appreciate the whole experience would have been particularly stressful for Miss O 
particularly due to the delays she encountered. However, I have looked at what has 
happened between both parties and agree with the resolution Vanguard have suggested  to 
pay Miss O £300 in compensation. I think this amount is in line with the kind of 
compensation we would expect a business to pay for the delays that have been caused 
here. I know she will be disappointed with my decision, but I cant fairly say that they should 
pay more as Miss O hasnt actually suffered any financial loss as a result of their actions.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint against Vanguard Asset Management 
Ltd. They should pay Miss O £300, if this hasnt been paid already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 July 2022.
 
Naima Abdul-Rasool
Ombudsman