DRN-2869452
The complaint
Mrs P complains about the way Clydesdale Financial Services Limited (trading as Barclays 
Partner Finance) handled the finance arrangements relating to a kitchen she bought, and 
with the way it responded to her claim in breach of contract.
Mrs P is represented in her complaint by her husband Mr P. For ease of reading, Ive 
referred to any submissions Mr P has made as being from Mrs P.
What happened
Mrs P bought a kitchen from a third party, W, who undertook to supply and fit it. Although I 
understand Mrs P initially intended to pay in full for the kitchen, she ended up taking finance 
through Barclays Partner Finance, which W arranged for her. The finance arrangement 
included a 12-month interest-free period. That meant that if Mrs P repaid the loan within that 
time, she wouldnt incur interest.
Mrs P says she understood the money would be released only once she was satisfied the 
kitchen had been supplied and installed to her satisfaction. However, the loan began a 
couple of months later, despite Mrs P citing various problems with the kitchen.
She complained to Barclays Partner Finance about its release of the loan funds to W. 
Barclays Partner Finance responded to that matter in August 2018. It referenced the loan 
terms, saying that it had acted in line with the agreement between the parties when it 
released the money.
Mrs P continued to express her dissatisfaction with the kitchen fitting. She was also unhappy 
with the colour and condition of the worktops and with the kitchen units, all of which she 
highlighted to W and Barclays Partner Finance. Matters were referred to the Furniture 
Ombudsman, who arranged for an inspection.
This dispute went on for some considerable time, such that the interest-free period had 
almost passed. Mrs P remained unhappy that Barclays Partner Finance had released the 
loan funds to W, and she was still unhappy with the kitchen. She continued to express her 
concerns to the lender, copying it in to her ongoing correspondence with W. She says 
Barclays Partner Finance failed to reply to emails and requests for meetings, and that it 
wouldnt stop calling seeking repayment.
In response to this further correspondence, Barclays Partner Finance issued a separate 
reply in April 2019. It said it wasnt willing to put the loan on hold, though it acknowledged 
this was different from what it had told Mrs P a few weeks previously and offered a small 
compensation payment for this.
In relation to the loan activation, Barclays Partner Finance referred Mrs P to its August 2018 
response and said its position remained the same. It said the claim in relation to the quality 
of the kitchen was still under investigation.
our initial assessment
Our investigator didnt think she could deal with the part of Mrs Ps complaint relating to the 
release of the loan money. She found that that matter had been referred to us outside the 
time limits in our rules. Barclays Partner Finance had issued its final response on that aspect 
in August 2018, giving Mrs P six months to bring her complaint to us if she was still unhappy. 
However, Mrs P hadnt contacted us about that matter within that timescale.
The investigator did think she could consider the other complaint aspects not addressed in 
that final response letter. They had been referred in time. The investigator considered the 
actions Barclays Partner Finance was taking to seek repayment reasonable. She said 
Barclays Partner Finance had initially informed Mrs P by email when the interest-free period 
would come to an end and payments would be due. And it had sent Mrs P text messages 
about this shortly before the end of the period in February and March 2019, as well as it 
being included in the complaint discussions between the parties during March 2019. The 
investigator was satisfied Mrs P was aware of when payments and interest would become 
due.
She was also satisfied that once the loan became payable, Barclays Partner Finance were 
acting within the terms and conditions of the agreement to ask for and expect payment. And 
when this wasn't received, it was entitled to send arrears letters and report the account 
status on Mrs Ps credit file. As Mrs Ps section 75 claim for breach of contract was ongoing 
when Barclays Partner Finance issued its complaint response in April 2019, the outcome 
was not covered by the complaint made at that time. However, in the course of dealing with 
this complaint W and Mrs P agreed an amount in settlement of the breach of contract issue.
Mrs P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. She asked for this review, as she is 
entitled to do under our rules. In doing so she maintained her original objections, saying in 
summary:
the loan should not have been advanced to W until she was completely satisfied with 
the kitchen. So the interest-free period should not have started until then. Barclays 
Partner Finances actions in releasing the funds had adversely affected her 
negotiating position
because the loan should not have become due for repayment when it did, Barclays 
Partner Finance had unfairly made threatening phone calls and payment demands, 
and damaged her credit status by reporting missed payment data on her credit file
Barclays Partner Finance should be heavily penalised, to set an example. It should 
also pay compensation, damages and costs for time spent dealing with matters. That 
would be far more than the loan balance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs P have made extensive submissions in support of their position and set out in 
some detail what they are seeking as resolution to the different strands of the complaint. I 
would like to extend my thanks to Mr P for the summaries he has provided, which offer 
additional clarity around the key points. Although Ive read and considered the submissions 
in full, for reasons of brevity Ive distilled the key concerns into the following issues, which Ill 
address under separate sub-headings:
the loan activation and Barclays Partner Finances release of funds to WMrs Ps section 75 claim in breach of contract
how Barclays Partner Finance dealt with that claim
whether Barclays Partner Finance otherwise dealt with Mrs P unfairly in respect of 
the finance agreement
whether I consider it necessary to direct Barclays Partner Finance to provide Mrs P 
with specified documents
the loan activation and Barclays Partner Finances release of funds to W
Its clear from the complaint correspondence that Mr and Mrs P have attached significant 
weight to their belief that Barclays Partner Finance shouldnt have released the loan funds to 
W until they were completely satisfied with the kitchen and installation. Im in no doubt that 
they consider this an essential part of their overall complaint. But before I can express an 
opinion on that matter, I have to be sure I have the power to do so.
Our investigator thought we couldnt deal with this aspect, concluding that while Mrs P had 
raised the matter of the loan activation with Barclays Partner Finance, the lender had issued 
its final response addressing the concern on 21 August 2018 and Mrs P hadnt referred the 
matter to us within six months of that date, as required by our rules. I appreciate from what 
theyve said that Mr and Mrs P will be disappointed to learn that, having regard for those 
rules (which can be found in section DISP 2.8.2 of the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook), I take the same view.
Although the loan activation continued to be a point of contention from Mr and Mrs Ps 
perspective, they had the opportunity to refer the issue to us and didnt do so within the 
specified timescale. The first contact we received was in June 2019. Theres nothing to 
suggest there were exceptional circumstances at play that explain why they didnt contact 
us. The point Mr and Mrs P make in their submissions about whether they should have been 
referred in 2018 to us rather than the Furniture Ombudsman has no material bearing on this 
aspect. The appropriate referral rights to our service were included in Barclays Partner 
Finances 21 August 2018 letter. Further, its evident from the chain of correspondence that 
Mr and Mrs P were in ongoing contact with both Barclays Partner Finance and W during the 
material period.
With this in mind, I have to conclude that I cant deal with the issue of Mrs Ps dissatisfaction 
with Barclays Partner Finances release of the loan funds to W. It was not referred to us 
within the time limits set out in our rules.
Mrs Ps claim in breach of contract
BPF gave Mrs P a loan to pay for her contract with W. The loan in question is regulated by 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA1974). Of potential relevance to Mrs Ps complaint are 
the provisions the CCA1974 contains detailing the lenders responsibilities in relation to the 
actions of a third party supplier of goods or services.
Section 75 of the CCA1974 deals with this point. One effect of section 75 is that, where an 
individual buys goods from a supplier using credit provided under pre-existing arrangements 
between the lender and the supplier, that individual can bring a claim for breach of contract 
or misrepresentation against the lender in the same way she could against the supplier. The 
supplier here was W; Barclays Partner Finance was the lender. Mrs P made a claim for 
breach of contract against W. She potentially has the same claim against Barclays Partner 
Finance.The passage of time means that since Mrs P made her complaint, a number of events have 
occurred that affect the underlying claim. Most notable is that she has accepted an offer W 
made in settlement of that claim. While Mrs P has said this demonstrates she was right all 
along in respect of her argument against Barclays Partner Finance, the way in which section 
75 operates means her acceptance brings to an end pursuing that same claim against the 
lender. Having agreed to settle the claim with the supplier, Mrs P cannot expect to obtain 
redress from Barclays Partner Finance for the same issue. The settlement would 
undoubtedly affect Barclays Partner Finances right to recover from W, which forms a key 
part of section 75.
That doesnt mean Mrs Ps entire complaint falls away. The matter of the way in which 
Barclays Partner Finance responded to Mrs Ps claim has not been addressed in the 
settlement with W, and was not covered by the lenders 21 August 2018 letter. Neither was 
Mrs Ps dissatisfaction that Barclays Partner Finance sought repayment and went on to 
record adverse data on her credit file when the account went into arrears. So Ive gone on to 
consider what, if anything, I think Barclays Partner Finance needs to do to address those 
issues.
How did Barclays Partner Finance deal with Mrs Ps section 75 claim?
Barclays Partner Finance appears to have acknowledged the claim to a point, but it fell short 
of stating a formal position on its potential liability for the whole of the breach of contract 
claim. I can understand the frustration Mr and Mrs P felt at the lenders approach, and with 
its contention that the contract was for supply only, rather than supply and fitting. Im also 
conscious that in the course of their claim the problems they cited with the kitchen became 
the subject of an ongoing investigation by the Furniture Ombudsman due to their dispute 
with W. Part of the Furniture Ombudsmans approach involves an inspection and 
independent opinion on the quality of the goods and fitting.
So in such circumstances I can also understand why Barclays Partner Finance took the view 
that it would be prudent to see what the Furniture Ombudsman had to say about the kitchen 
and installation. It wasnt the only way to establish any faults, but it was in my view a 
legitimate approach for the lender to take. The lender could have taken a different approach 
to the initial issue raised about damage to the worktops, but given the way in which further 
concerns emerged, I can see the wisdom in taking an holistic approach to the overall claim.
In broad terms, Im not persuaded that Barclays Partner Finance dealt with Mrs Ps section 
75 claim inappropriately. The lender acknowledged Mrs Ps right to bring the claim and took 
reasonable steps in seeking the outcome of an independent inspection and report. It 
engaged in ongoing correspondence with Mr and Mrs P in respect of the claim. The fact that 
W subsequently made a settlement proposal in response to a claim over the same issues 
doesnt amount to persuasive evidence that Barclays Partner Finance wrongly handled the 
claim made against it.
Could Barclays Partner Finance have done some things better than it did? Quite possibly. It 
appears to accept this, given it has made some modest payments to Mrs P as gestures of 
goodwill. However, I dont think this is a sound basis for concluding that Barclays Partner 
Finance was wrong on all counts, and I dont consider it necessary for the lender to pay 
further compensation, notwithstanding the amount of correspondence that has taken place in 
relation to the claim.
Did Barclays Partner Finance act unfairly in seeking repayment of the loan?
I now turn to the issue of whether Barclays Partner Finance acted unfairly in asking Mrs P to 
repay the loan. Although Ive already explained why I cant deal with what Mrs P says about the funds being paid to W earlier than she thinks they should have been, I am able to make 
findings of fact that inform those aspects of the complaint I can address.
Noting Mr and Mrs Ps comments about whether the agreement bears a digital signature, I 
find the available evidence persuasive that Mrs P entered into the loan agreement, that the 
agreement supplied contained the terms and conditions of the loan, and that the loan 
account began with the release of funds on 22 March 2018. That release triggered the buy 
now, pay later terms of the loan under which Mrs P was due to commence payments 12 
months after the funds were released; that is, from 22 March 2019.
Barclays Partner Finance has provided records showing it kept Mrs P informed about the 
point at which payments would become due and interest would be applied to the loan 
balance. The two-way correspondence between the parties leaves me in little doubt that Mr 
and Mrs P were aware that Barclays Partner Finance was expecting payments to be made, 
or that Mr and Mrs P disagreed with that stance.
I recognise, of course, why they felt  and continue to feel  that they shouldnt have to make 
payment until they were fully satisfied with the kitchen. But that is not the nature of Mrs Ps 
agreement with Barclays Partner Finance, and I dont consider the circumstances sufficient 
for me to say the lender should be prevented from holding her to the loan agreement.
It follows that I dont agree that Barclays Partner Finance was wrong to contact Mrs P for 
repayment, or to record arrears or other adverse credit information on Mrs Ps credit file. I 
dont consider the lenders correspondence to have been threatening. It set out that payment 
was expected, and the likely consequences if payment wasnt made. The payments were 
properly due and expected in line with what the parties had agreed, and were not made in 
accordance with that agreement. But Mrs P is entitled to place a Notice of Correction on her 
credit file explaining the reasons for the missed payments, should she so wish.
Does Barclays Partner Finance need to provide Mrs P with documents specified by Mr P in 
the complaint correspondence?
In submissions Mr P has made to us on Mrs Ps behalf  notably, point 36 of his submission 
dated 24 May 2021  he has said that he thinks it necessary that Barclays Partner Finance 
provides him (and me) with a number of specific documents and letters. I should be clear 
that it is for me to determine what information I think I might need in order to review and 
decide how to resolve a complaint. In doing so, Im satisfied the evidence on file and 
obtained by our investigator in the course of dealing with the complaint enables me to make 
my determination. I do not, therefore, consider it necessary in order to reach a fair resolution 
to direct Barclays Partner Finance to comply with Mr Ps request.
My final decision
I dont doubt Mr and Mrs Ps sincerity in making the claim or in bringing this complaint to us. 
They clearly feel aggrieved at the situation and I can only imagine the level of frustration and 
annoyance they have felt in dealing with matters over a significant period of time, and of 
course their disappointment that the kitchen didnt meet their expectations. But I cant award 
compensation merely because of those things. I can only properly do so if I think the actions 
of Barclays Partner Finance were such that they should fairly be held responsible.
For the reasons Ive set out here, Im not minded to find that would be a fair conclusion for 
me to reach. So, in respect of those aspects that fall within my power to deal with, my final 
decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman