DRN-3568992
The complaint
Mr L complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him unsuitable investment advice. He says 
he was advised to invest too much in one product, that he wasnt left with a suitable cash 
reserve, and that he was exposed to too much risk.
The complaint is brought on his behalf by a claims management company. For ease, I will 
refer to everything as if its been said by Mr L.
What happened
In April 2006, Mr L sought advice from Barclays. Hed not invested before and had savings 
of around £500. But hed recently inherited a Barclays portfolio valued at around £121,000, 
along with a house. He said he had no need for income and wanted to keep the portfolio 
investment as a nest egg. He was assessed as having a cautious attitude to risk.
Barclays recommended Mr L kept around 20% as a cash reserve and invested in a Barclays 
Investment Management Services (BIMS) cautious portfolio. Mr L decided he only needed a 
cash reserve of £10,000 and he invested the rest as Barclays had recommended.
From May 2007 to January 2013, Mr L made 15 withdrawals from the portfolio totalling 
£108,500. He withdrew the final balance of around £289 in January 2013 and closed the 
portfolio.
He says:
Too large a percentage of his available assets was invested.
The investment into a single fund didnt provide enough diversification.
The investment exposed him to too much risk when he was entirely dependent on the 
money for his future quality of life.
Barclays said it had advised Mr L to keep more as a cash reserve and that he told Barclays 
he didnt have any plans to access the money for at least five years. The portfolio was 
classed as cautious, was sufficiently diversified, and was weighted in favour of gilts and 
corporate bonds which was suitable for him as a novice investor. Barclays apologised for the 
delay in responding to his complaint and paid him £150 as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. She didnt think 
Barclays had done enough to make sure the recommendation was suitable or that Mr L was 
able to financially withstand investment risk. She couldnt conclude the advice Barclays gave 
met Mr Ls objectives, attitude to risk, or his ability to bear losses. She recommended 
Barclays compensate Mr L using the average rate from fixed rate bonds as a benchmark.
Barclays didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
Mr L was in a lower risk position after receiving its advice.
It wouldnt have made sense to keep over £100,000 in a savings account when he didnt 
have a need for the money.
The portfolio did exactly what he required it to do  it was diverse, easy to manage, and 
low risk.
Mr L must have known what sort of expenses he would incur in his new home.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I find I have come to the same conclusion as the investigator for the 
following reasons:
Mr L had no experience of investment and had minimal savings. His only income was his 
state pension. When he sought advice from Barclays, hed recently inherited a house and 
£121,000 which was already invested in a Barclays portfolio. So his financial position and 
circumstances had significantly changed. I can see he told Barclays he didnt tend to spend 
much and that he wanted to keep the investment as a nest egg.
He told Barclays his monthly outgoings were £383 and that he didnt have any planned 
expenditure. But he hadnt been living in the house for very long. And whilst Barclays 
recommendation letter says, we looked in depth at your outgoings, this isnt reflected in the 
notes taken at the time. In the years following the investment, Mr L withdrew money from the 
portfolio to meet his general living expenses, amongst other things. So it seems most likely 
that he hadnt given enough though to the cost reality of living in the house and how this 
would impact his regular expenditure. I think Barclays, as the expert in the relationship, 
should have reasonably realised Mr Ls circumstances had recently changed and how this 
might impact his monthly outgoings.
Barclays did recommend Mr L kept around £24,000 as a cash reserve. And I appreciate it 
was Mr L who decided this wasnt necessary and that he only needed £10,500. But theres 
not enough evidence to show Barclays considered Mr Ls new circumstances in enough 
detail to help him understand how much he might need for the running and upkeep of the 
house. 
Barclays says Mr L must have reasonably realised how much it would cost to run his home. 
But he had to withdraw money from the portfolio to meet his living expenses, and for home 
repairs, which suggests he didnt realise when he met with the advisor how much he would 
need to keep aside. And it was Barclays responsibility to bring this to his attention, bearing 
in mind his unexpected and recent change in circumstances.
Barclays recommended Mr L invested around £111,000 in its cautious portfolio. Whilst this 
was a lower risk than the existing portfolio hed inherited, this doesnt mean it made it a 
suitable recommendation.
Barclays told us that Mr L had been living comfortably before his inheritance and that hed 
received free money. I think this fails to understand Mr Ls circumstances had changed 
because hed also inherited a property which he decided to use as his home. He needed to 
understand the cost of running that new home to know whether he could continue to live 
comfortably in the future on his existing income, without the need to use the money held in the portfolio. The fact that hed inherited the portfolio doesnt mean he could afford to lose it. 
Whilst he was hoping it would provide him with a nest egg, in reality he needed it to fund 
his living costs in his new home.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr L 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I take the view that Mr L would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. And Im not suggesting he should, or would, have 
kept over £100,000 in a savings account for the long term. But I am satisfied that what 
I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr L's circumstances and objectives when 
he invested.
What must Barclays do?
To compensate Mr L fairly, Barclays must:
Compare the performance of Mr L's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Barclays should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
BIMC 
cautious 
portfolioNo longer in 
forceAverage rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Barclays 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.Any withdrawal from the Barclays should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Barclays totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr L wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr L's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr L would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Barclays Bank UK PLC should provide details of its calculation to Mr L in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman