DRN-4404187
The complaint
Mr F complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as LiveLend (LiveLend) wont write 
off a loan that he says was paid to him as the result of a scam. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
On 5 February 2022 LiveLend issued a loan in Mr Fs name. The loan was for £12,500 to be 
repaid over a 48 month term with monthly repayments of around £400. The loan was paid 
into an account in Mr Fs name with his bank B. Mr Fs bank statements show that the loan 
funds were paid away to what appears to be a cryptocurrency exchange. 
By 15 February 2022, Mr F says B had frozen his account as they were concerned about the 
activity. And following his conversation with B, he realised hed been the victim of a scam. 
When Mr F reported this to LiveLend he explained that hed been in contact with someone 
through social media. He said he didnt apply for the loan with LiveLend and that when he 
sent the loan funds from his account, he believed this was for a cryptocurrency investment. 
LiveLend investigated and in summary said they accepted Mr F had been the victim of a 
scam. And they accepted he hadnt entered into the loan agreement with them. So, they said 
they would remove all reference to the loan from Mr Fs credit file and remove any interest 
and charges from the loan amount, but they still intended to pursue him for the principal 
sum. They also offered £50 compensation for any distress caused by them sending a default 
notice (in error) to Mr F.
Mr F didnt accept this and referred his complaint to our service. He says hes been the 
victim of a scam and thinks the loan should be written off entirely. One of our Investigators 
didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought LiveLend had acted 
fairly in the circumstances and didnt recommend they needed to do more. 
Mr F still disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. I know this will be disappointing for Mr F, so Ill explain why. 
I think it would be helpful to firstly set out some things that are broadly agreed upon by both 
parties. Everyone agrees that Mr F has been the victim of a scam. It is accepted that Mr F 
himself didnt make the loan application (or have knowledge of it at the time) and that its 
most likely this was done by the scammer, with information theyd tricked Mr F into sharing. 
It is also agreed that LiveLend credited his account with B with £12,500 in February 2022 
and that this money was then paid out of that account by Mr F. 
Mr F had shared his details with the scammer, so when LiveLend processed the loan 
application, I dont think they reasonably could have known they werent dealing with the 
genuine Mr F at that time. 
In these circumstances I agree that it wouldnt be fair for LiveLend to hold Mr F to the terms 
of an agreement he didnt enter into. LiveLend removing interest, fees and charges and 
removing the loan from his credit file is what Id expect. So all that remains to be decided is 
what ought to be done in relation to the £12,500 that LiveLend paid to Mr F. 
As Ive mentioned, LiveLend did pay this money into Mr Fs account. So, I must decide if this 
is a case where the fair and reasonable outcome is for me to tell LiveLend that they cant 
pursue Mr F for this amount. I dont think it is, and Ill explain why. 
Ive seen a copy of Mr Fs bank statement when the loan funds arrived in his account. It 
appears as Received from LiveLend Loan alongside the amount and a reference number is 
provided. I dont think this is ambiguous and I think it would be clear to any reasonable 
person that these were funds paid into an account as a result of a loan. 
I also asked Mr F to share all the messages between him and the scammer and I also asked 
a number of further questions. Specifically, what was your understanding of the reason for 
the outgoing payments that spent the loan funds from LiveLend? What did the scammer tell 
you those payments were for? Also what had the scammer told you about the incoming 
payment (the loan funds)? What did you believe it to be for at the time? For example, did you 
think it was profits from the 'investment'? There is some mention in the messages we 
already have that the scammer 'trusted' you with that money. Please could you expand on 
this?
Mr F responded and said: This is no admission of responsibility, and I enclose as requested 
by you the details leading up to the transactions that I was advised were Crypto Trading 
Investments, but now know they are clearly not. I have not continued with this investment, 
nor have I gained or made a profit, all I have done is lost sleep and got stressed
Mr F also shared what he says are all the messages between him and the scammer. These 
dont really help to paint a clear picture of exactly what went on. I accept they are an 
incomplete record due to the nature of the social media platform used where messages 
delete themselves after a period of time. One of the messages which appears to be from 
Mr F to the scammer says: Sending allsorts of money to people it doesnt look good.. 
knowing that you no where I live etc it has to stop. You send me my £12,500 and ill send 
the £5,220 and thats it. Done. I dont think this sounds like a conversation about an 
investment. 
I think its most likely that Mr F knew (or reasonably ought to have known) that these funds 
most likely came from a loan. And I dont think its reasonable that he didnt take any further 
steps to confirm this, prior to sending them on, particularly as it was clearly identifiable as a 
loan from how it appeared on his account. 
In the absence of a reasonable explanation as to why Mr F believed the incoming funds 
were something other than a loan, I dont think this is a case where it would be fair and 
reasonable for me to prevent LiveLend from seeking to recover the money they paid into 
Mr Fs account. As such, Im not going to require them to do anything further to resolve this 
complaint. For completeness, I think the £50 compensation that LiveLend offered due to them sending 
Mr F a default notice by mistake is a fair way to put things right for that error. Whilst I 
understand Mr F is unhappy with LiveLend overall, Im not persuaded that particular mistake 
had such an impact that a greater amount should be paid. If Mr F hasnt already received 
this from LiveLend and would like to accept it, he should contact them to arrange this. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman