DRN-1622686
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays), who were trading at the time as 
Barclaycard, mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I explain why below. 
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this, many years later. I say 
this because Ive been given a copy of the application form Mrs H completed at the time. I 
can see that to get the PPI Mrs H had to tick a box for it. The box is ticked and Mrs H has 
signed the form which suggests her agreement to its contents. If Mrs H hadnt wanted the 
PPI she could have left the box unticked, as she did for the Barclaycard Card Protection. 
So, it seems most likely that Mrs H wanted this sort of cover and would have known she had 
a choice about taking the PPI out or not. 
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But she chose to take 
out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it seems she was eligible for the policy and it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover. And Ive considered 
that Mrs H told us she was entitled to no sick pay from her employer above statutory sick 
pay, and that she had only modest savings to rely on. This policy could have paid out for up 
to 12 months if Mrs H was too ill to work, or if Mrs H lost her job. So I think the policy would 
have been useful to her if something went wrong. 
So I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mrs H off taking 
out the cover. 
my final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so I do not 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint against Barclays Bank UK Plc. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman