DRN-4163971
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy that Montage Portfolio Management Ltd was no longer prepared to provide 
a Discretionary Fund Management (DFM) service for his self invested personal pension 
(SIPP). 
Mr Cs dealings were with Montage Wealth Management, a trading name of Montage 
Portfolio Management Ltd. For ease Ive just referred below to Montage. 
What happened
Mr C is a former employee of Montage. A SIPP with Carey Pensions was set up into which 
employer and employee pension contributions were paid. The SIPP application form was 
headed The Carey Pension Scheme Application for Clients who have not taken Professional 
Financial Advice. At section 7, dealing with investments, Montages details were inserted as 
the DFM whod be managing Mr Cs pension fund. The SIPP was held on an investment 
platform and invested in one of Montages model investment portfolios. When Mr Cs 
employment ended his SIPP remained with Carey, on the same platform and in the same 
portfolio with Montage remaining as the DFM. 
In January 2018 Montage sent Mr C a letter which included the following: 
We are moving all our Carey SIPPs for clients and employees away from Carey and 
therefore wanted to keep you informed of this change. As we do not provide financial 
planning advice on your pension we recommend that you seek financial advice for your 
pension with a view to moving away from Carey.
Mr C completed Careys transfer out form and sent it to Carey, requesting a transfer to a 
named SIPP provider. Carey emailed Mr C to say the form had been received but theyd had 
no confirmation from the new provider that a SIPP had been set up. Mr C sent Careys email 
to Montage, asking Montage to action it. Montage didnt reply. 
Mr C complained and Montage issued a final response letter on 22 June 2018. Montage 
said, amongst other things, if Mr C wanted to transfer his SIPP, hed need to take financial 
advice and have a recommendation to transfer which Montage hadnt provided as Mr C 
wasnt a client and hadnt been an employee for some time. Montage said its letter had been 
sent solely out of courtesy to let Mr C know that Careys fee structure was changing and he 
should take financial advice. Mr C didnt take any further action and his SIPP remained with 
Carey as before. 
Montage sent an email to Mr C on 17 March 2022 setting out the existing arrangements and 
charges. It said the SIPP was held on an investment platform and invested in Montages 
MPM investment portfolio. There was no wealth management charge but there was a DFM 
fee of 0.36% pa for the Montage portfolio, fund manager charges for the investments held 
and the platform providers fee of 0.25% pa, which were special terms, plus any fees 
charged by Carey for the SIPP.
 
The email went on to say, as Mr C was no longer an employee, Montage was unable to 
continue to offer the plan on the basis set out as it was unable to confirm its ongoing 
suitability. At the end of March 2022 Montage would remove the plan from its agency and 
delink the platform account from the model portfolio. That would stop the DFM fee and 
remove the Montage special terms with the platform provider. The funds currently held would 
remain in the platform providers account, without Montages DFM service, for Mr C to 
continue as he wished. He could take over the agency of the SIPP with his new employer or 
transfer the SIPP to another plan. 
In response Mr C said it wasnt fair to give him less than two weeks notice and when 
Montage had had several years to take such action. He also felt Montages reasons werent 
in keeping with their regulatory obligations to treat customers fairly. He didnt pay any advice 
fee and Montage wasnt under any obligation to assess suitability, which Mr C said was his 
responsibility and he was happy the product was suitable for his needs. He didnt want to 
move his SIPP given current market volatility and he didnt authorise Montage to take any of 
the actions set out in Montages email. 
Montage replied saying, amongst other things, that the email hadnt said Mr C must move 
his SIPP or the underlying investments. But Montage was no longer willing to provide a DFM 
service. Montage would delay the change until the end of April to give Mr C more notice. 
Montage didnt think wed be able to consider Mr Cs complaint.  
Mr C did however refer the matter to us. Amongst other things he said hed transferred an 
existing personal pension worth about £100,000 to the SIPP to consolidate his pension 
arrangements. After hed left his employment hed received a letter from Montage about 
some changes with his investments (I assume Mr C is referring here to Montages January 
2018 letter) and asking him to complete a form to continue with those changes. Despite 
returning the form and five chaser emails Montage didnt respond or make the changes 
requested. Mr C complained but Montage dismissed the complaint saying Mr C wasnt a 
client. Mr C didnt agree but chose not to take matters further. 
He later received Montages March 2022 email. He was unhappy with the tone and that he 
was only given two weeks notice to move his investments at a time of market volatility. He 
said his letter of complaint was ignored and he only got a response when he said he was 
referring the matter to this service. Mr C was unhappy with the tone and content of 
Montages further replies and which left him upset and distressed. He didnt think Montage 
was acting in line with the regulators rules and the Treating Customers Fairly (TCF) 
requirements. 
He wanted Montage to confirm he hadnt been disadvantaged over the last several years by 
any actions taken without his knowledge or instruction and, if he had been, reimburse his 
pension fund. He also wanted Montage to continue to manage his fund as before. He was 
happy to move to Montages standard charging basis and which would allow him to decide 
when and if to move his pension fund, given hed suffer charges of around 3% of his fund 
and when he had a limited time until retirement. 
Our investigator didnt agree with Montage that we couldnt investigate Mr Cs complaint. 
She said Mr C was a consumer and Montage had provided regulated services. But she 
didnt uphold the complaint. Her main points were:
The SIPP had been set up as part of Mr Cs employment with Montage. It benefitted 
from a reduced administration charge and there were special terms for the platform 
and DFM services. When Mr C had left his employment with Montage he was no 
longer entitled to the special terms and benefits but these had remained in place. 
In 2018 Montage had written to Mr C to let him know it was moving all clients and employees pensions away from the SIPP provider due to an increase in charges. 
Montage could make changes to the way in which it provides services so long as the 
consumer is informed. It isnt for this service to tell a business how to run its affairs. 
Mr Cs transfer to a new SIPP provider in 2018 wasnt completed. Hed asked 
Montage to complete the transfer on his behalf at the time. But Montage couldnt help 
as it needed Mr C to seek financial advice. Mr C hadnt followed through on the 
transfer and his SIPP remained under Montages DFM until 2022.
Although Mr C was no longer entitled to any employment benefits and, despite 
having said in 2018 that it would stop providing DFM services, Montage continued to 
provide such services and took a fee. Montage stopped taking the DFM fee and 
ceased managing the SIPP fund from April 2022. That wouldve given rise to a loss 
of expectation. But Mr C had continued to enjoy the benefit of reduced charges and 
special Montage terms which he wasnt entitled to after hed left his employment. It 
wasnt reasonable to ask Montage to reinstate the special terms and DFM services.
Two weeks notice wasnt sufficient time but, after Mr C had complained, Montage 
had agreed to give a further four weeks which was fair and reasonable. 
Mr C had said hed incur a large adviser fee if transferred his SIPP. He could 
authorise a SIPP transfer himself without financial advice. Although hed like 
Montage to continue managing his SIPP as it had done, the previous terms were a 
perk of Mr Cs employment with Montage. If he wanted Montage to provide DFM and 
other services, hed need to get in touch with Montage direct and enquire as a new 
client. 
Mr C didnt agree with the investigators view. Ive summarised Mr Cs main points: 
Montage had written to him in January 2018 informing him of a necessary move to a 
new SIPP provider due to lower charges being available. Within the letter Montage 
recommended that he move to the new SIPP provider. He accepted that 
recommendation and sent back the required completed forms. Montage had failed to 
move his SIPP to the new provider, despite his request and so his SIPP was left with 
the old provider incurring higher charges. 
Montage had dismissed his complaint saying that their letter just gave information, 
despite using wording that they were recommending that Mr C make the move. The 
investigators comment that Montage couldnt be held responsible for the higher 
charges on his SIPP because its a business decision ignores the fact that he is 
being subject to higher charges because Montage had failed to carry out his 
instruction to move to a lower charging SIPP. 
The investigator had said Montage hadnt completed the transfer because they 
required that Mr C seek financial advice before actioning his instruction. He didnt 
need financial advice before accepting a clear recommendation to act. Montage had 
provided advice in their January 2018 letter and hed accepted that. Montage treated 
him unfairly by not carrying out his instruction. Montage had all the required 
information and the completed forms to make the transfer but chose not to do so.  
Although it wasnt for us to dictate how a business runs its affairs, where a firm was 
treating customers unfairly, we had a duty to put things right. The investigator had 
found he was a client. The situation had arisen because he hadnt been treated as a 
client and so hed been treated unfairly. 
His complaint wasnt about charges. Hed never asked Montage to continue to offer 
the same level of service for the reduced fees he was entitled to as an employee and 
he was happy to pay the same fees and charges as any other customer would pay 
for the same level of service. He just wanted to be treated like any other client of 
Montage, to have his pension managed properly and not be disadvantaged because 
of Montages spurious determination that he isnt a client and as such doesnt 
deserve to be treated fairly and appropriately. 
Montage removed his funds from their management in April 2022 and left them languishing at the vagaries of the stock market and wed taken over a year to 
determine his complaint. Removing a customers funds from active management 
without offering an alternative charging structure wasnt fair treatment. It takes longer 
than a couple of weeks to transfer a SIPP to another provider. Saying he could do so 
without advice seemed like we actively encourage execution only transfers. And wed 
ignored his transfer of over £100,000 of his own personal pension monies into the 
SIPP when he was given advice but wasnt provided with a written record of that 
advice or a recommendation letter. 
The investigator responded to Mr Cs comments. But she didnt change her view. Amongst 
other things she said she hadnt seen anything to show that Montage had advised in 
connection with a transfer to the SIPP or about consolidating Mr Cs pension arrangements. 
She was satisfied Mr C had been treated fairly by Montage. Hed continued to enjoy 
preferential terms for Montages DFM services until April 2022. He was now paying higher 
charges for the SIPP because it had remained with Carey. But the SIPP hadnt been 
provided by Montage. The SIPP provider is a wholly separate entity to Montage whod only 
provided DFM services. 
Mr C remained unhappy and reiterated that he wanted the matter referred to an 
ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C was unhappy that the investigator replied to the points Mr C had made in response to 
her view and when Mr C had asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman. But 
thats in accordance with our usual procedure. Wed generally expect the investigator to try 
to deal with any points made by the consumer (or indeed the business) in response to the 
investigators view and seek confirmation that a referral to an ombudsman was still required. 
Im sorry that Mr C feels that he was given insufficient time to respond to the investigators 
view when Montage had been given up to four weeks earlier in the process to provide 
information. I think where information needs to be gathered we generally allow more time  
records may have been archived, personnel may need to be interviewed and information 
may be held in more than one location. When the investigator issues a view, its an attempt 
to summarise things and bring all the relevant points together and give the parties an 
opportunity to respond. And wed always consider a request (from either party) that more 
time should be allowed.  
I can see that Mr C feels very strongly about whats happened and that Montage hasnt 
treated him fairly as a customer. Montages position was that Mr C wasnt a customer and so 
we couldnt consider his complaint. But I agree with the investigator that Mr C was 
Montages customer and that we can consider a complaint made by him in that capacity.   
Were governed by the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules set out in the regulators Handbook. 
DISP 2.7.1R says we can only deal with complaints brought by or on behalf of an eligible 
complainant which include a consumer. Im satisfied that Mr C is a consumer. DISP 2.7.6R 
also says that to be an eligible complainant Mr C must also have a complaint which arises 
from matters relevant to one or more of the relationships with the respondent listed. The first 
is that the complainant is or was a customer of the respondent. 
Mr Cs relationship with Montage started off as one of employee/employer. But, after his 
employment ended, Montage remained in place and continued to provide DFM services to Mr C. And he was paying for those services  a fee of 0.36% pa was mentioned in 
Montages email of 17 March 2022. That may have been a discounted fee arising from Mr 
Cs period of employment. But, as hes said, it wasnt his fault if Montage continued to 
charge him a reduced fee. And I accept hed have been happy to pay Montages usual 
charges for its DFM services. But the fact of the matter is that Mr C was paying for a service 
which Montage was providing. I think its clear that he was Montages customer. 
We can consider a complaint under our compulsory jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission in carrying on certain activities. The relevant one here is regulated activities. These 
are set out in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities Order) 2001 
(as amended) and include dealing in investments as agent, managing investments and 
advising on investments (the definition of which includes a personal pension scheme).  
All in all, Im satisfied we can consider Mr Cs complaint. Hes an eligible complainant as a 
consumer and his complaint arises out of matters relevant to his relationship with Montage 
as a customer. And hes complaining about acts or omissions by Montage in carrying on 
regulated activities. Ive approached Mr Cs complaint from the basis of whether Montage 
treated Mr C fairly as a customer. 
Ive looked first at what happened when Montage wrote to Mr C in January 2018. Mr C says 
what Montage said was advice  a recommendation that he switch SIPP providers. I dont 
agree. Although, as Ive said, Mr C was Montages customer, not all communications with a 
customer or client, even those which refer to the client taking some action such as moving to 
an alternative product, will amount to advice or a recommendation. I dont think what 
Montage said amounted to advice or a personal recommendation that Mr C move away from 
Carey. And any recommendation would be incomplete as no alternative provider was named 
by Montage. I agree that Montage was just giving Mr C information. 
I can see Mr Cs argument that, if he was a client of Montages, his SIPP shouldve been 
switched to a new provider  and when Montage had said it was moving all clients and 
employees away from Carey. But sometimes different treatment wont mean a particular 
customer has been treated unfairly. Mr C was only Montages customer by virtue of being a 
former employee. And Montage did make the position clear  the letter went on to say that 
Montage didnt provide financial planning advice on Mr Cs pension and suggested he seek 
financial advice with a view to moving away from Carey. 
I dont think Montage was at fault in not acting on Mr Cs request to transfer his SIPP away 
from Carey. Montage wasnt Mr Cs financial adviser. Ive referred above to the SIPP 
application form and from which it was clear that Mr C didnt have a financial adviser. Mr Cs 
relationship with Montage was limited to Montage being Mr Cs DFM. The SIPP was a 
separate entity and Montage wasnt responsible for it. It was up to Mr C if, going forwards, 
he wanted to avoid Careys increased fees, to find a new SIPP provider, with or without 
financial advice. It wasnt for Montage to action Mr Cs instruction to switch and when, as 
Ive said, I dont agree Montage had made any recommendation. So I dont agree Montage 
should be responsible for the difference in the higher charges Mr C paid to Carey and the 
lower charges hed have paid with a different SIPP provider. But I think it wouldve been 
helpful and courteous for Montage to have replied to Mr Cs request and explained at that 
stage why Montage was unable to deal with it. Montage acknowledged that in the final 
response letter it sent on 22 June 2018 and apologised. 
Mr Cs SIPP remained with Carey and with Montage as the DFM until March 2022 when 
Montage decided they were no longer prepared to provide DFM services to Mr C. I can 
understand why Mr C was unhappy  hes made it clear he wanted to continue with Montage 
as his DFM and he didnt expect any preferential treatment and was prepared to pay the 
same fee as Montage charges other clients. Mr Cs position is that Montage shouldve offered that and by failing to do so Montage isnt treating him  as a customer  fairly. Mr C 
has referred to Montages TCF obligations and to the regulators Principles for Businesses.  
These include, for example, Principle 6  customers interests  and which says a firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
But I dont think theres anything which says a firm must continue to act for a client even 
where the relationship has broken down or has become dysfunctional. And provided that the 
client is given adequate notice that the firms services are being withdrawn so that the client 
can make alternative arrangements. 
Montage didnt want to continue to act for Mr C and I think it was open to Montage to 
terminate the relationship. Mr C may think hes been treated unfairly as a result of Montages 
decision not to continue to act for him (and even though Mr C happy for Montage to remain 
as the DFM and is prepared to pay the usual charges) I dont think it would be productive to 
say that Montage should continue to act for Mr C as a customer in circumstances where 
Montage clearly doesnt want the relationship to continue. 
Ive also looked at the Client Agreement that Montage would normally ask clients to sign. I 
know Mr C didnt sign an agreement but Ive said that he was Montages client and I think its 
fair to look at what Montage normally agreed with clients and, in particular, what provisions 
were in place about terminating the relationship. The client agreement said that it should be 
read in conjunction with the Terms of business. And, under the heading, Commencement 
and Termination of Agreement, the client agreement referred to page 62 of the Terms of 
Business. That page said that the client may terminate the agreement at any time, without 
penalty, on giving notice of termination in writing. And that Montage may terminate the 
agreement by giving the client at least 20 business days written notice. 
Mr C didnt think the time given was sufficient and the investigator agreed that the original 
deadline wasnt fair. But it was extended by Montage and the time given was in line with 
what Montages Client Agreement and Terms of Business said. Despite what Mr C has said I 
think that was sufficient time for Mr C to decide what he wanted to do and make the 
necessary arrangements. Id point out that his pension fund remained invested in the 
existing funds so he wasnt out of the market for any period even if he no longer benefited 
from Montages DFM services. And there was no obligation on Mr C to change SIPP 
providers unless he wanted to. All that was changing was that Montage would no longer be 
managing the SIPP fund for Mr C. 
Mr C has mentioned that he transferred another pension fund, worth about £100,000, into 
his SIPP. Mr C says that was on advice from Montage but that he didnt get any written 
advice or recommendation. I dont know if Mr C is just pointing out that the funds subject to 
Montages DFM services werent limited to the employer/employee contributions made into 
the SIPP during Mr Cs employment with Montage. Or if Mr C considers any advice to switch 
his other pension fund into the SIPP was unsuitable. I note he seems to have been happy 
with the SIPP and the performance of his funds under Montages DFM and in fact wanted 
that to continue. So its unclear what loss, if any, he might have suffered as a result of the 
transfer. Further, I dont know if Montage accepts that it gave Mr C such advice. This point 
hasnt been addressed as part of this complaint. I think, if Mr C wants to pursue this aspect 
of the matter, hed need to make a further complaint. 
Mr Cs current complaint concerns Montages withdrawal of its DFM service. Im unable to 
uphold that complaint. I think Montage could withdraw its DFM services even though Mr C 
was a customer and although he wanted to continue with Montage as DFM and was 
prepared to pay Montages normal fee. But, as Ive noted above, Montage shouldnt have simply ignored Mr Cs request in 2018 to 
action a switch to a new SIPP provider. Although I dont agree that Montage had any 
obligation to act on Mr Cs request, Montage shouldve replied and explained its position. Ive 
considered if any award for distress and inconvenience should be made and taking into 
account that Mr C also says he was upset not just by the content of Montages 
communications but by the tone too. 
But I dont think the communications were such as would reasonably be viewed as likely to 
cause Mr C upset. And , although I accept that Mr C was disappointed that Montage was no 
longer prepared to continue as DFM, Ive explained that Montage was entitled to reach that 
decision and gave Mr C sufficient notice. Further Mr C has benefitted from reduced fees (I 
think thats Montages fees for its DFM services and a discount on the platform providers 
fees) for some years after his employment with Montage ended. In the circumstances Im not 
making any award for distress and inconvenience. 
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman