DRN-3706817
The complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited unfairly increased the interest rate he was quoted for a 
loan application, and that it advised him to apply for a credit card around the same time.
What happened
Mr S complained to MBNA after he says it increased the interest rate he was quoted 
following a loan application. Mr S says the interest rate doubled and that MBNA advised him 
to apply for a credit card at the same time. Mr S says he ended up applying for a credit card 
twice because of this, but his application was rejected. Hes also unhappy that MBNA had 
access to information regarding accounts he held with other banks and says MBNA acted 
intrusively by asking him questions about his circumstances.
Mr S says MBNA shouldnt have access to his other accounts and feels it targeted him and 
took advantage of his disabilities by giving him false information.
In its response, MBNA explained that it couldnt locate the telephone call where Mr S says 
he was advised to apply for a credit card. But it accepted Mr S version of events and paid 
him £30 compensation. MBNA also updated Mr S credit file information by removing the 
searches it carried out during his two credit card applications. MBNA explained that it is part 
of the Lloyds Banking Group, so it has access to account information held by banks that 
operate under this group. It also explained that the interest rate Mr S was given was based 
on all the checks it carried out as part of his loan application. 
Remaining unhappy, Mr S asked this service to review his complaint. One of our 
investigators concluded that MBNA had acted fairly. Mr S didnt agree, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final say on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im of the opinion that MBNA has delivered a fair resolution to this 
complaint  Ill explain why.
Loan interest rate
Its not unusual for interest rates to change during the application process for a loan. Usually. 
a lender advertises the interest rate it expects to offer, but this can change depending on a 
customers specific circumstances and the amount being applied for. MBNA says the interest 
rate applied to Mr S loan was determined by its system and this was done following a review 
of his circumstances. I appreciate it wouldve been upsetting for Mr S to have been given a 
higher interest rate that what he originally thought hed get. 
But its for MBNA and not this service to determine the level of interest the lender offers its 
customers. I can only make a decision on whether MBNA acted fairly in handling Mr S 
application. MBNA pointed out that it had a discussion with Mr S about his application 
because of information it had seen his credit file. Although I havent heard the contents of 
this telephone call, it seems to me that MBNA carried out the necessary steps to ensure it 
handled Mr S application fairly and responsibly. 
Therefore, I cant conclude that MBNA treated Mr S unfairly when it changed the interest rate 
he was offered when he applied for the loan.
Questions asked by MBNA
Mr S feels that MBNA was being intrusive and disrespectful when it asked him questions 
about his circumstances. MBNA has a duty to ensure it lends responsibly. In doing so, it 
needed certain pieces of information about Mr S so it could determine whether it could 
provide the loan. The questions it asks can include things like Mr S income and expenditure 
and what he intends to use the funds for. These types of questions arent unusual, and I 
dont think MBNA intended to come across as intrusive when it asked Mr S questions 
relevant to his loan application. 
MBNA wouldve needed to determine whether the loan was appropriate for Mr S, so I think it 
acted fairly by asking him questions that will allow it to do so.
MBNAs access to Mr S other accounts
Mr S is unhappy that MBNA was able to access information about his other bank accounts. 
MBNA points out that it is part of the Lloyds Banking Group, so it has authorised access to 
account information from banks and lenders in the group. I acknowledge that this was 
unexpected for Mr S, but I dont think MBNA has acted unreasonably. The lender wouldve 
needed to carry out a proper assessment of Mr S financial circumstances. Given it could 
access some of this information itself, I dont find it unreasonable that MBNA accessed 
information on other accounts Mr S held within the Lloyds Banking Group.
Advice given by MBNA
Mr S says he was wrongly advised by MBNA to apply for a credit card. MBNA hasnt been 
able to locate the telephone call where this conversation took place. But it has accepted 
Mr S version of events and put forward, in my opinion, an appropriate resolution. The lender 
has paid Mr S £30 compensation for giving him poor advice over the phone and it has 
removed the credit searches associated with his credit card applications. This is in line with 
what I wouldve expected MBNA to do to put things right - if Id been satisfied it did indeed 
provide incorrect advice  so I wont be asking it to do anything more.
Mr S says that, in giving him incorrect advice, MBNA targeted him because of his disabilities 
 which is one of the protected characteristics under The Equality Act 2010. I need to clarify 
that this service is unable to make findings on whether something constitutes discrimination 
as per The Equality Act 2010. This is because this service is an informal alternative to the 
courts, and only a court of law can make a legal finding based on the definitions set out 
within the act.
However, I can consider whether the bank has acted in a fair and reasonable manner, and to 
do that I will take several things, including The Equality Act 2010, into consideration. 
As I said earlier, I dont have a copy of the specific telephone call to refer to. There arent 
any notes that refer to this conversation either. So there isnt enough for me to fairly 
conclude that MBNA misinformed Mr S solely because of his disability. As Ive said, in my 
view, MBNA has taken reasonable steps to put things right  by removing the relevant records, MBNA has put Mr S back in the position he wouldve been had he not made two 
credit card applications  and I think this is a fair resolution to this part of Mr S complaint. 
So I wont be asking MBNA to do anything more in relation to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman