DRN-4017262
The complaint
Ms R and Mr S complains Santander UK plc (Santander) provided poor service when trying 
to open a joint bank account.
What happened
Ms R says she visited a local branch of Santander in May 2022, to open a joint bank account 
for her and her partner who was an existing bank account customer. This bank account was 
required as theyd recently taken out a joint mortgage with Santander. Ms R says when she 
visited the branch she was told she needed to apply for the account online, despite the fact 
Santanders website says bank accounts can be opened in branch. Ms R says she was 
pregnant at the time and had to take time off work and this was very inconvenient. Ms R 
says she then applied online and received her new account details and debit cards but was 
subsequently told the account had been blocked.
Ms R says it took until late June 2022 before the joint account was finally operational, having 
made numerous lengthy phone calls and she still hasnt been informed why her account was 
blocked and it took too long for Santander to resolve the issue.
Ms R says while Santander have paid £100 by way of apology this doesnt go far enough to 
cover her time and the trouble and upset she and her partner experienced. 
Santander apologised for the fact Ms R wasnt able to open the account when she visited the 
branch in May 2022, but this was because of staff shortages on that day. Santander have 
acknowledged there were service issues but says sometimes restrictions need to be placed 
on bank accounts whilst it undertakes additional checks, and theres no specific timescales 
to deal with these situations. Santander says due to an error on their part, the account 
profiles werent properly linked but this has been corrected and the block has now been 
removed and the joint account is now fully operational. 
Santander have apologised for the issues Ms R and Mr S faced and paid £100 for the 
trouble and upset caused. 
Ms R and Mr S werent happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this 
service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information and upheld the complaint. The 
investigator felt Ms Rs and Mr Ss customer journey was less than satisfactory and 
Santander could have done more to keep Ms R and Mr S informed of what was happening 
during the process. The investigator accepted Ms R had spent a good deal of time on this 
and it would have been frustrating for her and asked Santander to pay an additional £100, 
taking the compensation to a total of £200.  
Ms R and Mr S didnt feel the compensation was sufficient and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will also be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to 
my decision.
I can understand it would have been upsetting and frustrating for Ms R and Mr S for 
Santander to take as long as it did to finally open their joint bank account. 
When looking at this complaint as Santander have accepted it provided poor customer 
service I will consider if the amount of compensation it has paid, and the additional level of 
redress suggested by the investigator goes far enough here. 
Ms Rs and Mr Ss complaint centres around the issues they faced when opening a joint 
bank account with Santander. Ms R has also raised issues following the lodging of her 
complaint to Santander but its not the role of this service to scrutinise Santanders 
complaints process or to tell Santander how it should deal with complaint more widely. 
The first thing to say here is Santander have accepted it made some errors on opening the 
joint bank account, specifically relating to the account profiles not being correctly linked and 
has apologised for that. Santander have explained to this service the reason Ms R wasnt 
able to open the joint account when she visited, was due to staffing issues and not a policy 
to only open bank accounts online. While its not possible for me to know what was actually 
said when Ms R visited the branch in May 2022, she went away believing that was the only 
option available to her. 
Santander have explained there are times when it needs to restrict accounts when 
undertaking further checks and theres no time scales for that. While I understand this point 
that doesnt excuse the fact the delays seem to be more of a result of internal errors when 
linking the account profiles and the account opening process could have been a lot 
smoother. Its also fair to say given the number of phone calls Ms R made during this time, 
Santander could have picked up on the problem more quickly than it did. 
Ms R feels the compensation isnt sufficient and it should be linked to her hourly pay rate, 
but thats not something this service would consider, more that it looks at the individual 
circumstances of the complaint. While Ms R may not agree, its not my role to penalise 
businesses when service errors like this occur.
What I would expect is Santander to apologise for its mistake and put matters right and Im 
satisfied  it has done that here, however, like the investigator I feel a more appropriate level 
of redress should be £200, not the £100 Santander initially offered.  
While Ms R and Mr S will be disappointed with my decision, I am satisfied this is a fair 
outcome here.
Putting things right
I instruct Santander UK plc to pay Ms R and Mr S an additional £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused, taking the total redress to £200. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.I instruct Santander UK plc to pay Ms R and Mr S an additional £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused, taking the total redress to £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman