DRN-2981317
The complaint
Mrs D complains U K Insurance Limited trading as Direct Line (Direct Line) shouldve given 
her the option to purchase extended warranty for a TV she received following a claim made 
on her home insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the overall conclusion reached by the investigator. Ill explain 
why:
First, its important to say I understand Mrs Ds frustration. She says shed expect a 
TV to last more than 22 months and I dont disagree. But that isnt something I can 
consider. Direct Line didnt manufacture the TV and dont provide a warranty for it in 
any respect. 
Instead, Mrs D feels Direct Line shouldve given her the opportunity to purchase an 
extended warranty, thus covering the TV past the standard 12 months provided by 
the manufacturer. Its this point which Ive considered when reaching my decision.
Following a successful accidental damage claim on her home insurance policy, 
Direct Line arranged for a third-party supplier to provide Mrs D a replacement TV.
Direct Lines supplier doesnt provide extended warranties, neither do Direct Line, so 
I dont think theyve done anything wrong by not offering Mrs D the option to buy one 
when supplying the TV. It would be unreasonable to expect them to offer something 
they didnt supply.
Direct line hasnt been able to provide a recording of the call prior to Mrs D receiving 
the TV, but I have seen a copy of the text message sent to her. This clearly said the 
TV would have a standard 12-month manufacturers guarantee so Im satisfied Mrs D 
shouldve been aware the TV wouldnt be covered beyond that point.
Mrs D says extended warranties can only be taken out alongside the item to be 
covered, at the time of purchase. I can understand why she may think this, and I 
agree shed have been unable to purchase cover after the TV had stopped working. 
But I dont agree this is the case. Extended warranties can be taken out 
independently after purchase, usually within a time limit specified by the cover 
provider, from companies other than the one responsible for supplying the item.
So, in summary, Im satisfied Mrs D shouldve been aware the TV supplied had a 
standard 12-month warranty and I dont think Direct Line had a responsibility to offer 
her cover beyond that.
I appreciate Mrs D will be disappointed with my findings. But, in the circumstances, 
Im satisfied Direct Line have acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about U K Insurance Limited trading 
as Direct Line.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman