DRN-1714986
The complaint
Mrs R has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold her fee-
paying Advantage Gold packaged bank accounts in April 2001 and February 2006.
Mrs R has said that she was led to believe that the Advantage Gold account was the only 
option available to her in 2001. And she says she was led to believe that agreeing to the 
Advantage Gold account in 2006 would help her secure loans.
What happened
Mrs R opened a fee-paying Advantage Gold account in April 2001. This was later 
downgraded to a fee-free account in April 2004. Mrs R then upgraded her account back to a 
fee-paying Advantage Gold account in February 2006. 
NatWest withdrew the Advantage Gold from its range of accounts and transferred all
Advantage Gold accounts, including Mrs Rs, to a Select Platinum account in July 2015. As
this was essentially a rebranding of the account, weve not treated this change as a separate
sale of an account.
The account was subsequently closed in March 2019.
Our adjudicator assessed Mrs Rs complaint and concluded that NatWest hadnt mis-sold 
the packaged bank accounts. Mrs R disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review her
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mrs Rs complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think NatWest mis-sold the packaged account to Mrs R.
Id like to explain why I think thats the case.
At this point, it may help for me to explain that where matters are in dispute, as they are 
here, I have to make my decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And 
in working out what I think is most likely to have happened, I have to think about everything 
I've been told together with everything else I've been provided with and see how this fits with
what I do know. In other words, what I have to do is decide what I think is most likely to have
happened, having weighed up what Mrs R and NatWest have been able to provide me with. 
Unfortunately NatWest has very little information available from the time the Advantage Gold 
account was sold. And even going by Mrs Rs version of events, its unclear exactly what 
steps were taken when the account was opened. But for me to be able to say that the 
Advantage Gold account was mis-sold, I need to be satisfied that NatWest did something 
wrong either prior to, or during, the opening of the account.  But I dont think NatWest did. I 
will explain why.
Mrs R says that the Advantage Gold account was the only one presented to her in 2001. 
However, shes also said that it was her employer who opened the account for her salary to 
be paid into and says whatever account she was given, she did not choose it. She says no 
information was given to her about the account except for the account number and sort 
code.
NatWest says that Mrs R wouldve needed to have attended branch in person so that she 
could discuss her options and then sign the account opening forms for whatever account she 
wished to open. It says that this wouldve been completed in branch. But looking at Mrs Rs 
recollections, it seems that someone at the company she worked for may have obtained, for 
some unknown reason, account opening forms specifically for an Advantage Gold account, 
which she then completed, signed and returned to branch. 
Having carefully considered what Mrs R has said, I dont think I can reasonably conclude 
that it was NatWest who misled her into thinking she had no choice but to open an 
Advantage Gold account. On the contrary, it seems more likely that whoever provided the 
forms to her from her employer, failed to explain that other options were available. And it 
seems that NatWest simply opened an Advantage Gold account because Mrs R had signed, 
completed and returned the form to open such an account  so I dont think it was the case 
that NatWest had recommended she open this account. 
I note that Mrs R says that none of the benefits were explained to her. I think it was just as 
likely that the benefits of the account were explained to whoever picked up the account 
opening forms for her, but it seems whoever that person was, failed to then pass on the 
information to Mrs R. 
As such, based on everything Ive seen, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that NatWest 
mis-sold the Advantage Gold account in 2001. Essentially this is because it seems Mrs R 
chose to rely on incorrect information provided to her by a third party, rather than speaking 
directly to NatWest about what her options may have been in terms of opening a bank 
account. And I dont think it would be reasonable to hold NatWest responsible because a 
third party may have given Mrs R wrong or misleading information which she then chose to 
rely on.
Turning now to the sale of the Advantage Gold account in 2006, Mrs R says that this was 
sold to her on the basis that it would help her secure loans. Mrs R points out that as a loan 
was taken out at same time, she says this proves that what she is saying must be true.
However, as established above, I cant simply accept what Mrs R says as a given. Instead I 
must weigh up what she says, alongside all of the other evidence that is available to 
determine the likelihood of whether the account was mis-sold. 
NatWest says that a key benefit of the Advantage Gold account at the time was that it 
provided reduced interest rates on loans, mortgages and overdrafts. And so says that it 
believes that Mrs R agreed to the account because of the benefits it provided. Having 
considered the opposing arguments, I dont think Ive seen enough to say that it was more 
likely than not that Mrs R was mis-led by NatWest into agreeing to take out the Advantage 
Gold account. 
I say this because the loan Mrs R took out around the time she upgraded her account to the 
Advantage Gold account was not for an insignificant amount  I understand it was for 
£10,000, over a term of 84 months. And coupled with this, it seems that Mrs R was increasingly relying on her overdraft by that point too. For example, shed increased her 
overdraft limit to £500 in January 2006 i.e. just prior to the upgrade. 
So I think its more likely that Mrs R agreed to the account because shed be able to reduce 
the amount of interest she was being charged on her overdraft and the loan in question. And 
Mrs R was clearly aware that fee-free accounts were available (as she had held one for 
some time by that point), so I think Mrs R was aware she didnt have to upgrade to the 
Advantage Gold account if she didnt want to.
I appreciate that Mrs R says that she didnt need the other benefits that came with the 
Advantage Gold account. But as it was sold as a package Mrs R was unable to pick and 
choose what it came with. So even if it was the case that Mrs R agreed to it just for the 
banking benefits it provided, this doesnt mean that NatWest was wrong to have sold it to 
her. I also note that Mrs R says that she had a mobile phone when the account was sold to 
her. And the Advantage Gold account did provide mobile phone insurance at the time  so 
this may well have been another benefit that persuaded her to agree to the account. As 
such, I dont think I have seen enough to be persuaded that Mrs R was misled into thinking 
she had to have the Advantage gold account to obtain loans. 
Due to how long ago the sale took place, I cant be sure what information Mrs R was given 
about the packaged account during the sale. But Ive not seen anything about Mrs Rs 
circumstances that makes me think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to the 
Advantage Gold account, had she been given even more information about it.
Finally, Mrs R says that she didnt get the benefits of the Advantage Gold account because 
NatWest had added Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) to her loans. But whether the PPI 
policies were mis-sold is a separate matter that I cant consider in this complaint. And 
regardless of Mrs R having PPI added to her loans, this didnt prevent her from benefiting 
from having the PBA.
Therefore, whilst I appreciate that this will be disappointing for Mrs R, I am unable to 
conclude that either of the Advantage Gold accounts were mis-sold to her by NatWest. It 
follows that I am unable to require NatWest to pay Mrs R the account fees shes paid to have 
the two accounts.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 September 2020.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman