DRN-4128058
The complaint
Mrs W, who is represented by a third party, complains that Barclaycard UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclaycard), irresponsibly granted her a credit card she couldnt afford to 
repay. 
What happened
In June 2012 Mrs W entered into an agreement with Barclaycard to have access to credit by 
way of a credit card account. Her opening credit limit was £7,000, which was later increased 
in October 2013 to £8,500, then in June 2014 to £9,500 and finally in May 2016 to £10,000.
Mrs W says that Barclaycard didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened 
her credit card account and that she has been financially disadvantaged as a result. 
Barclaycard didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate 
assessment to check Mrs Ws financial circumstances before granting her the credit card 
account and each of the credit limit increases. 
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint be partially upheld. He thought Barclaycard 
could have carried out better checks for the account opening and credit limit increases and 
went on to say it shouldnt have given her the second or third credit limit increases. 
As Barclaycard hasnt responded to our adjudicators finding, the complaint has been passed 
to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclaycard needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Mrs W could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These 
checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being 
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might point to the fact that Barclaycard should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mrs W. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Account opening
Before granting the account, I would have expected Barclaycard looked into Mrs Ws 
financial situation and granted her a credit limit of £7,000. Barclaycard says it no longer 
holds full records from the account opening, which isnt unusual given the time thats passed. 
For a credit limit at this level I would have expected Barclaycard to look into Mrs Ws 
financial situation, including her existing credit commitments, but I simply dont know if it did 
that. I also cant say what it would have found as Mrs W hasnt been able to send us any 
information about her finances at the time. 
It follows that I agree that it would have been proportionate for Barclaycard to have looked  
into Mrs Ws financial situation before each lending decision, but I cant say what it would 
have found at the time of the account opening. 
First credit limit increase
Looking at the first credit limit increase, I agree with our adjudicator that it would have been 
proportionate for Barclaycard to have taken steps to find out about any changes to Mrs Ws 
income and expenditure since the account opening. Mrs W has provided us with bank 
statements that I broadly agree show her monthly income to be around £2,500 and her 
typical committed expenditure each month as around £1,650. So I agree that based on the 
new credit limit of £8,500, it looks likely that Mrs W would be able to continue making regular 
sustainable repayments to the account. 
Second and third credit limit increases
Turning to the later credit limit increases, I have concerns that the increased credit limit in 
June 2014 to £9.500 was likely to be unsustainable. I say this given that the bank statements 
Ive seen show that Mrs Ws monthly income had reduced to around £1,970 each month. 
And whilst her typical committed expenditure was around £1,440 each month, including her 
living costs and credit commitments, I dont think that her available disposable income after 
that would leave her with enough to make sustainable repayments. To give an example, 
were she to use her full credit limit at this point, Mrs W would have had to find £475 each 
month to make a sustainable monthly repayment representing 5% of her existing balance. 
So I agree that by granting Mrs W the second credit limit increase  and it follows also the 
later credit limit increase to £10,000 in May 2016 - Mrs W would likely be left with very little, if 
any, disposable income with which to sustainably repay her card alongside the daily costs 
she would have to meet, outside of her existing credit obligations and other committed 
expenditure. It follows that I agree with our adjudicator that, based on what Ive seen, Barclays didnt 
make a fair lending decision when it granted the second credit limit increase as it was 
unsustainable for Mrs W. 
I therefore dont think Barclaycard should have increased Mrs Ws credit limit beyond the first 
credit limit increase of £8,500. 
Putting things right  what Barclaycard needs to do
Rework Mrs Ws account to ensure that from June 2014, onwards interest is 
only charged on balances up to the total credit limit of £8,500, (being the credit 
limit in place before that date) to reflect the fact that no further credit limit 
increases should have been provided. All late payment and over limit fees should 
also be removed; 
Having noted that Mrs Ws balance never exceeded the £8,500 credit limit, no 
redress is due on the account;
In any event, Barclaycard should remove any adverse information recorded on 
Mrs Ws credit file from June 2014 onwards. 
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs W, along with 8% simple interest per year on the 
overpayments from the date they were made (if they were) until the date of 
settlement. Barclaycard should also remove any adverse information from 
Mrs Ws credit file from June 2014.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Barclaycard to take off tax from this interest. 
Barclaycard must give Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, Im partially upholding Mrs Ws complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC, 
trading as Barclaycard, should put things right in the way Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 August 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman