DRN-4009295
The complaint
Miss S complains that 1Plus1 Loans Limited irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable 
guarantor loan.
Miss S is represented by a claims managed company, but for ease Ill refer to all 
submissions as if they are her own.
What happened
In August 2021 1Plus1 Loans provided Miss S with a £5,000 loan over a 48-month term. The 
repayments were around £208 a month and the total repayable value was around £10,000. 
In July 2022 Miss S complained to 1Plus1 Loans. She said it had irresponsibly provided her 
with the loan as it was unaffordable for her; and had 1Plus1 Loans completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks it would have identified this.
Miss S referred her complaint to our service for review in September 2022 after 1Plus1 
Loans issued its final response not upholding her complaint. Our investigator reviewed the 
complaint and didnt uphold it. She concluded 1Plus1 Loans checks were reasonable and 
proportionate based on the terms of lending being approved, and the information it had 
obtained about Miss Ss financial circumstances; and that it had gone on to make a fair 
lending decision when approving the loan. 
Miss S didnt accept our investigators outcome. She said the evidence at the time 
suggested she was utilising her overdraft to afford her regular monthly expenditure, as well 
as her credit commitments. She maintained her position that the loan wasnt sustainably 
affordable for her. Miss S asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons. I appreciate this will be disappointing to Miss S.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. 
1Plus1 Loans needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it lent responsibly to Miss S. The 
relevant rules, regulations and guidance at the time 1Plus1 Loans provided the lending 
required it to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks. These checks needed to 
assess Miss Ss ability to afford the loan and repay it sustainably over its term, without 
causing her financial difficulties or harm.
There isnt a set list of checks 1Plus1 Loans needed to carry out, but the checks should be 
proportionate, considering things like the type, amount, duration, and total cost of the credit, 
as well as Miss Ss individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for 1Plus1 Loans to just complete proportionate checks  it must also 
consider the information it obtained from these checks when going on to provide the lending.
1Plus1 Loans says it obtained Miss Ss declared income and expenditure, all of which it 
verified by obtaining access to Miss Ss bank account via open banking and by going 
through a detailed income and expenditure assessment with her over the phone. It also 
completed a credit check to obtain details of Miss Ss credit commitments and the 
management of her credit accounts. It says these checks were proportionate and that it went 
on to make a fair lending decision when approving this loan.
Ive carefully considered 1Plus1 Loans arguments and I agree its checks were 
proportionate; and that it went on the make a fair lending decision in this instance.
I say this because Ive reviewed the evidence 1Plus1 Loans obtained which I consider 
enabled it to gather a detailed understanding of Miss Ss financial situation at the time. 
1Plus1 Loans verified Miss Ss income which averaged around £2,700 per month across the 
two months worth of statements leading up to this loan. Miss S declared she paid £450 
towards her share of rent and bills; which is evidenced within the open banking transactions 
it obtained. Miss S also declared her food and travel costs to be around £500 per month, 
meaning her total non-discretionary expenditure totalled just under £1,000 per month.
The credit check 1Plus1 Loans completed showed Miss S had around £16,700 total 
outstanding debt at the time of this loan, roughly 40% of her yearly income. This loan would 
allow Miss S to consolidate the majority of her revolving credit debt and look to get her 
finances in a better position, which was clearly the main driving factor for her as expressed 
within the initial income and expenditure call which Ive listened to. 
Although Miss S had opened a number of credit accounts within a relatively short period of 
time before this loan, the credit file shows she was largely maintaining her accounts well, 
with no arrears or recent adverse markers. She had defaulted on an account, but this was 
around four years prior to this loan being provided. So, I dont consider there was anything 
within the information 1Plus1 Loans obtained from the credit file check which ought 
reasonably to have caused it concern.
Miss S declared she was looking to consolidate the majority of her revolving credit with this 
loan. Ive calculated Miss S would be paying around £800 per month towards her remaining 
credit commitments and payments towards this loan, equating to around 30% of her monthly 
income. Taking into account Miss Ss verified salary, monthly non-discretionary expenditure 
and monthly credit commitments, Miss S would be left with around £1,000 disposable 
income to cover over living costs and discretionary spending. 
Ive identified some transactions to online gambling companies within the open banking 
report 1Plus1 Loans obtained. But on review I dont consider that the volume or total value of 
these averaged across the months ought to have been of concern to 1Plus1 Loans, or 
required it to obtain further information around this. 
Miss S has said she was using her overdraft and this ought to have been of concern to 
1Plus1 Loans. Ive seen from the evidence that Miss S was utilising her overdraft, but her 
salary did bring the account into a credit position on a monthly basis. So, Miss S was utilising 
this line of credit as intended. And as Ive found above, Miss S was left with a reasonable 
level of disposable income once all non-discretionary expenditure and credit commitments were accounted for. So, I dont consider Miss Ss management of her overdraft facility ought 
to have been of concern to 1Plus1 Loans. 
Taking all the above into account Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans checks enabled it to obtain a 
detailed understanding of Miss Ss financial position around the time of this loan; and led to it 
reasonably concluding this loan would be sustainably affordable for her across its full term. 
As such Im satisfied 1Plus1 Loans made a fair lending decision when approving this loan; 
and Im not directing it to take any further action in resolution of Miss Ss complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above my final decision is that Im not upholding Miss Ss complaint 
about 1Plus1 Loans Limited and therefore dont require it to take any further action.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2023.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman