DRN-1580758
 
Complaint
Mrs R, who is represented by a third party, complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as 
Barclaycard (Barclays) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 
February 2004.
Background
Mrs R took out a credit card in January 2004 but it looks like she later took out the PPI, in 
February 2004, which after shed taken out the credit card.
Mrs R says she didnt know that the PPI had been added to her credit card and it wasnt 
explained to her. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. Mrs R disagreed with this view and asked that 
her complaint be referred to an ombudsman to make a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account when deciding Mrs Rs case.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs R says she bought the PPI during a phone conversation. Barclays says this is most 
likely the way the PPI was sold. Barclays says Mrs R would have spoken to an adviser when 
she bought the PPI and that this conversation after Mrs R had applied for the card by post. 
So it says it will treat the sale as if it recommended the PPI to Mrs R. I think thats fair as it 
places a greater responsibility on Barclays for how it sold the PPI. It means it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure that the PPI was suitable for Mrs Rs circumstances. It also had 
to give clear enough information to Mrs R so she could decide for herself whether or not she 
wanted it.
Barclays should have made it clear that the PPI was optional. I have a copy of Mrs Rs 
application for the credit card which she signed. I can see she didnt apply for the PPI at that 
time. Barclays says she decided to buy PPI in February 2004. From what we know about 
these types of sales, where the PPI was sold after the credit card it would most likely have 
been sold on the telephone. Barclays cant provide a copy of the call recording from but it 
has given us a sample of the script in use at the time. So although I cant know exactly what 
would have been discussed, based on what Ive seen I think its reasonable that Barclays 
would have asked Mrs R if she wanted the PPI in that conversation. As Mrs R had already 
been accepted for her credit card, I think it would have been clear to Mrs R that she didnt 
need to buy it or take it out in order to get the credit card- although I can understand why she 
cant remember this so many years later.Also, Ive seen that the PPI would have appeared on Mrs Rs credit card statements so if she 
didnt know she had it, I think she would have questioned Barclays about the PPI before she 
did. On balance, I think she chose the PPI knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
Taking all this into account, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs Rs circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
 
Mrs R was eligible for the PPI and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main 
things that might have made it more difficult for her to make a successful claim, for 
example, unusual employment circumstances or a pre-existing medical condition.
 
Mrs R told us she was entitled to work benefits from her employer, being six months 
at full pay followed by six months at half pay. She also told her husband would have 
been able to help her given that he was in a secure job. But on making a successful 
claim, this policy would have paid out 10% of the outstanding monthly balance on her 
credit card for up to 12 months - so the PPI would have paid out in addition to and for 
longer than her full sick pay lasted. And whilst the possibility of help from her 
husband is a good thing to have, individual circumstances can very easily change
 
I havent seen anything that would suggest that Mrs R would have had difficulty 
meeting the monthly policy premiums. 
 
Its possible Barclays didnt give all the information it should have done to Mrs R. But for the 
same reasons Ive explained above as to why I think the PPI was suitable, even with better 
or clearer information I dont think Mrs R would have been put off taking out the cover.
I appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed with my decision but taking everything into account, I 
think Mrs R chose the PPI for the cover it gave her. I think she would have thought its costs 
and benefits were useful to her. So I dont think Mrs R lost out and I dont uphold her 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 30July2020.
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman