DRN-3130299
The complaint
Mrs H and Mr H complain about how U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has settled their claim on 
their home insurance.     
What happened
Mrs H and Mr H had home insurance with UKI. In June 2016 they made a claim following an 
extensive flood at Mrs Hs home. UKI accepted the claim and sent a loss adjuster to inspect 
the damage and put together a scope of works. It also sent an electrician later in the year, 
who confirmed that a number of electrical items needed replacing due to the water damage, 
including some ornamental chandeliers. The claim was cash settled based on the scope of 
works.
Over the years that followed Mrs H and Mr H disputed some aspects of the scope of works. 
In 2019 they arranged a report from an electrician who said that the electrics at the house 
needed re-wiring as there was green goo in some of the sockets that had been caused by 
water ingress. They also provided quotes for the replacement of three chandeliers for around 
£7,000 each. Further they disputed some elements of their claim for damaged contents. 
They made a complaint. 
UKI responded to their complaint and agreed to settle the items of contents. However it said 
it wouldnt pay to re-wire the property as the report shows no proof of causation of the 
damage and this hadnt been found when the property was inspected in 2016. It also said it 
would need to arrange for the chandeliers to be inspected by a lamp repairer to see if they 
could be repaired rather than replaced. 
Mr H and Mrs H didnt think this was fair. They said that the electricians report from 2016 
said that the chandeliers needed to be replaced so this should be included in the settlement 
without need for a further assessment. They also said their electrician report showed that the 
property needed re-wiring and the damage was due to water ingress, so thought this should 
also be included. They brought their complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered matters and recommended the complaint was upheld in part. 
She didnt think there was enough evidence to show that the problems with the electrics that 
meant they required a full re-wire was linked to the insured event, so she thought UKI had 
acted fairly by declining to include this in its settlement. However she said as an electrician 
had confirmed the chandeliers would need to be replaced, she agreed UKI should pay for 
their replacement. 
UKI didnt agree about the chandeliers. It said it needed to assess whether they could be 
repaired before it agreed to replace them, and thought a lamp repairer would be able to 
more appropriately determine this. UKI asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Re-wiring the property
Mr H and Mrs H have provided a report from an electrical expert that concludes the property 
should be re-wired. However UKI hasnt agreed to pay for this as part of the claim 
settlement. 
When the property was initially inspected by an electrician in 2016, they noted that while 
some light fittings needed replacing, the majority of the rest of the electrics were in good 
working order. As this report was carried out shortly after the flood, I find this to be the most 
persuasive. 
Mr Hs more recent report shows that the property needs re-wiring, however it doesnt show 
that this is because of the flood. Three years had passed between the incident and the 
report, so I dont think its enough to show that the need for re-wiring is due to the original 
flood. Particularly as this damage hadnt been evident in the original inspection in 2016.
For this reason, Im satisfied that UKI has acted fairly by declining to pay for the re-wiring of 
the property. 
Chandeliers 
In 2016 UKI instructed an electrician to inspect the damage at Mrs Hs property. It concluded 
that due to the level of water damage the chandeliers should be replaced. However in its 
final response UKI has said that it thinks it more appropriate to send a lamp repairer to 
inspect them to see if they can be repaired. 
Ive considered this and I dont think this is fair and reasonable. UKI already has an expert 
report from its contractor who concluded the chandeliers were unsafe and needed to be 
replaced. This report was carried out a few months after the flood and by a qualified 
electrician, so I consider it to be reliable. And I see no reason why an additional inspection 
would be required now, many years after the event. I appreciate that the quote for the 
replacement of the items is more than UKI expected, but this isnt reason for UKI to ignore 
the report from its expert. And, as with the re-wiring, any inspection that takes place now 
poses problems in determining the cause of any damage found. So I dont think this is a fair 
resolution.
For these reasons I agree with our investigator that UKI should pay for Mr H and Mrs H to 
replace the damaged chandeliers specified in the electricians report of December 2016, in 
line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given I require U K Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mr H and Mrs H for the replacement of the damaged chandeliers identified in the 
electricians report of December 2019, in line with the policy terms and conditions.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 Sophie Goodyear
Ombudsman