DRN-3630336
The complaint
LB, a limited company, is seeking to recover £1,000 from ClearBank Limited (ClearBank) 
which it says was stolen from its business banking account as a result of a third-party scam.
The director of LB, Mr M, is bringing the complaint on its behalf. So, in the main, I will refer to 
him throughout.
ClearBank says it is not liable for the loss because Mr M unwittingly authorised the 
payment  and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the 
money from the receiving bank.
What happened
The details of the complaint are well known to both parties so I wont go into too much 
detail here. However, in summary, Mr M says LB has been the victim of a scam. He says 
he was was tricked into sending £1,000 to a company who appeared to be offering 
legitimate services. However, LB did not receive the service it had paid for an no refund 
was forthcoming. In total, LB lost £1,000 which was transferred on 22 July 2021.
Mr M made the above transfer online without any interaction with ClearBank staff. However, 
he now feels that ClearBank should refund him the money as a gesture of goodwill  as did 
a previous bank when he had fallen victim to a scam previously. Mr M also complains that 
ClearBank didnt have a direct telephone line that he could use to report the scam and this 
had made this process somewhat difficult.
ClearBank declined to offer LB a refund. It said it couldnt have done anything more than it 
already had to protect Mr M and it pointed out that it advertised itself as an online only bank 
but if LB wished to have dedicated telephone services, Mr M could choose to upgrade to 
this option. Unhappy with ClearBanks response, Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the £1,000 transaction was 
so unusual and out of character when compared with LBs usual account activity that 
ClearBank shouldve questioned Mr M about it before they allowed it to leave his account. 
She also thought ClearBank had done all it could to recover LBs funds once notified of 
the scam, but this was a couple of weeks after the transfer had left the account, so the 
funds had already been removed from the receiving account prior to Mr M informing 
ClearBank of what had happened. She also pointed out that the Financial Ombudsman 
Service could not get involved with how banks choose to operate their business  such as 
if they choose not to provide a direct telephone service.
Mr M didnt agree with the investigators findings - he didnt specifically say why and he 
didnt raise any further points.
As an agreement has not been reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the time.
Im really very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mr M and LB. But having thought 
very carefully about what hes told us happened at the time and ClearBanks actions, I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to hold ClearBank liable for LBs loss. 
So, having considered everything, Im not going to uphold LBs complaint. 
Its clear the agreement LB entered into did not go as planned and LB did not receive the 
service Mr M was expecting. However, based on the evidence Ive seen, Im not persuaded 
that I can say with any certainty that LB has been the victim of a scam. It seems likely to me 
that LBs circumstances may amount to a civil dispute between it and the service provider it 
engaged with. However, ultimately, I dont think this makes a difference here, as even if I 
were to assume that LB had been the victim of a scam, and I assessed ClearBanks actions 
against the relevant regulations, I still dont think this would result in the outcome Mr M wants 
 a return of his funds. Ill explain why below.  
ClearBanks actions and obligations
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that firms are expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. However, taking into account the law, regulators 
rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the time, I consider Clearbank should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs 
that might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a firm should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline 
to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether ClearBank acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr M when he transferred £1,000 and when he reported this transaction as  
fraudulent, or whether it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute that Mr M authorised the payments himself. And whilst we now know that 
this account may not be legitimate, the funds were regardless paid to the account details Mr 
M entered and therefore the transaction was requested and authorised by him. Because of 
this, ClearBank had an obligation to follow his instructions. But there are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained above. I consider that as a matter of good practice, ClearBank 
shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive then thought about whether the transfer Mr M made could be considered out of 
character and unusual when compared with LBs usual account activity. Ive reviewed LBs  
account statements for the months leading up to the scam, and Im not persuaded it 
was. LB had made a number of similar payments in the months leading up to the scam. 
And so, it wouldnt now be reasonable for me to say that a transaction amount of £1,000 
was unusual for this account and Im not persuaded that it was so out of character that it 
warranted further checks by ClearBank. 
Ive also thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. However, I dont find 
that a payment to a new payee is in itself suspicious enough to mean that ClearBank 
shouldve considered that LB was at risk of financial harm and contacted Mr M before it 
made the payment at his request. At the time, there was no way for ClearBank to have 
known that Mr M wouldnt ultimately receive the services he was paying for  no-one 
couldve known this at the time. The payment was of a similar value to payments LB had 
made in the previous months and this indicated a propensity to make payments in the low 
thousands from this account.. 
It is important for me to stress that banks have to strike a balance between processing 
payments as per their customers instructions and monitoring accounts for unusual and 
potentially harmful activity. And I dont think it would be fair to say that ClearBank shouldve 
identified the payment Mr M made as suspicious enough to warrant further checks.
Ive also thought about whether ClearBank couldve done more to help Mr M once it was 
notified of the potential scam but I dont think it could. ClearBank contacted the receiving 
bank upon notification of Mr Ms concerns. But, unfortunately by this point, all of LBs funds 
had been removed from the receiving account. And our investigator was right to point out 
that this service does not involve itself with the commercial decisions of banking institutions, 
such as whether they offer a direct telephone line or not. 
Finally, I want to stress that I am very sorry to hear about the situation Mr M has found 
himself in. But at the same time, dont think his loss was caused by any specific failing on 
behalf of ClearBank. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against ClearBank Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask LB to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 October 2022.
 
Emly Hanley
Ombudsman