DRN-3102655
The complaint
Mr G complains about correspondence he received from Lloyds Bank PLC about his 
overdraft, which he said were threatening. And he complains that when he rang Lloyds 
asking what the letter was about, it couldnt help him.
What happened
Mr G said he received a letter from Lloyds around February 2020 telling him he had to pay 
back all the money hed borrowed using his overdraft. He didnt think he should be getting 
letters like this, while he was still within his agreed overdraft amount. And he said that when 
he called Lloyds, it didnt know what the problem was. 
Mr G told us he spent over twenty hours on the phone to Lloyds, trying to sort this out. 
Lloyds said that it was sorry that when Mr G called, it hadnt been able to sort things out for 
him straight away. And it was also sorry that it hadnt acted then to respond to some other 
concerns hed raised with it in November 2019, which our service isnt able to look into. 
Lloyds paid Mr G £100 to say sorry for this. 
But Lloyds didnt think it had made a mistake by writing to Mr G about his overdraft. It said 
that when it wrote to him, he hadnt paid anything into his account for 63 days. And his 
balance was becoming more and more overdrawn due to the charges on his account.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Gs complaint about Lloyds asking him for payment towards 
his overdraft should be upheld. Our investigator said it wasnt unreasonable for Lloyds to 
write to Mr G, when he hadnt paid any money into the account for some time. But our 
investigator noted that when Mr G contacted Lloyds, it couldnt explain the letter it had sent. 
And it didnt acknowledge his other concerns. 
Our investigator said Lloyds had accepted it had provided Mr G with poor customer service, 
and paid him £100 to make up for that. Our investigator thought that this was in line with 
offers our service would make, so he didnt think Lloyds had to do any more.
Mr G didnt think Lloyds had done enough to make up for over 20 hours hed spent on the 
phone trying to sort this out. He said he also had to explain to three separate payees, that he 
couldnt pay on the agreed dates because Lloyds had chosen to freeze his account on three 
separate occasions.
Our investigator couldnt see that Mr G had already complained to Lloyds about freezing his 
account on three separate occasions, so he said wed need to give Lloyds a chance to 
consider that before we looked at it. 
Mr G said he had complained about the freezing of the account, and calls were recorded so 
Lloyds should have a record of this. He also wanted to know why our service hadnt 
mentioned this to Lloyds. 
Mr G also sent us a copy of the letter hed received on 14 February. It said his overdraft 
would be removed if he didnt pay money into the account within 27 days, or contact Lloyds.
Our investigator asked Lloyds about this, and it said it thought that this issue had already 
been addressed.
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said the letter Mr G showed us had explained 
why Lloyds was contacting him. It was because no payment had been made to the account 
since 13 December 2019.
The letter asked Mr G to either contact Lloyds or make payment, and the letter does state 
We appreciate that there may be many reasons why youve been unable to pay 
money into your account. We will, unfortunately, have to take away your Arranged 
Overdraft if we dont hear from you soon and/or your account isnt credited within 27 
days of the date of this letter.
Our investigator said that overdrafts are payable on demand, and as Lloyds said, if the 
account had continued not to receive payment while the facility was being used, then Lloyds 
may have had to ask for the money back. But the letter was asking Mr G to either make 
contact or make a payment. Our investigator didnt think this was a threatening letter. 
Our investigator said he could see a number of calls were made by Mr G to Lloyds, but 
nothing suggested that 20 hours were spent dealing with this issue. So our investigator still 
thought £100 compensation for this issue was reasonable.
 Mr G said he felt we had spent more time formulating our rejection of his complaint than 
actually investigating it. He wanted to know why Lloyds was asking him to deposit more 
funds into an account that already contained over sixty thousand pounds. He said he just 
wanted to get the money out of his Lloyds account, and that was why it was so upset and 
threatened him after hed been overdrawn for only three days. 
Mr G also said the same thing was behind why Lloyds repeatedly froze his account and why 
he had to spend over twenty hours on the phone resolving that issue. Mr G wanted to know 
why he should make a separate complaint about this point, when he had already made his 
complaint nearly a year ago
Our investigator said Mr Gs account had received a very large payment of over £60,000 in 
late September 2019. But then the account balance was reduced through numerous 
transactions. And no further funds were paid to the account after 13 December 2019. So the 
account became overdrawn on 23 January 2020. As the account was overdrawn, and it had 
been over nine weeks since the last payment to the account, Lloyds wrote to Mr G. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. Because no agreement was reached, our 
investigator then passed this case to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator.Ive seen statements on Mr Gs Lloyds current account going back for some years, so I can 
see that this account had a modest overdraft which had been in place for some years. Mr G 
made use of this from time to time. 
In September 2019, Mr G received one large, and then one very large, credit into his current 
account. Mr G has told us he sold his house, this may be the proceeds of this sale.
This meant Mr Gs account was substantially in credit. But he then made some payments 
out, including some sizeable ones, and by late January, his account was in debit. 
Aside from very small payments in November and December, totalling less than £100 each 
month, Mr Gs account had received no further payments in after the large credits Ive 
mentioned. Once Mr Gs account went into overdraft, direct debits were still being honoured, 
and daily overdraft charges were being applied. So I dont think that Lloyds made a mistake 
when it wrote to Mr G, to say that it didnt look as if Mr G had made any payments into his 
account for some time. 
Overdrafts are only intended for short term lending, and they are repayable on demand. But I 
dont think, as Mr G has suggested, that Mr G had only been using his overdraft for three 
days when Lloyds wrote to him. Hed been in debit for a little less than a month. And, whilst 
direct debits were still being honoured, Mr Gs account didnt appear to be in regular use 
when Lloyds wrote. 
I dont think its unreasonable for Lloyds to say that if Mr G wasnt making regular payments 
into the account, then it would take steps to remove his overdraft. Lloyds February letter 
said it would do this if Mr G didnt credit the account in the next 27 days. 
Mr G said he spent over 20 hours on the phone trying to sort this issue out. I can see Mr G 
made a number of calls on this issue, particularly on 21 February, but those calls appear to 
have been terminated by Mr G, as he wasnt able to stay on the line. I understand it isnt 
always possible for someone to continue a long call, but I dont think thats Lloyds fault. And 
I havent seen anything that makes me think that Mr G spent 20 hours in total to resolve this 
issue. I can see that Mr Gs account did receive a payment on 26 February.
I understand it can be unpleasant and stressful to be told that lending may be withdrawn, 
but, although I know that Mr G will disagree, I dont think that the actions Lloyds took in 
writing to Mr G about his current account were intended to be threatening in nature. And I 
dont think it was unreasonable or unfair of Lloyds to do this. 
Lloyds did accept that when Mr G called about the letter, it shouldve been able to answer 
any questions Mr G had, right away. So it paid £100 for the service Mr G received when he 
called, as well as for failing to raise a complaint on a separate issue. Like our investigator, I 
think this provides a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Gs complaint on this point. 
I know Mr G will be disappointed, but I dont think Lloyds has to do any more. And that 
means that his complaint about the letter Lloyds sent about his overdraft, and the service he 
received when he contacted it about this letter, wont be upheld. 
Mr G also said his account had also been frozen three times. When our investigator wrote to 
him, Mr G said hed already complained about this. But I cant see that Mr G mentioned this 
complaint to us, when he asked us to look at what Lloyds had done. And that means that 
Lloyds hasnt yet had a chance to respond to us on this issue. I wont delay this complaint by asking Lloyds to address the issue of freezing Mr Gs account 
now. But I will ask our investigator to clarify for Mr G whether Lloyds accepts it has received 
a complaint from him about this. If it has, we can then go on to consider this issue if Mr G 
would like. If not, then Mr G would need to give Lloyds a chance to address this, before he 
decides whether hed like our service to look into it.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2021.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman