DRN-2920833
The complaint
Mr B complains that ReAssure Limited failed to pay him a pension equal to his widows state 
pension which he says hes entitled to under his late wifes pension policy. 
What happened
Mr Bs late wife had a pension plan with ReAssure. When she passed away in 2010, Mr B 
was paid a lump sum from the pension plan as well as a yearly pension payment of £407.24.
Since 2010 Mr B has made several complaints to ReAssure about the pension plan. 
One issue which he first raised in 2012 was that Mr B believed he was entitled to receive a 
pension from his late wifes policy that was equal to his widows state pension. But his yearly 
payment was much less.
ReAssure responded to Mr B in 2012 saying the pension plan wasnt guaranteed or set up to 
provide a pension equal to the widows state pension. Upon the death of the policyholder 
part of the fund could be taken as a lump sum and the remainder was to provide a spouses 
pension.
Mr B made further complaints to ReAssure in 2015 and 2017 about the same issue. But 
ReAssure just referred him back to their letter in 2012.
Mr B complained again in 2020. In their response ReAssure again said the plan didnt allow 
for a pension equal to his widows state pension. They said the plan allowed for a 
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) to be paid if it applied, however they said there wasnt 
a GMP attached to this plan. 
Our investigator first looked into whether or not this was a complaint that we could look into 
as Mr B had previously brought complaints to our service and this complaint was first made 
to ReAssure in 2012. Our investigator said ReAssure hadnt given Mr B referral rights to our 
service in their 2012 letter, and this complaint isnt one that this service has looked into 
before. So, she said we could look into the merits of Mr Bs Complaint. 
When looking at the merits of Mr Bs complaint, our investigator said the terms and 
conditions of his late wifes policy didnt say that a pension equal to the widows state 
pension had to be paid. So, she didnt think ReAssure had made an error. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigator. He said his late wifes pension formed part of her 
estate so he should be entitled to all of it. As Mr B disagreed, the case has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with our investigator that this matter hasnt been addressed by our service before 
and falls within our jurisdiction for the reasons shes explained. 
While Mr B feels his late wifes pension forms part of her estate and so hes entitled to all of 
it, this decision wont revisit matters that weve already decided upon. So, I wont comment 
on Mr Bs entitlement to a lump sum or how the pension is currently paid. 
The issue for me to determine in this decision is whether Mr Bs late wifes plan was 
supposed to pay him a pension equal to his widows state pension after she passed away.
Mr B and ReAssure have both sent us the policy wording for the pension plan. The relevant 
section that Mr B highlighted to us says;
Where the policy holder leaves a spouse to whom he is lawfully married immediately prior to 
his death, the death benefits in (i) above must be used to provide a Spouses pension at 
least equal to the Widows or Widowers Guaranteed Minimum Pension. Any balance 
remaining will be paid as a lump sum
I appreciate that Mr B believes this condition means that hes entitled to a pension equal to 
his widows state pension however, I dont think thats what this term says.
The terms dont say that Mr B is entitled to a pension equal to his widows state pension. 
And I dont find that unusual. But the plan allowed for a payment equal to the GMP. A GMP 
was the minimum annual amount a workplace pension (usually a final salary pension 
scheme) agreed to pay in order to be allowed to contract-out of the State Earnings-Related 
Pension Scheme (SERPS). Not every pension has a GMP.
Mr B gave us some of the documents he held for his late wifes pension, one of which was 
the application form for the plan. The application form recorded Was the applicant 
contracted out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme? to which the No box was 
selected. The form goes on to strike through the sections in which to record the GMP. 
ReAssure and Mr B also sent us a further document which records the policy holders GMP 
as £Nil p.a..  
From the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the pension plan wasnt set up to provide 
spouse benefits equal to a widows state pension. The pension plan entitled him to a pension 
equal to the GMP if the pension had one. However, Im also satisfied that the policy didnt 
include a GMP.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr B but for the reasons Ive explained 
ReAssure havent made any errors here by not paying a pension equal to a widows state 
pension. So I wont uphold his complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Timothy Wilkes
Ombudsman