DRN-2495585
The complaint
Mr H complains about the hire purchase agreement he entered into with Blue Motor Finance 
Ltd (BMF). In particular, he complains that the lending was unaffordable. Moreover, he also 
complains about how BMF behaved when it defaulted his agreement.
  
What happened
  In February 2017 Mr H took out a hire purchase agreement with BMF. The cash price of the 
car was £10,014.99 and the total amount repayable was £17,723.23, the agreement was for 
a term of 61 months. The monthly repayments under the agreement were £287.93
Mr H told us he struggled with the repayments from the get-go. Before he took out the 
agreement he had recently defaulted on a variety of lending. Further, to make the 
repayments he sometimes had to borrow from third party lenders. He also told us he had to 
take on a second job to help cover the repayments, but it was a short-term contract with no 
prospect of extension. Mr H suggests that when this contract of employment ended he had 
no way of making up the drop in his income. He does not recall BMF asking him for any 
income and expenditure information at the time that he applied for the finance. For all of 
these reasons, Mr H suggests that BMF acted inappropriately when it lent to him as he could 
not afford the finance.
In June 2018, Mr H indicates that things came to a head for him. Up until then hed kept up 
with his repayments albeit, according to him, this was a constant struggle. But in June 2018 
he had to carry out urgent repairs to the car. Mr Hs position is that he had so little leeway in 
his finances that he was not able to both pay for the repairs and also make his repayment for 
June. He says he called BMF in advance to discuss this. It would not offer him a payment 
holiday or a freeze, which is what he wanted. Instead BMF said it would cancel his direct 
debit in June, but he would need to make up the missed payment in the following months. Mr 
H accepted this plan of action albeit he suggests he did this as he thought he had no other 
choice. 
Mr H was under the impression he tells us that BMF was able to and would reinstate the 
direct debit in July 2018. He was therefore surprised to find in July 2018 that BMF sent him a 
notice of arrears. He called it again only to find that the direct debit for July had not been 
reinstated, as BMF could not do this, because he needed to do this. As a result, he had 
missed his repayments for both June and July. Mr H indicates that he made a payment of 
£350 there and then and agreed with BMF that he would make up the arrears in the 
following months. BMFs records show he did clear the arrears over the space of a few 
months  the arrears were cleared by November 2018. But around the end of July 2018 
BMF terminated his hire purchase agreement. It replaced the hire purchase agreement with 
a new agreement that Mr H indicates that he had not consented to which it described as a 
post-termination arrangement. 
According to Mr H under the post-termination arrangement he was obliged to make his entire 
monthly payments, even though he told BMF he was struggling to do this. Moreover, BMF 
also told him that under the post-termination arrangement he no longer had the right to end 
the agreement by voluntary termination which is what he had wanted to do. Rather the new 
agreement would run without any possibility of early termination by him until the end of the 
remaining term of the original hire purchase agreement. BMF also indicated that it also 
reserved the right to seek the entire balance from him of around £9,000 should he not keep 
to the terms of the post- termination arrangement.
BMFs stance is that it ran appropriate checks before it lent to Mr H. On that basis, from its 
perspective it did enough to meet its regulatory obligations towards Mr H. Further, it wasnt 
obliged to ask Mr H for information about his income and expenditure. The seven defaults on 
Mr Hs credit file registered in 2016, all happened in a short space of time, and it inferred 
from this that Mr H had been having a few money troubles on a temporary basis. But it 
suggested the repayment history on these debts once theyd been defaulted, suggested Mr 
H was in a position to take on further borrowing by the time he came to borrow from it. BMF 
pointed out that as a borrower Mr H is expected to take responsibility for his own borrowing 
decisions. Yet he didnt mention anything at the time about the lending being unaffordable 
quite the reverse, as he signed the agreement and as part of that he agreed that he could 
afford to repay the credit.
BMFs account of what happened with the default and the post-termination arrangement is 
not exactly the same as Mr Hs. According to it, when it spoke to Mr H in early June he 
agreed to make a part payment, for June later that month but did not. Also, it suggested that 
when it spoke to him in early July 2018 he agreed to payoff all of the arears by 25 July 2018 
or the agreement would be terminated. But this did not happen. 
Moreover, BMFs stance is that when it sent the notice to end the agreement Mr H was two 
months in arrears. Therefore, it terminated the agreement on 25 July and put Mr H into the 
post termination arrangement as it thinks it was entitled to do. 
BMF describes this arrangement in the following terms - a post termination arrangement is 
where following termination of the agreement, a payment plan is set up to clear the arrears 
on the account.  It suggests Mr H didnt tell it that he was struggling with the repayments 
under the post-termination arrangement until his circumstances changed, in September 
2019.
In addition, BMF confirms that when Mr H complained of financial difficulties in September 
2019, it told him that under the post-termination arrangement he had no right to voluntarily 
terminate. 
Dissatisfied Mr H brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators took a look at Mr Hs complaint. He concluded that in the 
circumstances BMF had not done appropriate checks before lending to Mr H. Further, he 
concluded that if those checks had been done, BMF would have most likely realised that the 
lending was unaffordable. 
All in all, our investigator was not satisfied that BMF acted reasonably in defaulting the 
account. In addition, he was satisfied that the decision to put Mr H into a post-termination 
arrangement was unfair to Mr H. 
For all of these reasons, our investigator recommended that BMF end the agreement with 
nothing further owed by Mr H and transfer ownership of the car to Mr H. He recommended 
that BMF refund Mr H for any repayments he had made after he had paid off the capital hed 
borrowed. Our investigator recommended that BMF ought to add interest to this refund. Plus, 
he recommended that BMF ask the credit reference agencies to remove any negative 
information it had asked them to register on Mr Hs credit file in relation to this agreement. 
Finally, he recommended that BMF pay Mr H £500 for distress and inconvenience.
Mr H accepted our investigators recommendation, BMF did not. In short, it repeated its 
previous stance. In addition, it indicated it had offered Mr H an alternative before it defaulted 
his account. Specifically, it pointed out it had given Mr H the chance to repay his arrears in 
June 2018 and July 2018 before it ended the agreement. But from its perspective Mr H did 
not do what he said he was going to do so it acted correctly when it ended the agreement. In addition, BMF did not agree that a payment for distress and inconvenience of £500 was 
appropriate. Especially given one of the things Mr H complains about was receiving letters 
about his arrears and BMF tells us it was obliged to send these. 
It added, that the remedy our investigator had suggested put Mr H in a better position than is 
fair in the circumstances. Instead it asked, if we chose to uphold Mr Hs complaint which it 
did not agree with, that we go with the remedy Mr H asked for at first, namely to voluntarily 
terminate his agreement with nothing further owing and return BMFs car to it.
BMF asked that an ombudsman review Mr Hs complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 First, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made 
by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what 
I think are the key issues here. 
Our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored 
it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to 
reach what I think is the right outcome.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Mr H suggests BMF should never have lent to him because he could not afford to borrow. 
Moreover, he also suggests that BMF didnt do enough to make sure the lending was 
affordable. BMF suggests, on the contrary it did all it should have done to make sure that the 
credit was appropriate for Mr H. It does not agree that it did anything wrong, but for the sake 
of concluding this complaint it is prepared to end the agreement now as if Mr H had 
voluntarily terminated it and accept the return of its car.
Mr H and BMF are very far apart on this issue, its a key point, so I have taken a look at it.
When BMF lent to Mr H it was a regulated business providing regulated finance. That meant 
it had certain obligations to fulfil before it lent to him. Under the relevant regulations at that 
time BMF was obliged to make sure that its lending was affordable and responsible. In 
particular, it was required to carry out checks that were proportionate in the circumstances, 
which might include considerations about the amount borrowed and Mr Hs borrowing 
history. 
That said, exactly what a lender should consider was for each lender to decide and the rules 
listed a number of things each lender such as BMF might have wished to take into account.
Further, BMF had to be able to demonstrate that it did enough to ensure that Mr H could 
repay the borrowing in a sustainable manner without it adversely impacting on his financial 
situation. This assessment needed to be borrower focused.
Taking into account the relevant rules, guidance, good industry practice and law, I think
there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
 Did BMF complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H 
would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way? If so, did it make a fair 
lending decision? If not, would those checks have shown that Mr H wouldve been able to do so?
 Did BMF act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I conclude that BMF didnt act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr H and that he 
has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is a fair way to put things right.
As I mentioned above, the regulatory framework requires BMF to have carried out a 
proportionate assessment, based on sufficient information, of whether Mr H
could afford to repay the lending with it in a sustainable manner. This affordability 
assessment had to be borrower focused in the sense that rather than focusing on the credit 
risk for BMF the assessment needed to have sufficient checks to satisfy BMF that Mr H 
would be able to repay the finance sustainably, without the repayments having a significant 
adverse impact on Mr Hs financial situation.
BMF has told us that Mr H passed its underwriting process which uses a search engine and 
includes an affordability check. However, it considers that the content of this process is 
business sensitive information, so it does not disclose it. Further it told us that it carried out a 
credit check with one of the credit reference agencies too. Mr H passed these checks it tells 
us. Although I have not seen any of the results that BMF relied on. Without seeing the 
checks and the results of the checks that BMF carried out it is difficult to know with any 
degree of detail what information BMF considered which satisfied it that Mr H would be able 
to repay the lending in a sustainable way without causing him significant financial detriment. 
I recognise that BMF has a legitimate commercial interest in keeping details of its 
assessment criteria secure. But perhaps it would help BMF to know that if it had chosen to 
share this information with us we would have kept it confidential. 
Mr H has sent us relevant credit file information. It is likely that this information would have 
been available to BMF at the time it was assessing Mr Hs application. The information given 
to us by Mr H shows he had seven defaults registered in 2016. BMF does not appear to 
dispute that this is correct.  Mr Hs position is that this supports his perspective that BMF 
should have done further checks. Whereas, BMFs suggests that the defaults indicated that 
Mr H had short-lived financial difficulties that he had recovered from by the time he applied 
to it for credit. However, a default is usually a measure taken only where a consumer has run 
out of all other options and is struggling to repay, which in itself might reasonably have 
caused BMF to ask further questions. Plus, in the circumstances, the number of defaults, the 
type of credit, the timing of the defaults all suggest to me that a further questions ought 
reasonably to have been asked about Mr Hs financial status. BMF has highlighted that the 
defaults happened more than six months before he took out new credit with it, I think its point 
is that there was such a gap between the two issues that it is unreasonable to take the 
defaults into account when looking at whether it did sufficient checks. But I dont see it that 
way. I think the defaults came so close in time to the application for the new credit that the 
defaults were a relevant consideration, and therefore a reasonable lender would have taken 
them into account and probed further.
BMF chose not to ask for income and expenditure information. That is its choice to make. 
That said, Mr H was borrowing a relatively large sum over a relatively long period of time and 
the monthly repayments reflected this. In this context, the repayments had the potential at 
least to have a significant impact on Mr Hs monthly expenditure.  Which in turn could have 
impacted on his ability to pay back the finance in a sustainable way. I think it would have 
been proportionate therefore to make further checks to ensure these monthly repayments 
were likely to be affordable in the context of Mr Hs actual pre-existing commitments, 
particularly given what BMF already knew about Mr Hs other monthly commitments and his 
recent defaults. For all of these reasons, I dont think, on balance the searches that BMF chose to do went 
far enough.
If it had done proportionate checks what would BMF have found? Mr H has provided us with 
information about his income and expenditure at the time he was applying to borrow from 
BMF. I have no reason to doubt the accuracy of this information and it does not appear that 
BMF is disputing it. 
Whist Mr Hs income was not always the same, on average he had around £330 each month 
available to make his repayments of £287.93 per month out of. Then on top of that Mr H had 
the other monthly costs of motoring such as insurance, road tax and fuel to name the basics 
that also had to come out of this sum. It is likely his motoring costs alone would have taken 
the lions share of this £330 leaving Mr H very little if anything for other discretionary 
spending. 
In the circumstances I agree that this lending was unaffordable, and Mr H was unlikely to be 
able to repay in a sustainable manner without it causing him significant financial detriment. 
This is even without taking into account what Mr H has told us about his short-term contract 
role and his history of taking out payday loans.
BMF is correct to point out that Mr H had a responsibility here too. And it seems he did 
indicate when he took out the agreement that he agreed that the lending was affordable. 
That said, this by itself, does not set aside or release BMF from its regulatory obligations.
Given that I think the lending was unaffordable, the next issue I have thought about is how 
ought BMF be asked to put this right. It suggests that the fairest outcome is to allow Mr H to 
be treated as if he voluntarily terminated the agreement with nothing more owed by him to 
BMF. This would involve Mr H handing back the car to BMF. 
I agree that Mr H did originally ask for this remedy. But that was before he had realised that 
he might have other options. I dont think this was his preferred option rather he seems to 
have thought it was his only option. And things have moved on since then. 
Mr H wants to keep the car. He has already paid back the capital amount that he borrowed. 
Therefore, I find that it is fair and reasonable in the very individual circumstances of this 
complaint, that BMF transfer ownership of the car to Mr H. Also, it should refund any sums 
that he has repaid that are over and above the capital amount and this refund should be paid 
with interest. BMF ought to also end the post-termination arrangement with nothing further 
owed.
Mr H also complained about how BMF treated him when it defaulted his account. Ive looked 
closely at what both parties have said here. I have also had a look at what the agreement 
says and what the best practice guidance suggests, and I see no reason why BMF should 
not have followed this best practice.
When Mr H contacted BMF in June 2018 he was asking for short term forbearance on the 
part of BMF which does not seem unreasonable in the circumstances. Clearly there was 
some miscommunication between the parties about how the direct debit could be set up 
again. Further it was unfortunate that BMF appeared to think that Mr H had agreed to repay 
the arrears first by the end of June 2018 and then in early July, whereas Mr H appears to 
have thought he could repay the arrears of the course of a few months.
However, even if I accept BMFs account of events, it still acted unfairly and unreasonably I 
find in defaulting the account in July 2018. I say this because, by the time the default 
happened Mr H was less than one month in arrears and he had shown he was committed to 
clearing the arrears by making the payment of £350 in July 2018. Moreover, the agreement 
itself says it will be defaulted only when there are two months worth of arrears whereas the 
best practice guidance talks about having three months of arrears before moving to default 
an account. Added to which, in June and July 2018, as far as BMF says it was aware, Mr H was 
temporarily short of funds because of the unexpected repairs to its car. Given that this was 
from its perspective a short-term issue defaulting the agreement appears in the 
circumstances to be totally disproportionate.
BMF suggest the termination agreement was put in place to help the consumer primarily. 
Specifically, it suggests it was a good vehicle for allowing Mr H to pay off his arrears. But Mr 
H had paid off the arrears by November 2018, yet the post-termination arrangement carried 
on for months afterwards. I also take account of the fact that under the post-termination 
arrangement, Mr H had none of the protections that the law gave him under a hire purchase 
agreement. I think that is a serious matter as those protections were put in place to balance 
the relationship between the lender and the borrower and make sure that the relationship is 
fair. So, when BMF changed the hire purchase agreement to the post-termination 
arrangement Mr H was much worse off in that sense at least. 
Plus, even when he explained he was struggling more than usual with the repayments in 
September 2019 BMF did not even look at reducing the payments which I might reasonably 
have expected it to do.
I am not satisfied in the circumstance that the post-termination arrangement was properly 
explained to Mr H and he went into it fully understanding what it involved. For example, he 
was under the impression he could voluntarily terminate the arrangement which suggests its 
terms had not been adequately explained to him. I find that was unfair to Mr H.
Overall, for all of these reasons I think that BMF acted inappropriately here and likely caused 
Mr H distress and inconvenience. On that basis I find it is fair and reasonable that it pay him 
£500.
I also think it is fair and reasonable that Mr Hs credit file ought not to be impacted adversely 
by either agreement, given that he ought not to have been a party to either. For that reason, 
BMF must amend the information it asks the credit reference agencies to register on Mr Hs 
credit file so that he has no negative information registered about either one. 
  
My final decision
  My final decision is that Blue Motor Finance Ltd must.
End the post-termination arrangement with nothing further owed by Mr H.
Transfer ownership of the car into Mr Hs name.
Refund any repayments that Mr H has made that mean that he has paid more than 
the original capital he originally borrowed. BMF must add interest to these refunds at 
the rate of 8% simple per year. The interest to run from the date of the payments until 
the date of settlement.
Ask the credit reference agencies to remove any negative information it has asked 
the credit reference agencies to register on Mr Hs credit file in relation to the 
agreement and the post-termination arrangement. In particular it must ask them to 
remove the default, remove information about the post-termination agreement and 
mark the hire purchase agreement as settled and remove any late payment of 
missed payment markers in relation to it either the hire purchase agreement or the 
post-termination arrangement.
Pay Mr H £500 for distress and inconvenience.
BMF must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr H accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the £500 from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% a year simple.If it considers it is legally required to deduct income tax from the interest mentioned above, it 
must send a tax deduction certificate with the payment so that Mr H can reclaim the tax if he 
is able to.
Mr H should contact BMF if he is unsure of the approach it has taken and both parties 
should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more about the tax treatment of 
this portion of the compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021.
 
Joyce Gordon
Ombudsman