DRN-2666302
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about the charges applied at the end of his hire agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS). He rejects the claim for damage.
What happened
Mr W entered into a hire agreement with MBFS in September 2017. At the end of the 
agreement the car was collected. Mr W says that when the car was collected it was light and 
the car was clean and so any dents could have been noted at that time, but none were.
Mr W received an invoice for £295. This included charges for cleaning (£10) and a missing 
V5 document (£25) which were removed after he challenged these. The main charge of 
£260 was for damage to the cars bumper. Mr W disputed this charge and requested a copy 
of the inspection report. He was sent this, and it showed a dent. However, Mr W says the 
damage wasnt recorded on the collection inspection report and said it happened after this.
Mr W also said that MBFS had said it didnt provide its clients email addresses to the car 
collection company but that this had happened. He questioned whether this was a breach of 
data protection.
MBFS says that it was wet when the first inspection took place making it hard to determine 
the damage and that the first inspection report set out that a further inspection would take 
place. It says that the dent was noticeable in the second inspection and fell outside its 
vehicle return standards. It also says the car collection company had confirmed no damage 
took place on its site and that a repair took place.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said he had considered MBFS vehicle 
return standards and the industry guidance set up by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing 
Associations (BVRLA). He said the damage recorded by MBFS fell outside of the fair wear 
and tear guidelines and so didnt think the charge had been applied unfairly. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He said the car was clean when collected and 
MBFS had accepted this by removing the cleaning charge and that while wet, any damage 
could have been seen.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr W should have been reasonably aware that a second inspection would take 
place.
The second inspection took place over two weeks after the car was collected. The 
BVRLA says that if charges are to be applied the hirer should be told of these within 
four weeks of the car being collected. This didnt appear to have happened in this 
case.
Charges were applied for damage to the bumper (£260), cleaning (£10) and a 
missing V5 registration document (£25). Having looked at the photographs and video 
taken on collection, the car appeared clean and the first inspection report recorded 
that the V5 document was present, so I found it reasonable the charges for cleaning 
and the V5 document were removed.
The second inspection report showed damage to the bumper which appeared to fall 
outside of the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines.
Mr W challenged when the damage took place. The first inspection had a photograph 
of the bumper and a video showing this area of the car. The inspection seemed to 
have been reasonably thorough and there seemed to be reasonable light and so any 
obvious damage would have been seen. Having looked at the photographs and video 
from the first inspection I couldnt say for certain that the damage to the bumper was 
present. I also noted that the mileage on the car increased from 10,676 at collection 
to 10,839 on the second inspection report. As the car was driven by the collection 
company I found it possible that damage could have occurred during that time.
Overall, I didnt find I could say based on the first inspection report that the damage was 
present. Because of this uncertainty, the feedback given to Mr W at the time of the first 
inspection and the delay in the charges being sent to Mr W I found the fair resolution was for 
the £260 damage charge to be removed.
I noted the comments Mr W made about his email being provided to the car collection 
company. I said that if Mr W was concerned about a data breach he could refer this to the 
Information Commissioner Office (ICO). I didnt find that Mr W had been disadvantaged by 
the collection company having his email. 
Both Mr W and MBFS accepted the recommendation in my provisional decision. MBFS said 
that it would remove the charge and close Mr Ws account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I couldnt say for certain that the damage Mr W was 
charged for was present when the car was collected from him. Therefore, I think the fairest 
resolution is for the charge to be removed. 
As both parties agreed with my provisional decision my final decision remains that the 
charge for damage should be removed from Mr Ws account.
Putting things right
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should, as it has agreed, remove the 
outstanding charge of £260 from Mr Ws account and close his account. If any adverse 
information has been recorded on Mr Ws credit file because of this issue, this should be 
removed.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited should take the actions set out above to resolve this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman