DRN-3789487
The complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) treated him unfairly 
when he claimed on his home emergency policy for boiler repairs.
What happened
Mr Ps boiler was assessed by an engineer due to a leak. They recommended what they 
thought were the necessary repairs. Following that a second engineer assessed the boiler, 
this time one from the manufacturer. The second engineer condemned the boiler as being 
beyond economical repair.
Mr P says the second engineer shouldnt have condemned the boiler. He believes they 
caused irreparable damage to it  possibly to avoid having to carry out the repair.
RSA looked into Mr Ps concerns, but were reassured by the second engineer that the 
correct course of action had been taken.
Mr P remained unhappy with that and brought his case to our service. An investigator here 
looked into it, but felt that RSA had acted appropriately. Mr P disagreed, so the matter was 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I dont think hes been treated unfairly. My decision may 
come across as relatively short for a matter that clearly means a lot to him. That isnt 
intended as a discourtesy, it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
First of all, I want to make clear that I am not an expert in boilers or boiler repairs. Whats for 
me to consider is whether or not RSA acted appropriately in relying upon what the engineers 
told them. RSA have provided evidence to show that the first engineer referred to side 
panels showing distress  although I acknowledge that he didnt condemn the boiler.
RSA have also provided evidence from the manufacturer of the boiler to say that they 
believed it was beyond economic repair and so would need to be replaced. They also cited 
the side casing as part of the reason for this. And it was described as being dangerous too.
While I appreciate that Mr P disagrees with this, I dont find it to be unreasonable for RSA to 
have relied upon the information theyve been provided with. Im aware Mr P believes there 
may have been some form of misconduct, but I havent seen enough to be able to agree that 
is the case.
I also acknowledge that Mr P has provided photos which he believes counter what the 
second engineer has said about corrosion. But, as Ive explained, I am not an expert in 
boilers and, without more persuasive evidence to the contrary, I maintain that its reasonable 
for RSA to have relied upon those who are employed in that field.
And I find the results of an in-person inspection to be more persuasive than photos.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman