DRN-4328614
The complaint
Miss S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Miss S was provided with a credit card with a credit limit of £6,700, by Virgin Money in 
August 2022. She says the lending was unaffordable and she has incurred constant late 
payment charges and interest that takes her above her credit limit. She says she cant afford 
to buy essentials and the situation is causing her stress.  
Virgin Money says that Miss S made an online application for the credit card and declared a 
household income of £88,000. It said it carried out a credit check and used the results from 
this alongside the information Miss S had provided to assess her application. It reviewed the 
application against its lending criteria and approved Miss Ss application and assigned an 
affordable credit limit. It said that at the time the credit card was provided there was nothing 
to suggest Miss S was in financial difficulty.
Miss S referred her complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. 
She said that before providing the credit card, Virgin Money verified Miss Ss annual income 
and gathered information about her mortgage payments, other credit commitments and 
included an amount for her living costs. She noted that there was no adverse information on 
Miss Ss credit file. 
Our investigator thought the checks carried out before the credit card was provided were 
reasonable. She assessed the information received through the checks and said this 
showed the agreement to likely be affordable for Miss S.  
Miss S didnt agree with our investigators view. She said she had a number of other debts at 
the time and was gambling and that further checks should have taken place before the credit 
card was provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In summary, before providing credit, lenders need to complete reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks. There isnt a set list of checks a lender is required to carry out, it just 
needs to ensure the checks are proportionate when considering things like: the type and 
amount of credit being provided, the size of the regular repayments, the total cost of the 
credit and the consumers circumstances. 
Before providing the credit card, Virgin Money gathered information about Miss Ss income 
and household income and verified Miss Ss income. It also carried out a credit search. As 
this credit card was in Miss Ss name, I find it reasonable that her income was relied on in 
the assessment rather than the household income and given the size of the credit limit being 
provided I think it right that Miss Ss income was verified. Taking into account Miss Ss 
verified income I think that the checks undertaken were proportionate.
While I think the checks were proportionate that doesnt necessarily mean that the lending 
should have bene provided. Before I can decide that I need to consider whether the 
information received through the checks raised any concerns that Miss S might be struggling 
financially or that the credit limit might not be sustainably affordable for her.
I have looked through the credit check results, and these record no defaults, judgements or 
delinquent accounts. However, while no accounts are recorded as being opened in the 
previous three months, a high number of accounts are recorded as opened in the previous 
12 months and I think it would have been reasonable to have asked about this. 
Miss S has provided a copy of her credit report and also her bank statements for the months 
leading up to her application. While I do not think in this case Virgin Money was required to 
ask for copies of bank statements given Miss Ss income and the credit results, I have 
looked at this information to provide an insight as to what might have been disclosed had 
Miss S been asked about her accounts. 
Having looked through Miss Ss credit report this shows that around the time she applied for 
the Virgin Money credit card she also took out other credit being another credit card and a 
loan. However as these are noted on the credit file for the month after the Virgin Money 
credit card, I cannot say that Virgin Money would have been aware of these (if they were 
even in place at the time). Miss S had also previously made use of short term loans. 
However, these were repaid and as she didnt appear to have taken out any short term loans 
in the months leading up to the Virgin Money application I do not find I can say that if asked 
about these it would have raised concerns such that further lending shouldnt have been 
provided.
Miss Ss bank statements for the month leading up to her application show her monthly 
income to be above the monthly amount that was included in her application based on her 
annual income. Her statements support the other application information in regard to 
Miss Ss mortgage and credit commitments. While I can see from the bank statements that 
Miss S was making use of her overdraft facility, having looked through these, I do not find I 
can say that had further questions been asked about Miss Ss financial situation, these 
would have suggested the lending to have been unaffordable. 
Therefore, on balance, I do not find that further questions would have raised concerns that 
meant the credit card shouldnt have been provided. Based on the information received, the 
lending appeared affordable and so I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
While I dont think Virgin Money was wrong to provide the lending to Miss S, as she has 
explained her current financial situation, we would expect Virgin Money to treat Miss S 
sympathetically and positively in regard to her outstanding credit facility. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman