DRN-2266923
The complaint
Mr B has complained about an administration matter related to a short-term loan he took out 
in 2016 with Provident Personal Credit Limited, trading at the time as Satsuma. 
He says Satsuma incorrectly applied a default on his credit file in relation to this borrowing.
What happened
One of our adjudicators has already told Mr B they didnt think we should uphold his 
complaint. Mr B doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Bs complaint.
Theres no dispute Mr B had substantial problems in paying back the loan he had taken out. 
I can see, for example, that he almost immediately began to either not pay (or only pay some 
of) the agreed repayments. 
Satsuma has also already agreed that it initially recorded a default on the loan as being from 
December 2017 due to an administration error. However, I think its fair to say this was a 
relatively minor issue, as it was later amended to show the default from January 2018. From 
what I can see this change has been implemented and it has been reflected on Mr Bs credit 
file. 
Mr B says he wasnt aware Satsuma had sent him notice telling him of being in default. 
However, as Ive said, theres no dispute that he was in default and Satsuma seems to me to 
have sent the information out to him correctly at the contact details it previous used to get in 
touch with Mr B. Im afraid I dont find it likely that Mr B wouldnt have been able to check 
quite easily what the situation was, given what he himself knew about his own financial 
situation
As I say, our adjudicator has already comprehensively explained these issues to Mr B. I too 
have given them further thought and Im sorry that Mr B has quite obviously been 
experiencing financial challenges. 
But in this particular case, I dont think Satsuma has done anything wrong. Satsuma seems 
to have applied the default information correctly and also been sympathetic of Mr B being in 
a debt management plan. I accept his point about much of this information being applied 
long after the event. However, it looks like Satsuma did try to work with Mr B to arrange 
payments he could afford to make, and I do think the delays Mr B speaks of are partly 
related to this desire to work with him.
I agree some of these actions may have affected Mr Bs credit file, but Satsuma has the right 
to report defaults correctly to the credit reference agencies. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont direct Provident 
Personal Credit Limited to pay Mr B any compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman