DRN-2904301
Complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr E says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold him PPI.
Background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr Es 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr Es representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
My findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Es. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr Es complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised my reasons for this 
conclusion below:
I think AXA made it clear that Mr E didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. I 
say this because Mr E had the store card for a number of years before he was sold the PPI, so he 
knew he didnt need to buy it to get the credit. The PPI was sold in a phone call in 2001. While 
understandably there is no recording of the call after so many years,  I think its more likely than 
not that AXA followed the sales script which it has previously provided to this service. That sales 
script makes it clear that the PPI is optional and seeks the consumers permission before adding 
it. And I think if the charge had appeared on his statement without Mr E agreeing to it, that hed 
have challenged it when he first saw it.
Mr E says that he was advised to buy the PPI. But he also says he doesnt remember any 
conversation about the PPI. AXA says it didnt recommend the PPI to Mr E - so it didnt have to 
check that the PPI was right or suitable for him. From this services understanding of the way 
AXA sold PPI I think its more likely that AXA didnt provide Mr E with a personal 
recommendation. But it did have to give Mr E enough clear and timely information so he could 
decide for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information AXA gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. 
But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. The 
cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr E  for example he wasnt affected by the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he 
was buying from the information he was likely given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it 
seems like it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont 
think Mr E would have declined the cover had AXA done anything more.
While the policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, in 
light of Mr Es circumstances at the time of sale and despite its limitations, the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. So I think he would have still thought he had some 
good reasons to take the policy out.
Overall, I consider that Mr E would have still taken out PPI. The policy was sufficiently close to what 
its likely he thought he was getting and I think the policy could provide a useful benefit in a difficult 
time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I think that he would have 
taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Es representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr Es representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Es individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Es particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
This means AXA doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
My decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint  so I make no award.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2022.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman