DRN-2435273
The complaint
Mrs D complains that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited declined her terminal 
illness claim for her late husband. 
Mrs D is being represented by her sister - Mrs G. But for ease Ill refer to both their actions 
as that of Mrs D.
 
What happened
In December 2004 the late Mr D and Mrs D took out a level term assurance policy for a term 
of fifteen years. 
In February 2020 Mrs D contacted L&G to let it know Mr D had sadly passed away. A 
retrospective terminal illness claim was considered by L&G. But it decided to decline the 
claim. L&G said the medical evidence showed Mr D hadnt been given less than twelve 
months to live before the cut-off point by the end of June 2018  which is eighteen months 
before the policy ended. 
Mrs D disagreed with L&Gs decision, so she made a complaint. L&G reviewed the 
complaint but upheld the decision by its claims department. It said its Chief Medical Officers 
(CMOs) were satisfied that based upon the information supplied to it by Mr Ds treating 
Doctor, the terminal illness definition wasnt met until October 2018. L&G offered Mrs D £400 
for misadvising her about a potential claim under the policy when she contacted it in July 
2019.   
Mrs D was unhappy with this decision, so she brought her complaint to this service. She said 
L&Gs CMOs who had reviewed the claim had never met Mr D. She added that Mr D only 
had appointments every six months and that his condition was the same in June 2018 as it 
was in October 2018. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that based upon the 
medical evidence he had seen, L&G had fairly decided that Mr D hadnt met the policys 
terminal illness definition in June 2018. And that there wasnt enough evidence to say Mr D 
had a life expectancy of less than twelve months in June 2018. 
Mrs D disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. She said the terms and conditions 
failed to say the late Mr D didnt meet the terminal illness definition. She said the drugs that 
Mr D took, or were discussed, were only maintaining his condition not improving it. And at no 
time was Mr D told his condition could improve prior to June 2018. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im afraid Im not upholding it. I know this will be very disappointing news for 
Mrs D. I want to assure her that I didnt take this decision lightly. I understand this is an 
incredibly difficult time for her. While I dont want to add to her distress, I cant say L&G has 
treated her unfairly. Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is here), I have to 
make my decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than 
not to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
The declined claim
The policy which commenced in 2004 sets out that for a terminal illness claim to be paid, the 
following definition must be met in full:
If either Life Assured has a Terminal Illness, namely an advanced or rapidly progressing 
incurable illness where, in the opinion of an attending Consultant and our Chief Medical 
Officer, the life expectancy is no greater than 12 months, Legal & General will make an 
advance payment of the Sum Assured. This benefit will not be available during the 18 
months immediately before the Expiry Date. Once the payment has been made the policy 
will terminate and no further benefit will be payable.
I should explain that in considering this complaint its not for me to reach a medical opinion 
on whether Mr D met the above definition. Instead, I have to consider whether L&G 
assessed the claim fairly and reasonably in light of the medical evidence and opinions it was 
presented with. Having carefully considered all the available evidence, Im satisfied that it 
did. 
For me to ask L&G to accept the claim I would need to see persuasive evidence that Mr D, 
more likely than not, wouldve been given less than twelve months to live before the terminal 
illness exclusion began on this policy. Its important to note as well that the above term says 
that in order for a claim to be paid, both Mr Ds treating consultant and L&Gs CMO have to 
have the opinion that Mr D had less than twelve months to live in June 2018. 
Mr Ds treating Doctor, who Ill refer to as A, has confirmed that Mr D was diagnosed with 
cancer in 2013. He also said that after having surgery and three years of treatment, there 
was no evidence of the disease in October 2016. However, six months later the disease 
reappeared, so Mr D recommenced his treatment. A said Mr D showed an excellent partial 
response in July 2017 which was maintained until October 2018. But in July 2019 various 
scans showed the disease had returned. 
A added that Mr D had significantly inferior survival outcomes compared to patients who 
could undergo subsequent lines of therapy which could increase median life expectancy 
from roughly sixteen to thirty-two months. 
L&G has asked a few CMOs to review Mr Ds claim. They said it was difficult to give an 
accurate assessment of Mr Ds life expectancy in or before June 2018. One CMO said life 
expectancy wouldve been considered in May 2017 when the disease reoccurred, but this 
wouldve been deferred pending Mr Ds response to starting treatment again. The CMO 
added that October 2018 wouldve been when Mr D was more likely to have been given less 
than twelve months to live.  
Another CMO commented that second line treatment was considered for Mr D in August and 
November 2019, which is after the above terminal illness exclusion had started. So, he felt 
the terminal illness definition wouldnt have been met prior to June 2018. A mentioned in his report that most patients who couldnt start second line treatment had 
inferior survival rates. But as L&Gs CMO pointed out, the oncology letters show that second 
line treatment was a consideration in 2019. Mrs D says this wasnt an option due to the 
affect the treatment had on Mr Ds kidneys. But I note A has said Mr Ds condition was 
maintained until October 2018. Which is after the terminal illness exclusion began in 
July 2018. 
So, Im more persuaded - on balance  with the information provided by L&Gs CMOs that 
its more likely than not that Mr D wouldnt have been given less than twelve months to live in 
June 2018. 
Mrs D calling to make a claim whilst the policy was still active
Mrs D is unhappy she wasnt able to make a terminal illness claim due to what L&G told her 
whilst the policy was still in force. 
Ive reviewed the call notes provided by L&G. I can see a discussion took place in July 2013 
about the late Mr D needing to have a prognosis of less than twelve months in order to make 
a claim. L&G sent several chaser letters and attempted to call Mrs D until February 2014. 
And because L&G didnt hear back it took no further action. 
There was then a further conversation with L&G in January 2018, which Ive listened to, 
about the level of cover Mrs D had. L&G told Mrs D that a claim could be made if the 
consultants could confirm if Mr Ds life expectancy was less than twelve months and Mrs D 
said they didnt have that at the time. L&G then told Mrs D what she could do in order to get 
the twelve-month prognosis confirmed by a specialist and once she has that they could call 
L&G back to start the claims process. 
A further call took place in July 2019 and L&G has said it was this call where its service was 
not to its usual standard. During this call Mrs D was told the terminal illness cover had an 
exclusion which meant it couldnt consider a claim within the last eighteen-months of the 
policy expiring. But L&G said she shouldve been passed through to the claims team to 
discuss this, so the claim couldve been considered further. L&G has offered £400 for the 
service it provided as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ive carefully considered the service L&G provided here. The call notes from 2013 show a 
discussion took place about the need for Mr D to have had a prognosis of less than twelve-
months for a terminal illness claim to be accepted, and a similar conversation took place in 
2018. I can understand the call that took place in 2019 wouldve been distressing for Mrs D, 
and it meant the claim couldnt be considered at the earliest opportunity. So, Im satisfied the 
£400 offer is fair and in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
I know my decision leaves Mrs D in a difficult position. Im sorry to disappoint her, but 
overall, I dont think shes been treated unfairly. So, Im not going to ask L&G to take any 
further action here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 July 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman