DRN-3236852
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy with the service they received from Vitality Health Limited. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs P had a private medical insurance policy with Vitality Health Limited. In March 
2020 Mr P was receiving rehabilitation treatment and back treatment, which had been 
authorised by Vitality. 
On 23 March 2020 the UK went into what is commonly referred to as lockdown in response 
to the Covid-19 pandemic. Private hospitals and facilities were taken over for use by the 
NHS. 
Mr P says he was unable to access treatment until August 2020. He said hes had to pay the 
full policy premiums when he was off sick and had suffered ongoing pain. He wants Vitality 
to pay back the premiums charged whilst services werent available. 
Vitality said that it had put in place a Premium Saver Option which allowed customers to 
pay 50% of their premiums for three months but that it would affect cover under the plan for 
six months. They also highlighted that theyd responded to the outbreak of Covid-19 by 
increasing other policy benefits, such as introducing a Covid-19 cashback benefit. Unhappy 
with Vitalitys response, Mr P complained to our service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and didnt uphold the complaint. He thought 
the offer Mr and Mrs P had been made was fair, particularly taking into account the 
unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic. He also thought that the 
policy did offer a benefit to Mr and Mrs P during the relevant time, even though they couldnt 
access all the treatment they wanted to. 
Mr P didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In summary, he said 
that he was offered a half price premium for a reduced service as he would have had three 
months of reduced cover and then no cover, because he wouldnt have been able to make a 
new claim. So, the policy was impacted for six months. He also said hed had to pay a 
second excess as some of the treatment took place in a new policy year. So, I need to make 
a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Thats because: 
During 2020 private medical facilities were taken over by the NHS to support the 
NHSs response to the pandemic. This temporarily affected Vitalitys ability to provide 
the full range of services it would usually be able to offer to customers under their 
medical insurance policies  including Mr and Mrs P. This was due to the 
unprecedented and unforeseen impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and, Im satisfied, 
was outside Vitalitys control 
Vitality accept that elective and non-urgent treatments may have been deferred or 
delayed as a result of the pandemic. But it says it tried to maintain its usual service 
as much as possible throughout this period by offering remote consultations where 
possible. It also says it adapted some of its partners and rewards benefits to be 
enjoyed at home, such as points that wouldve, ordinarily, gone towards cinema 
tickets being converted to vouchers for home rental. And it introduced enhanced 
benefits, such as a Covid-19 cashback benefit, to support its customers during this 
time. So, I dont think I can fairly conclude that Mr and Mrs P were receiving no 
benefit from the policy during the relevant time
I appreciate that Mr P was receiving treatment during the time that services were 
impacted by the pandemic. But, in any event, I cant see that Mr P sought further help 
or guidance from Vitality about alternative options for his treatment. Had he done so; 
Id have expected Vitality to offer what assistance they could. But the evidence Ive 
seen suggests that Mr P didnt look to utilise the additional services Vitality may have 
been able to offer during lockdown 
In any event Vitality offered Mr and Mrs P a 50% reduction in premiums for three 
months. Mr and Mrs P say that this would have impacted their policy for six months. 
Ive taken into account the terms of the offer made to them. It was made on the basis 
that they relinquish certain benefits recently introduced by Vitality to its customers in 
response to the pandemic, including the Covid-19 cashback benefit. The discount 
was offered on the basis that Mr and Mrs P agreed to a specified waiting period for 
any in-patient or day-patient hospital admissions, unless the treatment was for 
cancer or where it was not medically advised to wait for the treatment. Mr and Mrs P 
didnt want to take up that offer, and I understand their reasons for doing so. 
However, Im not persuaded that Vitalitys offer was unreasonable. If Mr and Mrs P 
wanted the benefit of a premium discount, I dont think its unfair that they would need 
to give up some of the benefits that were introduced in response to the pandemic for 
the time they were paying a reduced premium. And, in those circumstances, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that they agree to a delay in any non-urgent care 
Ive also taken into account what Mr P has said about paying the excess again 
because his treatment went on for over a year, due to the impact of the delay. But the 
policy terms and conditions are clear that if a policyholder has a per claim excess 
then Vitality will deduct the excess from the first invoice they pay and will reapply the 
excess if the claim continues for more than a year. I also note that Mr P told us that 
his treatment continued, in any event, into 2022. So, it seems unlikely hes lost out as 
a result of the break in services being provided for a few months in 2020 as his 
treatment for the same condition has continued for some time. Bearing in mind all of 
the circumstances Ive outlined above; I dont think its unreasonable for Vitality to 
charge Mr P an excess in line with the policy terms.
 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2022.
 Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman