DRN-4271814
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Aviva Insurance Limited handled a claim against his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr J had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. He made a claim on the policy for an accident 
in July 2022. A law firm, L, was appointed to recover Mr Js uninsured losses.
Mr J explained to our service he has been treated poorly by L  communications have been 
poor, and hes been left to do all the running around.
Although he has £100,000 worth of legal expenses cover under his motor insurance policy, 
Mr J says its impossible to use it. And he hasnt been allowed to appoint his own firm of 
solicitors, even though this isnt stated in the policy terms. 
Further, Mr J says Aviva closed his claim while he has insured losses owed to him, and it 
wont tell him the costs. Hes also unhappy Aviva refused to log a complaint about L when it 
was Aviva that chose the firm.
When Mr J raised his concerns with Aviva, it explained it closed the claim in December 2022 
after receiving full reimbursement of its costs from the third-party insurer (TPI). And it 
confirmed L would still provide its services even though the claim has been closed.  
The Investigator reviewed matters and didnt recommend Mr Js complaint be upheld. Mr J 
didnt agree so the matter has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint and Ive done so using my own words. Im not 
going to respond to every single point made by the parties involved. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules 
allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Ive given 
careful consideration to all the submissions made before arriving at my decision and Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
consider to be a fair outcome.
Firstly, I think its important to explain L was instructed through the legal expenses section of 
Mr Js motor insurance policy. As a result, the actions of Aviva which can be considered by 
this service are limited. We dont hold insurers responsible for how a law firm appointed in 
this way has handled the claim. Thats because, once the insurer  here Aviva - appoints a 
law firm, its role is primarily limited to funding the costs. 
So, Ive thought about the matters I can consider in this complaint against Aviva. 
From the information Ive seen and limited contact I can see Aviva had with Mr J about this 
issue, I havent seen any evidence Avivas service fell below what I wouldve expected. It 
offered to raise Mr Js concerns with L and did this for him in August 2022. This is what Id 
expect it to do. I also note it discussed with Mr J the option for him to appoint a different law 
firm and potential impact of this on the legal costs paid by it under the policy. So, I dont 
agree he was prevented from doing this and, as the Investigator explained, the terms setting 
out the law firms appointment and funding are set out in the policy terms. Finally, given L 
was acting for Mr J and Aviva was paying for the legal costs, I dont agree its been 
impossible for him to use the legal cover provided by the policy.
Aviva closing Mr Js claim doesnt influence the recovery of Mr Js uninsured losses through 
L. So, I dont agree Aviva did anything wrong when it recorded Mr Js claim as closed after 
receiving a full reimbursement of its costs from the TPI. In fact, this is what wed expect it to 
do given a claim being incorrectly left open longer than it should, may cause issues for a 
consumer such as increased premiums at renewal or when taking out a new policy.
I recognise Mr J will be unhappy with this decision as he wants this service to consider the 
actions of L. And I regret were not able to assist Mr J to the extent hed like us to on this 
occasion. However, for the above reasons, the actions of L arent something I can consider 
in this complaint against Aviva. Any concerns Mr J has with the service provided by the law 
firm, would need to be taken to the Legal Ombudsman (for and on behalf of the passenger, 
as appropriate) as it has specific jurisdiction over legal service providers.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman