DRN-3113195
The complaint
Mrs S complains, on behalf of the estate of Mrs H, that HSBC UK Bank Plc provided 
incorrect account information.
What happened
In May 2020, Mrs S has said she called HSBC to find out about her late sisters accounts 
and was told she had four accounts in total. She also asked for the combined balance and 
was provided with a figure in the region of £322,000. 
The following week she asked HSBC to repeat the information and they told her there was 
only three accounts and the combined balance was just over £32,200. As this differed 
considerably to what shed previously been told, she made a complaint and said the new 
combined figure couldnt be right.
In response, HSBC explained there had only ever been three accounts and the lower 
combined figure was correct. They also said they couldnt locate any record of Mrs Ss initial 
telephone call, but theyd like to offer her £100 compensation to say sorry for any upset the 
incorrect information may have caused her.
Mrs S didnt think this was a fair outcome and said she strongly believed HSBC were 
depriving the estate of the correct amount of funds. So, an investigator at our service 
considered the complaint. He empathised with Mrs S, but explained that based on the 
account information hed seen, there were no grounds to suggest the £322,000 figure was 
correct or owed to the estate. He also said he wouldnt reasonably expect HSBC to honour 
any figure that was unfortunately provided in error.
In response, Mrs S said she thinks it's suspicious HSBC havent been able to trace her 
telephone conversation with them. She also said she didnt have any documentary evidence 
to support the larger amount being due or the existence of a fourth account. However, based 
on her sisters modest lifestyle, she still strongly believes additional funds are due to the 
estate from HSBC.
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would firstly like to start by passing on my sincere condolences to Mrs S. I appreciate shes 
been through a very difficult time recently and this complaint has been a source of ongoing 
upset and worry for her. She will no doubt be disappointed by this decision, but for the 
reasons Ill now explain I havent upheld it.
HSBC are required to keep accurate account information for each of their customers. So, 
I've carefully reviewed the records they hold for Mrs Hs accounts to see what they say about 
the combined balance. Having done so, Im satisfied they show Mrs H had three accounts in 
total, and a combined balance of just over £32,200. So, while I appreciate the reasons Mrs S 
believes the combined balance should be substantially more than this, Im satisfied the 
available documentary evidence doesnt support her point of view.
I know Mrs S feels HSBC have acted suspiciously because they havent provided the call 
recording from her initial conversation with them. However, I can see from their case notes 
that they tried to find this call, and they didnt have any success. So, I dont think they are 
trying to deprive Mrs S, or this service of the call intentionally. Im also satisfied that having 
reviewed the account details as mentioned above, if Mrs S was unfortunately given a higher 
balance as shes said she was, this information was likely to have been provided due to a 
very unfortunate human error. I also wouldnt reasonably expect HSBC to honour any 
incorrect figure, as that wouldnt be fair or reflective of what Mrs Hs accounts were actually 
worth. So, I dont see any grounds for directing HSBC to pay the estate the additional funds 
Mrs S has requested. 
I appreciate this matter has been very distressing for Mrs S. She recalls a conversation 
where she was told her sisters accounts had a combined balance of over £322,000 and I 
can understand why she would find this very difficult to move on from, despite the 
documentary evidence showing a significantly lower combined balance. My hope is shell be 
able to use this decision as a means for moving forward, even though shell be initially 
disappointed by the outcome.
Under the rules by which this service operates, Im unable to direct HSBC to pay Mrs S (a 
third party) any compensation for the distress shes experienced due to this issue. Im 
mindful HSBC have already agreed to pay her £100 compensation. So, its a matter for them 
to decide whether they'll keep to this agreement, although I would expect them to do so.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman