DRN-3513756
The complaint
Mr M complains about the affordability of a hire purchase agreement provided by Advantage 
Finance Limited (Advantage), that they gave differing figures to settle the agreement, and 
that additional finance was declined. 
What happened
In August 2018 Mr M acquired a used car through a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage. The agreement ran for 60 months and required Mr M to make monthly 
repayments of £311.85. 
In November 2020 Mr M asked Advantage for a settlement figure following an insurance 
claim, which involved his car being written off. When Advantage received payment from the 
insurance company in December 2020, they calculated the remaining balance on the 
agreement incorrectly, which they later corrected. When this was corrected it left an 
outstanding amount of £98.81 on the agreement. Advantage told Mr M theyd write this off as 
an apology for the confusion caused. 
Mr M applied for further finance with Advantage in November 2020 which was declined. 
Mr M complained to Advantage that they had failed to carry out the necessary checks at the 
start of the agreement to ensure that he could afford it. 
Advantage sent Mr M their final response to his complaint in March 2021. They said 
appropriate checks had been made as to whether Mr M could afford the agreement, and the 
loan was affordable. They didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M brought his complaint to this service for investigation. Mr M said 
Advantage didnt check he could afford the agreement, he also said they gave him 
conflicting information about the settlement figure at the end of the agreement and refused to 
provide any further finance. Mr M asked for compensation and said he was paying more 
under finance elsewhere than he would have if Advantage had accepted his new application. 
Our investigator gave his view that Advantage carried out appropriate and proportionate 
checks prior to offering credit to Mr M. He said that although an incorrect settlement figure 
was provided, this was corrected quickly, and the write of the remaining balance was fair 
compensation in the circumstances. Our investigator said Advantage were able to decide 
who they provided finance to, and so they hadnt acted unfairly in declining to provide further 
credit to Mr M. 
Mr M didnt agree. He said the service hed received was very poor, and hed lost out by 
being refused finance as he was paying more for his new agreement with a different 
provider. 
As an agreement cant be reached the case has been passed to me for a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement which means were able to look into complaints about it.
 
Affordability of the agreement
Mr M has said that Advantage didnt carry out checks at the start of the agreement to make 
sure it was affordable for him. 
Advantage will be familiar with all the rules, regulations, and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
In summary, Advantage needed to check that Mr M could afford to meet his repayments 
sustainably before entering into a credit agreement with him. It needed to check that he 
could meet his repayments out of his usual means without experiencing undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences, for example while meeting any existing commitments and without 
having to borrow or realise assets. The necessary checks needed to take into account both 
the nature of the credit (its type, amount, term etc.) and Mr Ms particular circumstances.
With this in mind, my main considerations are whether Advantage completed reasonable 
and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ms application to satisfy itself that he would 
be able to make his repayments under the agreement without experiencing adverse 
consequences. If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown and, 
ultimately, did Advantage make a fair lending decision.
Before granting the finance, I think Advantage gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Mr M about his ability to repay. I say this because it completed a credit 
check in order to understand how Mr M had managed existing and previous finance 
arrangements. It also verified Mr Ms income. Whilst they didnt ask for bank statements to 
review Mr Ms expenditure, they used statistical data specific to Mr Ms location and 
household to estimate his likely expenditure on rent, utilities, and council tax. 
Advantage then considered what would have been left over to cover other expenditure and 
made an allowance of £671.92. They noted that even after the estimated expenses had 
been taken into account, Mr M would have had enough disposable income to afford monthly 
repayments up to £418.43. 
I think Advantage made a reasonable assessment of Mr Ms likely expenditure and, whilst I 
accept Advantage didnt consider every individual expense Mr M was likely to incur, they had 
allowed £671.92 for those expenses. I think this was a considerable amount of headroom 
after the main expenses of rent, utilities and council tax had been taken into consideration as 
well as his credit commitments.
I dont think there was anything in Mr Ms credit file that would have given reason for concern 
and merited further checks. The credit file showed several historical defaults, but Mr Ms 
credit performance at the time appeared to have stabilised. He wasnt in arrears toward his 
other providers, his bank account was being well managed, and he had a previous 
agreement with Advantage that was also well managed.All told I think the checks were proportionate and I dont think Advantage acted unfairly when 
approving the finance application.
Settlement figure
Mr M said that Advantage gave him incorrect settlement figures, he wasnt sure if hed paid 
more than he shouldve, and they provided poor service to him. 
Mr M first asked Advantage for a settlement figure in August 2020, but the agreement 
continued. He asked again for a settlement figure in November 2020 as a result of an 
insurance claim where his vehicle had been written off. 
Advantage received payment from the insurance company in December 2020, when they 
deducted this from the settlement figure, they first used the old figure generated in August 
2020. This was an out of date figure and didnt reflect payments Mr M had made toward the 
agreement between August and November. Advantage corrected the mistake on the day it 
was made, and a correct calculation was produced. 
The correct calculation left a balance of £98.81 for Mr M to pay in order to settle the 
agreement, and Advantage waived this in recognition of the incorrect information that was 
provided. 
Its not in dispute that Advantage gave the wrong figure to Mr M. But this was corrected 
quickly, and I think waiving the remaining balance fairly compensates Mr M for any distress 
and inconvenience caused. Mr M hasnt paid any more that he shouldve toward the 
agreement. 
Declined finance application
Mr M has said that he applied for new finance with Advantage, and this was declined. He 
was then told that this was a mistake, and he could apply again. Mr M says hed already 
financed his new vehicle elsewhere, but this was costing him more, and so Advantages 
mistake means he lost out. 
Advantage said that when Mr M made his last application for finance to them in November 
2020 his current agreement still had a large outstanding balance, and it wasnt yet clear if it 
would be settled by any insurance claim, so, Mr Ms application for new finance was 
declined. 
The decision about whether to lend to any specific applicant is a commercial one for 
Advantage to make. They were under no obligation to extend further credit to Mr M, and Im 
satisfied that Advantage treated Mr M fairly in the application process. So, Advantage arent 
responsible for the cost of any new agreement Mr M has chosen to enter. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman