DRN-3376925
The complaint
Mr S complains about a loan he took out with Ikano Bank AB (publ) to finance a new heating 
system in his home. He says that he did not agree to the loan and that the work was not 
carried out to a satisfactory standard. Because the work was funded by a loan arranged by 
the supplier of the system, Mr S says that Ikano is equally liable with that supplier.
What happened
In June 2017 Mr S agreed to have a new heating system installed by a supplier which Ill 
refer to as G. The supply and installation of the system cost £12,600 and was funded by a 
loan for that amount from Ikano, payable over ten years.
There were a number of problems with the installation of the heating system. Mr S says they 
included:
a serious leak and flood;
a fire caused by electrical cables being placed across hot water pipes; and
significant delays in completing the work. 
Mr S says that he had to arrange for a local plumber and electrician to carry out remedial 
work. The fire damage was covered by Mr Ss home insurance. It took some two years to 
complete all the work needed.
Soon after the loan was arranged, Mr S contacted Ikano to say that he had not agreed to it 
and that he had not needed it. He would have been able to pay for the heating system 
without taking out a loan. He did not want to leave any debt to his family. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service towards the end of 2019. Initially, Ikano said that it 
was unaware of the complaint. When it did look into it, it said that Mr S had agreed to take 
out the loan, and that there had been discussions about it at the time. As far as the remedial 
work was concerned, it said it believed that Mr S had resolved all outstanding issues with G.
One of our investigators considered what had happened and issued a preliminary 
assessment of the case. In that assessment, he noted that most of the issues with the 
heating system had been resolved. Mr S had recently said that he was having problems with 
the hot water, but the investigator concluded that he had not raised that with Ikano, so it 
could not be expected to have resolved the problem.
However, the investigator thought that Ikano should have stepped in earlier to help resolve 
the outstanding issues; it was not acceptable that Mr S was without a complete heating 
system for two years. He recommended that Ikano pay Mr S £850 in recognition of that. He 
also recommended that, on the provision of further evidence, Ikano refund money which Mr 
S says he paid to the plumber and the electrician.
The investigator thought however that Mr S had agreed to the loan and was not persuaded 
that it was mis-sold. The heating system was not funded by other means and Mr S signed 
the agreement electronically.
Ikano did not respond to the investigators assessment, either to accept his 
recommendations or to challenge them, and the case was therefore passed to me for further 
consideration.
I considered what had happened and, because I was minded to reach a different conclusion 
from that reached by the investigator, issued a provisional decision. In my reasoning, I wrote:
Ill deal first with the loan agreement itself. I agree with the investigators assessment on this 
point. It is, I think, clear that Mr S agreed to the loan terms, by signing the loan agreement 
electronically and by allowing Ikano to pay G for the work. As Ikano has indicated, he had 14 
days in which to cancel it if he had not wanted to pay for the system with finance. And, if he 
would prefer not to have an ongoing loan, Mr S should be able to repay it early.
I turn then to the work itself. One effect of section 75(1) of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 in 
this case is that, because the loan was set up under arrangements between G and Ikano, 
Ikano is liable with G for any breach of contract on the part of G. And it was a term of Mr Ss 
contract with G that the work would be carried out with reasonable care and skill.
There does not seem to be any real issue that there were difficulties with the installation, and 
it seems quite likely that at least some of these arose because the work was not carried out 
with proper care and skill. But, as the investigator noted, those issues do appear to have 
been resolved.
As I have indicated, Ikano is equally liable with G for any breach of its contract with Mr S. 
Generally, however, the remedy for breach of contract will not include compensation for 
distress or inconvenience. That is, it is not an award that a court is likely to have made 
against G, although it is an award that I can make against Ikano, if I determine the complaint 
in favour of Mr S.
The investigator thought that Ikano could have done more to help resolve outstanding issues 
with the installation. To a large extent, however, I think that G was better placed  having the 
necessary technical knowledge and contacts  than Ikano was to resolve those issues. And, 
as the investigator observed, Ikano did press G to complete the work on numerous 
occasions. I am not persuaded that it could realistically have done much more, especially as 
Mr S was himself in touch with G as well. I note as well that Mr S indicated to G in a 
telephone call in September 2019 that all outstanding issues had been resolved.
Mr S has said that he had to fund some additional work himself. The investigator indicated 
that Ikano should reimburse any such additional expenses, against proof of payment. I have 
not however seen any supporting evidence showing what Mr S may have paid. I shall of 
course consider any such proof that I may receive in response to this provisional decision. 
The investigator also indicated that Mr S should be allowed to repay the loan by paying the 
cash price of £12,600. At present, however, I see no particular reason why, if Mr S wants to 
repay the loan, he should not do so in the usual way and in line with Consumer Credit (Early 
Settlement) Regulations 2004  which may in any event by more advantageous for him.
Ikano did not respond to my provisional decision, and Mr S indicated that he had nothing 
further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Since neither party has provided any new arguments or evidence in response to my 
provisional decision, I see no reason to change my view as set out in it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Ikano Bank AB (publ) to do anything further to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman