DRN-3972171
The complaint
Miss F complains that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) wont refund transactions on her account 
which she didnt make.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties. So rather than repeat them all 
again here, Ill briefly summarise the key points.
Miss F has explained that she fell victim to a scam. She was selling a sofa on Gumtree, and 
someone posing as an interested buyer messaged her. They asked to arrange delivery and 
sent her a screenshot allegedly showing how to do this via Gumtree, followed by a link to a 
website which they said would allow her to receive the payment and schedule the courier.
After completing the form on the website, including entering her card details, Miss F received 
a notification on her Monzo app. She thought this was to confirm/validate her card via 
Google in order to receive the payment. But it was actually to set up Google Pay on another 
device, using the card details the scammer had stolen from the phishing link it had sent her.
Three unauthorised payments for £127.93, £127.92 and £42.07 respectively then left 
Miss Fs account. More were attempted but blocked due to insufficient funds. The first two 
payments were made using funds Miss F held in her account, but the last payment was 
made entirely from her overdraft.
Miss F reported what had happened to Monzo  but it wouldnt refund her. It said she hadnt 
taken enough steps to keep her account safe.
Unhappy with Monzos response, Miss F referred the matter to our service. Our investigator 
proposed that Monzo should refund the payments, with interest, and pay £200 compensation 
for the worry caused by failing to refund her sooner. 
Monzo didnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide. I issued my provisional 
decision earlier this month explaining why I was minded to uphold this complaint. I gave both 
parties a deadline to provide any further evidence and arguments before finalising my 
decision.
Miss F has responded to accept my provisional decision. And Monzo hasnt provided 
anything further. As the deadline I set has now passed, Im proceeding to issue my final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received no further points or disputes in response to my provisional findings, I see no 
reason to depart from these. And so, for the following reasons, Im upholding this complaint:
Monzo accepts these were unauthorised transactions. But it says that, in line with the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs), Miss F is liable as she failed with gross 
negligence to comply with the terms of her account and keep her personalised 
security details safe.
Thats relevant to the first and second disputed payment. But its not the right 
consideration for the third and final payment, as it came entirely from Miss Fs 
overdraft. In line with section 83 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, Miss F isnt liable 
for unauthorised use of a credit facility. So Monzo should refund this payment.
Im also not persuaded that Miss F failed with gross negligence. Thats not to say 
there wasnt more she could have done to protect herself. But I dont think her 
actions show a very significant degree of carelessness beyond what a reasonable 
person in her circumstances would have done.
Miss F was genuinely selling a sofa, so the message from the scammer posing as an 
interested buyer wasnt particularly unexpected. She hadnt used Gumtree before so 
wasnt as familiar with the process. So when the scammer provided a screenshot, 
which I find looked convincing, showing that it offered a delivery service, I dont find it 
wholly unreasonable that Miss F trusted this.
Likewise, the link she was sent contained Gumtree in the URL, seemingly 
supporting what she was being told by the scammer. I dont think it was obvious to 
her that the scammer would be able to access and use the card details she entered.
Miss F then received a notification which would have taken her to a screen saying, 
Finish adding your card to Google Pay. She would have had to press Add Card, 
taking her to another screen to enter her PIN.
Based on what Miss F has told us, Im persuaded she genuinely believed this was to 
verify her card in order to receive the payment. I can understand why she didnt 
realise that it was, in fact, adding Google Pay to another device that wasnt hers in 
order to make payments. The screens didnt explicitly set that out. Nor did she realise 
someone else had her card details allowing them to initiate this. In the 
circumstances, she was persuaded it followed on from the process she was 
completing to receive a payment.
Overall, while Ive considered Monzos reasons for negligence, Im not persuaded 
they amount to a failure with gross negligence. I can see why Miss F trusted what 
she was told and didnt probe further  I think lots of people would have done the 
same in these circumstances.
In line with its obligations, Monzo is expected to promptly refund unauthorised 
payments. It hasnt done so here. As well as depriving Miss F of use of these funds, 
shes explained that it caused her hardship and worry. Shes been left with the stress 
of the overdraft debt, which she says has left her struggling to afford rent and food. In 
the circumstances, I find that Monzo should pay her £200 to compensate her for this 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Monzo 
Bank Ltd to: 
Refund Miss F for these unauthorised transactions, totalling £297.92;For the first two transactions, pay 8% simple interest per year from the date of the 
payments to the date of settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible);
Rework Miss Fs account and refund any interest and charges, along with amending 
her credit report to remove any negative reporting, caused by the transactions. If 
Miss F repaid any borrowing created by the transactions, Monzo should add 8% 
simple interest per year from the date he repaid the borrowing to the date of 
settlement (less any tax lawfully deductible); and
Pay Miss F £200 compensation for her distress and inconvenience
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman