DRN-3804387
The complaint
Mr A complains that Chetwood Financial Limited (trading as BetterBorrow) is holding him 
liable for a loan in his name which he says he did not consent to.
Mr A has a representative in this matter.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In June 2022, a £12,000 BetterBorrow loan was taken out in Mr As name.  The loan funds 
were credited to Mr As bank account, which he then transferred to a third party.  Mr A says 
that he did not consent to the loan; and that he was coerced into making the transfer.  For 
these reasons, Mr A argues that he should not be held liable for the loan.  As BetterBorrow 
did not agree with this, Mr A raised a complaint which he referred to our Service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and upheld it in part.  Because Mr A did 
not agree with the investigators findings, this matter has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
But first, I would like to say at the outset that I have summarised this complaint in far less 
detail than the parties involved.  I want to stress that no discourtesy is intended by this.  If 
there is a submission I have not addressed, it is not because I have ignored the point.  It is 
simply because my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues in this 
complaint.
In our investigators findings, he held, amongst other things, that a third party took out the 
lending in question without Mr As consent.  Because of this, the investigator directed that Mr 
As credit file should be amended accordingly, and that he should not be bound by the terms 
and conditions of the associated agreement.  However, the investigator also thought Mr A 
had utilised the principal lending; knowing it was from a loan he had not taken out.  
Therefore, the investigator thought it would be fair for BetterBorrow to pursue Mr A for the 
principal lending.
BetterBorrow appears to accept that Mr A did not take out the lending himself, nor provide 
consent to a third party to do so on his behalf.  So, I will not deal with this point further.
What I must consider now is whether it would be fair for BetterBorrow to pursue Mr A for the 
principal lending.  To this end, I need to look at whether Mr A received and utilised the loan 
funds.  And, if he did use them, I need to consider whether he was aware of where the funds 
came from at the time. 
Mr A accepts he received the loan funds into his bank account.  Mr A accepts he utilised the 
funds by transferring them from his account to a third party.  Mr A also accepts that he saw 
the name of where the loan funds had originated from.  Mr A argues however, that a third 
party coerced him into transferring the loan funds to them.  That is, under the threat of 
violence and blackmail.  The following are some examples Mr A has provided of the alleged 
threats: informed that his house was being monitored, death threats and,  blackmailing 
threats on him [Mr A], his family and people at work.  Mr A says the third party 
communicated all of this to him via calls and messages using a well-known social media 
platform, which deletes messages upon being read.
Having reflected on what Mr A has said, I take the same view as the investigator.  That is, 
BetterBorrow is entitled to pursue Mr A for the principal lending if it wishes to do so.  I will 
explain why. 
I have not seen any evidence supporting the threats of violence and blackmail Mr A alleges.  
Notwithstanding this, I take the view that a reasonable person in the circumstances which Mr 
A has described: would not have transferred the loan funds, but instead, would have 
reported the matter to the police at the time.  I say this because I am not persuaded that the 
alleged threats were so immediate, that Mr A had no other option but to make the three 
separate transfers he did.  I find that he had reasonable opportunities to contact the police  
particularly given the alleged threats appear to be somewhat remote.
Mr A suggests that he was in extreme fear about what the third party might do if he told 
anyone about them.  For example, he suggests they told him that, amongst other things,  
they had people working on the inside in the Banks and no one would believe him as they 
would wipe away any key notes and voice calls with the bank  .  However, it was not very 
long after the transfers  whereby Mr A says he contacted the police and his bank to tell 
them about the third party.  I find it difficult to see what had significantly changed in this small 
space of time, which resulted in alleviating Mr As fears and giving him the courage to 
contact the police/bank about the third party.  If Mr A was able to report the matter when he 
did, then I find it reasonable to say he could have done so earlier when the loan funds were 
credited to his bank account.
Mr A also argues that BetterBorrow should never have approved the loan, and by doing so, it 
has lent money irresponsibly.  He argues that had BetterBorrow not approved the loan, he 
would not have fallen victim to fraud.  Even if I held that BetterBorrow should not have 
approved the loan  it does not follow that it should be written off.  I say this because even if 
the loan should not have been approved, this does not negate the fact that Mr A transferred 
out the loan funds from his bank account.  
So, taking all the above points together  I am satisfied that Mr A did not consent to the 
lending in his name.  However, whilst I acknowledge Mr A may not have benefited from the 
loan funds  I do find that BetterBorrow is entitled to pursue Mr A for the principal lending if it 
so wishes.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I 
therefore direct that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as BetterBorrow:Remove any data reported to the credit reference agencies about the loan.
Should not pursue Mr A for any interest or charges arising from the loan agreement.
Is entitled, if it so wishes, to pursue Mr A for the outstanding principal sum of the 
loan.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman