The complaint
Mrs B complains that she was mis-sold Lloyds Bank PLC's 'Investment Portfolio Service'
(IPS). This is because she believes it isn't tax efficient. She also says Lloyds has failed to
provide information needed to calculate her capital gain tax (CGT) position.
What happened
In 2010 Mrs B and her husband, Mr B, sought advice from Lloyds on consolidating their 
existing investments. They were keen to do so as Mr B had just been diagnosed with a 
serious illness. The IPS was recommended and brought together around £300,000 of their
money, split across a Managed account and a Select ISA account, within the IPS.
Sadly, Mr B passed away in 2011. Mrs B maintained the IPS but in 2018 she became
dissatisfied with Lloyds' service, as she found it difficult to obtain information needed by her
accountants in order to complete her tax return.
She looked into withdrawing some or all of the IPS and was very unhappy to discover that if
she withdrew money from the ISA part, while this would in itself be tax-free, it would prompt
a 're-balancing' of risk for the overall portfolio (the ISA and the managed account) that would 
likely lead to sales from the managed account that would be subject to CGT. So, in effect, 
withdrawals from the ISA would still incur a tax liability, despite being nominally tax-free.
Mrs B complained about this, but Lloyds felt it had been made clear from the outset that
changes to the portfolio might incur a CGT liability.
The matter was then referred to this service. Our investigator looked at three issues -
the general suitability of the original advice to start the IPS, the ISA withdrawal tax issue, and 
also Mrs B's concerns about being unable to obtain the information her accountants required 
to determine her CGT position, which had been ongoing while she was in the process of 
complaining to Lloyds.
The investigator felt that the recommendation of the IPS had been broadly suitable and the
potential for re-balancing of the portfolio and the CGT consequences had been made
reasonably clear. He also didn't think there'd been any service issues that would warrant
upholding the complaint.
Mrs B didn't accept the investigator's view. She noted that her primary concerns were with
the tax issue and Lloyds' failure to provide the CGT information, rather than suitability.
Correspondence continued between Mrs B and the investigator, but he wasn't persuaded to
change his view. So, the matter was referred to me to review.
I issued a provisional decision in which I explained why I didn't think the complaint should be 
upheld. I looked at what I considered to be the two main issues and said:
DRN-2007218"The ISA withdrawal issue
I can certainly see why, on the face of it, incurring a tax liability (albeit indirectly) as a result
of making a withdrawal from a tax-free environment like an ISA might seem counter-intuitive. 
Clearly tax-efficiency was one of the main objectives when starting the investment.
The brochure for the IPS explained that it was possible to benefit "from greater income tax
efficiency with the Select ISA account." And this was undoubtedly the case - having some of
the investment held in the ISA account (and increasing this amount as time went by and new 
annual allowances were used) does provide greater income tax efficiency for the portfolio as 
a whole.
But part of the portfolio, in fact the majority, was not in held in the ISA account. And as such,
any changes to the holdings could result in a CGT liability being incurred. I think this was
made reasonably clear in the terms of the IPS, which was a discretionary service, meaning
that Lloyds could make changes at any time, as set out in the terms:
"We may make transfers between funds on your behalf at any time. Such transfers are not
subject to a fee but may incur capital gains tax depending on your personal circumstances."
And it was also made clear that these transfers could be made on the basis of managing the 
portfolio in line with the agreed level of risk:
"We are responsible on a continuing basis for managing the securities in your portfolio, in
accordance with the investment objective and risk category that you have chosen for your
portfolio ."
I accept that the terms weren't explicit in saying that a withdrawal from the ISA account could 
result in a CGT liability being generated. But I think it was made reasonably clear that the 
sort of situation encountered by Mrs B could occur if there was a need to 're-balance' the 
portfolio in the event of a withdrawal.
It's quite unusual to want to make a large withdrawal from an ISA because of the resulting
loss of tax benefits. I understand the need to do so in this case stemmed from Mrs B's wish
to move all or part of the portfolio away from Lloyds because of issues with it failing to
provide the CGT information. But as I understand it, it may be possible for a transfer to be
made 'in-specie', subject to a change of share class, so that may be an alternative solution.
Ultimately though, I don't think Lloyds acted incorrectly or unreasonably and any CGT
liability that arose was simply a natural consequence of the way the IPS operated.
Failure to provide information
As noted, Lloyds' apparent failure to provide Mrs B with information to help with the
completion of her tax return was the issue that prompted her to want to move the portfolio,
which in turn highlighted the ISA/CGT issue. The complaint made to Lloyds focussed on the
latter, but it has since become clear that the former is also of great concern to Mrs B. She
feels that she's incurred unnecessary costs because her accountants have had to carry out
additional work to calculate her CGT liabilities over the last few tax years.
It does appear that there was quite a lot of correspondence between Mrs B and Lloyds, and
her accountants and Lloyds. So, I can see why there would've been some frustration. But
I've not seen that Lloyds failed to provide Mrs B with the information needed, albeit it may
not have done so in the format she wanted, or that had been used by other businesses shedealt with. I think there simply may have been an element of confusion about what was
actually required and what Lloyds would provide.
But Lloyds provided a Dividend and Transaction Listing and a trading statement. It was
confirmed by Mrs B's accountant's in November 2018 that this information was what they
required in order to calculate the CGT position. I've not seen that there was any commitment 
made by Lloyds that anything else, no specific other documents or records, that would be 
provided, either in the terms of the IPS or more informally to Mrs B.
While it may have taken a little while for the information to be provided, I'm not persuaded
that this was a result of any maladministration on the part of Lloyds, or that it led to any loss.
I accept that Mrs B incurred accountant fees for the calculation of the CGT liability. But as I
don't think it did anything wrong I see no reason to hold Lloyds responsible for these."
Mrs B responded to say that she still didn't see how the product was tax efficient. She said 
numerous IFAs had told her it hadn't been suitable and the ISA shouldn't have been linked to 
the managed account. She also reiterated her view that the tax information was something 
that Lloyds should've provided as standard. She said she was very disappointed but was 
drawing a line under the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments, including the further comments, to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the same view as set out in my provisional decision. I appreciate 
Mrs B's concerns and disappointment, but still think that the IPS provided a tax efficient 
means by which to invest, through its use of the ISA, and that it was made clear at the outset 
how the product would operate. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 August 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman