DRN-3989360
The complaint
Miss X complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to process her chargeback request 
correctly resulting in the loss of funds.
What happened
Miss X purchased three items from an online merchant, who Ill refer to as M. Miss X 
explained that she wanted to keep two of them but had been advised to reject the third item 
because it didnt suit her needs.
Miss X says that she didnt open the package for the third item and sent it back to M using 
their returns process. There was a problem with the return and M didnt refund the cost of 
the third item, so Miss X approached Barclays about the issue and asked them to recover 
her funds. Barclays temporarily refunded the complete order shed made to M and used the 
chargeback system to challenge the payment on Miss Xs behalf.
Chargebacks are a scheme operated by the card provider (Visa/Mastercard or American 
Express) and are used to settle disputes about payments made with the card. Each scheme 
has their own rules and are subject to strict timelines. They are voluntary and the outcome of 
a properly processed chargeback isnt usually something that can be challenged.
Barclays sent their request for a chargeback to M that related to the complete order (of the 
three items) rather than the single item Miss X had returned.
M responded to the chargeback request with evidence about the original transaction that 
was authorised by Miss X. Once this information was received by Barclays, they sent her a 
letter dated 23 March 2022, asking Miss X for additional information about the transaction to 
enable them to go back to M as part of the chargeback process with a ten-day deadline for a 
response. 
On 21 April 2022 Barclays wrote to Miss X explaining that theyd been unable to recover her 
funds and the dispute was now closed.
Miss X responded to Barclays on 23 May 2022 with a package of evidence, but by this time 
the chargeback timetable had closed and Barclays redebited the temporary refund.
Miss X complained to Barclays about their handling of the chargeback request and Barclays 
looked into the matter. They wrote to Miss X in June 2022 about the complaint and accepted 
that the original chargeback had been made against the whole amount, rather than the one 
item Miss X was disputing, but explained to Miss X that this didnt affect the outcome of the 
chargeback because no additional information was provided within the chargeback 
timescales.
Miss X had told Barclays that shed given them the information within the timescales but due 
to Barclays error, it wasnt added to the chargeback. The complaint response acknowledged 
this was what Miss X had said and offered her £75 for the inconvenience. Miss X didnt 
accept this.
Miss X remained unhappy with how Barclays had handled her situation and brought her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review where it was 
looked into by one of our investigators. 
After reviewing the information, they thought that Barclays acceptance of a problem with 
their systems meant that Miss X had missed out on the opportunity to successfully challenge 
the chargeback. They thought her evidence meant she was likely to win any chargeback if it 
was processed properly and upheld the complaint.
Barclays disagreed with the investigators outcome and explained that the response from 
Miss X was outside the time limits, and they hadnt found any evidence that Miss X had sent 
her evidence within the timescales. They explained that the offer of £75 was to compensate 
Miss X as a gesture of goodwill. They also didnt think that a successful chargeback was 
likely due to the evidence and what M had said.
The investigator relooked into the circumstances and changed his opinion about the 
complaint and didnt uphold it due to Miss Xs response being outside the timescales of the 
chargeback.
Miss X then disagreed with the investigator and argued:
Barclays made an error when they included the complete order in their submission to 
M.
Miss X had repeatedly tried to get Barclays to help her with the chargeback.
Miss X didnt quite understand the letter Barclays had sent her about providing 
additional evidence.
Her studies prevented her from replying in time.
As no agreement could be reached about the complaint, its now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss X has complained about the way that Barclays handled the chargeback request related 
to the return of an item to M. The merits of Miss Xs situation (whether M were correct in 
refusing a refund) would only become a consideration if its found that Barclays mishandled 
the chargeback.
Theres no disagreement here that Miss X was responsible for ordering the item she later 
returned, so authorisation of the transaction isnt in doubt. What that means is that Barclays 
were obliged to make the original payment on Miss Xs behalf when she ordered the items 
from M.
The main dispute Miss X has is with M, who arent the subject of this complaint. But, Miss X 
can ask her bank to dispute payments made using her card with a chargeback request. 
Thats what Barclays did when Miss X brought the issue to them. I accept that Barclays 
reported the complete order to M rather than just the one item, but I dont think this adversely 
affected the outcome. Thats because the second request for information which Barclays 
sent on 23 March 2022 included a request for further information.It was at that point that clarification of the dispute could have been made, and indeed was in 
Miss Xs response on 23 May 2022. But here, Barclays didnt receive that response until 
about two months after requesting it and the time limits had been reached about a month 
earlier. So, even with the additional information provided by Miss X, Barclays were unable to 
use the chargeback system to continue to dispute the payment because it had already been 
closed. 
Miss X later said that shed tried to enlist help from Barclays about the chargeback, so they 
were asked to search their systems for additional notes. Barclays confirmed that no 
additional notes were recorded prior to the closure of the dispute.
Miss X has also commented that she didnt understand the letter from Barclays ( 23 March 
2022), but reading the response, it tells Miss X the matter is resolved and to get in touch 
within 10 days to outline her concerns so her case can be looked at again. It also says that if 
nothing is heard back from Miss X, then Barclays will assume shes happy with the dispute 
and doesnt want Barclays to do anything else. The documents from M were also included.
I think its fairly clear that Barclays were telling Miss X there was a resolution and that she 
could continue to challenge it within the timescales given. Also, that if she did nothing, then 
the matter would be closed. So here, I think Miss X had enough information and a clear 
timescale to continue to challenge Ms position through Barclays use of the chargeback 
scheme.
Miss X has also said her studies prevented her from replying in time. Whilst Im sure that 
Miss X was busy with her studies, the timescales for a chargeback are laid down by the 
scheme operator, so even if Barclays wanted to accept her additional evidence two months 
after they asked, they couldnt re-open the chargeback.
I think it was both fair and reasonable for Barclays to close the chargeback based on a lack 
of response from Miss X within the scheme timescales.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss X to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman