DRN-2813259
The complaint
Ms M and Mr S complain about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited, trading as Halifax 
(Halifax) in respect of the sale of their home emergency insurance. They want Halifax to 
refund the cost of the home emergency cover.
 
What happened
In Spring 2019, Ms M and Mr S took out home insurance with Halifax, via a price comparison 
website. 
They selected the appropriate levels of cover for their buildings and contents and also 
selected that home emergency and legal expenses insurance be added to their cover. 
From the returned results, Ms H and Mr S selected cover from Halifax. The amount quoted 
for their cover was £305.78, to which a £50 cashback offer was applied. 
Halifax sent Ms M and Mr S a welcome pack in hard copy, and a welcome email. The 
welcome pack included documents describing the cover offered for the home insurance and 
legal expenses cover. 
The hard copy documents explained that the home emergency cover was being provided by 
a third party, A, and that policy documents and a breakdown of costs would be sent to Ms M 
and Mr S directly from A. 
The electronic documents which were sent to, and received by, Ms M and Mr S included a 
link to the different policy booklets, including the home emergency cover. 
Ms M and Mr S were in the process of moving home at the time they received this welcome 
pack and did not pay close attention to the documents. They provided their new address to 
Halifax, but not to A. 
In Spring 2020, Ms M and Mr S received renewal information from Halifax, detailing the 
renewal terms for their home insurance and legal expenses insurance. This set out that the 
cost of renewal was £306.98. The documentation did not mention the home emergency 
cover held with A. 
Ms M and Mr S contacted Halifax and a discount was applied to their renewal. They 
therefore renewed at £283.75. 
Shortly afterwards, Ms M and Mr S noticed a payment leave their account for the home 
emergency cover. They contacted Halifax and were advised that Halifax could not discuss 
their home emergency cover as this was administered and underwritten by A. Halifax 
therefore advised Ms M and Mr S to contact A. Ms M and Mr S have subsequently 
appreciated that the home emergency cover was provided as a distinct product, paid for 
separately. 
Ms M and Mr S were not happy with this and they submitted a complaint to Halifax. They felt 
that they had been misled into thinking the cover was provided as a package from a single 
provider. They felt that if they had known from the start that the home emergency cover was 
provided and billed separately they would have looked for other options of this cover. 
Halifax sent its final response letter in July 2020, not upholding the complaint. Halifax said 
that the literature it had provided was clear about how the home emergency cover was 
administered.
Ms M and Mr S were not happy with this response and contacted us. They also felt that as 
the cover had been sold by Halifax then Halifax ought to have provided their new address 
details to A. 
One of our investigators has looked into this matter and set out his view to the parties. This 
was that although the information from Halifax could have been clearer, he thought that 
Halifax had provided Ms M and Mr S with enough information to explain that the home 
emergency cover was provided by A. He therefore did not think that Halifax had done 
anything substantially wrong and he did not recommend upholding the complaint. 
Ms M and Mr S did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at complaints about mis-selling, we look at four main questions: i) What 
happened? ii) What should have happened? iii) Has the consumer lost out as a result? And 
iv) What needs to happen to put things right?
In this case, Halifax was selling its own home insurance and was also acting as intermediary 
in the sale of the legal expenses cover and home emergency insurance. This means that 
Halifax was obliged to provide Ms M and Mr S with the contractual terms and conditions of 
cover both of its own product and also of the product that it was selling for A. This applied at 
the point of sale and also when sending out information. 
I understand that Ms M and Mr S made an assumption that the products were all linked and 
underwritten in the same way, but I must consider whether Halifax gave sufficient 
information to make clear that the home emergency cover was provided in a different way to 
the remaining cover.  
I have not seen the information which was available at the point of sale through the 
comparison website, but Halifax states that information about the policies was included, and 
it was made clear that the home emergency cover was provided by A. 
Ms M and Mr S acknowledge that there may have been additional information about the 
home emergency cover on the sale website which they did not fully take onboard. 
Without seeing this I cannot be certain of what information was included but, on the basis of 
the written documentation which was then sent out, I think it likely that the website selling the 
policy made clear that the home emergency cover was underwritten by A.  
Looking then at the information sent out after sale, I have seen the welcome pack sent by 
Halifax and the welcome email. In the welcome letter, on the second page, Halifax explains 
that the home emergency cover is provided by A and that A will send policy documents directly and will make contact regarding renewal. The letter then gives contact details for A in 
case of questions or cancellation. 
If this letter was the only thing sent, I may have concerns that Halifax had not met its 
obligations to provide terms and conditions for this policy. I have, however, seen that Halifax 
also included links to the policy booklets (including the booklet for the home emergency 
cover) with its welcome email and provided a hard copy policy booklet for the home 
insurance cover.
At the point of renewal, Halifax sent the terms and conditions of its own product but did not 
send documentation for A. This is because Halifax only acted as intermediary for initial sales 
and did not continue to act as intermediary for renewals. 
I have sympathy for Ms M and Mr S as I think their assumption was a reasonable one, but in 
light of the explanation within the documents which consumers are specifically asked to read 
carefully, I agree with the investigators view that Halifax has met its obligations. I agree with 
the view that the implications of the information (including that payments would be made 
separately) could have been clearer, but it would also be incumbent on A to provide full 
information at renewal. Ordinarily, it would have become clear to Ms M and Mr S that the 
policies were separate when they received separate renewal information, but in this case, A 
did not receive their updated contact information. 
Ms M and Mr S feel that this is another failing from Halifax as they updated Halifax of their 
change of address, and they think that this information ought to have been passed onto A. 
Again, I understand this view, but think that the welcome letter does make clear that 
communication on the policy, including cancellation, needed to be made directly from Ms H 
and Mr S, and A. Consequently, I cannot say that Halifax ought to have done this.
Overall, I cannot say that what happened is significantly different to what ought to have 
happened, and I think that on balance the information provided by Halifax was sufficiently 
clear. 
Looking at the last considerations, of whether the consumer has lost out and what action 
would be required to correct this, if any, I appreciate that Ms M and Mr S feel that they lost 
the opportunity to carry out comparison between As home emergency cover and others that 
were available prior to their renewal. 
I imagine that they also believed that they were getting more value from their Halifax policy 
when they thought that the home emergency cover was included in their renewal price in 
2020 and so they may have lost the opportunity to fairly weight that policy against others. 
Following from my conclusions above I do not, however, consider that these are losses 
resulting from Halifaxs wrongdoing, but resulting from Ms M and Mr Ss assumption which 
they did not correct by carefully reading the policy documentation.
My final decision
For these reasons, whilst I understand Ms M and Mr Ss views, I do not uphold the 
complaint, and do not ask Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do anything further.  
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman