DRN-3352343
The complaint
Ms Ss complaint is about the refusal of a claim made under her removals insurance policy 
with certain underwriters at Society of Lloyds. 
What happened
In September 2019, Ms S was shipping her household possessions overseas. She took out 
a policy with the underwriters to cover the goods while they were in transit. Ms S says that a 
tabletop was damaged by the removal company and so made a claim under the policy.  
The delivery address was an eighth floor apartment and the table top was too big for the lift. 
The removal company says it was not expecting any access difficulties based on the 
information Ms S had provided prior to the move. The removal company was able to deliver 
most of the items to the apartment but was unable to take the table top up the stairs. The 
removers apparently provided a quote for a crane to take the table top through a window, 
and to take the table top to its own storage facility, but Ms S declined these options. The 
underwriters say it was then agreed the removers would take the table to the basement 
storage room. The removers then put Ms S in contact with a local removal company who 
apparently rewrapped the table and took it up to her apartment the next day. Ms S says that 
when the table top was unwrapped in her apartment, she saw the damage and made the 
claim. 
The underwriters refused the claim as they say the policy provides cover for the goods while 
they are in the care, custody and control of the removers and once the table top was 
delivered to the basement, it was no longer in their care. They say that the damage is 
significant and would have been immediately noticeable, so it is unlikely it was caused by the 
insured removers, as it was not noted on the delivery receipt Ms S signed after they had  
delivered it to the basement and was not noticed by the second removers before they 
rewrapped it and took it upstairs. The underwriters therefore say the damage was more likely 
to have been caused by the local movers, who had taken it up nine floors, and so declined 
the claim.
Ms S is very unhappy with this. She says:
it took half an hour for the removers to get the table top down to the basement; they 
were struggling with it and took the packaging off in the stairway. 
She asked them not to take the packaging off the table but they did so against her 
explicit wishes and they had no right to do so. It is obvious thats when the damage 
must have happened. 
She forgot to take pictures of the table in the storage room, as it had been a very 
stressful day. 
The removers recommended the local company. She knows the damage was not 
caused while this second company took the table top from the basement to her 
apartment, as they are used to carrying heavy items such as this and were much 
more professional than the first removers. 
She is also sure the second removal company didnt take any pictures of the table 
top before they wrapped and moved it, as they were confident they would not do any 
damage. This is all in contrast to the movers who had no idea how to take it down the 
stairs to the basement.  
One of our investigators looked into the matter. Initially he recommended the complaint be 
upheld, as he said the cover was for the delivery to Ms Ss apartment. However, he then 
changed his mind and concluded that the cover ended when the table top was delivered to 
the basement and the second removal company was not covered by the insurance. The 
Investigator didnt think there was enough evidence to conclude that the damage had been 
caused by the first removal company and so it was not unreasonable for the underwriters to 
refuse the claim.
Ms S does not accept the Investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance policy provided cover for Ms Ss items while in the care, custody and control 
of the removal company covered by the insurance. This is defined in the policy as being from 
when they are being professionally packed and picked up at the residence or business 
location of the insured for the commencement of the transit and continues during the 
ordinary course of transit, including customary transhipment, if any, until the insured property 
is professionally delivered to the final destination." 
The final destination was initially agreed as being Ms Ss apartment but the removers say 
they were not told there would be any access issues and once these were apparent, it was 
agreed that the table top would be delivered to the basement. Once the removers had 
delivered the table top to the basement storage room and Ms S had signed to confirm 
receipt of her goods, it seems to me the table top was no longer in their care or control. The 
policy only covers the first removal company and by agreement between the parties, the 
basement had became the final destination. I agree with the underwriters therefore that the 
insurance contract had come to an end at that point. 
The second removal company were instructed and paid for by Ms S separate from her 
contract with the first removers. I understand they were introduced to Ms S by the first 
removers but this does not mean they were acting on their behalf. Given this, for the claim to 
be covered by this insurance, Ms S has to establish that the damage was caused by the first 
removers. I do not think this has been established and I will explain why. 
Ms S is adamant that the table top was damaged by the removers while they were taking it 
down to the basement. I note she says she watched them struggling with it, they removed 
the protective wrapping against her will and she watched then pushing and shoving to the 
extreme to get it down to the basement. However, shortly afterwards she signed a delivery 
note confirming her possessions had been delivered intact. Ms S says she forgot to take 
photos of the table top in the basement, as it had been a stressful day. However, from her 
emails to the underwriters when making the claim, it seems Ms S did not look at the table top 
once it was in the basement storage area or notice the damage until after it was delivered to 
her apartment the next day. Having been so concerned about the table, in particular when 
the protective wrapping was removed, it might be reasonable to expect that she would have 
wanted to look at the table to make sure it had not been damaged. While the first removal 
company did remove the packaging, this in itself does not establish they caused the 
damage. And the absence of any independent evidence of damage at that stage means 
there is some doubt about the table being damaged at this point. In addition to this, no evidence has been provided that the local movers made any note or 
record of the damage that would have been apparent to them while they were wrapping the 
table top ready to move it up to the apartment. It would be customary for a mover handling 
goods such as this to record any existing damage, as they will not take responsibility for any 
existing damage. And there is no evidence, as far as I am aware, of any discussion with the 
second movers when they unwrapped it in the apartment and the table was put together. 
Given this, while it is possible the first removers caused the damage, I do not consider there 
is enough evidence to establish that it is more likely than not that they caused the damage. I 
do not therefore think the underwriters acted unfairly in refusing the claim
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 April 2022.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman