DRN-3856157
The complaint
Mr S complains that Society of Lloyds hasnt settled a claim under his income protection 
policy.
What happened
Mr S held an income protection policy which paid a monthly benefit if he became unable to 
work due to an accident or sickness. The policy was provided by a Lloyds insurer  for 
simplicity, Ill only refer to Lloyds in my decision.
Mr S had an accident in February 2021 which resulted in a knee injury. But as Mr S wasnt 
working at the time and he was already in receipt of a monthly benefit from an existing claim, 
he couldnt make a claim for the knee injury at the same time. Mr S last claim payment for 
the existing claim was in June 2021.
Mr S received a letter dated 30 August 2021 which explained that the insurer would be 
withdrawing from the market, and Mr S policy wouldnt be renewed again. The policy 
expired on 28 October 2021.
After receiving the above notification, Mr S cancelled his direct debit and stopped paying his 
premiums. Mr S says that following this, Lloyds told him that hed need to pay the last two 
months of premiums for the policy, and hed be covered for his upcoming knee surgery.
Mr S knee surgery eventually took place in January 2022. He was signed off work because 
of this, so he made a claim on the policy. Lloyds declined the claim because the period of 
incapacity took place after the policy had ended. But it accepted there had been some 
miscommunication on its part which led Mr S to believe he could make a claim after his 
cover had ended. Lloyds offered Mr S £300 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused because of this. Mr S wasnt happy with this, and he wants Lloyds to 
pay the claim.
One of our investigators looked into what had happened. Having done so, he thought that 
what Lloyds had done to put things right was fair and reasonable. He said that Lloyds had 
declined the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. And he thought the 
compensation it had offered for the miscommunication was fair overall.
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators findings. As no agreement was reached, the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
I wrote to Lloyds and said that I thought Mr S had only paid the two months of premiums 
with the expectation that his claim would be paid after the cover had ended. I thought Lloyds 
should refund these.
Additionally, I noticed that Mr S policy said that Lloyds needed to give him 90 days notice 
before cancelling the policy  but it only gave him 60 days notice. I said that as Mr S had 
cancelled his direct debit as soon as he was notified that the policy would be cancelled, I 
thought it was likely that he would have done so a month earlier, had he received the correct 
notification as required by the policy terms. 
Overall, I thought that it would be fair and reasonable for Lloyds to refund Mr S three months 
of premiums, plus 8% simple interest. Lloyds agreed with my recommendation. Mr S didnt 
provide any comments on this. So, Im now issuing my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules, and 
other industry guidance, into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of Mr S complaint.
Mr S claim
The policy terms say that benefit would be paid where the policyholder is Working and 
become[s] unable to Work due to an Accident or Sickness during the Period of Cover 
And the policy defines Accident/Sickness as You have a medical condition certified by a 
Doctor or Consultant as preventing You from doing Your normal Work
While the accident happened in February 2021, Mr S wasnt signed off work due to the knee 
injury until after the period of cover had ended. This was from December 2021 onwards, but 
the cover had already ended on 28 October 2021. That means he wasnt unable to work due 
to the knee injury during the period of cover as per the above policy terms. So, I think Lloyds 
acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms of the policy, when it declined the 
claim.
Mr S has said he couldnt make the claim earlier because he was already signed off work 
due to other issues. But this doesnt change my findings above, for the reasons Ive already 
explained. Fundamentally, Mr S wasnt signed off work due to the knee injury specifically 
until after his cover had ended.
Miscommunication
Ive listened to the calls Lloyds has sent us, and I can understand why Mr S would have 
thought he could make a claim following the surgery that took place as a result of an 
accident that happened during the period of cover.
But where a business has made a mistake, we aim to put the consumer back into the 
position they would have been, had there been no mistake. So, if Lloyds had made it clear 
to Mr S earlier that a claim made for an incapacity after the policy expired wouldnt be 
covered, Mr S would have been saved from the distress and inconvenience of pursuing the 
claim, and then discovering its not covered. But his claim still wouldnt have been covered. I 
think Lloyds offer of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused due to the 
miscommunication is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.Additionally, Mr S has said that his broker had advised him that he wouldnt be able to get 
another similar policy as he now had a pre-existing condition. And I agree its unlikely that 
Mr S could have found other cover to pay for the period of incapacity in question, as the 
accident had already happened and the surgery was pending. So, I dont think Mr S has 
been disadvantaged by the miscommunication, other than the inconvenience he 
experienced.
Premiums
As it was only due to Lloyds miscommunication that Mr S paid two further months of 
premiums, I think its fair and reasonable that Lloyds refunds these to him. I also think its 
likely that Mr S would have cancelled his policy a month earlier, had Lloyds given him the 
correct notification as required by the policy terms. So, I think it should refund Mr S a further 
month of premium as well.
Lloyds has now offered to refund Mr S three months of premiums, plus 8% simple interest, 
and I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Putting things right
Lloyds should refund Mr S three months of premiums. It should also add 8% simple interest 
to this amount from the date the premiums were paid until the date of settlement. Lloyds 
should also pay Mr S a total of £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused, unless its 
already one so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr S complaint in part, and I direct Society of Lloyds to put 
things right in the way that Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Renja Anderson
Ombudsman