DRN-2219925
The complaint
Mr A complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Yorkshire Bank (Yorkshire) failed to 
update his postal address. This led to his personal information being obtained by a third 
party.
What happened
Mr A held a Buy to Let (BTL) mortgage with Yorkshire. Mr A says that when he moved 
residential address, he called Yorkshire to update his postal address. Yorkshire failed to 
update the address and post continued to go to the old property. 
Mr A complains that as post continued to go to his old address, his ex-wife opened 
statements addressed to him and found Mr A has a property that was previously undisclosed 
to her.  Mr A has gone on to say that as his ex-wife wasnt aware of the BTL property, she 
changed from wanting a clean break divorce to a financial order  which Mr A has said cost 
him over £5,000 in legal fees. 
Mr A complained to Yorkshire and his complaint was upheld. Yorkshire found the call where 
Mr A asked for his address to be updated and found the advisor hadnt acted on the request. 
So, it paid Mr A £150 compensation. It didnt agree however that it was responsible to pay 
for the additional costs Mr A had incurred in court. So, Mr A brought his complaint to our 
service. 
Our investigation looked into the complaint but didnt find Yorkshire needed to pay more 
compensation. He found a mistake had been made, but he didnt find it fair to hold Yorkshire 
accountable for someone opening post that wasnt addressed to them. 
As Mr A remained unhappy, the complaints been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whats not in dispute here is that Yorkshire made an error when Mr As address change 
wasnt updated. Both parties agree to this and the version of events leading to the error are 
consistent. So, I dont find myself having to investigate these points again.  
What I need to decide is whether the level of compensation is enough and if I think Mr As 
legal costs should be paid by Yorkshire due to its error. 
I can understand Mr As frustration here, but I dont find myself satisfied that someone else 
opening Mr As post can be put down to the fault of Yorkshire. Theres no doubt that the 
address should have been changed when Mr A called and made the request. But without the 
third party opening the post, the implications of the error are only that of Mr A having to visit 
the property to collect the items that had been sent incorrectly. And Im satisfied the £150 it 
has offered fairly compensates Mr A for this.
Mr A has also told us that there were a series of events after the post that was opened that 
resulted in his Ex-wife changing the agreed divorce settlement. Although I can appreciate 
how frustrating this must have been for Mr A, there is no guarantee this may not have 
happened further down the line for other reasons than just finding out he had a further 
property  or she may have found out by other means. So, for that reason Im further 
convinced that Yorkshire cant be held accountable for the further losses Mr A said he 
incurred. 
In summary, I agree Yorkshire made a mistake and Mr A should be compensated. But Im 
satisfied that the £150 already offered compensates Mr A for any trouble and upset the 
mistake has caused. Ive also not found the additional costs incurred were a direct result of 
Yorkshires mistake. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or require Yorkshire to increase its offer 
of compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 02 April 2021.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman