DRN-3176795
The complaint
Mr S complains that Merchant Investors (now Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited) has 
unfairly declined to carry out a pensions review of the pension transfer it recommended in 
1990. Mr S believes he has lost out financially when using the updated 2017 pensions 
review guidance. 
What happened
Mr S was a deferred member of the Local Government pension scheme at the time of 
advice. Merchant Investors recommended he transfer his benefits out of the Local 
Government pension scheme into the Merchant Investors pension plan and make 
regular monthly payments into his new personal pension plan. Mr Ss transfer value was 
worth around £9,500.
In 1994, the then regulator at the time, the Securities & Investment Board, instructed 
authorised firms to review certain pension business following widespread mis-selling of 
personal pension schemes. Mr Ss pension transfer fell within the parameters of the 
review and so Merchant Investors had to review its recommendation to transfer.
Mr S was aware that Merchant Investors were carrying out a pension review and provided 
Merchant Investors with some information it asked him for, so it could carry out the review.
Merchant Investors completed the review in 1999. It says it wrote to Mr S on 21 
December 1999 to inform him of the outcome of its review. The letter said that Merchant 
Investors had concluded that Mr S had not been financially disadvantaged. Included in the 
correspondence sent to Mr S, Merchant Investors said was a document known as the 
Confirmation of Understanding form. This gave the customer the opportunity to say 
whether they agreed or disagreed with the outcome of the review. Merchant Investors say 
that Mr S did not return his form.
In November 2020, through a representative, Mr S wrote to Sanlam asking it to carry out a 
pension review. Sanlam replied in December 2020, declining to do so, saying that Mr Ss 
request had been made out of time. It said that a pension review was undertaken in 1999 
and that concluded that he had not lost out financially. His representative said that Mr S 
would not have known in 1999 if he had lost out. He only became aware as he neared 
retirement.
Mr S referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into it and recommended that Mr Ss complaint should not be 
upheld. Mr S didnt accept this view and asked for his case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. Mr Ss complaint now comes to me for a decision.
Mr S said, in summary, through is representative, that he did not receive the outcome of the 
pension review from Merchant Investors in 1999 because if he had received it, he would 
have questioned it. Mr S says that important letters should be sent by registered post 
ensuring the opportunity to respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator, not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
The industry wide pension review was a one off conclusive exercise for establishing 
whether a customer had suffered a financial loss by transferring out of their occupational 
pension scheme into a personal pension scheme.
The regulator set the assumptions to be used when carrying out the pensions review. Mr 
Ss representative questioned whether Merchant Investors calculations were undertaken 
correctly. Ive not seen anything to indicate that Merchant Investors didnt conduct Mr Ss 
review in line with the regulators assumptions that applied at the time. The regulator was 
responsible for overseeing the carrying out of these reviews.
Mr S believes that had his review been conducted using the new guidance issued by the 
Financial Conduct Authority (the regulator) in October 2017, that based on the updated 
assumptions in the 2017 guidance, a re-review would have shown that he had lost out 
financially.
The 2017 guidance set out new assumptions to be used by a business when conducting a 
new review. However, the guidance did not require businesses to re-calculate reviews 
that had already been completed in line with the 1994 guidance issued by the regulator.
The regulator only required businesses to carry out the review once, Once completed, 
businesses like Merchant Investors didnt have to complete a further review. As Mr Ss 
case had already been reviewed, Sanlam didnt have to carry out a further review using 
the 2017 guidance.
I note that the correspondence giving the outcome of the review was sent to Mr Ss last 
known address, an address he was living at, at that time. But that Merchant Investors did not 
send Mr S the correspondence in such a way that it can be proved now that he received it. 
Mr S says that it is feasible it got lost in the post. He puts this forward as a reason for 
requiring Sanlam to complete a second review now using the 2017 guidance. I cant know 
whether Mr S received the correspondence or not. I think it more likely that he did. I say this 
because he knew a review was being carried out and I think, if at the time he wasnt 
informed of the outcome of that review, most likely he would have followed that up. 
Based on what I have seen, I think it likely that the review was completed in line with the 
pensions review assumptions applying at the time of review and this was communicated to 
Mr S (whether he received it or not). I therefore agree with our investigator, I dont consider 
that Sanlam have done anything wrong by refusing to carry out another pensions review, 
one already having been carried out in 1999 and this being a one off exercise.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman