DRN-3274727
The complaint
Mr J complains about Allianz Insurance Plcs (Allianz) decision to decline cover for his pet 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr J took out pet insurance with Allianz to start on 26 August 2013 to cover his pet dog. Mr J 
says his dog was scratching so he took her to a vet who treated her for fleas. Mr J says he 
then took his dog to a vet again a few months later and she was treated for an allergy. Mr J 
put in a claim for the treatment for the allergy but this was declined by Allianz on the basis 
this was a pre-existing condition. So, Mr J complained as he said his dog wasnt diagnosed 
with the condition until months after the policy started.  
Allianz responded and explained their policy doesnt cover pre-existing conditions or any 
illness that shows clinical signs in the first 14 days of cover starting. Allianz said Mr Js claim 
was for his dogs skin allergy treatment from 9 September 2013 to June 2014. They said the 
medical history showed the symptoms first started on 6 September 2013  which means it 
fell within the first 14 days of the cover starting. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr J. She thought that Allianz hadnt acted unfairly in 
declining Mr Js claim. Mr J disagreed so the matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr J will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr Js pet insurance policy which sets out the terms and conditions. 
Under a section headed, What we will not pay, it says The cost of any treatment for an 
illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover. The Definitions section then provides 
further detail about what is defined as an illness which starts in the first 14 days of cover. 
This says:
An illness that:
a) Showed clinical signs,
b) Has the same diagnosis or clinical signs as an illness that showed clinical signs,
c) Is caused by, relates to, or results from, a clinical sign that was noticed, or an illness 
that, showed clinical signs, 
In the first 14 days of: 
Your pets first policy year
The certificate of insurance includes a heading Exclusions and clauses, which says, Your 
insurance does not cover any illness which starts in the first 14 days of your pets first policy 
year or any pre-existing conditions. If your pet was ill or injured at any time before the cover 
for this pet started, we will not cover any claim relating to that illness or injury from 26/08/13.   
Allianz received a claim in June 2014. The claim form describes Mr Js dogs condition as 
Itchy skin/sore. Allianz declined to cover this claim on the basis it relates to a condition 
which started during the first 14 days of cover starting. So, Ive looked into whether Allianzs 
decision is fair and reasonable. 
Mr Js dogs pet insurance started on 26 August 2013  this means the 14-day exclusion 
period would run until 8 September 2013. I can see Allianz refer to an entry dated 9 
September 2013 in Mr Js dogs medical records which notes Mr Js dog has started 
scratching last 3 days, had caused mild dermatitis over abdomen. [Discussed possible] 
sources of allergy Allianz say this shows the symptoms for this first started on 6 
September 2013  and therefore falls within the 14-day exclusion period. 
I can see Mr J disputes this and says the attendance on 9 September was for flea treatment 
and it wasnt until months later that his dog developed skin allergies. He says the vet didnt 
diagnose his dog with skin allergies during the visit on 9 September. I can see Allianz 
approached the treating veterinary practice with specific questions around Mr Js dogs 
medical history. They asked if the advocate dispensed on 23 July 2013 and 24 August 2013 
was to treat fleas and the veterinary practice confirm this was for routine preventative 
treatment and not for an active flea infestation. Allianz also asked if the claim was submitted 
to Allianz correctly as skin allergy treatment and the veterinary practice confirm it was and 
refer to Mr Js dogs ongoing medical notes.
Insurers often appoint experts experienced in this type of work to look at the claim, and thats 
what Allianz did. I think its a fair thing to do  and its reasonable for Allianz to rely on the 
experts comments when deciding how to deal with the claim. Following responses from the 
veterinary practice, Allianz have asked their internal vet to look into the claim. The vet says 
Mr Js dog had been treated for fleas (Advocate) as a routine treatment on the 23/7/13 
and 24/8/13 and the treating vet has confirmed that this was routine and there was no active 
flea infestation. 
The vet also says, When [Mr Js dog] was seen for a 3 day history of itchiness on the 9/9/13 
the vets suspected an allergy as flea control was still active and no fleas were seen[Mr Js 
dog] was subsequently seen 5/10/13 and 5/2/14 and was confirmed as allergic to mites and 
moulds 3/6/2014The original claim is for skin allergies and the initial date of treatment 
claimed for is the 9/9/2013The vets have confirmed that they are happy the condition they 
claimed for was skin allergies and that this condition has subsequently continued 
throughout [Mr Js dogs] lifeMy professional opinion is that [Mr Js dog] showed signs of 
skin allergies from the 6/9/2013 and that the claim and cover for the condition has been 
rejected correctly.
The report from Allianzs internal vet shows they took into account Mr Js dogs medical 
history and the responses provided by the veterinary practice. And, theyre of the opinion the 
treatment being claimed for relates to a skin allergy which started on 6 September. 
So, taking this into account, I cant say Allianz have acted unfairly in declining Mr Js claim. 
Theyve relied on an experts opinion which has taken into consideration all material and 
relevant information to arrive at a view. 
I note Mr J maintains that his dog wasnt diagnosed with a skin allergy until many months 
after the visit on 9 September 2013. Under guidelines issued by their regulatory body, all 
vets are required to take the utmost care when writing records to ensure they are clear and 
accurate. It is therefore reasonable for an insurer to rely on the clinical notes as being a true 
and accurate representation of what was seen and heard at the time of each consultation. The clinical notes are a contemporaneous account of Mr Js dogs clinical history. Ive looked 
at the clinical notes and this does show an entry on 9 September and the notes refer to      
Mr Js dog scratching for the last three days and mild dermatitis on her abdomen. The 
notes also refer to the vet discussing the possible sources of the allergy. 
In addition to this, the treatment being claimed is from 9 September 2013 to 3 June 2014. I 
think this is important because the veterinary practice accept the claim which was submitted 
relates to skin allergy, and the first date of treatment has been noted by the veterinary 
practice as 9 September 2013  and the clinical notes for this date refer to symptoms 
starting three days before. So, I think theres a link here between the diagnosis of a skin 
allergy and the symptoms starting on 6 September 2013. 
I note Mr J says the 14-day exclusion period was over at the point he visited the vet on 9 
September. I agree this was the case, but the terms and conditions refer to Allianz not 
paying for treatment for an illness showing clinical signs in the first 14 days of Mr Js dogs 
first policy year. So, while the visit was after the 14-day period, the medical records show the 
clinical signs and onset of symptoms as starting on 6 September. 
Mr J has my sympathy as I can see from his correspondence this has been a very upsetting 
event for him. My role is to decide whether Allianz have acted fairly and reasonably. And, for 
the reasons I have set out, I think they have so I dont uphold the complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman