DRN-3552700
The complaint
Mr W, on behalf of a C  a business, complains about the service he received from 
WorldPay UK Limited.
Any reference to C in my decision should be interpreted as referring to the actions of Mr W.
What happened
The background to this complaint is very well known to both C and WorldPay. In my 
decision, Ill focus mainly on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome that I have.
C had a merchant services agreement with WorldPay since 2006. Initially the agreement 
was taken out with another party. But since around 2011, the agreement has solely been in 
the name of Mr W on behalf of C. Around August 2021, C intercepted a statement registered 
to a third party - in Cs business name and to Cs office address. C raised their concerns 
about a third party using Cs customer base to take payments through a separate merchant 
service account with WorldPay - but were unhappy with their response.
C referred their complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator 
considered the complaint, but didnt recommend that it be upheld. As C remained unhappy, 
the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. 
This complaint raises a number of issues.  In summary, C as a customer of Worldpay raised 
concerns about a third partys account that they felt was negatively impacting their own 
merchant account with WorldPay.
 
Its very important that Im clear that some of these issues fall under our Services jurisdiction 
and others (civil matters) would be best dealt with through alternative channels  such as the 
police, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) or a court of law. If C hadnt an account 
with WorldPay when these events happened - our Service wouldnt be able to consider any 
aspect of this complaint
Although C alleges they have been the victim of fraud carried out by someone known to 
them - my final decision will concentrate solely on the service provided by WorldPay when C 
made them aware of their concerns. My decision will only address the following point that C 
has made: 
In hindsight  I believe  that Worldpay  could  of prevented  the loss of my business  
had they acted  in a reasonable  manner  which  they were  in a position  of power  to 
act. They  had a duty of care towards  me and to investigate  my serious  and valid  
concerns.  I would  like to claim  compensation  from Worldpay  as I believe  they 
have  been  negligent  in their dealing  in this matter.
When C raised their concerns, WorldPay was very limited (despite the third party being 
known to C) in what they could share with C. This is because Cs concerns were about the 
actions of a third party and their use of a separate merchant services account. Despite the 
frustration it will have caused C, WorldPay had a responsibility under data protection 
regulations to protect the information related to the third party. 
I dont find theyve been unreasonable in the service provided or negligent when responding 
here. In their final response letter WorldPay signposted C to other relevant organisations that 
might be able to help. I consider this positive and supportive. 
At the heart of this complaint is the impact of the third partys actions on Cs business 
operations. But I could only make a finding on that issue if I was to conclude that the actions 
of WorldPay when handling Cs merchant services account contributed to the losses C has 
described when they were made aware of the issues C has described. I dont find that 
WorldPay has done anything wrong here when responding to Cs concerns. The ultimate 
loss described here has occurred because of the actions of a third party - not the actions of 
WorldPay. 
Overall, based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that WorldPay listened to C, took their 
concerns seriously - and took appropriate steps. Because of the relevant data protection 
regulations WorldPay has been unable to share with C the actions theyve taken. 
My decision bring to an end our Services involvement in trying to informally resolve this 
dispute between C and WorldPay.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman