DRN-4261841
The complaint
Ms S has complained that Zopa Bank Limited are holding her liable for a debt which she 
says was the result of ID theft.
What happened
Both sides are most familiar with the case, so Ill summarise things in brief.
In summer 2022, a loan of £20,000 was taken out with Zopa in Ms Ss name, alongside a 
loan with another company.
Ms S spoke to Zopa and the other lender about it later that same day. She explained shed 
taken the loan out herself, along with a loan at another company. She confirmed shed 
received the funds, and paid the funds on herself, in order to invest in crypto. But the 
investment scheme had turned out to be a scam, and the scammers had taken the money.
In later correspondence, Ms S changed her testimony, and said the scammers had applied 
for both loans without her knowledge or consent. She clarified that she still had £7,000 from 
her Zopa loan in her possession, as shed realised it was a scam before that was taken.
Zopa held Ms S liable for the loan. They felt the evidence supported that shed applied for it 
or was at least aware of it as it was going through.
Ms S came to our service. Our investigator looked into things independently and thought that 
Zopa could hold Ms S liable for the principal of the loan, but not the interest or fees, and nor 
should they report it on her credit file.
Neither side agreed, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
I sent Ms S and Zopa a provisional decision on 6 July 2023, to explain why I thought the 
complaint should be upheld in part. In that decision, I said:
First of all, I understand that Ms S fell victim to a scam here, and so she has my sympathy. 
I appreciate that this cannot have been an easy time for her, and Im grateful to her for being 
open with our service about the effect the matter had.
I will also clarify that I have read and carefully considered everything which both sides have 
said and provided. But we are an informal alternative to the courts, and we dont look at 
things in quite as formal a way as the courts do. So I wont address the case on a point by 
point basis. Instead, I will focus on what I have found to be the key points.
Broadly speaking, Zopa can hold Ms S liable for the loan if the evidence supports that she 
agreed to it. Both sides appear to accept that Ms S fell victim to some kind of scam here. 
The question is essentially whether the scammers took out the loan without her knowledge  
as Ms S now says  or whether Ms S took out the loan herself and then lost the funds due to 
the scam.
There is quite a bit of evidence substantiating that Ms S took out this loan. For example:
In her initial calls with both loan companies, Ms S confirmed repeatedly that she took 
out each loan herself, and forwarded the money on herself.
It was only later that Ms S presented the story that the scammers did this without her 
knowledge. And even then, her testimony was at points inconsistent or contradictory.
Ms S received an email from the other lender thanking her for requesting a loan, and 
stating that in order to process her loan request she needed to confirm her email 
address by clicking a link. She opened the email and clicked the link to verify her 
email address for the loan. She did a similar procedure to verify her phone number 
and proceed with the loan application.
Ms S also received emails about each proposed loans details, setting up her direct 
debit, and confirmation of the loan taken out in her name. The other lenders records 
show that she opened their emails at the time of application. But she didnt tell either 
lender that anything was wrong until hours later, after the loans had gone through 
and been spent. And even then, as I mentioned above, when she reported things she 
confirmed shed applied for both loans herself.
Both loans were applied for using Ms Ss genuine contact details, including her 
phone number and email address. It is not likely or plausible that a fraudster would 
put down Ms Ss own contact details if they were trying to apply for a loan without her 
knowledge or consent. All contact would go to Ms S and the fraud would be 
discovered and potentially stopped straight away. Generally, I would expect to see a 
fraudster create fake contact details of their own, which would be straightforward for 
them to do, especially in an already sophisticated scam such as this one.
As noted above, Ms S received and opened quite a bit of correspondence about the 
loans, but still let the loans go ahead and did not report them until after the fact.
Residential IP addresses were used, which matches the IP addresses Ms S used for 
genuine online banking activity, and is based in her homes location. While I do 
understand that the scammers asked Ms S to install a remote access app on her 
phone, there were security checks which found that neither a remote nor proxy 
connection were used to apply.
After the first loan was applied for  and before this one  the scammer sent Ms S a 
fake text claiming that the first loan was annulled. Its not likely or plausible that 
theyd do this if they were trying to hide the existence of the first loan or the fact they 
were applying for this one, as Ms S later said they were. But it does fit both with her 
original testimony  that Ms S applied for the loans herself, and with known methods 
of scams  e.g. where a scammer might convince someone to apply for a loan saying 
theyll later get the loan written off or cancelled.
Finally, Ive not found any evidence which substantially shows that Ms S did not apply for 
this loan, or which makes me think its unlikely or implausible that she could have.
So based on what Ive seen so far, I find that the evidence and the balance of probabilities 
supports that this loan was taken out with Ms Ss knowledge and consent. I think its most 
likely that Ms S was persuaded to take out the loan and pay it on as part of a scam.That means that, in the first instance, Ms S bears liability for the loan, or at the least its 
principal sum. Ultimately, it looks like she was aware of it and agreed to it. And Zopa were 
not responsible for the scam  the scammers were. In these circumstances, I find it would be 
unfair for me to hold Zopa liable for what happened, or to tell them to fully write off a loan 
which they lent out in good faith to the genuine applicant based on genuine information.
With that said, I can see that Ms S was the victim of a scam here. Shes provided 
correspondence the scammer sent her which is clearly fraudulent, and the company involved 
is known for scams  the regulator has even issued a warning about them. The sequence of 
events fits well with known methods of scams, and Ms Ss own bank confirmed that there 
was some activity on her account where someone was accessing her phone remotely.
I can see that Ms S lost the majority of this loan to the scam  £13,000  and she has 
offered to return the remaining £7,000. Her doctor has also provided evidence that she was 
in a vulnerable state at the time. I think It would be unfair for Ms S to have to pay interest 
and fees on a loan which she was scammed into taking out while vulnerable, and which she 
did not benefit from (at least for the most part). It also would not be very appropriate for Zopa 
to profit from fraud in this situation. So I think the fairest thing is for Zopa to waive the 
interest and fees in this particular case.
I should also point out that even if I had found that the scammers applied for the loan, rather 
than Ms S, I would have still held Ms S liable for the principal of the loan in the particular 
circumstances of this case. The correspondence Ms S received at application made her 
sufficiently aware that these were loans in her name, and from what Ms S told us, she didnt 
have a reasonable basis to believe otherwise. According to Ms Ss later testimony, she gave 
the scammers full access to her phone and watched them use it. And I cant see that she did 
any reasonable due diligence to verify what she was being told. So she didnt take 
reasonable measures to mitigate her loss, and she ought reasonably to have known that 
these were loans in her name that would need to be paid back. As such, I would still not 
fairly be able to tell Zopa to write off the principal  only the interest and fees. And I certainly 
wouldnt tell Zopa to write off the £7,000 which Ms S is currently benefitting from.
Ive thought about whether Zopa should remove this loan from Ms Ss credit file. But Ms Ss 
credit file is supposed to be an accurate record of accounts she took out. And as I explained 
above, Ive found that Ms S took out this account. So it should remain on her file.
Ms Ss representatives said that Ms S cant afford the contractual repayments. I would 
expect Zopa to work with her to come to a repayment arrangement that she can afford. I can 
see that Ms S has also been given the details for independent charities who can give her 
free advice about dealing with her debts. I hope she finds them helpful.
Lastly, Ms Ss representatives pointed out that weve fully upheld other fraud cases. But we 
look at each case on its individual merits. Ive explained above why, in the circumstances of 
this particular case, Zopa should write off the interest and fees, but they can hold Ms S liable 
for the principal of the loan. This is a difficult message for me to give, and I know its a 
difficult message for Ms S to receive. But given the evidence I have so far, and the balance 
of probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
20 July 2023. Ill talk about both sides replies below.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Zopa didnt accept the provisional decision. They felt the evidence didnt support that a scam 
took place. But Ive already found that it did. The correspondence which the scammer sent 
Ms S was clearly fraudulent, the company she dealt with has many reports of scams against 
them and has had a warning issued about them by the regulator, the circumstances involved 
fit well with known methods of scams, and Ms Ss bank confirmed that there was activity on 
her account where someone was accessing her phone remotely.
Ms Ss representatives also didnt accept the provisional decision. They insisted that Ms S 
had not taken out the loans. They said she had proactively reported the loans as fraudulent 
as soon as she became aware of them, and had been consistent in her testimony.
As I explored in the provisional decision, Ms Ss testimony was not consistent  she changed 
it quite drastically. She did not report the loans as fraudulent as soon as she became aware 
of them, but instead waited until after the fact. And even then, in Ms Ss initial reports she 
confirmed repeatedly that she took out each loan herself. The other key evidence also 
supports that she took out these loans herself.
The representatives argued that the loan companies didnt do enough due diligence, so they 
felt there wasnt enough evidence to say that Ms S took out these loans. As I set out in the 
provisional decision, the evidence includes Ms S validating her email and phone to proceed 
with her loan application, reading further emails clearly setting out the loans but not reporting 
them at the time, her own contact details being used to apply amongst other genuine details, 
residential IP addresses being used to apply which matched Ms Ss genuine IP addresses at 
her homes location and which were not remote or proxy connections, Ms Ss contact with 
the scammer indicating that she knew a loan was being taken in her name, and call 
recordings where Ms S repeatedly confirmed that she took out the loans herself. I find the 
evidence strongly supports that Ms S took out these loans. I do not think further due 
diligence was likely to have shown otherwise.
The representatives made arguments that Ms Ss bank shouldve found the activity on her 
bank account unusual and made further security checks. But this case is about Zopa, not 
Ms Ss bank. Ms S may be able to raise a separate complaint about her own bank if she 
feels that her bank didnt do enough.
Lastly, Ms Ss representatives pointed out that she was the victim of a scam, and said she 
hadnt benefitted from the loan. I will point out that Ms S did benefit from this loan, as she still 
has £7,000 of it in her possession. But I already accepted that shes proposed to return this, 
that she didnt benefit from the majority of the loan, and that she was the victim of a scam. 
Thats why Im telling Zopa to write off the interest and fees. However, as Ive found that 
Ms S took out this loan, and it wouldve been clear to her that this was a loan in her name 
which would need to be repaid, I cannot fairly tell Zopa to write off the principal.
So having reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusions as before, for the 
reasons set out above. I realise that this decision will come as a disappoint to Ms S, though 
it is not my intention to disappoint her. But given the evidence I have and the balance of 
probabilities, Im unable to reasonably reach any other conclusion.Putting things right
I direct Zopa Bank Limited to remove all interest and fees from this loan, and to work with 
Ms S to arrange repayments based on what she can afford.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Ss complaint in part, and direct Zopa Bank Limited to put things right in the way 
I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman