DRN-2677414
  
  
The complaint
Mr M complains about the unsuitable pensions advice he received in 2011 from Portal 
Financial Services LLP (then trading as Potafina LLP). For ease of reference, I have 
referred to the business as Portafina in the rest of this decision. 
What happened
In 2011, Mr M took pensions advice from Portafina. At the time he had a personal 
pension plan (PPP) with Company A, worth around £33,210. He had no other work 
based pension schemes. 
He was in his mid-fifties, married and working full time in a manual role, living in rented 
accommodation. He had some debts. He said he intended to retire at age 65.
Following a fact find meeting with Mr M, Portafina assessed him as having a 
balanced attitude to risk (ATR). Portafina sent Mr M a Pension Release Report, 
dated 14 July 2011. Ill refer to this as the Pensions Report.
In the Pensions Report it noted Mr M wanted to:
Take tax free cash (TFC) immediately, using his residual fund to provide an 
income at a later stage in retirement;
Be made aware of investment opportunities;
Have a portfolio that was matched to his ATR; and
Have access to a system which allowed him to monitor the performance of his 
investments.
Portafina recommended that:
Mr M transfer his pension into a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) 
with Transact, take 25% TFC (around £8,300)) and leave the residual fund 
invested until it was needed in retirement and/or he decided to draw it down. 
He invest 53% in the Raithwaites Hypa Fund, 10% in the Hypa Asia Fund, 
17% in Venture Oil International, 15% in EOS Solar Energy and 5% held as a 
cash deposit. 
Portafina said:
 Having assessed your pension funds, I would normally recommend that you leave your 
pension benefits where they are as this will be most beneficial to you in retirement. However, 
during our telephone conversation you advised me that you are aware of the downfalls in 
taking your benefits now but due to your current circumstances you would like to take your 
benefits immediately.
Mr M accepted the recommendation and his pension was transferred in August 2011. 
He then took 25% TFC and the residual funds were invested in line with Portafinas 
recommendations as set out above. Portafina accepts that the Hypa funds were 
unregulated Collective Investment Schemes (UCIS).
Portafina charged Mr M 5% of the total transfer value for providing this advice. There 
were also other SIPP charges and annual fees, which our investigator was not able to 
fully determine.
Mr M complained to Portafina when he received a statement showing that the 
underlying value of his investments was worth only pennies. Portafina said hed raised 
his complaint too late, so he complained to our service. One of our ombudsmen issued 
a decision in December 2020, confirming that Mr M had brought his complaint in time 
and so we could investigate. Our investigator went on to consider the merits of Mr Ms 
complaint and concluded that the complaint should be upheld because, in summary, 
Portafina had provided Mr M with unsuitable advice to transfer and to invest in UCIS. 
Portafina didnt agree, so Mr Ms complaint comes to me for a decision.
Portafina said, in summary: 
Mr M wanted to access his fund and TFC. This was discussed during the fact find 
appointment in July 2011. He wanted the money to make house repairs, which hed 
been planning to make for a long time but hadnt had the money to do.
Other options for raising finance for the repairs were discussed, but Mr M didnt want 
any further credit. This was because he already had a loan of £10,000 and a credit 
card with a balance in the region of £1,500, which he was paying back at £360 per 
month.
Although Portafina only holds limited information about the Company A plan, its 
possible it didnt provide a drawdown facility and that Company A wouldve required 
customers to get financial advice before accessing their pension through a drawdown 
plan. Obtaining this financial advice wouldve likely still resulted in Mr M paying a fee 
for advice.
Transact was chosen due to the flexibility it offered and allowed a combination of the 
more traditional elements of a PPP with a SIPP. It allowed Mr M to enter drawdown.
The redress methodology is unreasonable considering Mr Ms ATR. The benchmark 
used is more suited to a moderately adventurous investor.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. I 
will explain why.
I have seen the recommendations made in the Pensions Report, the information provided 
by Mr M and information provided by Company A, who Mr M had his PPP with prior to 
transfer. Whilst the information is not complete, I consider that I have enough to fairly 
decide this complaint. 
Looking at the Pensions Report, Im not satisfied that Mr M was provided with enough 
clear and fair information to make an informed decision about how to proceed, to be able to fully weigh up his options. I say this because I cant see there was a comparison of the 
benefits Mr M was entitled to in his PPP scheme compared to the new arrangement.
Mr M has provided a document from Company A, which said he had, at that time, the 
following benefits:
A protected rights pension with an estimated income of £1,470 per year with no 
Guaranteed Annuity Rate (GAR); and
At retirement (aged 65) he could take 25% of the fund as TFC.
The Pensions Report does not explain why a recommendation to transfer into a SIPP is 
suitable in Mr Ms case. I have not seen anything to show a comparison of what was on 
offer if Mr M kept his existing PPP, compared to transferring into the new plan. It did tell him 
that the new arrangement would cost more, but I dont think Portafina gave Mr M enough 
clear and fair information so he could fully compare the two products and make an informed 
choice about his options. So, I think that Portafina did something wrong here. I cant see 
that the recommendation to transfer was suitable advice or, as Ive said, he was given 
enough clear and fair information to make an informed choice about whether to transfer.
Advice to invest in UCIS
Ive also looked at Portafinas recommendation to invest in UCIS. UCIS schemes carry 
a greater degree of investment risk and are generally only considered suitable for high 
net worth investors or sophisticated or experienced investors.. They are not covered 
by the Financial Services Compensation Scheme. The industry regulator 
recommended that UCIS investments did not exceed 3% to 5% of a persons portfolio. 
Portafina recommended that Mr M invest 63% of his residual funds in Hypa funds, 
which it accepts were UCIS. Based on what I have seen of Mr Ms circumstances, I 
dont consider that he met these criteria and in terms of his ATR, as a balanced 
investor, I cant see that he had the capacity for loss that investments like these carry. 
As the recommended investments were inconsistent with Mr Ms ATR, I consider that 
the investment recommendations made were unsuitable. Mr Ms pension is now worth 
just pennies as a result of investing in these high risk investments, Portafina pointed 
out that some of its directors had a business interest in the recommended 
investments.
Portafina did confirm in its Pensions Report that Mr M was not a person who was not 
exempt under the rules but confirmed he was a person for whom we as an Independent 
Advisory Firm qualified to advise on UCIS investments have taken reasonable steps to 
ensure that the investment in the particular investments scheme(s) is suitable following a 
full KYC (Know Your Customer Investigation) and ATR (Attitude to Risk Assessment), 
this therefore provides and exemption under COBS (Conduct of Business) Regulations 
4.12. Like our investigator, I dont share Portafinas view, that the investments were 
suitable for him based on of his circumstances. 
As well as being unsuitable investments, like our investigator I think the Pensions 
Report also contained misleading information. It said This portfolio is designed to 
provide growth, and gradually reduce your risk exposure as you come to the age of 
retirement at which you expect to take an income (which you have stated is 66). Its not 
evident from the investment strategy selected that there was a clear proposal for 
switching into low risk investments, such as bonds, (which carry less investment risk) 
when Mr M got closer to his intended retirement age, which was around 10 years off. 
His residual fund was except for the cash fund, invested in fixed term, property and loan 
based investments. So, I think that Portafina has done something wrong here, it has given him unsuitable 
investment advice and the information it has provided was insufficiently clear to enable 
him to make an informed choice about his options. Based on the limited information 
available to me, I think it unlikely that Mr M wouldve transferred his pension into the 
SIPP and invested as he did if given suitable advice.
I think Mr M has been caused some trouble and upset to his retirement planning as a 
result of Portafinas actions. He has seen his pension reduce to pennies. Portafina 
should pay Mr M £200 for the trouble and upset caused to his pension planning.
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close as 
possible to the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable 
advice. Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ms 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
To compensate Mr M fairly Portafina must:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, then no 
compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation 
is payable.
If there is a loss, Portafina should pay into Mr M's pension plan, to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Portafina shouldnt 
pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Portafina is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be 
reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been 
paid. 
Portafina should add interest as set out below.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age. Mr M should be treated as 
being a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would 
equal 20%. However, if Mr M would have been able to take a further tax-free 
lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting 
in an overall reduction of 15%.
As mentioned above, Portafina should pay Mr B £200 for the trouble and upset 
caused.
Portafina should provide the details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Portafina considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, 
so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom 
(start date)to 
(end date)additional interest
Transact 
SIPPstill existsFTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlement8% simple per year from date of decision to date of settlement (if compensation is not 
paid within 28 days of the business being notified of acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date, the investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Portafina should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and the 
balance paid as above.
If Portafina is unable to purchase the investment the actual value should be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose of calculation. Portafina may wish to require that Mr M provides an 
undertaking to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That 
undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the 
receipt from the pension plan. Portafina shall meet any costs in drawing up the 
undertaking.
If Portafina LLP cant buy the investments and it remains in the SIPP, it should pay an 
amount equal to five years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to 
the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investments.
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted 
from the fair value at the point it was actually paid, so it ceases to accrue any return in 
the calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a 
range of indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and 
government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher return  a balanced risk investor, like Mr M.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of 
comparison given Mr M's circumstances and risk attitude.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint and order Portal Financial 
Services LLP to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman