DRN-3437979
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance (OSB) 
overcharged interest on their mortgage; failed to remove all the charges theyd registered 
against their property with HM Land Registry; and communicated with them poorly.
What happened
In 2015 Mr W and Mrs W took out an interest only buy-to-let mortgage with OSB of around 
£970,000 with a term of 25 years. They had a five-year fixed interest rate product which 
came to an end in August 2020.
The terms of the mortgage allowed Mr W and Mrs W to make overpayments to reduce the 
capital balance by up to £500 each month, in addition to their contractual monthly mortgage 
payments (CMP), without incurring a penalty (early repayment charge  ERC). They made 
payments at around that level throughout the five-year fixed interest rate period.
After the fixed interest rate period had ended, Mr W and Mrs W made some significant lump 
sum payments during September 2020 to reduce the capital balance in stages before 
redeeming the mortgage in full in early October 2020.
Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy the payments they made didnt reduce the amount of 
interest they paid. They felt OSB should have explained things to them when Mrs W spoke 
to them in September 2020. They said the terms and conditions of their mortgage werent 
clear about how interest would be charged and OSB didnt provide a proper explanation.
They thought theyd been overcharged interest of around £2,850. And they said it should be 
refunded with interest at the rate OSB would have charged them, 6.18%.
OSB responded to Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint about this issue in early November 2020. 
They said interest had been properly charged and no repayment of interest was due. 
Since Mr W and Mrs W werent happy with OSBs response to their complaint, they 
brought it to this service.
After OSB had issued their response, Mr W and Mrs W raised some queries about the 
terms of the mortgage contract which OSB referred to their legal team. The legal teams 
response wasnt sent to Mr W and Mrs W. They included the lack of response as part of the 
complaint they brought to this service in March 2021. OSB explained their failure to respond 
on that happened due to a breakdown in communication.
Mr W and Mrs W raised other concerns after OSB had sent their response to their 
complaint. OSB have responded to those issues as weve looked into things:
Once the mortgage had been paid back, OSB removed one of their legal charges 
over Mr W and Mrs Ws property. But the property was made up of three separate 
titles and OSB didnt remove their charges over the other two until May 2021 or 
send them the deeds to the property as promised. Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy 
about the time and effort it took them to resolve this issue.
OSB apologised and offered Mr W and Mrs W £100 compensation for the 
inconvenience the delay in removing the charges had caused them. Mr W and   
Mrs W didnt think the offer fairly compensated them for the stress and 
inconvenience theyd experienced in trying to resolve the issue; OSB hadnt 
provided the deeds; and they were worried OSB had registered other charges.
Mr W and Mrs W said the redemption statement OSB sent them on 21 September 
2020 was incomplete as it didnt set out the balance they owed on the mortgage at 
the end of the five-year fixed interest rate period. They say OSB ignored their 
request to provide this and other ination theyd asked for and needed for their tax 
returns. And they say they spent a lot of avoidable time and effort explaining things 
to OSB, which they should be compensated for.
Since it wasnt possible to resolve the issues informally, our investigator provided her view 
about Mr W and Mrs Ws complaint. Broadly, our investigator didnt agree Mr W and       
Mrs Ws interpretation about how interest should be calculated under the terms of the 
mortgage contract and she felt OSB had done enough to put things right in relation to the 
other concerns Mr W and Mrs W had raised. So, she didnt uphold their complaint. Since  
Mr W and Mrs W didnt agree, their complaint was passed to me to review afresh. I recently 
issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since Ive seen additional information and come to an outcome thats different in part to our 
investigators, Im issuing a provisional decision so the parties can provide further 
comments if they wish before I issue a final decision.
Im grateful to the parties for all the information theyve provided. I may not mention 
everything theyve told me in my decision. That reflects the informal nature of this service 
and no discourtesy is intended. Id like to reassure the parties Ive taken everything 
theyve said into account in reaching my conclusions.
Mr W and Mrs W have other concerns theyve raised as a separate complaint with OSB. 
To make things as clear as possible, Ill address each of the points Im able to consider as 
part of this complaint using headings:
What were Mr W and Mrs W told about making the lump sum payments?
Ive listened to the call Mrs W had with an OSB representative on 4 September 2020 when 
she rang to check if the first lump sum payment of £75,000 had been received. The OSB 
adviser confirmed it had been. Mrs W said she and Mr W planned to make several lump 
sum payments over the coming days. The adviser asked whether she wanted OSB to 
adjust their CMP and explained it wouldnt be possible for that to happen every time a 
payment was made as notice was needed. He said if Mrs W could let him know what 
payments were going to be made when, he could make arrangements. In the end Mrs W 
confirmed they didnt want to adjust the CMP at that time as they were planning to redeem 
the mortgage in full.
The adviser explained the timescales for issuing a redemption statement. Mrs W agreed 
he should go ahead and issue one. He said interest would be charged at a daily rate until 
redemption. And he explained if the mortgage wasnt redeemed within 14 days of the 
redemption statement, a new one would have to be issued.Mr W and Mrs W argue the OSB representatives question about adjusting the CMP 
suggests that if theyd agreed to an adjustment, it would have meant their capital 
repayments would have been credited on the day they were received and reduced 
the interest they were charged  and that should have been explained. They say the 
OSB representative should also have explained on the call how OSB calculated 
interest.
I dont think the conversation was about how interest was calculated and how it would be 
charged following lump sum payments. Mrs W didnt ask about the effect of making the 
lump sum payments on the interest theyd then pay. She was checking OSB had got their 
first payment and letting them know others would be made that month.
I think the OSB representative wanted to find out whether an adjustment to the CMP was 
going to be needed the following month to take account of the lump sum payments and 
their effect on the overall mortgage balance. He was concerned with the practicalities of 
arranging the adjustment. Once he understood Mr W and Mrs W were planning to redeem 
the mortgage, the discussion turned to issuing a redemption statement and how that 
worked.
Making a change to the following months CMP wouldnt have affected the way in which the 
lump sum payments were credited to their account and the interest that was charged on 
their mortgage in any event. The change to the CMP was the result of any recalculation of 
the interest payable under the mortgage contract following lump sum payments, not the 
cause of the recalculation.
The lump sum payments didnt reduce the amount of interest Mr W and Mrs W 
paid; the terms and conditions of the mortgage relating to interest were unclear 
and unfair.
The parties disagree about the effect and clarity of the terms and conditions of the 
mortgage in relation to how interest was calculated. Theyve seen each others arguments, 
so I wont set them all out here. But Ill consider what I think are Mr W and Mrs Ws key 
concerns.
As a starting point, Id expect OSB to communicate information to Mr W and Mrs W in a 
way that is clear, fair and not misleading in line with the principles for business set out in the 
Financial Conduct Authority Handbook. Ive borne this in mind when looking at the terms 
and conditions of Mr W and Mrs Ws mortgage.
The mortgage contract between Mr W and Mrs W and OSB included both the mortgage 
offer and the terms and conditions of the mortgage.
The mortgage offer set out, amongst other things, in section 11, that:
if an overpayment or lump sum of £500 or more, over and above the normal 
CMP was made, it would be treated as a capital repayment;
and, After an overpayment or lump sum has been paid interest will be 
recalculated from the 1st of the following month.
Condition 12.1 of the terms and conditions of the mortgage said that mortgage interest 
will accrue day to day but be charged monthly based on the Outstanding Balance that 
was outstanding at the last Business Day in the preceding month.Mr W and Mrs W have said section 11 of the mortgage offer is inconsistent with condition 
12.1. Ive considered their arguments and I disagree. I think it is clear from the mortgage 
documents that interest is calculated on a daily basis on the capital balance outstanding on 
the last business day in the previous month and charged at that rate for the whole of the 
current month.
If a lump sum payment is made during a month, interest will continue to be calculated on 
the balance outstanding at the end of the previous month and charged at that rate. The 
lump sum payment then reduces the balance, so interest for the following month is 
recalculated on that reduced balance and charged at that rate going forward. In other 
words, following a lump sum payment, no adjustment to the capital balance on which 
interest is calculated will be made until the beginning of the month following the month in 
which any such payment has been made, no matter when the payment is made in the 
month.
Mr W and Mrs W argue the effect of making the lump sum payment is to create an 
interest credit which they should benefit from. They say that, since condition 12.1 doesnt 
explain what happens to that credit when the mortgage is going to be redeemed in the 
month following a lump sum payment, it cant apply to their circumstances.
I dont think the effect of making a lump sum payment created a credit which Mr W and 
Mrs W were entitled to. As OSB explained to them, the overpayments Mr W and Mrs W 
made during September 2020 didnt affect the capital balance on which interest was 
calculated and charged during September 2020. Interest during September was 
calculated on the balance outstanding at the end of August 2020. The lump sum 
payments made during September reduced the balance that was owed at the end of 
September 2020. And interest would have been calculated on that reduced balance to 
work out the CMP for October - if they hadnt redeemed the mortgage then. If theyd 
continued with the mortgage, they would have paid interest on a lower balance so their 
CMP would have been less. But since they redeemed the mortgage, they no longer had 
to make any payments at all.
Mr W and Mrs W argue that calculating interest in this way is unfair and that the term itself 
is prohibited by legislation relating to unfair contract terms. They say they paid OSB money 
which they didnt gain any benefit from and OSB continued to charge them interest on a 
higher amount than they owed having made the lump sum payments.
Its not for me to decide whether the terms are fair or not as a matter of law  only the 
courts can decide that. But I can consider what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, which includes having regard to relevant law and other guidance.
I havent seen anything which leads me to think the way OSB calculated interest in the 
circumstances of this case was unfair to Mr W and Mrs W. It was set out clearly in the 
contract they agreed to, as Ive mentioned. This was a buy to let mortgage and Mrs W told 
OSB when she complained theyd had mortgages before that hadnt operated in this way, 
so I think they had experience in dealing with mortgage contracts. And when they 
complained in 2018 that overpayments theyd made hadnt led to their CMP being 
recalculated, OSB explained how the terms operated. So, I think they were aware, or ought 
to have been aware, before they made the lump sum payments in September 2020 how 
OSB would treat those payments. And interest would only have been charged up to the 
date they redeemed the mortgage on around 24 September 2020. So, by making payments 
during September, they benefited from not having to pay interest on the capital balance 
outstanding at the end of August for all of September.Removal of legal charges and return of title deeds
Mr W and Mrs W say OSBs failure to remove all the legal charges over the three titles 
to their property caused them stress and inconvenience while they tried to sort things 
out.
OSB explained the problem probably happened when the mortgage was migrated to a 
new system and only details of one of the titles was transferred. It took around eight 
months for this issue to be resolved.
There seems to have been some confusion about whether or not OSB held deeds they 
needed to send to Mr W and Mrs W after they repaid the mortgage. I can see OSB said 
theyd send deeds, but Mr W and Mrs W didnt receive any. OSB told this service in 
September last year theyd returned any deeds. They also said it was unlikely theyd hold 
any since things would have been done electronically given the mortgage was taken out in 
2015. And Mr W and Mrs W found they had an original lease they were expecting as part 
of the documents held by OSB.
I agree with Mr W and Mrs W that OSBs indication the deeds would be sent to them 
was confusing. But I understand this issue has now been resolved.
Theres no evidence Mr W and Mrs W suffered any loss as a result of the delay in the 
charges over two of the titles being removed. I acknowledge Mr Ws strength of feeling 
about the time and effort he put into ensuring the titles were updated. And I accept it will 
have caused him some stress and inconvenience given the time it took. But I think OSBs 
apology and offer to pay £100 compensation is fair and reasonable to put things right in 
relation to these issues.
Communication and requests for information
Mr W and Mrs W feel they spent a lot of avoidable time and effort explaining the issues 
they were concerned about to OSB.
They say OSB didnt respond to requests set out in their letter of 10 November 2020 for an 
explanation about why their fixed interest rate product ended on 31 August 2020 when it 
was for 60 months and began on 12 August 2015; a full breakdown of how the balance 
outstanding as at 31 August 2020 was calculated; an explanation of how the mortgage 
balance and amount to redeem figures in the redemption statement were calculated; and to 
provide a statement of their account from October 2019 to October 2020 and interest 
certificate for 2020/2021.
Generally, I wouldnt expect OSB to have carried on corresponding with Mr W and     
Mrs W about their complaint after theyd responded to it and referred Mr W and Mrs W 
to this service. OSB did reply to their 10 November 2020 letter in which they raised 
issues that werent part of their original complaint and requested information. But I dont 
think its unreasonable that OSB didnt reply to later correspondence about the 
complaint in November and December.
From what Ive seen, OSB havent clarified why they say the fixed interest rate product 
ended on 31 August 2020 rather than an earlier date as Mr W and Mrs W had expected. 
Although they dont seem to have been negatively impacted by that as a lower interest 
rate applied while it was fixed, Id encourage OSB to provide that information.OSB explained the balance outstanding as at 31 August 2020 in a letter dated 6 
October 2020. Although Mr W and Mrs W wanted more detail, I think their explanation 
was a reasonable response to their request.
OSB have provided Mr W and Mrs W with the statement and certificate they asked for. 
Im aware Mr W and Mrs W have some concerns about delay and the information the 
documents contain  but they are part of a separate complaint that OSB is considering.
OSB said, on 13 November 2020, theyd referred Mr W and Mrs Ws concerns to their legal 
team and would respond in due course. Since theyd told Mr W and Mrs W theyd come 
back to them, I think Mr W and Mrs W could reasonably expect them to. OSB have 
explained their failure to send the legal teams response to Mr W and Mrs W was an 
oversight and theyve apologised.
In the end the response, which we received as part of our investigation and sent on, 
didnt satisfy Mr W and Mrs W. I can understand it will have been frustrating for Mr W and 
Mrs W that OSB didnt reply. I dont think the delay meant their complaints taken 
significantly longer. But I think it was fair for OSB to apologise.
Mr W and Mrs W were unhappy the redemption statement OSB sent them on 21 
September 2020 didnt set out what the balance of their mortgage had been at the end of 
the five-year fixed interest rate product. They also asked for an explanation of the interest 
set out in the redemption statement.
I wouldnt expect the redemption statement to have set out the balance of their mortgage 
at the end of the five-year fixed rate period. It was a statement of what theyd have to pay 
to redeem their mortgage on 24 September 2020, or within 14 days of that date, bearing 
in mind any payments theyd made since the product ended. The redemption statement 
explained the amount of interest charged was based on the capital balance in line with the 
mortgage terms and conditions. And it set out the daily rate that was payable until OSB 
received cleared funds to repay the mortgage. I think it set out all the information it ought 
to have done. OSB explained their position in relation to how interest had been calculated 
in response to their complaint and Ive considered that already.
Ive thought about the service OSB provided overall. I acknowledge Mr W and Mrs W were 
unhappy about the interest they were charged. I can understand OSBs failure to respond 
fully or at all to some of the points they raised will have been frustrating and stressful given 
the concerns they had about that. Ive explained why I dont think OSB were at fault in 
relation to most of the issues Im considering here. I acknowledge OSB apologised for the 
delay in forwarding the legal teams response to issues about the contract terms. And I 
note they offered £100 compensation for the issue relating to the legal charges over the 
property title and deeds. I think Mr W and Mrs W were put to some trouble in resolving that 
issue and there was a lengthy delay. But there was confusion on both sides.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand my decision will be disappointing for Mr W 
and Mrs W, I intend to uphold their complaint in part only. I acknowledge OSBs apology 
and offer to pay Mr W and Mrs W £100 compensation for one issue. I think its fair, bearing 
in mind what went wrong, for OSB to pay Mr W and Mrs W a total of £200 compensation to 
put things right, inclusive of the £100 they have already offered them. If Mr W and Mrs W 
feel they havent had all the information theyd like, Id encourage them to explain whats 
outstanding to OSB and OSB to provide whatever information they reasonably can.
My provisional decisionI intend to direct OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance to pay £200 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience to Mr W and Mrs W.
Developments
OSB had no comments to make on my provisional decision. Mr W and Mrs W have made 
several points in response. They largely duplicate arguments theyve made before and 
which I considered in coming to my provisional decision. So, I wont set them all out here. 
And Ill comment only where I think there is a new point to address.
Mr W and Mrs W still feel the mortgage terms were misleading in saying interest accrued 
on a daily basis. They say OSB failed to let them know how interest was calculated. They 
mention specifically the September 2020 call when OSB said daily interest would apply. 
OSB were right to say daily interest would apply. The issue is the amount on which interest 
was calculated. Theres nothing in the call that leads me to conclude OSB should have 
provided a detailed explanation of how interest worked then. Mrs W didnt ask for one or 
give any indication she didnt understand the position.
Mr W and Mrs W argue since the mortgage terms and conditions were lengthy, it means 
they werent clear, fair and not misleading as I said they should be. Id expect Mr W and   
Mr W to have read the mortgage terms and conditions before they entered into the 
mortgage and before they decided to make the lump sum payments. The length of the 
terms and conditions doesnt, of itself, make them unclear. 
Mr W and Mrs W argue paragraph 11 of the mortgage offer entitled 11. What happens if 
you want to make overpayments? only relates to capital payments made during the term of 
the fixed interest rate product because it refers to paragraph 10 which is about ERCs. They 
say the provision After an overpayment or lump sum has been paid interest will be 
recalculated from the 1st of the following month doesnt apply to the lump sum payments at 
issue here since they were made outside the fixed rate period. 
I disagree and I think the offer is clear. Paragraph 11 relates to any overpayments. It 
explains an overpayment or lump sum payment exceeding £500 will be treated as a capital 
repayment. It refers to paragraph 10 to explain what ERCs are payable if a capital 
repayment is made. And it makes clear that interest will be recalculated from the 1st of the 
month following the month in which an overpayment or lump sum payment - whether or not 
its a capital repayment - is made.
Mr W and Mrs W say I overlooked the wording in condition 12.1 that interest will accrue 
from day to day, which they say gives the clear impression interest is calculated daily. I 
addressed that point directly in my provisional decision and agreed with Mr W and Mrs W. 
Its important to read the whole of the provision, which goes on to explain interest is 
charged monthly on the balance outstanding at the end of the previous month. 
I also explained why section 11 of the mortgage offer and condition 12.1 in the terms and 
conditions set out the position clearly. I dont think its necessary to consider all the other 
provisions Mr W and Mrs W have referred to. Since I think the terms are clear, I dont 
think they are unfair on grounds of being unclear as Mr W and Mrs W argue.
Mr W and Mrs W say its unfair for OSB not to take lump sum payments into account in 
calculating interest. Theres likely to be some cost to OSB when Mr W and Mrs W made 
their lump sum payments. So, I dont think applying interest in the way they did was 
inherently unfair.I note Mr W and Mrs Ws concern they were financially disadvantaged by the five-year 
fixed rate term being longer than they expected. The point they raised in this complaint 
was that OSB had failed to provide an explanation about when the rate ended. Ive 
encouraged OSB to provide an explanation. If Mr W and Mrs W wish to complain they 
have been financially disadvantaged, theyd need to raise this with OSB as a separate 
issue before the Financial Ombudsman can consider it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bearing everything in mind, for the reasons Ive explained above, I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for OSB to pay Mr W and Mrs W £200 for distress and 
inconvenience.
My final decision
I direct OneSavings Bank Plc trading as Kent Reliance to pay £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience to Mr W and Mrs W.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman