DRN-3149744
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs C complain The Co-Operative Bank Plc (Co-op) mis-sold the payment 
protection cover provided within two term policies. 
What happened
Mr R and Mrs C purchased a property in 2006. At this time, they were advised by Co-op to 
take out a mortgage to fund the purchase. The adviser recommended a decreasing term 
assurance policy (DTA). The DTA was for a term of 19 years and included life cover with an 
initial sum assured of £135,000 and payment protection cover. 
Mr R and Mrs C then arranged for a further advance on their mortgage in order to take out 
more borrowing. They took out a second DTA for a term of 16 years. It included life cover 
with an initial sum assured of £25,000 and payment protection cover. 
Mr R and Mrs C complained in May 2019. They were unhappy they were made to feel that 
they had to have payment protection insurance (PPI) rather than it being optional. They felt it 
was something they didnt need. 
Co-op responded to Mr R and Mrs Cs complaint in August 2019. They said that Mr R and 
Mrs C had taken out two DTA policies, but no PPI was held with them. Therefore, they didnt 
uphold the complaint. 
Mr R and Mrs C remained unhappy and asked us to investigate. Our service then mistakenly 
progressed the case as a complaint about PPI and an Investigator issued a view explaining 
why they thought it should be upheld. But it became apparent that neither Mr R nor Mrs C 
had taken out PPI through Co-op. Therefore, an Investigator looked in to the payment 
protection cover provided as part of the DTA policies and explained why he felt that the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
Mr R and Mrs C didnt agree. In response to the view, they said that theyd needed the life 
cover. However, theyd had a variety of mortgages in the past and payment protection cover 
was never associated with the life cover theyd taken out previously. Also, they said they 
didnt need the payment protection cover as they had other provision in place which was 
ignored because the agents wanted to get paid commission. 
Therefore, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Investigator has previously explained that PPI is a standalone insurance contract. Mr R 
and Mrs C thought they were mis-sold PPI and have referred to the paperwork relating to the 
DTA policies. Ive also reviewed the paperwork and can see it refers to payment protection 
cover. But these term assurance plans arent a type of PPI. The provider of the cover has 
also confirmed there was no PPI. 
Mr R and Mrs C did take out DTAs with the objective of paying off their mortgage in the 
event of either of their deaths. Ive reviewed the paperwork available. I note theyve also 
accepted life cover was something they needed as they wanted to assure the mortgage 
would be paid off in the event of either of their deaths.
Ive reviewed the mortgage protection review form filled in by the advisor in 2006. I can see it 
was agreed that it was important for Mr R and Mrs C that should either of them die then they 
would want their mortgage debt to be paid off. 
The DTAs were suitable as they clearly met this objective. And the recommendation by the 
advisor noted this. Generally, they are also considered a cost-effective way of protecting a 
mortgage. Therefore, Ive no concerns here that Co-ops recommendation regarding the 
DTAs was unsuitable. 
But I do recognise that Mr R and Mrs C strongly feel that they didnt need the payment 
protection cover and they felt it was something they had to have. It should be noted that I 
have limited information from the time the policies were sold. But Ive carefully thought about 
what I do have in order to make my decision and consider whats more likely to have 
happened.
Ive reviewed the mortgage protection review form filled in by the advisor in 2006. Under the 
additional features section of the form, the advisor noted that Mr R and Mrs C would be 
interested in the option of having premiums paid if they were unable to work due to accident 
or sickness. He also made a note about the deferred period. It seems that whether Mr R and 
Mrs C took the payment protection cover, was contingent on the price of it. Therefore, it 
seems the advisor was reasonably clear that it was optional. 
Moreover, Ive reviewed the advisors recommendations as noted on the same form. In 
respect of the payment protection cover, he said that he understood this was something Mr 
R and Mrs C would be interested in depending on the cost. Also, that it would be good to 
know the policy premiums were protected. I also note there was a discussion about the 
critical illness cover, but this was something that Mr R and Mrs C felt they didnt need in the 
circumstances. The recommendations show me that the advisor did consider Mr R and Mrs 
Cs circumstances and what they wanted.
The advisor confirmed his recommendations in writing to Mr R and Mrs C in June 2006. I 
can see that reference to the payment protection cover was included under the section of 
product options. From this I think it was reasonably clear that this was an optional addition, 
although I recognise it was something recommended by the advisor. The costs were also 
outlined in the letter so Mr R and Mrs C could make an informed decision. 
Ive also reviewed the key features document and can see an explanation of the payment 
protection cover was provided. It explained that it could be added and meant that if you were 
unable to work due to illness and injury then the payments for the policy would be made for 
the policy holders. This cover would last for the period of the valid claim. There was also a 
deferred period which is the period Mr R and Mrs C would have to wait before the payments 
were covered. As the key features document made it clear that it was an optional extra, I 
think its unlikely the Co-ops advisor would have indicated payment protection cover was 
something Mr R and Mrs C had to have.
I appreciate what Mr R and Mrs C has said about the cover they had in the event of ill health. 
For example, their savings and ill health insurance. Mr C also provided a copy of the benefits he received through work. Ive thought about everything theyve said carefully. Ive also 
thought about what theyve said about what financial incentives the advisor might have had. 
However, Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for the advisor to recommend payment 
protection cover. This is because he made it reasonably clear that it was optional. 
Additionally, had Mr R or Mrs C been unable to work due to sickness or an accident for 
longer than the deferred period, then the premiums associated with the DTAs would be 
covered for the period of incapacity. Whilst Mr R and Mrs C feel they had enough financial 
provision in place should such events occurred, not having to pay the premiums would have 
certainly reduced the burden of outgoing payments for Mr R and Mrs C. Also, it seems Mr R 
and Mrs C first considered the price of such protection before taking it out. So, I cant say 
Co-op have done anything wrong here.
Overall, Im satisfied the DTAs sold to Mr R and Mrs C with the payment protection cover 
were suitable. The policies met their objectives to cover the mortgage debt in the event of 
death. And the payment protection cover would cover premiums in the event that either Mr R 
or Mrs C couldnt work due to sickness or an accident. And the evidence Ive seen doesnt 
persuade me that Co-op told Mr R and Mrs C this was a compulsory element of the DTAs. 
Therefore, Ive decided Co-op havent done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 January 2022.
 
Laura Dean
Ombudsman