DRN-3282980
The complaint
Mr M has complained about the total loss settlement Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
paid when he made a claim under his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr Ms car was stolen and he made a claim to his insurer, Admiral. Admiral settled Mr Ms 
claim by paying the market value of his car at the time of loss  in line with the policy terms. 
Mr M was unhappy with the total loss settlement amount and complained to Admiral. But 
Admiral said it had reached its valuation correctly. 
Mr M asked us to look at his complaint. Our Investigator looked at the main motor trade 
guides in line with our approach and thought Admiral should increase the total loss 
settlement. But Admiral didnt agree. It says one of the valuations the Investigator relied on is 
out of kilter with the others and so should be disregarded. 
Our Investigator thought the key valuation should be considered as the difference in 
comparison to the value of Mr Ms car meant it wasnt out of kilter in line with our approach. 
Admiral didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide a valuation. But we look at whether an insurer has reached its valuation 
reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Ms policy with Admiral says the most it will pay in the event of a claim is the market value 
of his car at the time of loss. It defines the term market value as; 
The cost of replacing your vehicle; with one of a similar make, model, year, mileage 
and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss happened. Use of 
the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value is based on 
research from industry recognised motor trade guides.
We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We tend to rely on the main 
motor trade guides which provide retail transacted valuations. They are valuations based on 
what Mr M  or anyone  might pay for a similar vehicle at a retail garage. We find the 
guides can be more reliable than adverts as they are based on extensive nationwide 
research of likely selling prices. 
We checked the main motor trade guides to see if Admiral had reached its valuation in a 
reasonable way. 
Admiral relied on one of the main motor trade guides to reach its valuation.  In response to 
Mr Ms complaint, it looked at a second motor trade guide and found it was in line with what 
it had paid. So it said the settlement of £12,360 was correct. 
We looked at three main motor trade guides using the retail transacted valuations provided 
for a car of a similar make, model, age, condition and mileage as Mr Ms. The valuations 
were; £13,300, £13,460 and £14,418 respectively. Using our approach we found the 
average of these guides came to £13,726. 
Admiral agreed it should pay more, but didnt agree that the valuation of £14,418 should be 
included as it was out of kilter with the other two. It said this was in line with our approach. 
Where there is a difference in one of the valuations, we look at whether this difference is 
significant in comparison to the market value  and we will also look at whether that 
difference is in kilter with adverts for similar cars at the time of loss. As an example, a 
difference in the valuations of £100 to £200 may be significant to a car valuation of £1,000  
but not significant to a car value of £7,000. In this case, Mr M provided an invoice receipt for 
what he paid for the car by way of a finance agreement less than a month before his car was 
stolen. The amount on the invoice is £13,750. Mr M said there were similar cars for sale for 
around £14,000 at the time of loss. 
So  I dont think it unreasonable to include the valuation of £14,418 when deciding a fair 
market value for Mr Ms car.
This means I think Admiral should increase the total los settlement to £13,726 as the 
average of the three guides and pay the difference. It should pay interest on the difference 
from the date of loss to the date it pays the difference as set out below. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance Company 
Limited to pay the difference to bring the total loss settlement to £13,726. It should pay 
interest on the difference at a rate of 8% simple interest per year from the date of loss to the 
date it pays. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman