DRN-4376770
The complaint
Mr S and Mr S(2) complain Aviva Insurance Limited unfairly declined a claim made on their 
insurance policy following a fire. 
The fire was at the property where Mr S lived and he has been the main correspondent in 
this complaint so, for ease of reference, he is the main party referred to throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The details of the claim are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
Instead, Ill summarise the background and focus on the reasons for my decision.
Mr S and Mr S(2) had a buildings and contents insurance policy underwritten by Aviva for a 
property Mr S lived in, under the terms of a trust. 
On 1 August 2021, there was a fire at the property in the loft. On 21 August, Mr S contacted 
Aviva to make a claim on the policy.
When the Forensic Scientist (FS) from a firm attended on 2 September, the loft space had 
been cleared with a single aerial booster remaining. This was taken away by the FS and 
later analysed. Mr S told the FS hed been growing cannabis in the loft. This was also 
discussed when Avivas loss adjuster (LA) interviewed Mr S and the transcript of their 
conversation has been sent to this service.
Aviva said Mr S had no cover for the claim as hed made a misrepresentation about his 
occupation. It also said hed breached the terms and conditions of the policy for several 
reasons including the following:
- Aviva hadnt been notified about the claim as soon as it shouldve been, and Mr Ss 
actions hindered the FSs investigations into the cause of the fire.
- Mr S failed to take all reasonable precautions to prevent loss or damage as the 
cultivation of cannabis in the loft was a likely fire risk.
- The policy excluded any loss or damage caused by criminal acts and the fire was 
caused by the cultivation of cannabis in the loft by Mr S.
- Mr S failed to cooperate and hadnt given complete and accurate answers.
It gave Mr S time to make any submissions on these issues before it came to a final decision 
on the claim. Mr S communicated with Aviva and complained about this, but it didnt agree to 
pay the claim nor uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mr S didnt think this was fair. He said the reasons used by Aviva were spurious and 
complained about the time itd taken to respond to his claim and requests for information. He 
didnt agree there was enough evidence to show the cultivation of cannabis was the cause of 
the fire or agree he couldve notified Aviva any sooner than he did due to ill health and not 
being clear about who would contact the insurance company. Therefore, he didnt think 
Aviva could rely on the above terms. He asked Aviva to see the FSs report and the LAs 
transcribed conversation with him, and Aviva declined his request. Mr S then raised a 
Subject Access Request (SAR). When responding to the SAR, Aviva still declined to send 
Mr S the FSs report or the transcribed interview with the LA. Mr S feels the report must be 
favourable to him which is why Aviva is refusing to share it. 
Mr S referred the matter to this service for an independent review. Aviva explained to our 
service it had agreed to send the exhibits from the FSs report to Mr Ss chosen forensic 
expert. It also said Mr S had failed to answer a number of queries raised by it throughout the 
claim investigation. 
The Investigator looked into matters and didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. They didnt agree 
Mr S had misrepresented his occupation. However, they considered Avivas decision to 
decline the claim was reasonable based on the culmination of conditions breached by Mr S 
and the impact of them on Avivas ability to assess the claim. They didnt agree the time it 
took Aviva to progress the matter was unreasonable given the steps it took to validate the 
claim nor that the decision not to share FSs report or the transcribed interview was unfair. 
Mr S disagreed. He makes several points including the following:
The FS told him the cause of the fire was the signal booster so the delay in notifying 
Aviva isnt relevant as the FS was able to make an assessment of the cause of the 
fire. He also doesnt agree the hydroponic equipment was to blame nor the criminal 
acts clause relevant as it wasnt the cause of the fire. Mr S says this is supported by 
the photos and video he took as well as his own assessment of the pattern of 
burning, and damage caused compared to the location he says the hydroponic 
equipment was in and position of the signal booster.
Even if Aviva had been notified sooner, it wouldnt have been possible for the FS to 
see the equipment in situ  it was damaged by water and falling embers and debris. 
Also, the equipment had to be moved so the roof could be secured, and workmen 
could clear the area.
If Aviva cant prove the fire was started by the electrical equipment supplying the 
cannabis plants or the report is inconclusive, hes been told its liable for the claim 
and this is the situation he feels hes in now.
The lights in the tent werent operational at the time of the fire. 
The Investigator and Mr S communicated about these points, but it didnt change the 
Investigators mind. As agreement couldnt be reached, this matter has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks 
more likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
I recognise Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done so 
using my own words. Im not going to respond to every single point made by the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the 
key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this, and it reflects the informal nature of our 
service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. Ive given careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my decision and Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
argument to be able to reach what I consider to be a fair outcome. Having done so, I must tell Mr S that I think the Investigator has reached a fair outcome 
here. So, I dont uphold his complaint in this matter. Ill explain why.
Claim decision
The key terms in the policy Aviva relied on to decline Mr Ss claim state as follows:
2. You and any other person this insurance applies to must take all reasonable 
precautions to prevent accidents, loss or damage and keep insured property in good 
condition.
7. As soon as you [the Insured] are aware of an event or cause that is likely to lead 
to a claim under this policy, you must:
 
b. contact us as soon as reasonably possible and provide all the information and help 
we need to settle your claim.
Under section 8 which lists the exclusions, the policy confirms theres no cover 
provided for Any loss or damagearising from your criminal act.
Here, theres no dispute an illegal activity had taken place. Mr S accepts he was cultivating 
cannabis in the loft of the property. What is disputed by Mr S is whether this was the cause 
of the fire. He also doesnt agree his failure to report the claim sooner and his clearance of 
the loft contents impacted Avivas ability to assess the likely cause of the fire.
When the fire was first discovered, the fire brigade attended. It didnt carry out a full 
investigation or inspect the area in detail. However, in the report from their attendance, it lists 
excessive and dangerous storage as a factor contributing to the start of the fire and the 
main cause being faulty fuel supply  electricity. It also states the source of ignition and 
item that first started the fire are unknown. 
Following its notification, Aviva appointed a FS who prepared reports after visiting the 
property and carrying out a detailed examination of the signal booster. However, when the 
inspection took place, the FS noted there was no evidence of the hydroponic equipment in 
the loft and most of the loft contents had been removed. The reports havent been shared 
with Mr S and so I summarise several key conclusions of the FS below:
- The cultivation of cannabis indoors presents several risks, including electrical faults. 
- The point of origin of a fault with the equipment used for the cultivation of cannabis 
can be identified in some cases by examining it.
- The signal booster was subject to a detailed examination and there was no evidence 
of an incendive fault.
- The patterns of fire damage arent reliable evidence to determine the cause of the fire 
and there was insufficient remaining physical evidence to do so.
Mr S has set out in detail why he considers the signal booster to be the cause of the fire and 
his actions didnt impact Avivas assessment of the claim. But he hasnt submitted any expert 
evidence in support of this. So, whilst Ive considered everything hes said, I find the expert 
evidence from the FS to be more persuasive. And, based on the expert opinion of the FS, I 
dont consider its possible to conclude what the more likely cause of the fire was. That said, 
Im satisfied Avivas ability to properly assess the cause of damage was prejudiced by Mr Ss 
actions, including:
- The delay between the fire and Mr S notifying Aviva of the claim; and- Mr S clearing the loft and property of the hydroponic equipment and loft contents.
This is in breach of the policy terms.
Notwithstanding the reasons given by Mr S for the delay in notifying Aviva of his claim, Im 
satisfied it wouldve been reasonable for him to contact Aviva much sooner than he did. And, 
certainly, before he cleared the property of the loft contents.
Mr S says the contents were cleared so remedial works could take place to prevent further 
damage. And it was in all the parties interest for the work to be completed without delay. But 
Mr S and Mr S(2) were required to notify Aviva of the claim as soon as the fire had occurred, 
in accordance with the policy terms. And Aviva is well versed in dealing with the aftermath of 
events like this this on behalf of the policy holder - its what a home insurance policy is for. 
So, I dont consider Mr Ss explanation is sufficient to justify the things he did nor impact of 
them on Aviva. 
I note Mr S also says the property had to be cleared for the forensic investigation to take 
place. But this wasnt Mr Ss decision to make. And I consider it likely a forensic investigator 
would be experienced in inspecting a fire damaged property with the damaged items in situ. 
Even if a full inspection wasnt immediately possible by an expert, Aviva wouldve been able 
to document the condition of the property after the fire and preserve any damaged items 
which needed further examination by a FS. I consider Mr Ss actions deprived it of this 
opportunity.
In light of the above, I dont consider Mr S and Mr S(2) complied with the terms of the policy 
they had with Aviva. This prejudiced Avivas ability to assess the claim, as it was entitled to 
under the policy. It follows Im satisfied Avivas decision to decline Mr S and Mr S(2)s claim 
in this matter was in line with the policy terms and I see no reason to interfere with it.
Delays
I acknowledge Mr S is unhappy with the time Aviva took in this matter. However, its not 
unreasonable for Aviva to take time to consider matters before approving work, for example, 
by reviewing the claim itself, seeking advice  internally and externally, obtaining specialist 
reports, appointing a LA and asking the consumer for further information. 
From the information Ive been sent, I can see this is a significant part of what it was doing 
even when it may have seemed as though no progress was being made. Its also important 
to balance this with the fact it was likely to be a significant claim which Aviva was reasonably 
likely to take more time to investigate, consider and review. 
Taking the circumstances of this matter into account, I dont uphold this complaint point.
SAR compliance 
Mr S says Aviva has unfairly refused to send him the FSs reports or the transcribed 
interview with the LA even after he made a SAR. 
Aviva relies on exemptions within the legislation which it says apply to these documents, 
including the legal privilege and negotiations. I havent seen any evidence to say Aviva has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in relying on these exemptions, so I dont uphold this 
complaint point. I think its important to explain were an informal dispute resolution service and its not my 
role to regulate Avivas compliance of data protection laws. This is for the information 
commissioners office. 
I recognise Mr S and Mr S(2) will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends 
what we  in trying to resolve this dispute with Aviva  can do for them.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr S and Mr S(2)s complaint in this matter.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Rebecca Ellis
Ombudsman