DRN-4393667
The complaint
Mrs G and Mrs H, on behalf of the estate of the late Mr S, have complained that Santander 
UK Plc wont refund transactions they say were unauthorised.
What happened
Mr S passed away in 2022. Starting a few weeks after his passing, cash withdrawals were 
made from his Santander account at ATMs, over the course of about two months, until the 
account was drained. The total withdrawn was around £4,000.
Following this, the estates representatives were told about Mr S passing away. They 
discovered the withdrawals and reported them to Santander.
Santander held Mr Ss estate liable for the payments in dispute. It said the genuine card and 
PIN had been used. It felt this was a civil or criminal matter which it didnt have to take 
responsibility for. 
Our investigator looked into things independently and upheld the complaint. Santander didnt 
agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Santander needs to be able to evidence that Mr S consented to the transactions, or that he 
failed to keep his account safe either intentionally or through acting with gross negligence. 
Otherwise, Santander has to refund the withdrawals.
Santander has not provided technical evidence to show how these payments were 
authenticated. So Im not currently satisfied that the genuine card and correct PIN were 
actually used here. In any case, Santander cant hold Mr Ss estate liable solely because the 
card and PIN were used  as above, the evidence has to support it being most likely that 
Mr S consented to the payments, or that he failed to keep his account safe either 
intentionally or through gross negligence.
As Mr S had passed away before the withdrawals were made, he was no longer in any 
position to consent to them. Theres no evidence that he gave anyone else permission to 
use this account either  there were no other authorised parties on the account, and no one 
was making any payments on his behalf while he was in hospital. So based on the evidence 
and the balance of probabilities, Im reasonably satisfied the withdrawals were unauthorised.
Ive not seen any evidence which shows that Mr S failed to keep his account safe either 
intentionally or through gross negligence. Again, its not certain whether his genuine card 
and PIN really were used. But even if they were, its plausible that e.g. a known party may 
have gained access to them while looking after him or after he passed away. For example, 
they may have had access to his belongings and found the PIN advice from when he 
opened his account not long before, even if he kept it somewhere otherwise safe. As Mr S 
has unfortunately passed away, we can no longer question him to find out more.
Santander made arguments about this being a civil or criminal matter. But under the 
Payment Services Regulations, Santander is required to refund unauthorised payments, 
regardless of whether it thinks this is a civil or criminal matter.
Lastly, I understand that Mrs G and Mrs H found it stressful dealing with Santander. I should 
explain that Im only allowed to award compensation for losses that the eligible complainant 
suffered, but not their representatives. So in this case brought by the late Mr Ss estate, I can 
only consider losses to the estate  but not losses to the estates representatives, such as 
any distress they suffered. So I cant comment on how Santander handled things for the 
representatives. I note that Santander offered £125 compensation for the way it dealt with 
them. The representatives questioned where this was paid to. I can see it was paid to the 
late Mr Ss Santander account back in August. It can be accessed there.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should:
Rework the account to reverse all the disputed transactions;
Pay simple interest on the resulting credit balance, at the rate of 8% simple a year, 
payable until the date of settlement. This is to compensate the late Mr Ss estate for 
the time it was without its money.
 If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct tax 
from that simple interest, it should tell the estates representatives how much tax its taken 
off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one. The estate may be 
able to reclaim the tax from HMRC, depending on its tax situation. That would be a matter 
between the estate and HMRC.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint, and direct Santander UK Plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above.
If Mr Ss estate accepts the final decision, Santander UK Plc must pay the redress within 28 
days of the date our service notifies it of the acceptance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman