DRN-1226157
 
The complaint
Mr W says AXA France IARD mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) when he 
took out a store card in May 2003. 
What happened
In May 2003 Mr W applied for a store card by completing an application form while he was 
shopping. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy to protect his card payments.
The policy cost was no more than £1.50 per £100 Mr W owed on his store card. The policy 
wouldve paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Mr W couldnt work 
because he had an accident, was unwell or lost his job. The policy also provided life cover 
as well as price and purchase protection.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. Mr W disagreed so the complaint has been 
passed to me for final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Ive looked at the copy of the agreement Mr W signed and I can see that there was a 
separate section relating to PPI. And Mr W signed this section to confirm that he would like 
to protect my account with account coverplease debit my account with the relevant 
monthly premiums until further notice. So Im happy the PPI was optional and that Mr W 
chose to take it out. If he hadnt wanted to take out the PPI, I think Mr W couldve left this 
section blank or chosen not to sign the agreement. And Ive noted that he didnt take out two 
other optional features  purchasing card protection or adding an additional card holder  he 
left these sections blank. So, I think Mr W knew the policy was optional and chose to take it. 
And as this was a monthly policy, Mr W couldve cancelled it at any time if he no longer 
wanted it.
Theres limited information available to me about what happened at the time of sale. So I 
dont know what may or may not have been said, but this is unsurprising given the sale of 
the policy took place more than 15 years ago. Given the information I do have, Ive not seen 
enough to make me think AXA advised Mr W to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt 
have to make sure the policy was suitable for Mr W  this was something he needed to 
decide for himself. But it still had to provide him with clear information about the policy so he 
could decide if he wanted to take it out - I cant say that AXA did this.
I dont know exactly what information Mr W received about the policy at the time of sale. But 
even if I were to accept that Mr W wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I dont think this wouldve affected his decision to take out the PPI for the reasons explained 
below.
Mr W was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for him to make a claim  he told us 
he was employed and in good health. Mr W says he wouldve only received statutory sick 
pay if he was away from work due to an accident or illness - but the policy wouldve paid out 
for longer and in addition to this so couldve proved useful to Mr W if he had an accident, 
became ill or lost his job. Mr W told us he couldve relied on his family for help. Whilst I 
understand the point he seeks to make, there could be no guarantee that his family wouldve 
been in any position to assist at some unknown point in the future. He could also have 
benefitted from life cover and price and purchase protection.
Im not satisfied that AXA made the cost of the policy clear enough for Mr W to understand 
what the real cost of the policy was for him. But taking everything into account, I think if 
Mr W had properly understood the cost and benefit provided, he wouldve thought the policy 
potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the outstanding balance 
was cleared and the monthly cost doesnt seem to be unaffordable.
Overall, I dont think AXA did everything it needed to when it sold the policy to Mr W. But I 
think he knew he had a choice about taking the PPI and I think he would still have taken out 
the cover if hed been properly informed about it.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 March 2020.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman