DRN-3279754
The complaint
Mr K complains Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) unfairly increased his annual premium for 
his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr K had a motor insurance policy with Aviva. Before he arranged this policy, he completed 
an online quote and also spoke to Aviva. He arranged AvivaPlus cover and thought this 
meant the annual cost of his insurance would not increase
When he received his renewal quote in December 2020 the cost had increased from 
£389.04 to £446.88.
Mr K made a complaint to Aviva as he was expecting his premium to stay the same. He was 
under the impression that a benefit of the AvivaPlus cover meant the premium would never 
increase.
Aviva said this was not correct and it had never advised him of this.
As Mr K was not happy with Aviva, he brought the complaint to our service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. They looked into the case and didnt feel that 
Aviva had done anything wrong when it had increased his premium and did not find any 
evidence that Mr K was told his annual premium wouldnt increase. 
As Mr K is unhappy with our investigators view the complaint has been brought to me for a 
final decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed both the written evidence that Mr K had received and also listened to three 
phone call recordings. These were the calls Mr K made to Aviva when arranging his 
insurance policy in December 2019.
I listened to three calls between Mr K and Aviva in December 2019. I did not find any 
reference to either Mr K asking about or being advised by Aviva that his annual premiums 
would never be increased. 
When Mr K took out the AvivaPlus car insurance policy in December 2019 he was sent a 
confirmation and the following documents:
Certificate of motor insurance
Information Provided By You document
Policy schedule
Policy wording
Insurance product information document
Important Information document
I looked at the information provided to him to see if anything was detailed about policy 
premium increases. I found that it says in the insurance product information document; 
Protected no claim discount-guarantees your premium wont increase next year as a direct 
result of one claim, but I was unable to find any reference relating to there being no annual 
increase in policy premium and that it would remain the same.
When Mr K took out his AvivaPlus policy it did have a guarantee that the renewal on the 
policy would not be more expensive than a new customer at the time the offer was issued 
and based on the same details etc. This did not mean it would not increase.
Its documentation said; A key feature of AvivaPlus is the renewal price guarantee, which is 
aimed at addressing price differences between new and existing customers. The guarantee 
ensures existing customers are offered the same or an even better price than an equivalent 
new customer at their next renewal.
In the renewal letter sent to Mr K in December 2020 it says; 
Our Renewal Price Guarantee
We believe that our best prices shouldnt just be for new customers and you shouldnt have 
to waste time haggling with us. Thats why weve made sure this renewal price is the same 
or even better than if you were a new customer to AvivaPlus. Based on a new
like-for-like car quote, calculated the same day as your renewal invite. Excludes offers to 
existing Aviva customers. Find out more: [the insurers email link]. This guarantee will also 
apply to your next renewal.
Providing they treat people fairly; insurers and brokers are entitled to charge what they feel 
they need to in order to cover a risk. So although I cannot tell Aviva how much to charge Mr 
K, I can look at whether it treated him fairly throughout the time he has held his car 
insurance. 
I believe it is clear that when Mr K took out his AvivaPlus policy there was a guarantee that 
the renewal on his policy would not be more expensive than it would be for a new customer, 
based on the same details. 
The guarantee Aviva offered regarding the same or better price is in comparison to the price 
given to other customers for the same insurance cover. This does not mean that the price of 
Mr Ks annual premium will not change.
I did not find any evidence in the phone calls to Aviva that Mr K was told that his annual 
premium would never increase. And I think Aviva explained clearly about its price guarantee 
within the documents it sent to Mr K. 
I looked at the premium breakdown for Mr Ks policy and Aviva confirm it has used the same 
factors to calculate the premium as for any other customer at that time. Based on the 
capping that has been applied to Mr Ks renewal, it shows he was offered a lower renewal 
premium than a new customer.
I understand that Mr K will be disappointed with my decision. I believe he has made a genuine mistake about the guarantee on price increases.
I dont believe Aviva has been unfair in its increase in its annual renewal price for Mr K s 
AvivaPlus car insurance policy. 
Therefore, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint and do not require Aviva to take any further action 
in this case
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman