DRN-3735600
The complaint
Mrs C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) hasnt reimbursed her for 
funds she lost to a medical insurance scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Its not in dispute that the payments Mrs C made towards this scam were unusual for her 
account. So due to this NatWest needed to look further into the transactions before 
processing them. However, NatWest did spot this unusual spending and take a number 
of steps to investigate, but despite this, it couldnt prevent the loss.
In this case NatWest contacted the Police, who visited Mrs C at her home; it had 
telephone calls and branch conversations with Mrs C about what she was doing and 
why; and it blocked payments leaving her account and then ultimately her whole 
account. On the scammers instructions, Mrs Cs repeatedly lied to people who 
questioned her. And her ultimate response was to move her banking elsewhere, so she 
could continue paying the scammer, rather than stopping.
Considering the above, Im satisfied NatWest did do what was expected of it. But despite 
this, Mrs C chose to continue sending money to the scam. I cant think of what more it 
couldve done to protect Mrs C and her funds, so I cant fairly say it should now 
reimburse her for the amounts shes lost.
I have reviewed this case in detail and understand that Mrs C was going through a 
difficult time when the scammers contacted her. But I cant safely say she ought to have 
been convinced what was going on was genuine, considering the methods the scammer 
used.
Mrs C believed she was paying for private medical cover, but, for example, at one time 
she was asked to withdraw several thousand pounds and send it in the post, in a book 
wrapped in birthday paper. She never signed any paperwork and was repeatedly told to 
lie to the bank about what she was doing. These tactics, alongside the warnings and 
concern by NatWest, and the Police, ought to have made her realise this wasnt genuine 
and stopped her making payments. I accept she has lost a large sum, but considering 
the above, I dont agree she is due any reimbursement. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman