DRN-2810091
The complaint
Mr P complains that incorrect information from St Jamess Place UK plc (SJP) caused 
financial loss.
What happened
Mr P transferred the value of his occupational pension fund to a personal pension with SJP. 
His financial adviser called SJP to check on progress and was told Mr Ps investments would 
be made using prices on the day after it received the transfer summary from the transferring 
scheme.
But this was wrong. Investments were made using prices the day after SJP received the 
funds from the transferring scheme. SJP had already received the funds at that point, and 
the investments had been made.
SJP accepted its information was wrong, but said the investments had been made correctly, 
in line with the pension funds terms and conditions. It offered £250 for the trouble and upset 
caused, but it didnt offer any further compensation.
The market moved between the actual date of investment and the date on which Mr P 
thought he would be investing, based on the incorrect information hed been given by SJP. 
The value of his fund was over £50,000 lower than hed expected. Mr P considered SJP 
should adjust the fund so that investments were in line with the information provided by SJP. 
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She accepted that SJP 
had given Mr Ps adviser information that was wrong, but she wasnt persuaded it had to act 
in line with that information. She was satisfied that SJP had invested Mr Ps fund correctly, in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.
The investigator also considered SJPs compensation offer for trouble and upset was 
reasonable.
Mr P didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In addition to the incorrect pricing 
information, he considered SJP shouldve said that the investments had already been made 
when his adviser called to check on progress. Had it done so, Mr P said corrective 
investment action couldve been taken to minimise further losses in a changing market. Mr P 
asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here), I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most likely 
to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Its not in dispute that the information SJP gave Mr Ps adviser on 25 February 2020 was 
wrong. SJP shouldve told the adviser that investments were made using prices on the day 
after receipt of funds. Mr Ps funds were received by SJP on 19 February, so the correct 
pricing date was 20 February 2020.
I can see why Mr P might consider SJP should adjust the funds so they were allocated in 
line with the information his adviser was given. On this basis, the pricing date wouldve been 
27 February 2020 - which gives a higher fund valuation.
But as the investigator has explained, where incorrect information has been given by a 
financial business, our approach does not require the business to act in line with that 
information. Instead, we aim to put the customer into the position he wouldve been in if the 
mistake by the business hadnt been made.
In this case, Mr Ps adviser shouldve been told that investments were made using prices on 
the day after receipt of funds. 
The funds had already been received by SJP when it spoke to Mr Ps adviser. From what 
Ive seen, Im satisfied that SJP correctly allocated the funds in line with the accounts terms 
and conditions and Mr Ps fund selection, enclosed with SJPs letter to him dated 5 
December 2019. This means Im not persuaded that SJP is required to reallocate the funds 
in line with the incorrect information it subsequently gave Mr Ps adviser.
But if SJP had given Mr Ps adviser correct information, the adviser wouldve known that the 
investments had already been made. Mr P says that if this had been the case, corrective 
action couldve been taken sooner, to minimise further losses.  
Ive noted everything Mr P has said. Ive also considered the evidence provided about the 
discussions he was having with his financial adviser during the transfer process. I can see 
there was some consideration given to adjusting the investment mix in mid-February, but 
that given market volatility Mr P and his adviser decided to wait for confirmation of the 
transfer before making any decisions.
Recent correspondence from Mr Ps adviser also suggests that any remix was at the 
discussion stage, rather than a definite proposal.
After Mr Ps adviser spoke to SJP on 25 February (when the incorrect information was 
given), notes record that the volatility of pricing meant Mr P and his adviser agreed to wait 
until the transfer summary was received before deciding on the best allocation. 
With this in mind, even if Mr P and his adviser had known the investments had been made 
by 25 February, on balance I dont think I can safely say they definitely wouldve reinvested 
at that point. This was a highly unusual period in recent market history, with the value of the 
FTSE 100 dropping by around a third between mid February 2020 and mid March 2020, 
driven in the main by concerns around the unfolding pandemic. Mr Ps investment was made 
towards the beginning of this sharp decline, and had the investment been made later he 
could have capitalised on lower unit prices. But Mr P still had opportunities to do so by reinvesting between 25 February and the later date of the market bottom in the latter half of 
March if he considered that there were opportunities to do so. Its worth noting that the FTSE 
100 reduced by around a further 30% between 25 February and 23 March 2020. But the 
available evidence doesnt support the position that Mr P did take any action to capitalise on 
any perceived reinvestment opportunities. 
I realise this will be disappointing to Mr P. But I hope he will understand why its not possible 
for me, on a fair and reasonable basis, to ask SJP to compensate him based on the losses 
he considers hes suffered. It so happens that Mr Ps funds were invested just before a 
significant decline in unit prices, and its of course unfortunate that he was unable to 
capitalise on that by virtue of the transfer and reinvestment of his pension funds happening 
later. But any attempt to reconstruct a fund value now on the basis of action which Mr P 
considers he would have taken if hed been given correct information in the few relevant 
days at the end of February 2020 would in my view be to significantly  and unfairly - rely on 
the benefit of hindsight.
Im therefore satisfied that SJPs offer of £250 for trouble and upset is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2021.
 
Caroline Stirling
Ombudsman