DRN-2373873
The complaint
Ms W complains about how TSB Bank plc handled a chargeback request it raised on her 
behalf.
What happened
In mid-2019, Ms W used her TSB debit card to purchase several items in a store, while 
abroad. The items were to be shipped to her UK address. A few days later, she phoned TSB 
and asked it to cancel the transaction, which was for over £2,000. TSB told her the payment 
was still pending. If she didnt receive the items, she could dispute the payment as goods not 
received. It suggested she contact the merchant if she wanted to cancel the order. It said 
she could come back to TSB if the merchant didnt agree to cancel it.
Ms W called TSB again a few days later. She said shed gone back to the store and theyd 
told her they couldnt cancel the transaction as the items had already been shipped. Ms W 
thought the merchant was lying about this because theyd previously told her they wouldnt 
ship the items until after shed returned to the UK. TSB told Ms W the payment had left her 
account and gave her the email address for its disputes team so she could dispute the 
transaction.
Ms W emailed the details to the disputes team and phoned TSB the next day. She said 
shed had to call several times and had to repeat herself as she kept losing connection. TSB 
told her that it had to wait 15 days before it could raise the dispute. Ms W was unhappy that 
she hadnt been told this previously. TSB apologised and paid Ms W £50 to compensate her 
for distress, inconvenience and call costs. 
In the weeks that followed Ms W contacted TSB several times by phone and email. She was 
unhappy to learn that TSB had requested the chargeback for the reason of her items not 
being received. Ms W said she didnt want the items and had been trying to cancel them. 
She was concerned that the merchant would send them because the chargeback had been 
requested for the wrong reason. Ms W was worried about having to pay custom charges of 
around £500 as well as the cost of sending the items back. She thought TSB has made the 
situation worse as the chargeback request seemed to have prompted the merchant to send 
the items.
 
The merchant declined the chargeback because Ms W had been sent the goods. TSB 
attempted to raise the chargeback under cancelled services/goods but the merchant didnt 
accept this either. TSB told Ms W it had no further chargeback rights as there wasnt any 
evidence to confirm the cancellation was allowed within the merchants terms and 
conditions.
Ms W brought her complaint to our service. She believed TSB had used the wrong reason 
when it initially attempted the chargeback. Shed declined the items when they arrived at UK 
customs. She wanted TSB to pay her £1,100 compensation. 
Our investigator looked into Ms Ws concerns but didnt think her complaint should be 
upheld. He thought TSB raised the chargeback correctly as the reason was most relevant to 
Ms Ws position at the time. TSB had also gone on to submit a pre-arbitration based on the 
cancellation. He didnt think there was any more that TSB should have done.
 
Ms W disagree with our investigators view. She said she wouldnt have pursued the 
chargeback if shed been told it would be based on items not received. TSB had misinformed 
her and ignored her request for clarification. She believed TSB should have offered her a 
refund under its fraud refund guarantee.
As Ms W disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint was passed to me for a 
decision. Having considered the information available, I thought TSB had processed the 
chargeback request appropriately. But I didnt think it had communicated with Ms W as 
clearly as it should have done.
 
TSB agreed to pay Ms W £100 for trouble and upset in addition to the £50 it had previously 
paid her. But Ms W hasnt accepted this in resolution of her complaint. She said she wouldnt 
have pursued the chargeback if shed known it was going to be based on the items not being 
received. She didnt think £100 was enough to compensate her for losing over £2,000.
 
Ms W said a TSB manager had confirmed the transaction was fraudulent and she 
questioned why TSB hadnt issued a full refund based on its fraud refund guarantee.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to partly uphold Ms Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations require TSB to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly. The chargeback scheme is a voluntary scheme. While there was no 
obligation for TSB to pursue a chargeback on Ms Ws behalf, its good practice for it do to so 
if theres a reasonable prospect of success.
There is a list of possible reasons that a chargeback can be attempted under. When Ms W 
emailed her chargeback request to TSB, she explained that shed tried to cancel the goods 
with the retailer, but he claimed it was too late because theyd already been shipped. She 
said However, I doubt this is true because they would have waited until payment had been 
cleared and he previously agreed to ship after I arrived back in the UK. 
Given what she said, I think it was reasonable for TSB to have initially attempted the 
chargeback for the reason of goods not being received. When this was rejected, TSB 
attempted it again under cancelled services/goods but this was also unsuccessful. TSB says 
it wasnt able to dispute the transaction further without evidence that the cancellation was 
allowed within the terms and conditions or that the merchant accepted this cancellation. 
I havent seen anything to show me that the merchants terms and conditions allowed Ms W 
to cancel the transaction. So, I think TSB did all it could reasonably have been expected to 
do in terms of processing the chargeback. 
Ive explained to both parties why I think TSBs communication with Ms W should have been 
better. Its clear from the phone calls and emails that Ms W was under the impression that 
she had the right to cancel the goods and be reimbursed via a chargeback because shed 
changed her mind about buying them. TSB missed several opportunities to explain to her 
that she would only be entitled to cancel her order (for changing her mind) if the merchants 
terms and conditions allowed her to. Ms W also experienced a fair amount of frustration as questions she asked in emails werent 
answered in the responses she received. She had several lengthy phone calls with various 
TSB staff who werent able to answer her questions and she was given some confusing and 
conflicting information.
Having considered all of this I think the £100 TSB has agreed to pay Ms W is fair 
compensation for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
Ms W doesnt feel £100 is enough to compensate her. She says she wouldnt have pursued 
the chargeback if shed known it was going to be based on items not received. She paid over 
£2,000 for the items and feels TSB should pay her at least £1,000 in compensation. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Ms W, but I dont think TSB is responsible 
for her deciding not to accept the items when they arrived in the UK. In phone conversations 
with TSB, Ms W said it wasnt in her best interests to receive the goods. She was concerned 
about having to pay £500 customs duty. This would have been the same situation if she 
hadnt pursued the chargeback. So, I dont think Ms W has lost out financially because of 
anything TSB did. 
Ms W also feels that TSB should have issued her with a full refund based on their fraud 
refund guarantee. She says the merchant not only lied when he told her the items had been 
dispatched, hed also told her the items would be delivered by their own driver reducing the 
custom charges. Shed also based her decision not to accept the delivery on the merchant 
breaking this agreement. Ms W says a TSB manager confirmed the transaction was 
fraudulent and they made at least two attempts to retrieve the money, but the merchants 
bank had clawed it back. 
Ive considered Ms Ws points carefully. But they havent made a difference to my decision. 
Ive already explained why I think TSB processed the chargeback requests appropriately. 
Regardless of what the merchant might have told Ms W about how and when the goods 
would be delivered, its not disputed that Ms W authorised the transaction. Its possible Ms W 
was given the wrong information about the reasons for the chargeback attempts when she 
spoke to a TSB manager. But I think the £100 TSB has agreed to pay is enough to 
compensate her for the trouble and upset shes experienced because of TSBs 
communication with her.
Putting things right
TSB should pay Ms W £100 for trouble and upset. This is in addition to the £50 it previously 
paid her.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ws complaint and direct TSB Bank plc to pay 
her £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2020.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman