DRN-1199533
The complaint
Mr Ms complained that Advantage Insurance Company Limited unfairly avoided his motor 
insurance policy after hed already paid an additional premium.
For ease of reading, reference to Advantage will include its agent.
What happened
Mr M bought a policy online through a price comparison website. After noticing 
discrepancies with the amount of no claims discount (NCD) Mr M declared, Advantage did 
some checks with Mr Ms previous insurer. Advantage said those checks showed Mr M had 
claims he hadnt declared when buying his policy. Mr M paid an additional premium and his 
policy continued. 
After Mr M was involved in an accident, he claimed on his policy. Advantage carried out 
further checks and found that Mr M also had a SP30 that he hadnt declared. Advantage said 
Mr M had been asked clear questions when buying his policy and hadnt answered correctly 
when asked about claims or fixed penalty notices. Advantage said while it had been able to 
charge an additional premium to add the claims, if it had also known about the SP30 it 
wouldnt have offered cover. So, Advantage avoided (which means to cancel from the start 
as though it never existed) Mr Ms policy and refused to deal with his claim. 
Mr M didnt think this was fair. He said hed told Advantage about the SP30 when it checked 
about the claims. He said hed paid an additional premium, so should be covered. As 
Advantage still thought it had acted fairly, Mr M brought his complaint to us. He told us about 
the impact the accident and losing his car had on him. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. She 
thought Mr M had been asked a clear question and hed made a qualifying 
misrepresentation when buying his policy. She hadnt seen anything to show Mr M had told 
Advantage about the SP30. So, she thought it was fair for Advantage to avoid the policy and 
not deal with the claim. 
Mr M didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Advantage thinks Mr M failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when 
he incorrectly said he didnt have any claims or fixed penalty notices. 
Ive looked at the questions Mr M was asked when buying his policy. The first was Have you 
had any driving incidents or made any insurance claims in the last 5 years?. Mr M answered 
No to this. The second question was Have you committed any driving offences or had any 
Fixed Penalty Notices in the last 5 years?. Mr M answered No to this. Advantage has 
provided information to show Mr M did have claims and a fixed penalty notice within the 
previous five years, so I dont think he answered the questions correctly.
Mr M said he didnt know he needed to tell Advantage about the claims because he decided 
not to go through with them, and both later closed. He said he told Advantage about the 
SP30 when it confirmed with him that he should have declared the claims. I havent seen 
anything to suggest this happened, other than Mr Ms comments. I have seen the amended 
policy documents that were sent to Mr M to check, and those documents didnt have the 
SP30 listed. I also havent seen anything to show Mr M called Advantage after receiving 
these documents to let it know there was an error. So, on the balance of probabilities, I think 
its most likely Mr M didnt tell Advantage about the SP30. However, I think this shows Mr M 
did know about the SP30. 
I think Mr M was asked clear questions and I dont think he took reasonable care when 
answering, as I think he did know about the SP30. And even if he didnt go through with the 
claims, the question also asked him about any driving incidents.  
Advantage has provided evidence to show it wouldnt have sold Mr M the policy if it had 
known the correct information. This means Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation was a 
qualifying one.
Advantage has refunded Mr Ms premium which suggests it considers his misrepresentation 
to be careless. I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, because I accept he 
made a genuine error when not telling Advantage about the claims and SP30. 
As Im satisfied Mr Ms misrepresentation should be treated as careless. Ive looked at the 
actions Advantage can take in accordance with CIDRA. Because Advantage wouldnt have 
offered Mr M the policy if it had known the correct information its entitled to avoid his policy. 
And as his policy should never have existed that also means it doesnt have to deal with his 
claim. 
I understand my decision will come as a disappointment to Mr M, given the significant impact 
the accident has had on him, but Im not going to require Advantage to do anything 
differently. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2020.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman