DRN-3536042
The complaint
Miss N complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont refund money she lost after she fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
Both parties are aware of the circumstances surrounding this complaint, so I wont repeat
them in full here. But briefly, and based on the submissions of both parties I understand
them to be as follows.
In early December 2020 Miss N met somebody online, they exchanged messages over a 
number of months and the person gained Miss Ns trust. The person offered to help Miss N 
with cryptocurrency investments, shes said that initially she wasnt interested in any 
investments, but was persuaded by what the person told her. Miss N has said she was 
recommended an investment manager, at a Forex company, who had previously made the 
person money. Unfortunately, it later transpired that the person she was communicating with 
online, was in fact a fraudster who had directed her to a cloned Forex firm. 
 
Miss N has said that she researched the Forex firm and carried out a number of checks, 
which included; looking at the website for the company name that she had been given, 
checking Companies House (where she saw the company was registered) and briefly 
speaking to a family member about the investment. Miss N has said it looked promising, but 
she wasnt completely convinced by what she saw  but she was persuaded by the fraudster 
to proceed. Miss N was told that she could expect a return on her investment of 120% within 
20 hours. 
She was advised that investments in the Forex company needed to be completed with 
Bitcoin. So shes said she set a wallet up with a cryptocurrency exchange firm (Miss N has 
said she set this wallet up herself and the fraudsters had no control over the wallet). Miss N 
transferred funds here from her Barclays account, and then moved the currency onto what 
she thought was the Forex company. But she was actually transferring to an account 
controlled by a fraudster, who had cloned a legitimate Forex firm.
  
Miss N has said she initially invested a small amount. She was provided with a platform 
where she could see what she thought were her genuine investments, and from this she 
could see the profit and that it was increasing. Shes said she was also able to withdraw an 
amount of $100 from the Forex company, back to her cryptocurrency exchange account. 
This made Miss N believe the returns were possible and seeing that she could see it was 
working and doing well she made a further, increased, investment.
 
Miss N was told she would need to reinvest the profit she had made, which was not what 
she was expecting and then later told that she wouldnt be able to withdraw any funds until 
she had reached a balance of $100,000. Overall Miss N made the following payments to her 
cryptocurrency exchange account:
22/12/2020 Faster payment  £100
29/12/2020 Faster payment  £2,900
11/01/2021 Faster payment  £2,000
11/01/2021 Faster payment  £100
09/02/2021 Faster payment  £5,000 
(The final payment Miss N sent to her cryptocurrency exchange account did not get moved 
on to the fraudsters, so Miss N did not lose this money).
The fraud was discovered by Miss N when she attempted to withdraw funds from the Forex 
company but was unable to. 
Miss N raised the matter with Barclays. Barclays issued its final response in June 2021 not 
upholding Miss Ns complaint. In summary Barclays said Miss N authorised the payments 
and sent them to a genuine cryptocurrency merchant. It says the loss only occurred from the 
subsequent transfer of the currency purchased. It said it was unable to recover the funds or 
offer a refund, but it did agree to pay £150 compensation to reflect the delays in investigating 
Miss Ns complaint.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Miss N then brought her complaint to our service and one 
of our investigators looked into it. In summary our investigator didnt think Barclays could 
reasonably have been expected to have prevented the scam. This was because he didnt 
consider the payments Miss N made were unusual or suspicious enough, in comparison with 
her usual account activity, to have given Barclays concern, so he didnt think Barclays had 
missed an opportunity to identify the payments were being made in relation to a scam.
  
Our investigator added that, even if Barclays had of intervened he didnt think it would have 
made a difference and prevented the scam. He said this because; Miss N was interested in 
investing and had done some training, alongside carrying out some research. He added that 
the initial idea to invest, had come from Miss N in the messages, rather than from the 
fraudster. And the person who Miss N had befriended, who had recommended the Forex 
company, hadnt asked for any money themselves. So our investigator didnt think any 
answers Miss N would have given Barclays, would have given it cause for concern.
  
Alongside this, our investigator also didnt think it would have made a difference if Barclays 
had contacted the receiving bank sooner. This was because the funds had already been 
converted into currency and transferred to the fraudster, so there wouldnt have been any 
funds for Barclays to recover. Our investigator considered the £150 Barclays offered to pay 
Miss N, for the delays in progressing her complaint, was fair.
Miss N didnt agree with our investigators view. In summary she said that she had been the 
victim of a scam and the bank ought to have known she was dealing with a scammer. She 
thought the bank ought to have contacted her to question her further about the transactions 
she was making, and if it had of done she would have stopped and thought twice before 
going ahead with the payments.
 
As agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
m very aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been 
provided, and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on 
what I think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
I accept that these were authorised transactions even though Miss N was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. She authorised the payments and under the Payment Services 
Regulations (PSR) 2017 she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
I can see from Miss Ns submissions to the bank and this service, reference has been made 
to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM Code). This is in place to help the victims of 
APP scams, like the one Miss N has fallen victim to. Signatories (including Barclays) ought 
to refund customers in all but limited circumstances. But the CRM Code doesnt apply to all 
transactions made on a customers account. Importantly, it doesnt apply to the transactions 
Miss N made. This is because the payments were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
exchange into an account controlled by Miss N in her own name, from where she transferred 
the purchased cryptocurrency. So, because the payment didnt go directly to the scammer 
from Miss Ns Barclays account, its not covered by the CRM Code.
The Code may not apply here, but there are other considerations beyond the PSRs. These 
include industry best practice and guidance, along with the broader regulatory landscape, 
concerning banks monitoring accounts for unusual and suspicious transactions. Broadly 
speaking, there will be times when a bank ought to step in to question an authorised 
payment. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Barclays should fairly and reasonably:
 
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
This means that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should fairly and reasonably take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to 
make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. 
In this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Miss N, when she made the transfers and she reported the fraud, or whether it should 
have done more than it did. In making the payments through her online and mobile banking, 
Im satisfied Miss N authorised the transactions. Because of this, Barclays had an obligation 
to follow her instructions. 
Barclays has a difficult balance to strike in how it configures its systems to detect unusual 
activity or activity that might otherwise indicate a higher than usual risk of fraud. But there 
are some situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the transfers - as Ive explained, I consider that as a matter of 
good practice Barclays shouldve been on the lookout for unusual and out of character 
transactions. 
But on balance, I cant fairly say that the transactions in this case were so unusual or 
suspicious in comparison to Miss Ns normal account activity, that they ought to have alerted 
Barclays that Miss N was at risk of financial harm. I say this as, having looked through Miss 
Ns bank statements for the twelve months leading up to the scam, I can see there are 
several other transactions for over £1,000. Im also mindful that the payments Miss N made 
didnt clear the full balance on the account, nor were they made in rapid succession. Both of 
which can sometimes be indicators of a scam. So overall, I dont think, in the circumstances 
of this case, the payments Miss N made would have appeared so remarkable, that I could 
fairly and reasonably have expected Barclay to have been concerned that Miss N may have 
been at risk.
 
But even if I considered Barclays should have intervened and discussed the payments with 
Miss N before allowing them to be progressed, which for the avoidance of doubt I dont, Im 
not persuaded it would have made a difference. I think it more likely than not Miss N would 
have continued to make the payments. I should be clear that I cant know for certain how 
events wouldve transpired if Barclays had handled things differently. I must reach a 
conclusion on the balance of probabilities and that conclusion must be informed by the 
available evidence.
 
Having considered this carefully, Im not persuaded that a proportionate intervention by 
Barclays wouldve prevented the scam from taking place. While it is now known with the 
benefit of hindsight that Miss N was being exploited by a fraudster, I dont think its more 
likely than not that a Barclays employee would have been able to identify that Miss N may 
have been at risk of financial harm, by asking her questions about the investment.
 
If Barclays had spoken to Miss N, Ive no reason to doubt that she would have told it the 
purpose of the payment was to invest. With this in mind Id have expected Barclays to ask 
Miss N some further questions about the payment, in the context of the particular features of 
an investment scam. For example, it could have asked questions such as, but not limited to, 
what the payment was for, whether Miss N had been looking to invest, what research had 
she done, whether she had been cold called and what rate of return she was being offered.
Had it asked these, or similar questions, Im persuaded Miss N would have been able to 
answer these confidently and plausibly without concerning Barclays that she might be at risk 
of financial harm or the victim of a scam. I say that as Miss N hadnt been cold called and the 
investment had been recommended to her by somebody at the time she would have 
considered a friend (having built a relationship with them online over a number of months).  
Importantly it was Miss N who had instigated the conversation about investing and the 
person she was communicating with, while recommending a company, hadnt asked for any 
money. So Im not persuaded there would have been anything here to alert Barclays that 
Miss N may have been at risk.
Alongside this Miss N would have been able to tell Barclays that she was looking to invest, 
had carried out some research on the company and had found it was a legitimate firm and, 
importantly to the specifics of what she was investing in, had received some training about 
Cryptocurrency.  As well as this, Miss N wasnt making transactions to a third partys 
account, she was making payments to a genuine crypto exchange account in her name, that 
she had control of.  
Im also mindful that, at the time she was making the second payment through her Barclays 
account, Miss N had already successfully made a withdrawal back into her crypto exchange account. Im persuaded, on balance, its more likely than not the answers Miss N is likely to 
have given would have been sufficient to reassure Barclays that she wasnt at risk of 
financial harm. From the information Ive seen and considering the circumstances of what 
was happening, Im persuaded its more likely than not Miss N would have been confident 
she was making a payment to invest in what seemed like a legitimate source. 
I can see that Barclays contacted the receiving bank, but I cant see that it ever received a 
response to its requests and it hasnt been able to recover any funds. Given Miss N had 
exchanged the funds into crypto currency and then moved this on to accounts controlled by 
the fraudsters, I dont think Barclays would have been able to recover any funds, even if it 
had acted sooner than it did. It follows that I dont think it missed an opportunity to recover 
the money Miss N sadly lost. 
Miss N has told us the impact this situation has had on her. I dont underestimate Miss Ns 
strength of feeling, and I dont doubt this would have been a very difficult and worrying time 
for her. But Im mindful that Barclays acknowledged it could have dealt with things in a 
timelier manner and we mustnt lose sight of the fact that the main perpetrators of these 
situations are the fraudsters who commit these callous crimes. All things considered, I think 
the £150 compensation Barclays offered, in recognition of the delay it caused, is a fair 
amount thats proportionate to the circumstances in this complaint.
Its very unfortunate Miss N has lost this money in this way, and I understand the whole 
experience has been deeply upsetting and I have a great deal of sympathy for her. But in the 
circumstances, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably say Barclays should have done more to 
prevent Miss N from losing this money. So, I dont think it would be fair for me to ask 
Barclays to refund the loss. I also think the offer Barclays has made, to pay £150 
compensation, for the delays in progressing Miss Ns complaint is fair
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman