DRN-4388035
The complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) failed to refund 
transactions he didnt recognise.
What happened
Mr R had difficulties accessing his online account and also noticed that his bank card was 
missing. He reported this to Halifax and identified a number of payments and cash 
withdrawals that he didnt recognise. 
Mr R believed hed last had his card a week or so earlier when hed deposited some cash 
into his account. He confirmed to Halifax that the card was usually kept in his wallet with his 
other cards in it but only the Halifax card was missing. He kept the personal identification 
number (PIN) for it secure (although he said he hardly used the card) and hadnt divulged 
the PIN or any of his online baking security details to anyone else. Mr R confirmed he hadnt 
responded to any unusual texts or messages (scam attempts).
Mr R sought a refund from Halifax for the disputed transactions. They looked int the 
payments and told Mr R theyd been made using both the genuine card issued to him and 
the PIN.
It was later established that Mr Rs online account had been reset and a different phone 
number added to it. 
Halifax declined to refund the disputed transactions because they believed the evidence 
showed that Mr R was responsible.
Mr R complained to them about their decision, but Halifax didnt change their position, Mr R 
then brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. 
The complaint was assigned to an investigator who asked both parties for information about 
the loss.
Mr R repeated his version of events and denied having anything to do with the payments. 
Two of the disputed transactions were made with a betting firm and Mr R said whilst he had 
an account with them, he hadnt used it for some time. Mr R denied receiving any text from 
Halifax concerning the change in phone number linked to his account. He believed that the 
loss of his debit card led to the compromise of his account and the theft of his funds. Mr R 
also reported the loss to the authorities.
Halifax provided details about the payments and how the online banking had been used to 
change some of the details, including the phone number linked to the account. They 
provided details of how the account was accessed leading up to the loss of the funds. This 
showed that the account phone number had been changed but only after a message had 
been sent to Mr Rs current mobile number. Halifax said that Mr R acknowledged the change 
of number and IP address data showed that the new phone number used an address 
previously used by Mr R for one of his other accounts. Based on the lack of evidence 
showing the account was compromised, Halifax believed they were correct when they 
declined to make a refund to Mr R.
Note: IP addresses are a means to identify physical locations that online transactions are
connected to and can be the actual physical location or other locations connected to the
provider of the data services.
After considering the available evidence, Mr Rs complaint wasnt upheld. Ive summarised 
the main points concluded by the investigators report:
Mr R hadnt disclosed the PIN to anyone else which was needed for some of the 
disputed transactions and his genuine card had been used (not a cloned card).
Mr Rs phone was only used by him, and he hadnt lost it. It was protected with a 
code only he knew and also used biometric security to open it. Theres no plausible 
reason to explain how someone could have used the phone without Mr Rs 
knowledge.
It was difficult to see how gambling transactions could benefit anyone else as any 
winnings are only paid to the account they were made from.
The new number was added after Mr Rs current phone had received a message and 
it had been confirmed as genuine by Mr R.
Funds had been paid into the account prior to the disputed transactions.
It was understood that Mr R had access to his (online) account despite his assertion 
that he couldnt get into it.
Mr R disagreed with the investigators outcome and submitted further points for 
consideration:
The funds paid into his account prior to the disputed transactions were done in order 
to pay for other regular outgoings.
 He was asleep at the time of the cash withdrawals, and they were made some 
distance from where he lived.
He didnt change the phone number and was locked out of his account and unaware 
of the payments being made from his account.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that Halifax can hold Mr R liable for the disputed payments if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made them or authorised them. 
Halifax can only refuse to refund unauthorised payments if it can prove Mr R authorised the 
transactions, but Halifax cannot say that the use of the card and PIN conclusively proves 
that the payments were authorised. Unless Halifax can show that consent has been given, it has no authority to make the 
payment or to debit Mr Rs account and any such transaction must be regarded as 
unauthorised. To start with, Ive seen the banks technical evidence for the disputed 
transactions. It shows that the transactions were authenticated using the payment tools 
issued to Mr R. Ill now need to consider the information provided by both parties to 
determine whether theres sufficient evidence to hold Mr R responsible for the disputed 
transactions or not.
The basis for this complaint is that Mr R denies making a number of payments, resulting in a 
loss of Mr Rs funds. Two of the payments were to a gambling merchant and required 
additional security steps before they were authorised (an online PIN being entered) and the 
cash withdrawals required both the genuine card issued to Mr R and the PIN for that card.
Mr R has confirmed he no longer had his card but hadnt provided any of his banking 
security details to anyone else, divulged the PIN or given his phone to anyone else to use. 
Halifaxs data shows the online account was accessed and the phone number changed. In 
order to do that, someone would have to know the password to unlock Mr Rs phone (after 
obtaining it without his knowledge), and to also know the online banking security information 
known only to Mr R. 
If those were known, then the phone number could be changed after a message was sent to 
Mr Rs phone confirming that the new number was genuine. Considering the various steps 
required to get into the online account and the different sets of security information known 
only to Mr R, Ive found it difficult to establish a plausible and realistic scenario to explain 
this.
Additionally, the change to the phone number was carried out from an IP address associated 
with another account operated by Mr R. This would seem to indicate that whoever carried 
out the change to the account did it from a location previously used by Mr R. 
Ive also considered how the account was operated. Mr R said he paid funds into it prior to 
them leaving his account which were for later business payments. Looking at the accounts 
history, I can see regular payments made into it to manage the outgoing costs associated 
with Mr Rs business. So, the presence of an incoming payment from another of Mr Rs 
account isnt particularly noteworthy, but there was also another payment that was out of the 
ordinary. Just prior to the disputed transactions took place, a payment from a crypto 
currency account was transferred into the account and together with the funds already in 
there, effectively funded the outgoing payments.
The data provided by Halifax does show some unusual activity on Mr Rs mobile/online 
banking and this led to its eventual block. Prior to this and during the period the disputed 
transactions were made, the account was accessible, although Mr R denies being able to 
get into it (presumably because he believes unknown third parties had taken it over). Theres 
also evidence that the PIN reminder function was used by whoever had the phone, which 
happened after changing the number. 
Whilst I recognise that some parts of the online activity are unusual (using the PIN 
reminder), Im brought back to how someone could access the phone in the first place and 
obtain the banking details in order to bypass the Halifax security controls on Mr Rs online 
account. I understand Mr R believes it was the loss of his debit card that initiated this, but Im 
afraid the possession of that card by itself would be unlikely to give anyone else the 
necessary information and access to Mr Rs phone to compromise the account. 
Taken together with the other evidence, including the matching IP address data, the use of a 
gambling site (which only pays money back to the account holder) and the crypto payment, I think its implausible to conclude these transactions werent authorised without stronger 
evidence to the contrary. That means I think its more likely than not that Mr R carried out 
these transactions himself  or that someone else with consent did so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman