DRN-3850812
The complaint
Miss C, who is represented by a third party, complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA)  
irresponsibly gave her a credit card account that she couldnt afford.
What happened
Miss C applied for and was granted a credit account with MBNA in December 2016. 
She was given a credit limit of £2,000.
Miss C complained to MBNA in July 2021. She said the account shouldnt have been 
opened for her because it wasnt affordable and that MBNA ought to have made a 
better effort to understand that she was already in financial difficulties before doing so.
In my provisional decision dated 10 October 2022 I explained why I didnt intend to uphold 
this complaint. In short, I said that having obtained clarification from MBNA on how it had 
calculated Miss Cs living costs, I thought Miss C would be able to sustainably manage the 
borrowing shed taken out. I set out an extract below:
Miss C told MBNA at the time of making her application that she had an annual income that 
would have provided a monthly income of around £1,400. I agree that our adjudicator was 
correct in looking at the sustainability of paying off what was a significant amount of debt. 
And I think on MBNAs calculations it would have taken much longer to pay off the debt. Our 
adjudicator also commented on how the new credit MBNA had given Miss C would add 
significantly to her existing unsecured borrowing, giving her total credit limit of around 
£11,500. He thought that given Miss Cs monthly income, it was unlikely that Miss C would 
be left with enough disposable income to cover her living expenses. I also agree that the 
total monthly amount Miss C would be paying to service her existing credit debt and a loan 
plus the MBNA balance after her balance transfer would take up around £870 of her monthly 
income. But I need to consider whether in fact Miss C would be left with enough to manage 
financially each month. 
Ive seen that on her application Miss C said she paid a contribution of £300 towards 
living costs to her parents, given that she was living at home. In response to my request 
for details of how it made its calculation, MBNA said it had noted this but had in fact used 
a figure for living expenses of £411. By my calculation that means Miss C would likely 
have had around £120 left per month in disposable income. Whilst I can see that this isnt 
a large amount in itself, I have to weigh that up against Miss Cs overall level of debt, her 
relatively good credit record and the fact that based on her living status, there was less 
likelihood that she would be at risk of suffering the consequences of sudden changes to 
her financial situation. 
All of this leads me to provisionally conclude that even if MBNA had carried out a more 
thorough affordability check, its unlikely that MBNA would have found the credit it was 
planning to provide to Miss C to be unaffordable. Further, Im not persuaded that the 
way Miss C was managing her account or what MBNA could see of her management of 
other credit ought to have prompted it to have acted differently than it did.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MBNA will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about 
our approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Given that neither party has provided me with any further evidence or information to 
consider, I see no reason to change my finding that MBNA did not act unfairly. So I wont 
be making any award as I dont think the card account was unaffordable for Miss C or that 
any loss she had was a result of MBNAs actions.
I know this isnt the outcome Miss C was hoping for and I am sorry that we are unable to 
help her on this occasion. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman