DRN-2774095
The complaint
Mr N complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc removed his overdraft and applied a default to his 
account without sending the required notices. He has repaid the outstanding balance and 
wants the default removed.
What happened
Mr N had a bank account with an overdraft limit with HSBC. His account was closed and the 
amount outstanding on the overdraft was required to be repaid. Mr N says that he wasnt 
provided with the correct notices before the default was applied. He repaid the outstanding 
balance and asked for the default to be removed but HSBC didnt agree.
HSBC issued a final response letter dated 16 September 2020 saying that the information 
recorded on Mr Ns credit file was an accurate reflection of his account conduct. It says that 
it sent the appropriate notification to Mr N before the closure and default of the account.
Mr N didnt agree with HSBCs response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted the letters that HSBC had sent to 
Mr N informing him about the status of his account and then giving notice of its closure. He 
thought that HSBC had given Mr N enough information to be aware that a default would be 
applied to his account if repayment wasnt made by a certain date. As this didnt happen, he 
didnt think that HSBC had done anything wrong by applying the default.
Mr N didnt agree with our investigators view. He said he hadnt received the letters HSBC 
said had been sent and noted that he had a mail redirection in place at the time and had 
received all his other post. He said he wasnt provided notice of the overdraft being 
cancelled, wasnt sent a proper default notice and that when he realised the situation on his 
account he repaid the outstanding balance immediately. He said the default being on his 
credit file was having a significant adverse effect on him regarding obtaining other credit and 
he was concerned it could affect his job.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N says that he didnt received any letters from HSBC about his account being closed and 
a default being applied. I have looked through the information provided and can see that 
HSBC held the correct address for Mr N. I understand Mr N was overseas and had a mail 
redirect service in place and having looked at this the address from which the redirect was to 
take place was the same address as HSBC had on its system. Therefore, I accept that 
HSBC had the correct address and while Mr N has said he didnt receive any of the letters, I 
find it reasonable to accept these were sent.
Mr N says that his account was closed without notice and the overdraft needed to be repaid. 
I have looked through the letters issued by HSBC before Mr Ns account was closed. Mr N 
was sent a letter dated 2 August 2018 informing him he had exceeded his overdraft limit. A 
further letter was sent dated 27 November 2018 which showed Mr Ns overdraft was still 
over the limit and HSBC explained Mr N should contact it to carry out a review on his 
account. The letter explains that if contact isnt made the overdraft facility will be cancelled. A 
letter was then sent dated 28 January 2019 saying that contact hadnt been made and giving 
two months notice of the account being closed and that the overdraft will need to be repaid. 
This is in line with the account terms and conditions. Based on the letters that were sent to 
Mr Ns address I find he was given notice of the status of his account and the opportunity to 
discuss this before further action was taken. As Mr N didnt contact HSBC I dont find it did 
anything wrong by taking further action. It gave Mr N two months notice of the account 
closure and the need to repay his overdraft.
Mr Ns account was closed but he hadnt repaid his overdraft at that time. A letter was sent 
dated 28 March 2019 confirming the account closure and giving Mr N 14 days to repay the 
overdraft. The letter explains that repayment is needed in full or a satisfactory proposal 
made for repayment in instalments or otherwise. I find that Mr N was given enough notice of 
the need to repay his overdraft and the opportunity to discuss repayment options if needed.
Mr N didnt repay the overdraft within the required timeframe. A further letter was sent dated 
24 April 2019. This letter set out the amount that needed to be paid and that this needed to 
happen by 12 May. It explained that if this didnt happen further action could be taken 
including a default being applied to Mr Ns account. Based on what I have seen, Mr N was 
made aware of the situation on his account and that a default would be applied if the 
outstanding balance wasnt repaid. I have nothing to show he contacted HSBC at this time 
and as he didnt make the repayment by 12 May, I do not find I can say that HSBC did 
anything wrong by taking further action and applying the default. 
Mr N repaid the outstanding amount in September 2020 and his credit file records the 
satisfaction date as 17 September 2020. I appreciate why Mr N is upset by the default 
recorded on his credit file especially given his comments about obtaining credit and his 
employment. But as I think HSBC provided him with the information he needed before it 
closed his account and applied the default, I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman