Page 1 of 7The complaint
Mr C and Miss H have complained about the way in which Lloyds Bank General Insurance
Limited (Lloyds) has handled a claim under their home insurance policy. For the avoidance 
of doubt, the term Lloyds includes its representatives, loss adjusters and agents in this 
decision.
What happened
In September 2021, Mr C and Miss H made a claim to Lloyds for accidental damage to
several household items which they said had occurred when moving the items around the
house following a house-move in July 2021. The items included a computer and television.
By May 2022, their claim still hadnt been determined. They considered that there had been
unreasonable delays by Lloyds in processing their claim and wanted cash settlement for
their damaged items as theyd already replaced them at their own cost due to the delays.
Lloyds disagreed that there had been unreasonable delays.
A previous related complaint had been upheld by this service and the investigator had
issued a view in February 2022, recommending that Lloyds deal with the claim in 
accordance with the policy terms and conditions, without requiring further details of a
removal company used by Mr C and Miss H. It recommended that if Lloyds ultimately upheld
the claim, then it should add 8% interest to any cash settlement. Finally, the view
recommended £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by the delays. Following
this view, Lloyds proposed settlement for certain items and requested that it collect and
inspect the computer and television in accordance with the policy.
Mr C and Miss H thought that Lloyds were employing unreasonable measures to delay the
claim by insisting upon a physical inspection of items and thought that Lloyds should have
inspected the items at the outset. In any event, they said that the loss adjuster had already
taken photographs of the items. Mr C and Miss H were happy for Lloyds to collect the items,
but only after a cash settlement had been paid. Lloyds said that it was standard and
necessary procedure to collect and inspect electrical items. Mr C and Miss H remained
unhappy and wanted Lloyds to pay a cash settlement for the computer and television without
further inspection, and so reverted to our service.
The relevant investigator didnt uphold Mr C and Miss Hs second complaint. Whilst she
agreed that insurers should handle claims promptly and fairly, insurance policies didnt cover
every eventuality. She said that the onus was on the customer to show that an insured event
had taken place and that insurers needed to assess whether damage was covered and if so,
to decide how best to settle. She noted that Lloyds loss adjuster wasnt qualified to assess
DRN-4123691Page 2 of 7the damage and that Lloyds wished to instruct an independent expert. This was not only to
assess damage and assess repairability, but also to value any items for cash settlement or
replacement as appropriate. The investigator noted that Mr C and Miss H hadnt agreed to
the items being collected and inspected and said she couldnt therefore hold Lloyds wholly
responsible for all delays.
The investigator clarified that any further delays which related to a period after Lloyds final
response to the complaint (dated June 2022) would have to be the subject of a separate
complaint, final response letter and investigation as appropriate.
Mr C and Miss H remained unhappy with the outcome of their complaint and the matter was 
therefore referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman. On 31 March 
2023, I issued a provisional decision for this complaint and explained why I was minded to 
uphold the complaint as follows; -
The key issue for me to determine is whether Lloyds has applied the terms and conditions
of the relevant policy in a fair and reasonable manner. I dont consider that it has done so in
all respects, and Ill explain why.
Mr C and Miss H considered that Lloyds had reneged on its responsibilities as their insurer.
Their complaint was expressed under seven headings, namely The Length of Time to Settle
My Claim, Feasibility of Repairing Items, Items Have Already Been Replaced, 8%
Interest, My Agreement to the Settlement, Unfair Pressure to Settle and Causing
Unnecessary Stress.
As to the length of time taken to settle their claim, they thought that Lloyds had been
unreasonable and that it was finding ways to delay the process unnecessarily. They said
that Lloyds initially said that it would inform them quickly of any information or assessment it
needed. Apart from insisting upon information about their removal company, Lloyds didnt
ask for anything else. They thought that Lloyds were now asking for further information to
delay the process again. Mr C and Miss H said that theyd reluctantly agreed for their
television and computer to be collected because they feared it would lead to further delays.
They agreed to this for the purposes of verification only as opposed to repair as this option
is no longer viable or acceptable.
In November 2022, Mr C said that Lloyds agents confirmed that they were unable to collect
the television but would provide a report to Lloyds and recommend settlement based on the
information that Mr C had given over the phone. They confirmed that they didnt need to
inspect the item. Mr C said that this showed that Lloyds didnt need to inspect the items
before issuing a settlement, contrary to what Lloyds had originally led them to believe,
although this was the entire basis for them stalling over issuing a settlement. He said that
the agents had also failed to collect the computer on a given date and had not made any
attempt to collect it two months later and so thought that this indicated that, like the
television, they didnt need to inspect the computer in order to make an assessment.
As to the feasibility of repairing items, Mr C and Miss H said that theyd sought independent
views as to whether the items could be repaired. Both the television and computer
manufacturers informed them that that once the item was over a certain age, they no longer
provided replacements parts. They concluded that repairs were no longer possible. Mr C and
Miss H thought that if Lloyds had settled the claim in a fair manner and within a reasonable
time, a repair may have been possible however this was no longer a viable option. Due to
the delays in settling the claim, Mr C and Miss H had to replace the items at their own
expense as theyd received no request from Lloyds to assess the items in 2021. Repairing
the items at this stage would therefore leave them out of pocket.Page 3 of 7As to interest on the settlement figure due to delays, Mr C and Miss H said that if Lloyds was
to be allowed to repair the items, it would be able to avoid paying interest and yet it wouldnt
have corrected the problems for which the 8% interest was meant to compensate. Mr C and
Miss H said that theyd been led to believe that a monetary settlement would be offered
straight away and had they known there would be further delays as Lloyds continue to try
and squirm out of their obligations, they wouldnt have agreed to it. They thought that there
had been unfair pressure to settle, including continuing to threaten to discontinue the claim.
Finally, Mr C and Miss H thought that Lloyds had caused them unnecessary stress when
Lloyds had been aware of certain medical issues and the matter had now been going on for
18 months. They said that despite the apology and assurances that this conduct would stop,
it is continuing.. Mr C also later referred to wasting over 20 hours dealing with needless
requests.
Turning to what Lloyds have said about the complaint, it confirmed that in April 2022, it was
appointing an agent to collect and assess the television and computer, in line with the terms
and conditions of the relevant policy, under the heading proof of loss or damage. Lloyds
considered it was necessary to appoint its specialist agents to inspect and provide a report
regarding the damage and determine whether damage was consistent with the
circumstances of the claim. The agents would also determine a replacement value and
reasonable cash settlement if appropriate. It considered that details of what was needed to
progress the claim had been provided and didnt consider that it had caused delay.
It said that when the claim was initially made, the original agents were their electrical agents.
In May 2022, it said that Mr C and Miss H had refused to speak to the agents to allow them
to arrange an inspection to progress the claim. In June 2022, it said it wrote to the
policyholders asking for a response to progress the claim, or it would have to assume that
they no longer wished to pursue the claim as it was unable to keep claims open indefinitely.
In summary, Lloyds said that it was acting in line with the policy terms and conditions and
trying to progress the claim. It considered that it was entitled to inspect items to confirm
liability under the policy. It also said that it hadnt treated Mr C and Miss H any differently to
how it would treat any other customer and so didnt feel that it was acting unfairly.
For the avoidance of doubt, my role as Ombudsman is to reach a final decision in relation to
case reference , or what Mr C refers to as My second Complaint and in
relation to which a final response letter was issued at the end of June 2022.
The starting point for considering whether an insurer fairly applied the terms of a policy is the
policy wording itself. Here, I note that under the heading; What youll need to give us, it
required policy holders to Keep any damaged goods as we may need to see them and
under the heading How well look after your claim, it states: Depending on the extent and
type of damage, we can rebuild, repair or replacement [sic] your things or give you a cash
payment. Under the heading Making a claim it states: You are required to provide us with
all reasonable assistance and evidence that may be required concerning the cause and
value of any claim. Under the heading Proof of loss or damage it states: Do not throw
away any damaged items before we have had a chance to see them or carry out any non-
emergency repairs before we have had a chance to inspect them. 
The policy also has a standard clause that the policyholder must substantiate loss: To assist 
with this we may request you to provide reasonable additional information at your own 
expense. It also required; For damaged items, confirmation by a suitably qualified expert 
that the item you are claiming for is beyond repair. Finally, under the heading: How we 
settle claims under your Contents covers it states: We can either repair or replace any item 
or make a money payment instead. We will pay the cost of replacement as new if available 
or otherwise the nearest equivalent less any discounts obtainable. If an item is irreplaceable, 
Page 4 of 7we will base our payment on expert opinion of its value immediately prior to its loss or 
damage.
Firstly, its clear that there has been a most unfortunate series of delays and a breakdown in
relations in this case, although I cannot say that all these delays are due to Lloyds actions or
lack of action. Insurers clearly need to validate and investigate claims to assess whether
damage occurred in the way claimed, that the damage is covered by the policy and also to
decide on the method and level of settlement if damage is deemed to be covered. There is 
also an onus upon the policyholder to co-operate with insurers to help to substantiate and
progress their claim. It is also unfortunately the case that insurance claims and the events
which lead to any such claim can, in themselves, be stressful. Insurers must however handle
claims fairly and reasonably and in a manner which doesnt exacerbate a stressful situation.
In this case, I do consider that the initial difficulties arose as Lloyds had insisted upon Mr C
and Miss H providing information as to the claimants removal firm. In the meantime, it failed
to progress other aspects of the claim process in a timely manner. The services investigator 
therefore considered that this had been unreasonable and issued a view to this effect in
February 2022. This was to allow the claim to progress and to place Mr C and Miss H back
in the position they should have been in, had the failure not occurred.
Mr C has stated that Lloyds loss adjuster did inspect all items and took photographs to
include ones of the computer and television and indicated that if any further information or
assessment was required, it would let Mr C and Miss H know shortly. However, Lloyds didnt
let them know that anything else was needed. In the absence of any evidence to the
contrary, I have no reason to doubt Mr Cs recollection of the discussion. I recognise that the
loss adjuster wasnt qualified to assess the damage to these two items and that a specialist
would need to assess them. However, the investigator recognised that Lloyds had failed
fairly and reasonably to progress the claim whilst making its request for information about
the removal firm and I consider that these matters should have been progressed in parallel.
The claim therefore stalled prior to the investigators view which was issued in February
2022, some five months after Mr C and Miss Hs claim. Again, on a provisional basis, I dont
consider that it was unreasonable for Mr C and Miss H to have replaced their computer and
television due to these delays. Nor do I consider that it was unreasonable for them to have
understood that, in the absence of any request for further information or assessment by
Lloyds, that they could proceed to [buy] replacements without prejudicing the claim. Ive also
noted that the items were correctly retained for inspection, as Mr C has more recently
agreed that collection and assessment could take place.
I further note that once the investigators view was issued in February 2022, Lloyds did
subsequently attempt to arrange for inspection of the items. It is standard practice for items
such as televisions and computers to be inspected by specialist agents. I consider that
Lloyds was entitled to proceed in this manner, despite its earlier delays, in the light of the
policys clear terms and conditions in this respect. These earlier delays had been recognised
in the investigators recommendation in February 2022 for Lloyds to pay Mr C and Miss H
£200 in compensation.
Ive noted that Mr C refused to engage with Lloyds original agents. Mr C has made it clear
that he thought that it was no longer reasonable for Lloyds to insist upon inspection of items.
He felt repair was no longer an option and he wished to receive a financial settlement. Whilst
I understand Mr Cs frustration with the process and the delay, at this point, Im satisfied that
Lloyds was not acting in an unreasonable manner by requiring collection and inspection of
the television and computer. It still needed to satisfy itself through specialist agents of the
extent of damage, the circumstances of damage, and a replacement value if appropriate. On
a provisional basis, I therefore conclude that it wasnt unfair or unreasonable for Lloyds toPage 5 of 7require collection and inspection of the items. I also cant hold it responsible for any delays
due to Mr Cs refusal to allow this process to proceed.
As to any delays or service issues which arose after the date of Lloyds final response letter
of June 2022, these would have to be subject to a new complaint. Nevertheless, in reaching
my decision, Im able to consider any new evidence which emerges regarding the events
which pre-dated that letter. Mr C has provided evidence that he spoke to the original agents
following issue of the investigators view on the second complaint. Again, I have no reason to
doubt Mr Cs recollection of the conversation, and that the agents said that they were able to
produce a report and recommend settlement regarding the television without collecting and
inspecting it. There was some confusion on Lloyds part in December 2022 as to whether the
original agents were authorised to act in this matter, however Im satisfied on a provisional
basis that their opinion was a valid, expert opinion on the damage to the television. I note
that Mr C and Miss H have claimed £685 as this was the cost of the television and I have no
reason to doubt their evidence as to its value.
In the light of the above and on a provisional basis, I consider it likely that if Mr C had
allowed the original agents to inspect the television and computer in May 2022, it would have
reached the same conclusion that it reached in November 2022. I therefore consider it likely
that it would have recommended a cash settlement in relation to the television.
As to the computer, Mr C considered that there was reason to believe that the agents would
likewise have been prepared to recommend settlement without inspection. However, on a
provisional basis, Im not satisfied that this is the case. Its unfortunate that collection and
inspection of the computer is still to take place. Whilst any on-going delays may be the
subject of further complaint, its helpful for progress of the claim that Mr C has agreed for this
to take place. I note that Mr C states that the relevant manufacturers confirmed that due to
the age of both items, that they would no longer be able to supply parts. I consider that this
supports a conclusion that both items were beyond economic repair. Nevertheless, on a
provisional basis, I consider that it remains necessary for a specialist to inspect the computer
to assess and report on the damage and on replacement value if appropriate, but also for
Lloyds to determine whether or not it will settle the claim under the policys terms. If it does
so, I consider that a cash settlement would now be the only appropriate outcome.
It's therefore my provisional conclusion, that it would be a fair and reasonable outcome in all
the circumstances for Lloyds to pay a cash settlement to Mr C and Miss H in relation to their
damaged television. As to the computer, I consider that it would be a fair and reasonable
outcome for Lloyds to now arrange urgent collection and inspection, and to reach an urgent
determination of Mr C and Miss Hs claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of
their policy.
Ive taken on board Mr Cs concerns that hes already given Lloyds ample opportunity to
collect and inspect the computer, and that it failed to do so. However, any difficulties and
delays surrounding these later issues post-date Lloyds final response to this complaint and
cannot be considered within the scope of this decision letter.
In my provisional decision, I asked both Mr C and Miss H and Lloyds if they had any further 
comments or evidence which they would like me to consider before I made a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Miss H havent offered any further comments or evidence in response to the Page 6 of 7provisional decision. Lloyds provided additional information and comment in response to 
some key point within the provisional decision and these can be summarised as follows.
Lloyds noted that there was no dispute as to the requirements for confirming liability under 
the terms and conditions of the policy and it repeated these requirements. Lloyds added that 
its reasoning for inspecting both items wasnt just to see if the items could be repaired or to 
determine the level of settlement. It was also to confirm that the damage described was 
consistent with the circumstances of loss and was something that it could consider under the 
terms of the policy. However, this has already been stated in the provisional decision letter.
As to the provisional conclusion that specialist assessment should have been progressed in 
parallel with Lloyds enquiries in relation to the removal firm, Lloyds provided details of its 
claims notes from October 2021. These confirmed Lloyds decision to progress the latter 
aspect in isolation. It explained that since referral to this service, Lloyds had been trying to 
arrange for both the television and computer to be inspected. This does not however alter 
my provisional conclusion on the matter.
Lloyds then referred to Mr Cs discussion with the original agents following issue of the 
investigators view. It said that any instruction should have come from Lloyds and not Mr C 
following receipt of the services closure letter. Lloyds helpfully supplied the relevant call 
recording from November 2022 which confirmed that Mr C had expressed the fact that he 
was unhappy with the timescale for collection of the television, even though this would only 
take slightly longer than collection of the computer. The agents then advised that it might not 
be necessary in any event. I consider it likely that it was referring to the question of 
collection. The agent then explained that it didnt collect in Mr Cs area and therefore it would 
go back to Lloyds and well send across the standard quotation
I agree with Lloyds that the agents didnt specifically advise Mr C that in their expert opinion 
based on the damage they wouldnt inspect the TV as suggested in the paragraph above. I 
also note Lloyds comments that had it been given the opportunity to speak to the suppliers 
prior to Mr C contacting them, it would have looked to arrange for a different supplier to 
action this. Whilst I accept this is the case, by this stage I consider it was only fair and 
reasonable for Mr C and Miss H to have tried to progress matters direct with the agents who 
they reasonably believed had been acting for Lloyds. This was in view of the lengthy process 
which they had already experienced.
I also consider that the call recording broadly matches Mr Cs recollection of events. It was 
not unreasonable for Mr C to have interpreted the assurance that well send across the 
standard quotation to be confirmation that the agents were authorised to act and able to 
produce a report to Lloyds and recommend settlement regarding the television without 
collecting and inspecting it. 
Finally, as to the value which Mr C and Miss H attributed to the television, Lloyds stated that 
this was the price of the original purchase. As the television was 4 or 5 years old, Lloyds 
thought that the price doesnt reflect a replacement cost in todays market. Whilst I agree 
that the true replacement cost may indeed be more or less than this figure, I consider that 
Lloyds has been provided with ample opportunity to comment on what it considers to be a 
reasonable replacement value. As it stands, the only figure which has been provided is that 
supplied by Mr C to reflect the cost of the original purchase. In the circumstances, I find this 
to be fair and reasonable settlement figure.
In conclusion, and subject to the points noted above, I remain satisfied that the provisional 
decision provides a fair and reasonable outcome to the matter, and I partially uphold Mr C 
and Miss Hs complaint as follows.Page 7 of 7My final decision
For the reasons given above, I partly uphold Mr C and Miss Hs complaint and I require 
Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to do the following: -
- Pay Mr C and Miss H a cash settlement of £685 for their damaged television.
- Arrange for collection, inspection and assessment of Mr C and Miss Hs damaged
computer within 21 days of their acceptance of my final decision letter and determine the
computer claim in accordance with the terms and conditions of the policy within 28 days of
such acceptance.
- If Lloyds uphold the computer claim, to settle the claim by means of a cash settlement.
- Pay 8% simple interest* per annum on the cash settlement of £685 for their damaged
television, as well as for any cash settlement for the damaged computer from the date of
claim to the point of settlement.
*If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from
that interest, it should tell Mr C and Miss H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr C
and Miss H a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM
Revenue & Customs if appropriate
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Miss H 
to accept or reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
Claire Jones
Ombudsman