DRN-4406385
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the way NewDay Ltd treated him in relation to a chargeback dispute 
and concerns of fraud. 
What happened
In April 2021, Mr G opened an account with a gambling website. Once Mr G uploaded funds 
to the account, he was given access to a range of different games where he could gamble. 
On 24 June 2021, Mr G used his NewDay credit card to transfer approximately £1,200 to his 
gambling account. This money was split across 14 different transactions and processed via 
a third party merchant.
In September 2021, Mr G contacted NewDay and said hed been a victim of fraud. He 
explained that the gambling website was acting illegally as it didnt have a UK gambling 
licence. He also said the merchant named on his account statements wasnt connected to 
the gambling website. And the website was operating a scam because the games were 
rigged, pirated, and full of glitches. On the rare occasion he did win a game, he also 
explained that there was no way to withdraw funds. So, he asked NewDay to help him 
retrieve his money.
In response, NewDay said they didnt think this matter should be considered by their fraud 
team as there was no dispute Mr G authorised the payments. They also declined to progress 
a chargeback as they said the Mastercard chargeback rules have restrictions surrounding 
gambling transactions. However, they did pay him £100 compensation to reflect some 
customer service issues.
Mr G didnt think this was fair, so he referred the complaint to our service. In doing so, he 
said he didnt think NewDay should have treated his payments as gambling transactions 
given the circumstances. And as he was a victim of fraud, NewDay should have done 
considerably more to help him.
An investigator at this service then considered the complaint and upheld it. He thought 
NewDay should have been able to retrieve Mr Gs funds using the chargeback scheme. As 
Mr G had provided evidence that his other credit card provider had been able to do so 
against the same merchant. He also said it would have been reasonable for NewDay to have 
selected  goods or services not received as the appropriate chargeback reason. To reflect 
the impact of this matter, he also asked NewDay to pay Mr G £100 additional compensation.
Mr G accepted the investigators opinion, but NewDay didnt reply. After the complaint was 
assigned to me, they said they disagreed that a chargeback should have been attempted 
due to the restrictions on gambling transactions. They also said it was clear Mr G had 
received a service as the money for each transaction was successfully transferred to Mr Gs 
gambling account. And they didnt think the other card providers successful chargeback was 
a relevant consideration.
Provisional decision 
On 22 September 2023, I issued a provisional decision as I disagreed with the investigators 
opinion and explained that I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. I also acknowledged 
the significant disappointment the change in outcome would cause Mr G and the amount of 
time hed waited for a decision. 
NewDay accepted my provisional decision and didnt wish to add any further comments.
Mr G expressed his upset with the change in outcome and the investigators opinion. 
However, he didnt provide any additional evidence or comments about the merits of the 
complaint for my consideration. So, while I appreciate his upset and strength of feeling, I see 
no reason to change my findings. The content which follows is therefore my provisional 
decision now made final. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure NewDay and Mr G that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety. I also mean both sides no discourtesy by 
focusing on the points I think are central to the outcome of the complaint.
Im aware Mr G has also raised a linked complaint and said NewDay should not have 
allowed him to open his account. Its my understanding NewDay upheld the complaint and 
our service agreed that refunding the interest and charges was a fair resolution. So, I wont 
comment on it any further, other than to say Im aware it means NewDay havent profited 
from the transactions at the heart of this complaint. 
Did Mr G authorise the payments?
I can see that when Mr G initially asked NewDay for help, he told their fraud team he 
consented to the 14 payments leaving his account. This means for the purposes of the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) the payments were authorised and Mr G is 
therefore deemed liable for them in the first instance.
Im aware Mr G has said some of his payments were for more than he expected, however, 
hes not provided any evidence to support this. If there was a significant difference in the 
amounts, I think it's likely he would have raised this concern much sooner than he did. Im 
also mindful of the fact, the payments were going outside of the UK, so its possible any 
small difference in amounts may have related to foreign transaction or currency conversion 
fees. So, on balance, Im not persuaded any of Mr Gs payments were likely to have been for 
more than he authorised.
NewDay have explained that none of the 14 transactions were flagged by their security 
system as suspicious or blocked due to their connection to gambling. I dont find this 
surprising as Ive seen the Merchant Category Code (MCC) for each transaction, and they 
relate to games and arcades rather than gambling. Im also satisfied the name of the 
merchant and the number of transactions shouldnt have reasonably given any grounds for 
concern. And there was no way for NewDays system to have known, Mr G didnt wish for 
his payments to be sent to the gambling website via a third party. So, Im satisfied NewDay 
didnt do anything wrong by processing the transactions in line with Mr Gs requests.
It may also help if I explain that when a bank or credit provider refers to terms like fraud 
more often than not its in situations where a third party has accessed a customers account and is spending or transferring their money without their knowledge or consent. This doesnt 
reflect the circumstances here, so Im satisfied NewDay did what Id reasonably expect by 
treating this matter as a payment dispute. Its also important that I stress that whether or not 
the gambling website was operating legally, or illegally, within the UK isnt something 
NewDay were required to consider when they processed Mr Gs payments.
Did NewDay unfairly decline to attempt a chargeback?
Chargeback is the process by which payment disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants under the relevant card scheme. The relevant card scheme here is 
Mastercard. I would usually expect a card provider to attempt a chargeback provided there is 
a reasonable prospect of success. So, Ive carefully considered if NewDay treated Mr G 
fairly by declining to attempt a chargeback.
Mr G feels NewDay shouldnt have treated his payments as gambling transactions when 
they considered his chargeback request, but I respectfully disagree. The reason he made his 
payments was so he could load funds into his gambling account. Im also satisfied that the 
crux of his dispute resolves around the fact he no longer believes it was a legitimate 
gambling website. So, I dont think NewDay did anything wrong by classifying his payments 
in this way.
In relation to gambling transactions, the card scheme provider Mastercard have said:
If a cardholder authorized and engaged in a transaction with the intent to participate 
in gambling, investment or similar services, then Cardholder Dispute chargeback 
rights are restricted regardless of whether the activity was illegal and/or brand- 
damaging itself. Issuers have no chargeback rights related to the use of these chips 
or value, unspent chips, or withdrawal of such value, or on any winnings, gains or 
losses resulting from the use of such chips or value. In short, we consider the 
purpose of the Mastercard transaction to load funds into the gambling or investment 
account and not what activities are subsequently done with the funds.
Based on the above, Im satisfied NewDay acted reasonably by concluding the dispute 
wasnt covered under the chargeback scheme and there was no reasonable prospect of 
success. As its clear the scheme isnt intended to cover disputes about the outcome of 
gambling, the withdrawal of funds, or any concerns that a gambling platform is acting 
illegally. Mr G has also made many references to playing games on the gambling website, 
so Im satisfied his funds were successfully loaded into his gambling account.
Mr G has said NewDay must have made a mistake as his other credit card provider was able 
to retrieve funds from the same merchant via a successful chargeback. I can understand the 
frustration Mr G experienced in relation to this, but it doesnt automatically mean NewDay did 
anything wrong. When the dispute was received, NewDay considered it against the relevant 
chargeback rules, and for the reasons Ive just explained, Im satisfied they acted fairly in 
response. So, while I appreciate Mr Gs other credit card provider made a different decision 
and was successful in their chargeback attempt, this doesnt impact my conclusions about 
NewDays actions.
Its also worth noting that by the time NewDay received evidence of the other card providers 
successful chargeback on 12 November 2021, more than 120 days had passed since the 
date of the gambling transactions. So, even if NewDay had reconsidered their position due 
to this new evidence, it would have been too late to attempt a chargeback under 
Mastercards rules.
Did NewDay compensate Mr G fairly?NewDay have acknowledged they made some customer service errors when responding to 
Mr Gs dispute. I wont list them all here but having carefully considered everything that 
happened and the impact of those errors, Im satisfied NewDay have already done enough 
to try and put things right. They've paid Mr G £100 compensation and I see no grounds for 
directing them to increase this amount.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman