DRN-2609047
The complaint
Mr G complains that TSB Bank plc (TSB) wont refund £6,000 he lost when he was the 
victim of a scam involving, what he thought was a new business grant.  
What happened
 Mr G was looking for finance for a business he had set up. He found an organisation 
online offering business grants whereby if he paid in £6,000, they would top up a prepaid 
credit card account with a further £14,000. Mr G checked on Companies House and the 
organisation seemed to be a genuine company. On 20 February 2019 Mr G transferred 
£3,000 into his TSB account (of which £2,500 was from a credit card). On 21 February 
2019 he transferred a further £2,000 from another credit card into his TSB account. Mr G 
then transferred £6,000 from his TSB account to the scammers account. When the credit 
card didnt arrive, he started having concerns.
Mr G says he called TSB on 1 March 2019, but the agent did not take the matter seriously 
and told him to wait for the card. He called the receiving bank who said it looked like a scam. 
He called TSB again on 2 March and 4 March 2019. He complained that the agent had told 
him to wait before raising a fraud case. Mr G is also unhappy because he feels TSB havent 
addressed his complaint properly.
TSB attempted to recover Mr Gs funds but was unable to do so. The money had left the 
scammers account by the 25 February 2019. Subsequently TSB didnt agree to refund Mr G 
the transaction that left his account. It said Mr G authorised the transaction himself and there 
wasnt anything to suggest it was suspicious at the time. Although it could not trace the initial 
call with the agent, TSB did compensate Mr G £100 for distress and inconvenience caused 
by the agent and £50 for any expenses incurred.
 Mr G was unhappy with TSBs response and the service provided by TSB, so he bought the 
complaint to our service. 
The investigator who considered Mr Gs complaint upheld it and asked TSB to pay Mr G
£6,000 plus interest. She accepted Mr G had authorised the transactions. But after 
considering TSBs duties, the investigator concluded it should have had concerns that Mr G 
was at risk of financial harm and contacted Mr G to verify the transaction before it left his 
account. This was because, the amount lost stood out as unusual when compared to Mr Gs 
previous account activity.   
Mr G accepted the investigators findings, but TSB didnt. It said it is normal behaviour for its 
customers to transfer money from savings or from other sources into a current account to 
make a purchase or transfer out in the subsequent days. There was evidence of large 
payments in and out of the account in the months prior. Mr Gs payment of £6,000 out was 
therefore not out of character. There is a balance it needs to strike to ensure customers do 
not have unnecessary barriers to their banking activities. The transaction was not flagged by 
its systems because there was nothing untoward about it. It considers it has met the 
industry standards expected of it.
TSB also said that the nature of the scam here was that the offer was too good to be true. It 
would also raise questions as to why Mr G would believe he needed to make a payment of 
£6,000 to receive a payment of £14,000. Mr G had other credit cards and he would be clear 
how lending against cards works.
TSB refers to the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code)  although it 
acknowledges that this case pre dates the CRM Code and therefore the code does not apply 
 it considers that reasonable basis for belief requirement under that code to have captured 
existing industry practice and therefore relevant in this case.
TSB asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have decided to uphold this complaint.
It is not in dispute that Mr G authorised the payment of £6,000. He was duped by scammers 
into transferring his funds into their fake account. They deceived him into thinking he was 
applying for a government backed grant to set up his new business. And he needed to 
contribute some money himself before he would be given access to the grant.
I therefore accept that this was an authorised payment even through Mr G was the victim of 
a scam. He logged into his online banking using his security credentials to
request the payment. So, although he did not intend the money to go to the fraudsters, under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr G 
is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider TSB 
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of 
terrorism, and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers 
from the possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Im satisfied the evidence indicates that TSB shouldve done more to protect Mr G when he 
was making the payment and that there were indicators that Mr G was potentially falling 
victim to a scam  meaning TSB missed an opportunity to step in and question the payment 
before it left Mr Gs account. Ill explain why.Most of the previous activity on Mr Gs current account in the period before the scam 
related to standing orders, direct debits, debits and some cash withdrawals. The payment in 
question was made soon after a transfer in and cash deposit and the transfer was a faster 
payment to a new payee.
TSB said that it was in character for Mr G to receive large credits into the account to fund 
debits out for legitimate transactions in the months prior. From what I can see, Mr G did 
make two credits into his account followed by two debits out (£1,640.92 and £3,400.83) in 
the month previous  but what was unusual here was Mr G had previously not made such a 
large single payment out (£6,000) to a new payee by faster payment. The transfer of funds 
was also quick and following the transfers, the balance in his current account was reduced to 
£180 compared to balances of around £6,900 and £5,700 which were left after the two 
previous large debits mentioned above. 
I accept there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially 
be fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. And it doesnt automatically 
follow that TSB is liable for a loss, just because a customer is a victim of fraud. But in this 
case, I think it should have done more to protect Mr G.
I appreciate in this case TSBs fraud detection system didnt identify this payment as having 
high risk characteristics. But isnt to say that any activity not picked up on means a business 
doesnt need to do anything more. Its important to consider what wouldve been visible to 
TSB in terms of what it knew about how Mr G uses his account.
For all the reasons Ive explained, I think TSB ought fairly and reasonably to have identified 
that Mr G was potentially at risk of financial harm. Im persuaded that as a matter of good 
practice, TSB should have made additional checks, and made enquiries as to the purpose of 
the payment before processing it. 
Im also satisfied, if the bank had asked Mr G about the transfer, that he would have willingly 
explained what it was for  his contribution in order to get a new business grant. I say that 
because theres no suggestion in this case that the scammer had given Mr G a cover story 
or otherwise told him to lie about where the money was going. With this in mind, I think the 
bank could, relatively easily, have identified and warned Mr G of the possibility he was being 
scammed.
TSB has suggested Mr G didnt exercise enough reasonable care and should have realised 
it was unlikely that any legitimate business grant provider would expect such a large 
personal contribution. But I disagree. Mr G told us he undertook some checks to ensure the 
company that was administering the grants was genuine. Ive also seen some of the 
correspondence he had with the scammer and can see why he didnt suspect he was being 
scammed. The emails and application document are professional looking and include links 
to the companys website. Overall, I think this was a very sophisticated and believable scam, 
particularly for someone in Mr Gs situation who did not  as I understand it  have any 
previous experience about applying for this type of grant.
Im satisfied Mr G had been entirely duped by the scammers. But I dont think it follows that 
he would have ignored warnings from his own bank if it had contacted him in relation to the 
transfer. He was paying a large amount of money and I think he would have taken seriously 
the warnings from a trusted third party. I think its more likely than not, in this particular case, 
that TSBs intervention would have uncovered the scam and prevented the losses occurring.
In light of my conclusions above, it is not necessary in this case to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough care and urgency in trying to recover the stolen funds from the payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness, 
I will say that, it would have made no difference because the receiving banks records show 
that the scammers withdrew all the money by 25 February 2019 before Mr G first raised his 
concerns with TSB on 1 March 2019.
I have also considered whether Mr G should bear some responsibility by way of contributory 
negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of authorising the payment, 
he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what he was doing or the 
consequences of his actions. I am satisfied there was no contributory negligence on this 
occasion, he was simply the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank 
was the professional in financial matters; Mr G was a layperson.
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr G for the 
loss he suffered without any reduction together with interest to compensate him for being 
deprived of the money he lost. I cant be certain what Mr G would have done with £6,000 so 
interest should be at 8% simple per annum.
TSB has already accepted that it didnt handle Mr Gs complaint as well as it shouldve and 
has paid £150 compensation in recognition of this. I think thats a fair award in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the above reasons, I have decided it is fair and reasonable to uphold this complaint 
about TSB Bank plc  and I therefore require the bank to:
- refund Mr G the £6,000 lost as part of the scam,
- pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum from the date Mr G made 
the transfer to the date of settlement*;
*If TSB Bank plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr G 
with the appropriate tax certificate so he might submit a claim to HMRC if applicable
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
Kathryn Milne
Ombudsman