DRN-2822188
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complained that their claim for storm damage under their home insurance 
policy with Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) was unfairly declined.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C made a claim on their policy for damage to their roof. They said some roof 
tiles and mortar came loose and thought that it was caused by strong winds.
RSA appointed a surveyor to assess the damage and after consideration of his 
recommendations, RSA declined Mr and Mrs Cs claim. It said there was no evidence of 
storm conditions at the time of the reported incident and thought the condition of the roof 
was poor and showing signs of gradual deterioration. It said as there was no evidence of a 
one-off insurable event, they werent covered under the policy.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed, as they said they had the ridge tiles on their roof repointed within 
the last two years, but RSA thought the tiles should have been re-bedded.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She agreed with RSA that storm 
conditions werent met at the time of the incident and she didnt see any evidence of other 
insured events causing the damage. Mr and Mrs C disagreed, so the case has been referred 
to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When our service looks at a storm claim complaint, there are three questions to consider: 
1.    Do I agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said 
to have happened? 
2.    Was the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
3.    Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
I will use this structure to work through the complaint. Im likely to uphold the complaint if the 
answer to all three is yes. If the answer to one of the questions is no, Im unlikely to uphold 
the complaint.
Do I agree that storm conditions occurred?
RSA said that storm conditions werent present at the time of the reported incident. As Mr 
and Mrs C didnt know exactly when the damage was caused, I have checked the weather 
reports for whole month preceding the reported incident. Whilst, I can see there was some 
bad weather, it wasnt consistent with what our service would consider storm conditions. 
Therefore, I think RSA has been fair in declining the claim for this reason.
Mr and Mrs C later said the damage could possibly have been caused by a specific storm 
some five months earlier. There was a storm at this time, but unfortunately Mr and Mrs C did 
not make RSA aware at the time of their claim, that this what they thought caused the 
damage. I think if the earlier storm had caused the damage to the roof, Mr and Mrs C would 
have noticed it sooner and made their claim sooner. As they didnt, I think its unlikely the 
earlier storm caused the damage to the roof.
Based on the surveyors report, RSA said the damage was caused by poor maintenance and 
gradual deterioration rather than by a one-off insurable event. I think RSA conclusions are 
reasonable and Ill explain further why I think this is later. As I dont think a storm caused the 
damage, I think RSA has been fair in rejecting Mr and Mrs Cs claim, so there is no benefit in 
considering the further two questions related to a storm claim.
However, I have also considered whether the damage to Mr and Mrs Cs roof is covered by 
other terms in the policy. I dont think it is and Ill explain why I think RSA have been fair in 
concluding the damage is most likely to have been caused gradually or by poor 
maintenance, which is an exclusion within the policy.
Mr and Mrs C said their roof had been well maintained. They said some pointing they had 
done within the last two years provided an example of this. I have looked at the surveyors 
report and what RSA subsequently said. RSA said the ridge tiles should have been re-
bedded and not pointed. I have looked at the photographic evidence and I think this supports 
RSAs view. I dont think the pointing on the ridge tiles has been enough to maintain the 
condition of the roof. Some of the tiles have new mortar applied around the edges of the tiles 
and some havent. The mortar doesnt look like it has been applied professionally and 
consistently. I think RSA have been fair in saying the tiles should have been fully re-bedded 
in order to keep the roof in a good condition.
I have also considered the tiles that are missing from the roof. RSA said this was consistent 
with failed nail fixing and tile fatigue. Again, I have looked at the photographic evidence. I 
cant see the nail fixings, but the pattern of damage looks more consistent to that of an 
ageing roof with some broken tiles and some missing tiles in a random pattern across the 
roof. If the damage had been caused by storm winds or a one-off insurable event, I would 
have expected the damage to be focused in specific areas.
As I agree with RSA, that I think it is more likely the damage to the roof has been caused by 
gradual deterioration and poor maintenance, I think RSA has been fair in declining the claim. 
Therefore, I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance plc to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman