DRN-4250036
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the service provided by Domestic & General Insurance Plc 
(D&G) under his home appliance insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B made a claim to D&G regarding a faulty washing machine, and this was duly replaced 
under his policy. However, Mr B then reported a fault with his new replacement washing 
machine in June 2023.  
Mr B complained that D&G had issued several letters stating that it had resolved the issue, 
whilst Mr B said that it hadnt. Mr B also complained that D&G had referred him to the 
manufacturer as the machine was under warranty. Mr B wanted the machine to be repaired 
or replaced. He also wanted to be awarded compensation for all the phone calls hed made 
and for having to go back and forth to the launderette. He also said that there had been 
unacceptable delay by D&G in answering calls.
Following Mr Bs complaint, D&G maintained its position that it had treated Mr B in a fair and 
reasonable manner. He then referred his complaint to this service. The relevant investigator 
upheld his complaint and thought that if the repair hadnt been completed, that D&G should 
arrange for a repair or replacement. The investigator also recommended that D&G pay Mr B 
£150 for the distress and inconvenience caused. He considered that as the replacement was 
delivered as part of a previous claim, D&G should take responsibility. He also considered 
D&G had been dismissive of Mr Bs complaint. He thought there had been avoidable delays, 
including visits to the laundrette and increased contact with both D&G and the manufacturer.
D&G didnt agree with this outcome. In the circumstances, this case has been referred to me 
to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to consider is whether D&G applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy and generally acted in a fair and reasonable manner in handling Mr Bs claim. I dont 
consider that its did so in all respects, and Ill explain why. In reaching this decision, Ive also 
had regard to the submissions of both parties as follows.
Mr B made it clear that he was unhappy with the way in which D&G handled his claim 
regarding a replacement washing machine, after hed experienced problems with his 
previous washing machine. Mr B said that D&Gs engineer didnt complete the repair 
properly. Hed contacted D&G about the issue, and it referred him to the manufacturer, 
however he said it didnt have a complaints department to resolve the issue. Mr B was very 
unhappy about the timeframe and wanted the new washing machine to be repaired or 
replaced. He also wanted to receive compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
D&G confirmed that Mr B had taken out his original insurance cover in 2017. It said that the 
cover provided protection for mechanical or electrical breakdown, labour charges and 
damage caused by accident. It accepted that Mr Bs replacement machine had developed a 
fault and a complaint was opened in June 2023. It said that the replacement machine had 
been delivered in mid-May 2023. As the machine was under the manufacturers warranty 
period, the customer was referred to the manufacturer for an engineer to be called out, as it 
said the policy only provided cover for accidental damage. It had contacted the manufacturer 
following the complaint, and it confirmed that an engineer had attended the same day that 
Mr B had contacted it and returned three days later when the repair was completed. D&G 
said it hadnt received further communication to indicate that the appliance was still faulty.
D&G referred to the policys terms and conditions, which excluded any breakdown cost 
already covered by any manufacturerswarranty on the appliance and costs or loss arising 
from not being able to use it, or incidental costs caused by the breakdown or repair. It said 
that the policy only provided for repair or replacement after the manufacturers warranty 
period. D&G said that the manufacturer did indeed have a complaints team and passed this 
on if Mr B felt that the manufacturer should be compensating him.
The starting point for complaints of this nature will be the terms and conditions of the 
relevant policy. Ive noted the provisions to which D&G has referred in its submissions and I 
agree with D&G that this makes it clear that repair and replacement of a machine will not be 
covered during the manufacturers warranty period. In this case, the fault did indeed develop 
during the warranty period.
Nevertheless, I agree with the investigator in this instance that D&G cant avoid responsibility 
for problems experienced with a replacement machine delivered under the D&G policy. I 
consider that when Mr B contacted D&G in June 2023 it should have offered Mr B 
assistance in resolving the issue, and a better customer experience in general. Whilst I 
agree with D&G that the delays in question were likely to have lasted for three days only, Im 
satisfied that £150 is an appropriate level of compensation for the inconvenience caused by 
the type of service failure experienced by Mr B. 
This outcome is supported by D&Gs case-notes. These indicate that D&G would look to 
compensate Mr B once repairs were completed and when it knew the period for which 
compensation would be due. In conclusion, it indicated that it would uphold the complaint as 
Mr B had to wait in order to be assisted and there were difficulties with telephone calls. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Bs complaint and require Domestic & General 
Insurance Plc to pay £150 compensation to Mr B for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 October 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman