DRN-3997797
The complaint
Mr A1 and Mr A2 are unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) declined their travel 
insurance claim.
What happened
Mr A1 and Mr A2 had a travel insurance policy alongside their bank account. IPA is the 
underwriter. 
They went on their trip in July 2022 and on their return journey, their scheduled flight was 
cancelled so they had to return a day earlier on a different flight. They incurred costs for their 
return flight, lost one night of accommodation, one day of car hire costs and had to move 
their return coach journey. 
They made a claim on their travel insurance policy with IPA. Initially, IPA incorrectly said 
claims for curtailment could only be considered for outward journeys. Following a review, it 
said Mr A1 and Mr A2s policy terms and conditions do cover claims for curtailment for 
outward and return journeys. But the circumstances that led to the claim are not covered 
under their policy. The claim was therefore declined. 
Mr A1 and Mr A2 brought their complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it and 
didnt uphold the complaint. He concluded that under their policy terms and conditions, the 
claim wasnt covered. He didnt think Mr A1 and Mr A2 had been treated unfairly or 
unreasonably and he didnt think any compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr A1 and Mrs A2 disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
So, its been passed to me. 
They say they havent been treated fairly by IPA and havent been offered any compensation 
for the misinformation they were given. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out 
rules and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS). ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle 
claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
The terms and conditions set out whats covered on page 13 of the policy document. 
Ive considered the what is covered section. I understand Mr A1 and Mr A2s flight 
provider cancelled their return flight. Having looked at whats covered, this isnt an 
event thats covered under their policy. 
Under the same curtailment section, on page 13, theres a further section which sets 
out what isnt covered. This states that any claim where IPA did not provide 
pre-authorisation before returning to the country of residence isnt covered. I cant 
see that Mr A1 and Mr A2 contacted IPA to get pre-authorisation, therefore, Im not 
persuaded the claim is covered. 
I appreciate Mr A1 and Mr A2 think that IPA should pay some compensation for the 
incorrect information it initially provided. I understand their frustration. But having 
considered everything, the claim wasnt covered either way. I think IPA could have 
done better in explaining why the claim wasnt covered at the start, but overall, I think 
the impact hasnt been to their detriment. Ultimately, based on their circumstances, I 
dont think the claim is covered and I dont think its fair that IPA should pay 
compensation.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that IPA has declined the claim in line 
with the terms and conditions of their policy and I dont think Mr A1 and Mr A2 have 
been treated unfairly or unreasonably. It follows that I dont require IPA to do 
anything further. 
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr A1 and Mr A2s complaint about Inter Partner 
Assistance SA. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A1 and Mr A2 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 May 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman