DRN-2926353
The complaint
 Mr M complains about the way AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited handled a 
claim under his motor insurance policy. 
Where I refer to AA Underwriting, this includes its agents and claim handlers. 
 
What happened
In November 2020, Mr M made a claim on his motor insurance policy for damage caused to 
his car. His insurers  AA Underwriting  arranged for the car to be repaired and a courtesy 
car was provided. 
Mr M received his car back approximately five weeks later. Hes unhappy with the amount of 
time this took given the small amount of work required to fix it. He says he had to chase 
continuously to get AA Underwriting to progress his claim. 
Mr M also complains that the courtesy car provided wasnt a like for like vehicle, nor had it 
been well maintained. He says it was unsuitable as his wife struggled to get in and out of it 
due to her health conditions. And as he has to take her to regular hospital appointments, this 
caused a great deal of stress and inconvenience.  
AA Underwriting said it had provided a courtesy car in line with the policys terms and 
conditions. And that the delays in repairing the car were due to the time it took to source 
replacement parts. But it acknowledged it was at fault for some initial delays in authorising 
the garage and that there had been a lack of communication. Its upheld Mr Ms complaint 
and apologised. 
Mr M wasnt satisfied with the apology, so he brought his complaint to our service. After 
doing so, AA Underwriting said it was prepared to offer Mr M compensation of £150. Our 
investigator felt the offer was fair in the circumstances, but Mr M didnt accept it. So the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to determine whether AA Underwriting has treated Mr M fairly in the way it has 
handled his claim, Ive first considered its obligations under the relevant regulations.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS) 
requires insurers to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its customer. It also requires insurers to handle claims promptly and fairly.
Ive also taken into account the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy which form the 
contract of insurance in place.
Claim handling 
I understand Mr M made his claim on 21 November 2020, at which point his car was taken to 
AA Underwritings recommended repairers. But AA Underwriting didnt authorise the repairs 
until 4 December 2020  almost two weeks later. During this time, Mr M called several times 
for an update on his claim and to enquire whether his car could be repaired any sooner. 
Once repairs were authorised, I understand that it took some time to source the replacement 
parts. And Mr M received his car back on 22 December  almost five weeks after his claim 
was made. 
From the information available, Im not persuaded that AA Underwriting handled Mr Ms 
claim promptly. I say this because two weeks seems an excessive amount of time to 
authorise repairs, especially when the repairers are ones selected and approved by the 
insurer itself. In addition, there was a lack of communication with Mr M during this time; its 
clear his claim was only progressed, and an update provided when Mr M initiated contact.  
Courtesy car
Mr Ms policy says that following an accident, [he] will be provided with use of a standard 
courtesy car while [his] car is undergoing repair, subject to the repair being carried out by an 
insurer-approved repairer. It clarifies that a standard courtesy car is a category A vehicle, 
normally a small 3 door, 1 litre hatchback car.
Mr M was provided with a courtesy car but hes unhappy that it wasnt a like for like 
specification to his own car. But this isnt what hes covered for under his policy terms. My 
understanding is that he received a courtesy car in line with the cover provided by his policy. 
That said, I appreciate Mr M needed a different model car to accommodate his wifes 
medical conditions. He made AA Underwriting aware of this at the outset of his claim but 
accepted the standard courtesy car on the basis that it was all he was covered for. It was 
only after the repairs were delayed that he raised concerns about the length of time he was 
left with an unsuitable vehicle. 
Given the initial delays caused by AA Underwriting, I think its fair to say it shouldve done 
more to accommodate Mr Ms circumstances. And its disappointing to see that it didnt do 
so.
Im aware Mr M has also complained that the courtesy car was poorly maintained. AA 
Underwriting say theres no information to show the condition of the car before it was given 
to Mr M. And I havent been provided with any evidence to demonstrate what specifically 
was wrong with it. So I dont intend to comment on this complaint point further. 
Summary
Im not satisfied that AA Underwriting dealt with Mr Ms claim promptly. And given the initial 
delays it caused, I think it shouldve done more to accommodate Mr M by providing a more 
suitable courtesy car on the basis that he would need it for an extended period of time. 
Due to these failures, its fair for AA Underwriting to pay Mr M compensation for the trouble 
and upset it caused. And I think its offer of £150 is reasonable in the circumstances. 
I appreciate Mr M doesnt feel that this offer fairly reflects what went wrong. But AA 
Underwritings errors caused delays of approximately two weeks. So Im not mindful to 
award anything more than that.  
My final decision
 AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has already made an offer to pay £150 to 
settle the complaint and I think this is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that AA Underwriting should pay £150, if it hasnt already made this 
payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman