DRN-4216030
The complaint
Mr P and Ms P complain that mortgage advice they received in 2021 from the broker at 
Avalon Options Ltd was unsuitable. They said their intended retirement ages were simply 
wrong, so theyd still be paying after theyd retired, and the fixed interest period was too long. 
What happened
Whilst this complaint is brought by both Mr P and Ms P, as the mortgage is in both their 
names, most of our dealings have been with Ms P. So Ill mainly refer to her in this decision. 
In 2021, Mr P and Ms P took out a mortgage with the assistance of a broker. They now say 
the advice they got was negligent. Their complaint centres on two points  the overall term of 
their mortgage, and the length of the fixed interest rate period.
Ms P said shed expressed concern at the time about a 35-year term on their mortgage, as 
that meant they would be continuing to pay beyond their planned retirement ages. Ms P said 
the broker didnt explore other, shorter mortgage terms. And he also dismissed their 
suggestion that they would be interested in fixing their interest rate for longer than the two 
years he had applied for, on their behalf. 
Ms P said she now knows she could have secured a five year fixed rate in 2021 that wasnt 
significantly more than the two year rate. She thought a five year fixed rate deal would have 
saved them over £36,000 in mortgage payments over the fixed rate period. Ms P said they 
couldnt say for certain what decision they would have made had they received proper 
advice and explored the options. But she said they had no intention of moving house in this 
period, and the five year rate would have been difficult to turn down. She said there was a 
strong likelihood that they would have taken up this longer fixed rate deal if it was offered. 
She thought it was negligent for the broker not to explore this with them. 
Avalon didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said the mortgage it sourced wouldnt 
continue beyond state retirement age for either Mr P or Ms P. And the term of the mortgage 
was clear on the offer documents they received. It could have been amended if they wanted. 
Avalon also said that it was working with a limited choice of lenders, because one of the 
parties had only recently started a business. Avalon said it understood that Ms P and Mr P 
had discussed with the broker the options available for different fixed interest terms, and 
agreed that the flexibility offered after two years would give them more options, bearing in 
mind that the lenders who would assist at the point of application were few.
Avalon said it thought Mr P and Ms P had decided to apply for a two year deal because 1) a 
longer fixed term deal would carry a considerable early repayment charge (ERC) especially 
in the first years of that deal and 2) the shorter deal kept options open to make changes 
without penalty after two years, and 3) it kept payments as low as possible initially, giving 
them the chance to properly assess their budget once they were in their new home. 
Avalon said the mortgage offer it secured and the reasons for the recommendation were all 
sent to Mr P and Ms P, and they could have requested further information or illustrations, 
right up to their exchange of contracts. 
Avalon didnt think it had made a mistake. 
Ms P then wrote to our service, setting out her arguments in more detail. She didnt think 
Avalon had collected enough information from her and Mr P to make appropriate 
recommendations. She said Avalon simply never asked what their planned retirement ages 
were, and she had queried the 35 year term, but was told it was normal, and good for 
keeping repayments low. She thought Avalon should have asked then about their retirement 
plans, but said instead Avalon just made generic non-tailored recommendations. 
Ms P said Avalon focussed on the limited choice of lenders they had, not on getting 
information about what would be suitable for them. She said they were told that a 35 year 
term and a two year fixed rate were just placeholders, but when they tried to change these, 
Avalon recommended they stick to the illustration provided. Ms P disagreed that options 
were discussed at this point, she said she was never given any costings. 
Ms P said Avalon had recommended the two year fixed rate for three reasons. She thought 
these were 1) they would have a wider choice of lenders in two years, when the business 
was established, 2) a lower monthly cost would give a better chance to assess budgets in 
the new home, and 3) a shorter term would mean they could avoid an ERC if they needed to 
sell or move home within the first few years. 
Ms P addressed each of those. She said that the lender they went with had one of the best 
rates on the market at the time, and they didnt anticipate any changes to the business in the 
next two years that would make them more desirable to a lender in 2023 than they already 
were. She said that she and Mr P could have provided accurate assessments of their 
monthly bills, and shown the extra cost of a five year fixed deal would have been affordable. 
And she said that they were buying a home suitable for them in the longer term, perhaps 
even their forever home. They had no plans to move or pay off the mortgage. She also said 
the ERC wasnt high anyway, it was as low as 1% of the amount repaid, so there was 
minimal benefit in avoiding this if they did have to sell.  
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said Avalon wasnt obliged 
to provide illustrations for a two and a five year fixed rate, and the mortgage term Mr P and 
Ms P took wouldnt run past state retirement age for either of them. He said there was only 
one lender prepared to offer them a mortgage. And he said Avalons notes recorded that 
they wanted the option to make large repayments towards the capital. 
Our investigator said he thought that an appropriate recommendation was made by Avalon. 
And he couldnt ignore that concerns about the advice received in March 2021 were only 
raised by Ms P and Mr P after several rises in the Bank of England base rate following the 
mini-budget in September 2022. Our investigator said there was no way that either Ms P and 
Mr P or Avalon couldve known, when Avalons recommendation was made in March 2021, 
what would happen in late 2022.
Ms P replied to disagree. She said shed only just seen Avalons fact finding document. She 
said it didnt look right, it contained information that wouldn't have been available when it 
was first completed, and it contained multiple inaccuracies, including a planned retirement 
age for them both of 70. Ms P stressed that shed never seen this document before, she 
certainly didnt see it at the time.Ms P queried whether the loan term did extend beyond the UKs current normal retirement 
age, or whether only this lender was prepared to lend. She still thought a five year deal 
would have been better for them, and said surely it was common to complain when the 
effects of a mistake are first felt. 
Our investigator didnt change his mind. He said that we do consider the market and 
conditions known to the broker at that time. We cant factor in the benefit of hindsight. 
Our investigator said he would expect a copy of the fact find would have been sent to Mr P 
and Ms P. He repeated that this mortgage didnt extend past their state retirement ages. He 
said the broker had noted in his recommendation that the other prospective lender would not 
offer them a mortgage, as it didnt think the lending was affordable for them, which is why 
this wasnt pursued further. And he still didnt think the advice given at the time was wrong. 
Ms P said we seemed to be assuming that she and Mr P would both want to retire at state 
pension age, which wasnt their intention. And she repeated that shed never seen the fact 
find, she queried when it had been written. Ms P wanted this complaint to be considered by 
an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same overall conclusion on this complaint as our investigator. 
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues.
Mr P and Ms Ps complaint rests on two points. The first is that they were never asked about 
their intended retirement ages, and the intended retirement ages recorded for them were 
simply wrong, so that this lending would extend past their planned retirement. Our 
investigator noted the intended retirement ages were set out on the fact find which Avalon 
completed on 1 February 2021, which he would have expected to be sent to Mr P and Ms P. 
They said they didnt see this at the time. 
I havent seen direct evidence that the fact find document was sent to Mr P and Ms P. But I 
havent asked Avalon to provide that, because the evidence I have seen makes me think Mr 
P and Ms P were aware of the details of the application which was being made for them. 
As a starting point, I understand that Mr P and Ms P did see the mortgage offer they then 
took up. So its not clear why they would accept an offer which extended into their intended 
retirement period, if that was indeed the case. But in addition, Avalon has shown us that on 
25 March 2021, it received an email from Ms P, asking to see the application form which 
their broker had completed on their behalf. 
That email said this   ..do you have the customer information form you completed when you submitted to 
[their lender]? It says that we need to be 100% sure that all the details are correct. 
No reason to believe theyre not but good to be sure.
That suggests to me that Ms P was taking a particularly thorough approach to checking her 
mortgage application. I dont think its likely either that she didnt then receive the requested 
application, or that she didnt check it.
The application form which Avalon sent to Ms P records an Anticipated retirement age for 
each party. These are both noted as 70. Thats the same age as is set out on the fact find 
that Avalon completed. 
Ms P now says that this is simply wrong. However, Ms P obtained this form for the stated 
purpose of ensuring it was accurate. if Ms P had thought in 2021 that the anticipated 
retirement ages recorded on that application were wrong, then I would have expected her to 
take steps to correct this at the time. The fact they didnt do so, does suggest that this wasnt 
an objection then. 
I dont think its most likely that Ms P and Mr P were both unaware of the intended retirement 
ages which formed part of their application. And, because no objection was raised by Ms P 
when she received the application form, I think its most likely that Avalon had agreed these 
intended retirement ages with both Mr P and Ms P before this. 
Ms Ps second point is that she and Mr P were talked out of taking up, or even fleshing out 
any sort of quote for, a longer fixed interest rate period on her mortgage. She has said that 
her view is that a five year fixed interest rate should have been recommended, and the 
advice she received was negligent. 
Avalon, however, says that its advice was tailored to Mr P and Ms Ps circumstances. Much 
of its argument here rests on the content of the fact find, so I should pause here to address 
what Ms P has said about that document. 
The fact find I have seen is handwritten, and may well have had further annotations after the 
first detailed discussion, which I understand was at the start of February. I dont think that 
undermines its content, or gives me any cause to think that it isnt genuine. 
Avalons fact find recorded that one party runs a business, which at the time hadnt been 
trading for long, and only showed modest recent dividends. However, Ms P said that the 
business had a large amount of retained profit, and they expected to have further years of 
accounts which would demonstrate its successes (and could bolster any remortgage 
application) within the next one to two years. 
It doesnt appear that Avalon thought Mr P and Ms P were planning to move right away. 
Rather, the fact find recorded that they wanted to shorten their mortgage term, and that they 
envisaged making large overpayments onto their mortgage in the near future. They wanted 
to do that without having to pay an ERC. 
Ms P also said that the ERC payable was a negligible amount, only 1% in the second year of 
her mortgage deal. But that ERC is so low because the deal is only for two years. At the 
time, if theyd secured a longer deal with their only choice of lender, that lender would have 
applied an ERC of 5% initially, reducing by 1% each year over a five year term. So the ERC 
would have been more than double in year two of a five year deal.It does appear that Mr P and Ms P had a very limited choice of lenders at the time the 
mortgage was taken out. I would anticipate that a further two years of business accounts, 
demonstrating the anticipated profit, would then allow them to choose from a much wider 
range of lenders. That would mean they would be more likely to be able to secure lending 
over a shorter term. And they might well be able to explore more flexible mortgage options, 
like an offset mortgage.
The advice Mr P and Ms P appear to have received from Avalons broker, and indeed the 
mortgage offer that Mr P and Ms P then accepted, does seem to me to be consistent with 
the content of the fact find Avalon has shown us. For the reasons Ive already explained, Im 
not able to say the retirement age on this fact find was simply fabricated. And, on balance, I 
dont think its most likely that the other information recorded about Mr P and Ms Ps 
intentions and requirements for their mortgage by Avalon has simply been fabricated by 
Avalon either. 
I understand that Mr P and Ms P now feel that a mortgage which had a fixed interest period 
of five years would have been better for them. Whilst I accept that, with the benefit of 
hindsight, this may indeed be the case, Im not able to say that the advice they received in 
2021 from Avalon was negligent, or that it would be fair and reasonable to ask Avalon to pay 
the additional mortgage costs that Mr P and Ms P may now face over the next three years, 
which might have been avoided if their initial mortgage rate had been fixed for longer. 
I know that Mr P and Ms P will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 January 2024. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman