DRN-3453194
The complaint
Ms P complains Revolut Ltd declined to refund a payment she didnt recognise. 
Ms P is represented by a friend, but for ease Ill refer to both their actions as Ms Ps.
Im aware Ms P prefers to be addressed differently. But as this decision will be published (as 
is required by law), Im using this description to prevent her from being identified, and for this 
purpose only. It has no bearing on the form of address she prefers to use, and I hope she 
wont mind that Ive anonymised her identity in this way.
What happened
In June 2020 Ms P told Revolut a payment of €153.53 to an airline was fraudulent. Revolut 
raised a chargeback and applied a temporary credit for the disputed payment. The airline 
responded with evidence which persuaded Revolut Ms P had authorised the disputed 
payment, so it debited the temporary credit and declined to take the matter further.
Ms P complained but Revolut didnt change its position, so she asked our service for an 
independent review. The investigator considered Revolut to have acted fairly so she didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Ms P disagreed so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P reported a payment had been made to the airline without her knowledge or consent - in 
other words, she said she hadnt authorised the payment. Revolut therefore had a duty to do 
something, and it did. It raised a chargeback to challenge the airline over the disputed 
payment and applied a temporary credit so Ms P wouldnt be deprived of money while the 
matter was ongoing. So, Im satisfied Revolut treated Ms P fairly here.
 
The airline, as is allowed for under the relevant card scheme rules, defended itself. Revolut 
reviewed the defence and decided not to pursue the matter further because it didnt consider 
there was enough evidence to show Ms P hadnt authorised the payment. Ms P remains 
dissatisfied with Revoluts decision and argues  broadly  the onus is on Revolut to prove 
she authorised the payment.
 
Revolut, however, didnt have to prove beyond doubt Ms P authorised the payment. Thats 
not the right test here. Instead, it needed to make a reasonable decision based on the 
information available to it. I will set out some the relevant information below:
- Ms P reported a payment as fraudulent, but didnt report the card as lost or stolen, or 
that the account had been compromised. So for the payment to have been made the 
alleged fraudster would, it seems to me, have needed to access her card details and 
do so in a way which didnt cause Ms P longstanding concern.
- The airline showed the payment was for a flight. The flight was from the UK (where 
from Ms Ps account statements it seems she was at the time of the booking) to a city 
in Europe (where Ms P resides). The flight, therefore, could well have been of benefit 
to Ms P.
- The flight was booked in Ms Ps name and included her correct contact details. The 
alleged fraudster, therefore, would have needed to pass airport security in two 
different countries posing as Ms P (presumably using counterfeit documents) and 
likely intercept flight related information from Ms Ps postal/email address. 
So, either Ms P authorised the payment but didnt use the flight (the airline has shown the 
passenger was a no-show), or a fraudster went to a great deal of trouble (and planned to 
take a huge risk) over a €153.53 flight. Revolut thought the former was most likely. So did 
the investigator. And so do I. It follows I dont consider Revolut to have treated Ms P unfairly 
when it declined to refund her.
Im aware Ms P is also dissatisfied Revolut suspended/closed her account. But as this was 
addressed by another ombudsman on a separate complaint, I wont comment on that here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman