DRN-3854412
The complaint
Mr B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) held him liable for funds that he says didnt 
dispense from a cash machine.
What happened
Mr B told us hed tried to withdraw £500 from a cash machine in April 2022 but that the 
machine said it had been declined. Hed then tried other machines, but these had also said 
the same thing. He said hed called Lloyds immediately and that, after around a 45-minute 
wait, Lloyds agreed to refund the money and said it would look into the matter. But Lloyds 
later declined the claim and re-debited the funds. 
Lloyds said it had investigated the matter, which included making contact with the ATM 
owner, and found there was no evidence the money hadnt been dispensed. So, its satisfied 
that it was right in retracting the conditional refund from Mr B. 
Our investigator considered this complaint. He felt that the evidence suggested the machine 
hadnt dispensed the cash, and that Lloyds should reimburse Mr B. 
But Lloyds disagreed. It maintained its stance that the money had been dispensed. 
So, the complaint was passed to me. I got in touch with both parties to obtain further 
information. And I let Mr B know that I was minded to reach a different outcome to that 
reached by our investigator  as, from the evidence Id seen, I felt it likely the ATM 
transaction had processed correctly.  
Mr B felt strongly that he should be reimbursed so, after some further communication, he 
asked me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding the complaint. I know this will be extremely 
disappointing for Mr B. Ive explained my reasons for this below. 
Ive been provided with a copy of the ATM journal which Lloyds obtained from the ATM 
owner. From this, I can see that:
At 20:37:06 Mr B inserted his card;
At 20:37:18 Mr B entered his PIN;
At 20:37:35 Mr B entered the amount he wished to withdraw;
At 20:37:45 the card was presented and taken;
At 20:38:00 the money was presented (15 seconds after it was presented) 
At 20:38:10, the money hadnt been taken, so the machine started the beep 
sequence;
At 20:38:20, the journal states, Money not taken and Leave money in shutter;
At 20:38:45, it notes the cash was taken after a timeout situation. 
So, the ATM journal supports that the money was dispensed. 
The ATM owner also said There were no faults showing and transactions either side were 
all successful. ATM has been balanced since on 8/4/22 and no overages were found. Had 
the money not dispensed, Id expect to see that the machine hadnt balanced  as the £500 
would still be in the machine. So, this further supports Lloyds position that the money was 
dispensed.
Lloyds has also provided information about Mr Bs attempts to withdraw cash at other 
machines following this initial attempt. I can see Mr B did indeed make five further attempts 
to withdraw funds  including at the original machine. These all declined and Lloyds has said 
this was because hed met his withdrawal limit for the day after the initial £500 transaction.
I note Mr Bs actions would suggest he was keen to access funds, and theres a question 
around why he would need to keep visiting further cash machines if hed successfully 
withdrawn the £500. But I cant ignore the time at which Mr B was at the second cash 
machine  20:38:33. This means that, within 33 seconds of the £500 being presented, Mr B 
was already using another machine. Even if the machines were close to each other, this 
does raise questions about whether Mr Bs attention was focused on the original machine. I 
note that Mr B told our investigator hed waited for around five minutes for the money to 
come out. But evidence provided in the form of a screenshot of Mr Bs account usage 
contradicts this  and I find this to be more persuasive evidence. 
I also note that Mr Bs testimony around whether anyone else was nearby when he used the 
machine changed. In a call with Lloyds in May 2022, he said there hadnt been anyone near. 
But in a call with our investigator, he referred to a man behind him and referenced three to 
four individuals, some of whom hed had some interaction with. Mr B hasnt provided an 
explanation for this change in testimony. 
So, while its natural to speculate about who took Mr Bs money, thats not whats in question 
here  even if I accept Mr B didnt ultimately receive the funds, that doesnt necessarily 
mean Lloyds would be required to reimburse him. What I have to decide is whether the ATM 
transaction did or didnt process correctly. 
The relevant regulations here, the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs) say that 
where a payment service user claims that a payment transaction has not been correctly 
executed, it is for the payment service provider to prove that the payment transaction was 
authenticated, accurately recorded, entered in the payment service providers accounts and 
not affected by a technical breakdown or some other deficiency in the service provided by 
the payment service provider. Im persuaded that Lloyds has met these requirements. Its 
evidenced that the card was used, PIIN was entered, the money was presented and that it 
was taken. It also provided evidence from the ATM owner that the ATM balanced. So, I dont 
think it would be fair to hold Lloyds liable  whether or not Mr B ultimately received the 
money. 
For completeness, Ill just address a point raised by our investigator, who queried error 
codes in the ATM journal. These have been explored to allay any concerns about whether 
the transaction was affected by a technical breakdown. But, based on evidence provided by 
Lloyds, the error codes displayed were due to Mr Bs cash being left in the machine  the 
machine wasnt able to do anything until the money was taken, and the machine didnt have 
the facility to retract the funds. So, Im satisfied Lloyds has done all it reasonably could to 
evidence the machine was functioning as it should  and theres been no suggestion of issues with transactions either side of Mr Bs. 
On that basis, while Im sorry that Mr B has lost out on his money, I cant fairly hold Lloyds 
liable for it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 January 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman