DRN-1700357
 
The complaint
Miss M complains about the service she received from Interactive Investor Services Limited. 
Shes unhappy that Interactive Investor sold her shares without her consent to pay for 
administration/account charges. 
 
What happened
In November 2016, Miss M opened a trading account and ISA with SharePrice and 
subscribed £4,000 which was used to invest £3,999.92 in Canadian Overseas Petroleum 
Limited. I understand that SharePrice was a brand name owned and operated by Interactive 
Investor until it was discontinued.
In November 2017, Miss M was notified that SharePrice would be discontinued, and if she 
didnt close her account shed move onto the Interactive Investor trading platform with effect 
from 11 December 2017, and that new charges would apply. 
Shes unhappy that Interactive Investor sold her shares to pay for charges on her account. 
She was under the impression that her details would be transferred over including her direct 
debit details.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said: 
As no action was taken by Miss M to close her account, she was automatically 
upgraded to the new Interactive Investor platform with new terms and new rates. 
Within the email notification there was a section titled what you need to do which 
contained instructions to set up a direct debit payment, and the facility to double 
check by 11 December 2017. 
On 6 February 2019, Miss M was sent an email asking for £90 that was due in 
charges and that if it wasnt cleared by 8 March 2019, itd sell her investments to 
cover that amount. 
Although Miss M says she didnt receive the email, based on what Interactive 
Investor has said, its likely the email was sent to her correct address and more likely 
than not received. Therefore she ought to have taken some action.  
Shes aware that Miss M contacted Interactive Service on 13 May 2018 to reset her 
password which would indicate she used the online platform, which means she 
wouldve also had access to view the online charges as well.
On 22 March 2018, outstanding charges of £52.42 were waived, which would 
indicate either the direct debit wasnt set up or Interactive Investor didnt have 
permission to use any available funds for the purpose of paying charges. Because Miss M didnt pay the outstanding balance of the charges by 8 March 2019 
 as per Interactive Investors notification  it wasnt wrong to sell shares to pay for 
the charges. 
 
Miss M disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman view. She hasnt 
provided any new points. She maintains she didnt receive the email asking for charged to 
be paid and thought all her details including her direct debit instructions would be 
transferred. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Miss M says Im not persuaded 
that Interactive investor has behaved unreasonably. In other words, I dont think it was wrong 
to sell shares to pay off account charges that hadnt been paid despite Miss M being 
reminded to do so. 
But before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise Miss Ms strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided detailed 
submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I 
hope she wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, 
and not in as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised under a separate 
subject heading, its not what Im required to do in order to reach a decision in this case. My 
role is to consider the evidence presented by Miss M and Interactive Investor, and reach 
what I think is an independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to 
decide, based on the information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have 
happened. 
Im satisfied that Miss M was notified of the take over and potential migration of her 
SharePrice account to Interactive Investor towards the end of 2017, around the same time 
that it wouldve also provided her with the terms and conditions, information regarding the 
quarterly fees and how it would be collected if she didnt pay. So I think she knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known the state of play by November 2017  in advance of the change  
giving her a reasonable amount of time to decide what to do and get her house in order. 
Other than notifying Miss M of the change, and providing new terms of agreement, I dont 
think Interactive Investor was required to obtain her consent before going ahead with the 
acquisition of her SharePrice account. And as no action was taken by Miss M to close her 
account, she was automatically upgraded to the new Interactive Investor platform with new terms and rates. I dont think Interactive Investor was wrong to do this having given her 
notice. 
I appreciate Miss M was under the impression that her details would be transferred including 
direct debit details. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that Interactive Investor gave her that 
impression. Im mindful that it didnt have the capacity to do that and thats probably why an 
email was sent to her containing details of how to set up a direct debit and also double-
check to make sure that it had been set up on the new platform. I note that she was also 
subsequently sent an email notifying her of the charges that had built up and giving her an 
opportunity to pay. 
I appreciate Miss M says she didnt receive the email about the charges that had 
accumulated. But on the face of the evidence, and on balance, I think its more likely (than 
not) that the email was sent and received by her. I note it was correctly addressed to the 
email address Interactive Investor had on file and where it had successfully sent her emails 
in the past. 
Its possible that it couldve gone into her spam, although I think its unlikely. Im mindful that 
none of her emails to this address were sent back undelivered and therefore its likely she 
received this email in the same way she wouldve the previous emails. But even if it had, its 
still her responsibility to check that she hasnt missed anything. 
It seems that other than when Interactive Investor waived some charges in March 2018, no 
other charges have been paid. And on balance Im satisfied Miss A knew, or ought 
reasonably to have known, what would happen if she didnt pay her the fees on the account. 
So, because the account remained open and the fees continued to build without any effort 
being made to pay the fees, Im unable to say that Interactive Investor was wrong to sell 
shares to pay off the charges that had accumulated in line with its terms and conditions.
I appreciate Miss M will be thoroughly unhappy Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator, and I realise my decision isnt what she wants to hear. Whilst I appreciate her 
frustration, Im not going to ask the business to do anything.  
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give him what 
he wants.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 June 2020.
Dara Islam
Ombudsman