DRN-2874734
The complaint
Mrs P, as administrator of the estate of her late husband Mr P, complains (on behalf of the 
estate) that National Farmers Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited (NFU) didnt inform 
Mr P that it hadnt altered its pension policies to incorporate options made possible by 
legislative changes in 2015 and that financial loss had been suffered as a result.
 
What happened
Mr P held three pension policies with the NFU that hed taken out in 1988, 1996 and 2019.  
In October 2019 Mr P sadly died before beginning to take his pension benefits under the 
policies. In March 2020 Mrs P, Mr Ps widow, was granted letters of administration of Mr Ps 
estate. 
In the first half of 2020 Mrs P (in her personal capacity, in other words not as administrator of 
Mr Ps estate) obtained advice from an independent financial adviser as to how best to take 
the benefits under the policies. Mrs P was the beneficiary nominated by Mr P to receive the 
death benefits payable under the policies if he died before beginning to take them himself. 
This made it likely that the trustees of the pension policies would exercise their discretion to 
pay her the benefits, rather than anyone else or the estate itself.
As a result of the financial advice, Mrs P told the NFU that she wanted to transfer the 
benefits into a dependants drawdown pension in her name. NFU said this wasnt possible 
under its policies and she would have to take the benefits under the policies as tax-free lump 
sums. In total this amounted to around £300,000. 
Mrs P complained to the NFU. The essence of her complaint was that, since the introduction 
of pension freedoms in 2015, it would have been possible for a dependants drawdown 
pension to be established after Mr Ps death before retirement. She didnt dispute that the 
terms and conditions of the NFUs policies didnt allow for that. But she complained that the 
changes made possible by the pension freedoms legislation were so significant that the NFU 
should have told Mr P it wasnt changing its policies to implement them. She said that, 
because of this, Mr P was unable to make an informed decision as to whether to accept the 
NFU stance or transfer his pension elsewhere, and that choice was no longer available. 
The NFU didnt uphold the complaint. It said the pension documentation given to Mr P at the 
time he established the policies confirmed that the value of the policies would be paid as a 
lump sum to the beneficiary. Other schemes may have amended their death benefits options 
over time as legislation allowed, but the NFU continued to only allow a lump sum. It further 
said that it wouldnt contact customers to advise that the terms of the policy were 
unchanged. 
Mrs P, through her IFA representative, brought the complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it, but didnt think that the complaint should be upheld. He said 
the following in summary:
It wasnt compulsory for pension providers to implement the additional products and 
choices made available by the pension freedoms legislation in 2015. It was at their 
discretion.
The NFU didnt have a responsibility to advise Mr P on pension legislation changes 
and their effect on his pension choices
The terms of all three policies clearly said that, upon the death of the policyholder, 
the benefits would be paid as a lump sum to the beneficiaries.
Mr P didnt have a financial adviser and wasnt advised at the point these policies 
were established.
In declining to complete a dependants drawdown for Mrs P, the NFU havent 
transgressed the terms of the policies that Mr P signed up for. 
It was unfortunate that no other options were offered, but he didnt think the NFU had 
treated Mr Ps estate unfairly.
Mrs Ps representative didnt agree with the view. He said:
Theyd never asserted that the NFU had operated outside the terms and conditions 
of their policies. 
The key part of Mrs Ps complaint was contained in her complaint letter to the NFU of 
June 2020 which said:
In particular, I feel that you have let both him, and now me, down. I would 
draw your attention to the FCAs Treating Customers Fairly requirements 
that regulated firms are expected to follow, notably Principle 6  a firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
As part of this principle, Outcome 3 clearly states you should ensure that 
Consumers are provided with clear information and are kept appropriately 
informed before, during and after the point of sale.
I feel you have not acted in accordance with, and in the spirit of, this 
guidance.
Our investigator didnt change his view, however. He said the following:
The pension freedoms legislation wasnt compulsory, but rather was enabling. This 
meant that pension providers werent compelled by the legislation to make changes, 
but could do so if they wished. He wouldnt expect NFU to update customers about 
there being no changes to the policy. 
The NFU werent financial advisers to Mr P, just product providers. 
Mrs P and her representative were still of the view that the NFUs lack of action in the 
situation wasnt satisfactory, so the complaint has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive no doubt of Mrs Ps strength of feeling that the NFU let her late husband and herself 
down. It must have been difficult to learn that the policies dont permit her to take the 
benefits from her late husbands policies in the way that she would like. I also appreciate that 
shes very disappointed with the NFUs response. But Im afraid my view is broadly the 
same, and so Im not going to uphold the complaint. 
To recap, the crux of the complaint as I understand it is that, after pensions legislation 
changed in 2015 (commonly known as pension freedoms) to allow for more options in taking 
benefits, including how benefits could be taken after the death of the policyholder, the NFU 
should have told Mr P that it hadnt altered its policies to make this possible. Because it 
hadnt done this, Mr P was unable to use the opportunity available to him before his death to transfer his policy elsewhere so that the death benefits could have been taken in the way 
Mrs Ps financial adviser has recommended. 
But Im afraid I cant agree that the NFU were under any obligation to inform Mr P that it 
hadnt amended its policies to allow for all the options possible under the pensions 
freedoms. I also dont think it was obliged to inform Mr P of all of the options potentially 
available under pensions freedoms, which might have been capitalised on by other 
providers. 
Mr P established his first two pension policies in 1988 and 1996. This was many years 
before the pension freedoms legislation. And theres no reason to think Mr P didnt 
understand what would happen if he died before he took his pension benefits at the time he 
took these policies out, as he nominated Mrs P to receive the death benefits lump sum. 
Mr P established his last pension policy in 2019, not long before his unexpected death. The 
paperwork the NFU have provided shows that it was taken out on a non-advised basis and 
Mr P was made aware of this. This means that the NFU was not responsible for advising Mr 
P on the suitability of the policy for his needs, or for ascertaining what his needs, perhaps in 
terms of the payment of death benefits, were. This was Mr Ps responsibility, or that of any 
IFA who may have been advising on the policy, since the NFU were not advising him. 
Ive also thought carefully about the arguments made by Mrs P and her representative as to 
why the NFU should have contacted Mr P to tell him that it wasnt changing the terms of the 
policy. They rely on Principle 6 of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (the FCA) Principles for 
Business. The Principles form part of the rules that businesses regulated by the FCA, 
including the NFU, must follow. Principle 6 provides that:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
The Financial Services Authority (the predecessor to the FCA) set out some guidance in the 
form of outcomes which businesses should strive to achieve fair treatment of customers. 
This guidance still applies to businesses currently. Outcome 3, upon which Mrs P relies, is 
that businesses should ensure that:
Consumers are provided with clear information and are kept appropriately informed    
before, during, and after the point of sale.
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, Im required 
to take into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, 
codes of practice, and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time. So Ive had regard to the Principles and guidance of the FCA 
so far as I consider them relevant to this complaint. 
But Im afraid I cant agree that Principle 6 and Outcome 3 required the NFU to inform Mr P 
that the NFU hadnt altered its policies in the wake of pension freedoms. Theres no dispute 
that the lump sum death benefits to be paid under the policies are what Mr P contracted for. I 
dont think this can be said to be unfair or evidence that the NFU didnt have due regard to 
Mr Ps interests. Similarly, I think Mr P was provided with clear information about the death 
benefits under the policies since, as Ive said, he nominated Mrs P to receive them. And I 
dont think that providing information on legislative changes that havent altered the benefits 
payable under the policies falls within the requirement to keep consumers appropriately 
informed. I also think that, had it been important to Mr P to ensure that the pension 
freedoms, especially with reference to death benefits, had been implemented by the NFU, it 
wouldnt have been an unreasonable expectation for him to have confirmed this.In his last response to our investigators view, Mrs Ps representative said that:
The 2015 pension freedoms changes were wide ranging enough for any reasonable 
NFU plan holder to believe the changes would automatically be available to them.  
The NFU knew that Mr P didnt have an adviser and surely this would have made him 
a prime client to contact and inform of their position.
But Im not persuaded that the approach the representative suggests is reasonable. There 
was no reason, in my view, to assume that wide ranging changes necessarily meant that the 
changes would automatically be available. And since I dont think that the NFU was obliged 
to advise customers that it hadnt altered its policies in response to pensions freedoms, I 
dont think the NFU being aware Mr P was non-advised makes any difference to this. 
Mrs Ps representative also made some points about what he saw as the NFUs possible 
motivations for not informing customers that it hadnt amended its policy terms. He suggests 
most providers did make the amendments, and that it wouldnt have cost much for NFU to 
do so. But my role is to consider the individual complaint referred to me for decision. And Im 
not able to say what the NFUs reasons were, other than to say that it was entitled to not 
amend its policy terms. 
For the reasons given above, Im not going to uphold the complaint, although I understand 
this will disappoint Mrs P. 
Finally, Im aware that Mrs P has now taken the benefits under the policies in a way other 
than she wished. I want to reassure her that this hasnt affected my decision. If I had upheld 
the complaint, it would still have been possible for me to direct an appropriate financial 
remedy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr P 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Philip Miller
Ombudsman