DRN-2066552
The complaint
Mrs J, representing the estate of her father, Mr A, complains that he was mis-sold a Variable 
Protection Plan whole of life policy by a predecessor of Standard Life Assurance Limited.
What happened
Mr A was recommended the policy in 1992. It provided £20,000 of life cover for £25 per 
month. After the initial 10-year period, during which the level of cover was guaranteed, it was 
regularly reviewed with the level of cover reducing to just over £6,400 by the time Mr A sadly 
passed away in November 2018.  
Mrs J then complained to Standard Life that the policy had been mis-sold. She was primarily 
concerned that: long-term affordability had not been considered, Mr A had only required term 
cover, and he wouldnt have understood the level of risk associated with the investment 
element of the policy. 
Standard Life didnt uphold the complaint. It felt that the adviser had followed the correct 
sales procedure, completing a fact find to establish Mr As objectives and attitude to risk. It 
said that clear information had been provided explaining how the policy worked and Mr A 
had been sent annual review letters and details of the reviews when they took place, which 
wouldve kept him informed. Standard Life felt that categorising Mr As attitude to risk as low 
was reasonable and that investment in the with profits fund was consistent with this.  
Mrs J referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator also didnt think it should be 
upheld. He said, in brief;
It appeared that Mr A had a need for the policy, for family protection.
There was no obvious specific time frame required, so the a whole of life policy 
seemed to be the right fit.
Mr A took part in a fact-finding exercise in 1992 and again in 1994 when he was 
thinking of adding his wife to the policy.
In general, the policy seemed suitable at the time of the sale and all the reviews were 
carried out correctly.  
Mrs J didnt accept the investigators view. She said she disagreed because she felt the 
affordability of the policy and Mr As attitude to risk had not been properly addressed. 
The complaint was referred to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Js concerns about the affordability of the policy. In the facts finds 
completed in 1992 and 1994 it was noted that Mr A was on income support but carrying out 
some part-time work. So, the monthly £25 premiums wouldve been quite a commitment for 
him. 
But Im satisfied that he was seeking some protection for his family when he received the 
advice in 1992 and was likely to have understood the policy and its benefits. In 1994, when 
the policy had been in operation for two years, he had a review during which he gave some 
consideration to adding his wife to the policy, which suggests a level of engagement and 
understanding of the policy. And he did maintain the premiums until he passed away. 
Mrs J had suggested that a term policy might have been a more appropriate alternative, But 
there was no particular length of time determined for how long Mr A wanted the cover and 
the fact the Mr A maintained the policy until he passed away suggests that he wanted to 
keep the benefit in place for as long as possible. If a term policy had been sold instead, it 
may have been cheaper, but the cover would have ended some time before Mr A passed 
away and with no value to be paid. 
In respect of the level of risk, I note Mr A had a couple of with profits endowments already in 
place at the time of the advice, one to support his small mortgage. As such, I think its likely 
he wouldve had some understanding of a low investment risk. And I feel the 
recommendation of the with profits fund to support this whole of life policy wouldve been 
consistent with him having a low attitude to risk. 
In summary, Im satisfied, on balance, that Mr A had a requirement for cover and that the 
recommended policy was a broadly suitable means of meeting that requirement.   
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J, 
representing the estate of Mr A, to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman