DRN-3601900
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank Plc didnt do enough to protect her from the financial 
loss caused by a cryptocurrency scammer. 
What happened
Around October 2020, Miss C fell victim to a cryptocurrency scam where she was persuaded 
by a merchant called WFT to invest with them. She was instructed to first purchase crypto 
via a genuine crypto exchange in order to fund what she believed was a genuine trading 
account with WFT. Miss C used her Barclays Visa debit card to make the following 
payments to the genuine crypto exchange Ill call S:
1. 7 October 2020 - £264.82
2. 21 October 2020 - £2,850
3. 13 November 2020 - £2,300
4. 10 December 2020 - £5,300
In January 2021, Miss C wrote to Barclays explaining shed fallen victim to a scam. Barclays 
made attempts to recover her payments via the Visa chargeback scheme. S defended the 
claims on the basis that they provided Miss C with the crypto she paid for and delivered it to 
the wallet address shed provided.
 
Barclays explained to Miss C that it couldnt do anymore to help recover her payments. Miss 
C complained and said Barclays ought to have done more to protect her in accordance with 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice given that the payments were 
unusual for her. Miss C referred her complaint to this office.
 
Barclays didnt issue a final response letter but provided this office with evidence in support 
of its defence.
 
One of our Investigators didnt think Barclays should return the payments. He concluded 
Miss C had no prospect of success via the Visa chargeback scheme because S provided the 
service she paid for. He also didnt think the payments were particularly unusual. Miss C 
disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint, so it has been passed to 
me for review.
 
I wrote to Barclays requesting details of calls it had with Miss C at the points of payments 1 
and 4. Barclays provided the calls and notes around how it felt it gave Miss C warnings 
about her payments. Having listened to the calls, I wrote to Miss C explaining that I thought 
Barclays had given meaningful warnings to her about her payments which did not deter her 
from making them. Because of this, I didnt think Barclays could have done anymore to 
prevent her from making the payments. I invited Miss C to provide any final information she 
wished for me to consider.
 
Miss C provided further information that she wanted me to consider. She said she was 
manipulated by sophisticated criminals. She didnt have any idea of the Financial Conduct 
Authority and if Barclays suspected she was dealing with scammers, it should have provided 
links to clarify this. She further noted that Barclays must have performed its own due 
diligence if it suspected a scam and provided real-life examples of scams to help her realise 
that the same thing was happening to her as it must have been aware of similar situations.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint and Ill explain why. 
Chargeback
The chargeback process is voluntary and run by the card scheme whereby it will ultimately 
arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be resolved between 
them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of the scheme  so 
there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed or be deemed a valid claim. 
Our role in such cases is not to second-guess the card scheme rules, but to determine 
whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Barclays) acted fairly and reasonably when 
presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of Miss C.
Ive seen evidence that Barclays processed chargeback claims for Miss Cs 4th payment 
only. Ive not seen any evidence that it processed chargeback claims for payments 1, 2 and 
3 but this doesnt make a material difference to what I think would likely have happened in 
any event. This is because S defended Barclays chargeback claim on the basis that Miss C 
used their service to purchase crypto and they delivered it to the wallet of her choosing. S 
was not a party to Miss Cs agreement with WFT and Ive noted it was WFT, not S that 
scammed Miss C. So even if Barclays had attempted to process chargeback claims for 
payments 1,2 and 3, I think S would most likely have defended those claims on the same 
basis. 
I dont think Barclays acted unfairly by choosing not to process chargeback claims for all 
Miss Cs disputed payments nor do I think it had any reasonable prospect of success in 
escalating the claim relating to payment 4 to Visas final stage of arbitration.
  
Fraud prevention
Banks are expected to process payments a customer authorised it to make. And under The 
Payment Services Regulations and terms and conditions of the account, Miss C is presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance, in circumstances where she authorised the payments.
That said, as a matter of good industry practice, Barclays should have taken proactive steps 
to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or uncharacteristic 
transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
Its clear there were fraud triggers here because Barclays intervened at the points of 
payments 2 and 4. Ive listened to those calls and provided a summary of what was 
discussed below. 
Call 1
Barclays sought to check that the payment Miss C was making (payment 2) was authorised 
by her. Miss C spoke to Barclays fraud team and confirmed the payment was genuine and 
said its fine its not fraud. Call 2
Barclays fraud team intervened in Miss Cs attempt to make payment 4. 
Miss C discussed her payment to S and explained she was trying to invest £5,300. Miss C 
said she was being helped by a broker/financial adviser (WFT) and she was buying Bitcoin 
from S and held her wallet with a company Ill call J. The Barclays adviser explained they 
see a lot of broker scams involving cryptocurrency. Miss C said shed done her research and 
she was confident. The Barclays adviser asked if Miss C had been able to withdraw her 
funds and she said yes. The Barclays adviser said they've seen a lot of cryptocurrency 
scams involving S and they weren't regulated by the FCA and based overseas. The Barclays 
adviser said there's a risk if shes involved with a broker it could be a scam especially if she 
can't withdraw her money. Miss C was still happy to make her payment after this call.
 
Call 3 
On the same day as call 2, Miss C had another call with Barclays. She said shed already 
spoken to someone earlier. Miss C explained shed used the merchant before. The Barclays 
adviser asked if she knew for a fact she had full control of her wallet and she was able to 
withdraw, she said yes. 
Im satisfied based on listening to the calls that there was nothing more Barclays could have 
reasonably said to have deterred Miss C from making the payments she now disputes. She 
explained shed carried out her due diligence and was confident in what she was doing. Miss 
C suggests that Barclays could have given her real-life examples of the types of scams it 
sees but Im satisfied it did. It explained that it sees a lot of scams involving cryptocurrency 
and brokers where customers arent able to withdraw funds from their account. Miss C said 
this wasnt an issue for her.  
An FCA warning wasnt published about WFT until the day after Miss C made her final 
payment. So, I dont think Barclays could reasonably have known about the warning at the 
times it spoke with Miss C. I think Barclays took reasonable steps to prevent Miss C falling 
victim to a scam. 
I realise that this will come as a considerable disappointment to Miss C. Not least because 
she has lost a lot of money to cruel scammers. But I can only fairly make an award if I think 
that Barclays was the primary cause of her loss. In this case, I dont think it was and I think it 
gave her meaningful warnings that did not deter her from making the payments in dispute. I 
dont think Barclays could have reasonably done anymore, so I dont think it is liable for her 
loss in this instance. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Miss Cs loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2022.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman