DRN-3356892
The complaint
The complaint has been brought to us by Ms B, Ms N and Ms S. They are directors of a 
limited company, M, and they act on its behalf.
Ms complaint concerns around 60 bank accounts which were held with TSB Bank Plc. Over 
the last few years there have been difficulties in accessing the accounts, and most if not all 
of them are now closed.
What happened
Ms B and Ms N completed one of our complaint forms in July 2020 and told us:
As at that date, M managed over 60 trusts for disabled people. Ms directors, along 
with others, are trustees of those trusts.
Up until 2017/2018, each trust had a separate bank account with TSB. The accounts 
were in the names of the trustees, and not in the names of the disabled beneficiary. 
This was important for several reasons, including the beneficiaries entitlements to 
benefits.
In 2017/2018, TSB suffered an IT failure. Following that failure, TSB transferred the 
accounts into the sole names of the disabled beneficiaries.
TSB appears incapable of returning the accounts to the state they were in before the 
IT failure. It did authorise a bank manager, a Mr K, to accept payments made out to 
the trustees into the accounts. It also allowed funds to be withdrawn on the signature 
of one (only) of the trustees, but said it could not change the names on the accounts 
because it was no longer offering trust accounts.
TSB has threatened to close the accounts, but it is not clear where the bank intends 
to send the funds.
Ms B and Ms N asked for the Financial Ombudsman Services help in resolving the matter.
In its initial response to the complaint, TSB told us:
It does not have a complete record of all the relevant trust deeds associated with 
these accounts. It does have one trust deed from 1984, and it assumes the other 
trusts were set up in a similar fashion  but it does not have documentary evidence to 
support that. 
It is aware that there have been various changes of trustees since the trusts were 
created. It has some deeds of appointment/retirement showing those changes, but it 
does not have the complete picture.
In 2014, Ms B and Ms N submitted a mandate request to change the authorised 
signatories on the accounts to themselves as the new trustees. But in 2018, issues 
relating to its IT migration caused Ms B and Ms Ns names to be removed from the 
accounts. They tried to regain access, and initially TSB put in place a branch 
solution. That involved a particular branch manager, who I understand to be Mr K, 
being authorised to accept cheques made payable to the trustees into the trust 
accounts. It also allowed Ms B or Ms N to sign to authorise the withdrawal of funds to 
from the trust accounts.
From TSBs perspective, the branch solution worked until May 2020. At that point 
Mr K went on holiday  but he did not make any arrangements for Ms B or Ms N to 
operate the trust accounts in his absence. The impact was that neither Ms B nor 
Ms N had any access to the accounts, and so they made a complaint.
As a temporary measure whilst it investigated the complaint, from early July 2020 it 
agreed to allow Ms B (only) to continue transacting on the accounts in broadly the 
same way she had done before Mr K went on holiday, but with limits on the total that 
could be withdrawn.
It wrote to Ms B in October 2020 to explain it was identified [in April 2018] that these 
types of historical accounts were opened on a retail platform instead of the business 
platform. During the transfer process the Trustee details did not pull through and the 
accounts now only show the Beneficiary name which is incorrect but unfortunately 
the system does not allow any amendments to be made on these accounts.
TSB stopped offering trust accounts in 2019. These accounts should have been 
reviewed at that time, and the trustees should have been told that TSB was no longer 
prepared to maintain them as personal accounts. The trustees should have been told 
that they could either open new not-for-profit organisation accounts (the only 
account type TSB now has that is suitable for trusts), or TSB could give them 60 
days notice that it no longer offered these services and would be closing the 
accounts.
In order to open new accounts, it would need to follow its standard account opening 
procedures  including anti-money laundering checks. Amongst other things, for 
each trust it would need to see a copy of the original trust deed, copies of any 
supplemental trust deeds, and identity and address verification for each trustee.
Following the initial referral, there was a significant amount of correspondence between our 
investigators and representatives of M, as well as between our investigators and the bank. I 
have not summarised all of that correspondence, but I confirm that I have read and 
considered it in its entirety. In particular, I confirm I have read Ms response to our 
investigators opinion of 3 December 2021.
Our investigator thought that the fairest resolution to this complaint would be for TSB to pay 
M £1,500. I agreed with his overall conclusions but not with his reasoning, so I issued a 
provisional decision in February 2022 explaining why I thought a payment of £1,500 
represented a fair outcome. TSB accepted my findings, but Ms directors did not  and they 
asked me to review the matter again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so, I have come to the same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision, for 
the same reasons. Those findings are:
TSB was wrong to remove Ms directors access to the accounts in 2018, and it was 
wrong to put the accounts in the names of the beneficiaries.
TSB was not wrong to ask the directors for more information about the trusts, or to 
ask for more identity evidence for the directors and the other trustees. In addition, 
TSB was not wrong to close the trust accounts. That means it would not be fair for 
me to order TSB to make a contribution to Ms costs in dealing with those issues.
However, TSB should have told Ms directors at a much earlier stage that it was not 
willing to restore the trust accounts to their previous positions. If the bank had been 
clearer, M would have avoided significant inconvenience.
Ms directors decision to close down M was not the result of an error by TSB, so it 
would not be fair for me to order TSB to pay M compensation for its loss of future 
profit.
To resolve this complaint, TSB should pay £1,500 for the inconvenience that its 
mistakes caused to M.
I give further explanation for my findings below.
Everyone agrees that TSB should not have unilaterally put these accounts into the names of 
the beneficiaries of the trusts. That was clearly wrong, and TSB has not sought to justify its 
behaviour. But it has provided an explanation  that the name switches were due to an IT 
error  and I accept that explanation. I have seen nothing to suggest that the name switches 
were the result of a deliberate action by any of TSBs staff.
However, even if the IT issues hadnt happened in 2018, I still think that TSB would have 
discovered in 2019 that there were significant issues with the accounts. The way the 
accounts were set up immediately prior to the IT error was unsustainable over the longer 
term, because Ms directors were named on around 60 TSB bank accounts despite TSB not 
having the documentation it needed to comply with its obligations. Overall, I think the impact 
of TSBs IT error was to bring to a head an issue that wouldnt otherwise have been 
discovered for perhaps another year or so.
Ms directors and TSB disagreed about how the name switch issue should be resolved. Ms 
directors preferred resolution was that TSB should simply put the accounts back to the way 
they were. TSB had at least two reasons not to want to do that: initially its reason was that it 
didnt have the relevant evidence showing the existence of the trusts and the identities of the 
trustees; and later its reason was that it was no longer prepared to allow trusts to use 
personal accounts.
Ms directors say they do not understand how TSB could ever have administered the trust 
accounts without the original trust documentation and all identity evidence having been 
noted on their records. They have also suggested that TSBs decision to no longer offer trust 
accounts is remarkably convenient, and may have been an explanation put forward to 
forestall further investigation into TSBs errors.
As I said in my provisional decision, I accept that TSB does not in fact have the relevant 
documentation (including trust deeds and evidence of trustee changes) but it is not possible 
for me to determine why that is. I apologise for the assumption I made about previous directors of M stepping down as 
trustees. Ms current directors have explained that in fact the previous directors either died or 
were unable to act as a trustee for health reasons. Ms current directors say they and their 
predecessor trustees provided TSB (and its predecessors) with full details of all trustee 
changes; TSB says it does not have that information.
These accounts were opened many years ago, originally as personal accounts with 
Cheltenham & Gloucester. They were then transferred to Lloyds, then to Lloyds TSB, and 
finally to TSB. It is possible that the documents were provided to a bank (or building society) 
at some point and then lost  but it is also possible that they were never provided in the first 
place. Evidence that a box or boxes of documents concerning the trusts was sent to a 
particular TSB office is not evidence that those boxes contained a specific trust deed, or 
indeed any other specific document. I am aware that Ms directors have referred to 
documents destroyed by TSBs IT error, but I am not satisfied that TSB ever had the 
relevant documents  so I cannot conclude that the IT error caused TSB to lose them.
Ms directors have asked me to explain how TSB managed to comply with banking 
regulations when it transferred the accounts into the names of the disabled beneficiaries. I 
cannot explain that, and as Ive said I think the name switches were an error that should 
never have happened. But once it had become aware of the problem, TSB could not have 
left the accounts in the names of the beneficiaries indefinitely.
I am not aware of any bank that checks account opening documentation before carrying out 
each and every transaction; that would be impractical. It is possible for accounts to operate 
for some time even for years  without a bank being aware that it does not have the 
documents it now requires to comply with its obligations. That means that whilst I accept that 
these accounts operated successfully in the past, I dont think that is evidence that TSB must 
have been in possession of trust deeds which it then lost. 
I am also aware that banks anti-money laundering procedures have changed over time, as 
have the relevant rules and regulations. It is very common for a bank to find that it does not 
have all the identity evidence it requires for an account that was opened many years ago. It 
is also common for banks to ask account holders for further evidence to prove their identity. 
I do not have any concerns about TSBs explanation that it stopped offering specific trust 
accounts in 2019, and instead offers a more generic not-for-profit organisation account 
(open to a wider class of potential customers, not just trustees of trusts). I am aware of other 
customers who have been required to make changes to their accounts as a result of 
changes at TSB. I am also aware that banks do make changes to the types of accounts they 
offer from time to time  especially where, as in TSBs case, accounts from various different 
banks and building societies have been transferred to it over the years. 
I am also mindful that TSB says these accounts were originally personal accounts opened 
by trustees  they were not originally trust accounts in the sense of having terms and 
conditions that applied only to trusts. It was always open to TSB to decide that it did not want 
to allow personal accounts to be used by trusts. Regardless of whether the new account 
offered was an account specifically designed for trusts, or one designed for use by non-profit 
organisations more generally, TSB was entitled to request evidence to show the existence of 
the trust and the identity of the trustees.
Ms directors also complain that TSBs staff said repeatedly that they didnt know what to do 
to fix the situation. That doesnt surprise me. Having 60 or so trust accounts wrongly 
transferred into the beneficiaries names is a very unusual situation, and I think it likely that 
the bank staff in question had never come across it before. As I said in my provisional decision, I think that led to a pattern of TSBs staff coming up with a series of short term 
attempts at solutions that failed to address the underlying problem. That meant M was 
subjected to further inconvenience when those attempts came up against easily anticipated 
difficulties, such as the sickness of a particular member of TSBs staff.
I cannot provide the explanations Ms directors are seeking as to why TSB took so long to 
tell them that it was no longer prepared to allow their previous accounts to operate as trust 
accounts. I agree that they should have been told earlier  and that some inconvenience 
would have been avoided if TSB had been clear much earlier about what it was and was not 
prepared to do  but I cannot be certain exactly why it took so long. However, I do find TSBs 
explanation plausible and persuasive; it says its staff were trying to work with Ms directors to 
find a mutually acceptable solution but were ultimately unable to do so.
Ms directors are particularly unhappy about my provisional finding that TSBs IT error was 
not the cause of their decision to close down M. They say they had absolutely no choice, 
and the very last thing they wanted to do was close their company  with the result that they 
lost their jobs and their salaries.
I know how strongly the directors feel, but having taken all the evidence into account I 
remain satisfied that TSBs mistakes were not the cause of Ms directors decision to close 
their business. Even if TSBs IT error had not happened, TSB would still have reviewed the 
accounts at some point  likely within a few months, or at most a couple of years. I consider 
that as soon as TSB reviewed any one of the accounts it would have discovered that it did 
not possess the documentation it needed (the trust deeds, deeds of appointment and 
retirement, and so on). TSB would then have asked for those documents  and if they were 
not provided, I consider that ultimately TSB would still have decided to close these accounts.
In other words, I accept that the directors would probably not have chosen to close their 
business when they did if TSB had allowed the accounts to remain as they were in 2017 
indefinitely. But I dont accept that the directors chose to close their business because of 
TSBs errors. I think TSBs decision to close the accounts was because of the lack of 
documents, leading to an inability on TSBs part to satisfy itself that it knew everything it 
needed to know about the trusts, the trustees and the beneficiaries.  That is a separate issue 
to TSBs mistake in putting the accounts into the names of the beneficiaries. I will not 
criticise TSB for its decision not to open accounts without the documents it requested. 
Ms directors have previously suggested that they were either unwilling (or in some cases 
unable) to provide the documents TSB wanted. But in their response to my provisional 
decision, they explained that time was a large contributor to the difficulty in obtaining those 
documents. They said that if TSB had told them what documents were needed immediately 
after the IT error, they would have had nearly two years to obtain them  and that would 
have been sufficient time.  
I agree that it would have been better customer service for TSB to have made its 
requirements clear to Ms directors at an earlier stage. But I dont think it was required to 
give two years notice that it intended to close these accounts if it did not receive the 
documents it asked for. I am satisfied that TSB did give Ms directors a reasonable time to 
provide the documents, and it was the directors decision to close M rather than attempt to 
obtain those documents.
The directors also say that they have been unable to open alternative accounts with other 
banks. They say they found only one bank prepared to discuss the matter, but that bank 
wanted each account to be opened with a minimum balance of £25,000. TSB did not 
recommend an alternative bank.I am sorry to hear of the difficulties Ms directors had in attempting to open bank accounts 
elsewhere, but I cannot say that those difficulties are TSBs fault. TSB was not in a position 
to give advice, so it could not have recommended an alternative bank. The account opening 
requirements of other banks are a matter for those other banks, not TSB  but as I said in 
my provisional decision, I would expect any UK bank opening a trust account to want 
documentary evidence to show the nature of the trust and the identities of the trustees and 
beneficiaries.
Putting things right
This is a deeply unfortunate situation for all concerned. Whilst I do think several members of 
TSBs staff genuinely tried to help M, their efforts were not successful  and on occasions 
made things worse. TSBs customer service has been poor, and the problems have 
persisted over a long period. In the circumstances, I consider that £1,500 represents fair 
compensation for the inconvenience suffered by M.
My award is not intended to compensate Ms directors personally. I appreciate that there has 
been some previous discussion about who the appropriate complainant ought to be, but this 
final decision concerns the complaint made on Ms behalf. That means I can only make 
awards for Ms losses. I cannot make awards for losses suffered by other people, including 
Ms shareholder and directors/employees. Those people are not customers of TSB in 
respect of this matter, and so they are not eligible complainants under our rules.
My final decision
My final decision is that TSB Bank Plc should pay M £1,500 to compensate it for the 
inconvenience TSBs errors caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Laura Colman
Ombudsman