DRN-1433414
 
The complaint
Mr M complains about how British Gas Insurance Limited handled a claim he made on his 
home emergency policy. 
What happened
Mr M got in touch with British Gas because he noticed his toilet was leaking when it flushed. 
One of British Gas contractors attended Mr Ms home, but because the cistern was 
concealed behind a wall, they couldnt access it. So a longer visit was arranged. 
Despite the contractor identifying an issue and putting it right; the toilet kept on leaking. The 
contractors had to go out for three more visits. During these visits, the contractors removed 
tiles from around the cistern to get access to it. They made small holes in two ceilings to look 
at the pipework. They finally established the cause of the leak was a crack in the cistern  
about a week after the first visit.
British Gas told Mr M the cost of replacing the cracked cistern wasnt covered by his policy. It 
also told him the cost of decorating the areas itd taken tiles from werent covered. Mr M was 
unhappy with British Gas decision and he complained. British Gas re-plastered the two 
areas of ceiling itd drilled holes into. And it accepted the contractors shouldve established 
the cause of the leak earlier than it did. It paid Mr M £100 to recognise its poor service, the 
wasted visits and the cost of a lost screwdriver.
Mr M was still unhappy and he asked us to look into his complaint. He said hed paid out for 
a new cistern. And he felt the contractors shouldve managed his expectations and told him 
that he wouldnt be covered for redecoration costs. 
Ultimately, our investigator didnt think Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
policy excluded the cost of replacing the cistern. She felt the photos British Gas had 
provided showed itd been necessary to drill into the ceiling to try to access the pipes. And 
as the cistern was directly behind the bathroom tiles, she thought itd been necessary to 
remove them to get to it. She noted Mr M had signed an authority to proceed (ATP) form 
which had authorised British Gas to carry out the access works and which said 
reinstatement works wouldnt be covered.
Mr M disagreed. He felt British Gas should do the repairs and shouldnt be able to rely on a 
technicality to exclude the cost of the cistern. He said the ATP form didnt make it clear that 
the cost of the original repair wouldnt be covered. The contractor had ordered the part in 
front of him and then said it wouldnt be covered. He felt British Gas hadnt fairly managed 
his expectations and he said hed paid a premium for poor service.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think British Gas has 
treated Mr M fairly. Ill explain why.
Poor service
Its clear that at the outset, there was some delay in British Gas contractors finding out the 
cause of the leak and multiple visits were required. It mustve been very frustrating for Mr M 
to be told the leak had been fixed and for it to then happen again. It mustve been even more 
frustrating to learn, once the cause of the leak was found to be a cracked cistern, that the 
costs of replacing the cistern werent covered by the policy. I think it was reasonable and 
appropriate for British Gas to recognise the impact its poor service here had on Mr M and to 
offer him compensation.
Ive thought about whether £100 is enough to recognise Mr Ms inconvenience and I think it 
is. British Gas needed to get to the cause of the leak, so it could be put right. Otherwise, 
leaking water wouldve continued to cause damage to Mr Ms ceilings. He wasnt without the 
use of toilet facilities during this time, as the damaged toilet was in an en-suite. So I think 
£100 feels fair to put right British Gas failings in not diagnosing the problem as quickly as it 
couldve done.
The cost of the cistern
Mr M feels that in refusing to pay for a new cistern, British Gas is trying to rely on a 
technicality. Ive looked carefully at both Mr Ms policy terms and the information he was sent 
at the last policy renewal in  April 2018. A key facts document summarising the main things 
the policy does and doesnt cover was sent with Mr Ms renewal documents ahead of the 
policy renewal. This says:
What is not insured
Showers and sanitary ware.
The policy itself states:
 Whats not covered
Showers and their parts, shower pumps, sanitary ware, spa baths, seals and 
grouting.
The policy explains what British Gas means by sanitary ware. It defines it as: your toilet 
bowl and cistern, bidet, sink, pedestal, bath and shower tray. On this basis, I think the 
cistern clearly falls within the scope of this exclusion.
I think Mr Ms policy makes it clear that the cost of replacing his cistern simply isnt 
something British Gas wants to cover. Its entitled to choose what it does and doesnt want to 
insure, so long as it explains this clearly. I also think British Gas brought this exclusion 
clause to Mr Ms attention in the key facts document it sent with his renewal letter in April 
2018.
So while Im sorry to disappoint Mr M, I dont think the cost of replacing his cistern is covered 
by his policy. And Ive decided British Gas doesnt need to bear the cost of Mr Ms new 
cistern.
Redecoration costsLike the investigator, Ive looked carefully at the photographs and evidence British Gas sent 
us to show what actions its contractors took to find the cause of the leak. The leak had 
already caused some damage to the ceilings of the rooms below the en-suite bathroom. This 
is set out on the ATP form Mr M signed. So I think it was reasonable for the contractors to 
want to investigate the pipework in these areas to try to find what was causing it. Its also 
clear Mr Ms cistern was concealed behind a tiled wall. It seems to me that to be able to 
effectively investigate if a cistern issue was causing the leak, the contractors needed to be 
able to get to it.  And this meant removing some of the tiles on the wall.
I understand Mr M feels the contractors didnt manage his expectations around the fact that 
reinstatement works wouldnt be covered. Ive thought about this. But Ive seen a copy of the 
ATP form. Under Reinstatement of Access Areas, it states, in a box towards the bottom, in 
bold letters:
The access area is damaged due to the escape of water, therefore reinstatement work WILL 
NOT be carried out under your British Gas agreement. 
The ATP form also said that the work required had been clearly explained to Mr M. I think 
the warning that reinstatement works wouldnt be covered was made clear on this form. Mr 
M signed his agreement. So I think its most likely his expectations around reinstatement 
costs were sufficiently managed by the contractors.
Despite this, British Gas did agree to re-plaster the ceiling areas where itd made holes to 
look at the pipework. So Ive looked at how British Gas defines getting access and making 
good:
Getting access to your boiler, appliance or system and then repairing any damage we may 
cause in doing so, by replacing items such as cabinets or cupboards that weve removed or 
by filling in holes we have made and leaving a level surface  but we wont replace or restore 
the original surface or coverings, for example tiles, floor coverings, decoration, grass or 
plants.
I think this section of the policy makes it clear that holes will be filled and surfaces will be left 
level. It seems British Gas has already re-plastered the holes over and Mr M hasnt indicated 
he was unhappy with this work or that it wasnt level. So I think British Gas has made good 
the ceiling access areas. 
I know Mr Ms unhappy that British Gas isnt repairing the tiled areas. But I think the policy 
wording makes it clear that it doesnt cover replacing or restoring tiled areas. So I wont be 
telling it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman