DRN-2601040
The complaint
Miss B and Mr M complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on their travel insurance policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Miss B and Mr M booked a package holiday abroad through a provider 
which Ill call L. They were due to travel on 23 March 2020 until 1 April 2020. Miss B and Mr 
M took out an annual travel insurance policy through a broker on 12 March 2020 to cover 
their trip. They added on some optional add-on covers, including Travel Disruption Extension 
(TDE) cover.
L got in touch with Miss B and Mr M on 17 March 2020. It let them know that the Foreign & 
Commonwealth Office (FCO) advised against all but essential travel as a result of Covid-19. 
So L had had to cancel the trip. Miss B and Mr M made a claim on their travel insurance 
policy for both their cancellation costs. Theyd also lost out on £369.59 when changing 
currency theyd bought for the trip back to sterling, so they included this cost in their claim.
Initially, Great Lakes turned down the claim because it said it didnt cover claims which 
happened due to epidemics or pandemics. However, it later acknowledged that Miss B and 
Mr M had taken out the optional TDE cover which did provide cover if the FCO advised 
against all but essential travel.
However, Great Lakes said that under the Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements 
Regulations 2018 (PTR), L was liable to pay Miss B and Mr M a full refund of their 
cancellation costs. It said the policy only covered costs which couldnt be recovered from 
elsewhere. It also explained that Miss B and Mr M could pursue a s75 claim against their 
credit provider if theyd paid for their trip by credit card.
Miss B and Mr M werent happy with Great Lakes decision and they asked us to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Miss B and Mr Ms complaint should be upheld. He felt the 
circumstances of their claim fell within the scope of the policy cover. But he didnt think Great 
Lakes needed to pay the claim. Thats because he was satisfied that Miss B and Mr M had 
booked a package holiday through L and that therefore, under the PTR, L was responsible 
for refunding the full cost of their holiday. And he didnt think the policy covered losses 
incurred as a result in exchange rate changes. So he felt it was fair for Great Lakes to turn 
down Miss B and Mr Ms claim.
Miss B and Mr M disagreed. They didnt think it was fair that theyd lost out around £369 
because of differences in exchange rates. And they also felt that their policy had been mis-
sold to them.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Great Lakes has treated Miss B and Mr M fairly. Ill explain why.
First, as the investigator explained, while I appreciate Miss B and Mr M feel the policy has 
been mis-sold to them, this isnt something I can consider within this decision. Thats 
because the policy was sold by a broker, which is a separate regulated financial business to 
Great Lakes. If Miss B and Mr M are unhappy with the way their policy was sold to them, 
theyll need to first raise this with the broker before were potentially able to look into it.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
policy terms; the relevant law; the evidence both parties have provided and the 
circumstances of the claim to decide whether Great Lakes treated Miss B and Mr M fairly.
What does the policy say?
Ive first considered the what the optional TDE section of the policy covers. In particular, Ive 
referred to the Extended Cancellation or Cutting Short your Trip cover. It says:
What is covered:
We will pay you up to a maximum of £500 for Basic cover (unless you have purchased the
optional £1,000/£3,000 additional cover option) or £5,000 for Comprehensive cover per 
insured person for any irrecoverable unused travel and accommodation costs (and other 
prepaid charges) which you have paid or are contracted to pay, plus any reasonable 
additional travel expenses incurred if you were not able to travel and use your booked 
accommodation or the trip was cut short before completion as a result of the Travel Advice 
Unit of the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO) or the World Health Organisation (WHO) 
or regulatory authority in a country to/from which you are travelling issuing a directive:
a) prohibiting all travel or all but essential travel to;
or
b) recommending evacuation from the country, or specific area or event to which you 
were travelling, providing the directive came into force after you purchased, renewed
or extended this insurance or booked the
trip (whichever is the later).
Theres no dispute that Miss B and Mr Ms trip was cancelled by L as the result of the 
change in FCO guidance on 17 March 2020. So I think the circumstances would fall for 
consideration within this section of the policy.
But I also think the policy makes it clear that Great Lakes will only pay for costs that a 
policyholder cant get back from elsewhere. So Ive thought about whether it was fair for 
Great Lakes to conclude that Miss B and Mr M should be able to recover their costs from L.Was the trip a package holiday and should the PTR apply?
Generally, a package holiday would be considered to be holiday contracts that include two or 
more travel services, which are combined for the purposes of the same trip. The travel 
provider is liable for the performance of these services. Ive looked closely at the booking 
invoice L provided to Miss B and Mr M. I can see that they booked their flights; 
accommodation and transfers through L. So I think it was fair for Great Lakes to treat the trip 
as a package holiday.
The PTR provide protection for consumers who buy package holidays. Effectively, they say 
that the travel provider is responsible for providing a full refund for holidays which cant be 
provided. 
Based on the evidence to hand, I havent seen enough to show me that Miss B and Mr M 
have taken reasonable steps to recover their money from their provider. Ive also taken into 
account whats fair and reasonable to both parties in the circumstances. And in the 
circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct 
Great Lakes to settle Miss B and Mr Ms claim for their trip costs for the reasons Ive 
outlined.  
If Miss B and Mr M are able to obtain further, new evidence in support of their claim, its 
open to them to provide it to Great Lakes for it to consider. If they remain unhappy with the 
outcome of any new assessment of their claim, they may be able to bring a complaint to us 
about that issue only.
Ive gone on to consider whether Great Lakes should settle Miss B and Mr Ms claim for the 
costs associated with exchanging their travel money. I appreciate Miss B and Mr M feel 
strongly that it should. The policy covers travel, accommodation and other pre-paid charges 
if a policyholder cant travel. 
In my view, the policy intends to cover cancellation costs which are directly linked to the 
reason a policyholder is unable to travel  in this case, the change to FCO guidance. Foreign 
currency exchange doesnt represent a travel cost (i.e. flight or train fare) or an 
accommodation cost. And in my view, a pre-paid charge is generally a charge linked to the 
holiday itself, such as pre-booked and pre-paid excursions. I think changing money is simply 
exchanging one form of currency for another. The transaction of selling money from one 
currency to the value of another is subject to prevailing international exchange rates at a 
given point in time and often includes commissions for money exchange agencies. These 
rates are subject to change and are dependent on the prevailing money markets. Theyre not 
calculated based on whether or not a particular policyholder can travel and fluctuate 
regularly. 
Even though I accept Miss B and Mr M had changed their sterling before they took out the 
policy, I simply dont think the loss in value of their sterling is something the TDE extension 
was designed to cover. And theres no other section of the policy which would cover these 
costs. So Im not directing Great Lakes to reimburse them. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 16 April 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman