DRN-2894583
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General (L&G),
declined his claim for storm damage on his home insurance policy.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 17 June 2021 detailing my intention to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint, I said:
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties and has been detailed by our 
investigator previously. So, Ill summarise the key points Ive focused on within my decision.
Mr G has a buildings and contents insurance policy with L&G.
Mr G says water was coming in through his living room ceiling via his flat roof 
following a storm on 9 February 2020. Mr G had emergency repairs carried out on 10 
February 2020, but water was still getting through. The damage was reported to L&G 
on 11 February 2020 and the damage inspected by surveyors, on behalf of L&G, on 
25 February 2020.
L&G declined the claim. It said the cause of the damage to the flat roof was wear and 
tear. This type of damage isnt covered by Mr Gs policy. It also said the damage to 
the ceilings (both the lounge and kitchen ceilings were inspected) happened over 
time and wasnt something covered by his policy.
Mr G complained to L&G. In its response, it said the surveyors appointed to inspect 
the damage was of the opinion the cause of the external damage was a natural 
breakdown of materials. This is wear and tear and not covered by the policy. The 
surveyors also said the internal damage to the front room/kitchen ceiling was as a 
result of rainwater ingress over time which cant be considered under the policy.
Unhappy with the response, a complaint was referred to our service. Our investigator 
didnt support the complaint. Whilst he agreed a storm had taken place, he was 
persuaded the damage to the flat roof was wear and tear not covered by the policy. 
He also felt the cause of damage to the internal ceilings was due to rainwater ingress 
over time and not covered by the policy.
Further correspondence was entered into but ultimately the investigators decision 
remained unchanged. The complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman to 
make a decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When looking at a claim for storm damage, I must consider whether there was a storm; 
whether the damage is typical of that caused by a storm, and whether its likely that the 
storm was the main cause of the damage. If Im satisfied that these three conditions are met, 
I will look at whether L&G fairly declined the claim in line with the terms of the policy.
In this case, theres no dispute that there was a storm  both complaint parties agree on this.
Mr G reported damage to the felt roof which allowed rain water to enter the property and 
damage this front room/kitchen ceilings. The report from the company that carried out 
emergency repairs mentioned how the felt had lifted and became damaged, as a result of 
the gale force winds, and this led to rainwater entering the property. I dont think theres any 
dispute that this type of damage is typical of that caused by a storm with gale force winds 
and rain. So, the final question is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage.
I understand the roof was less than ten years old. Three years prior to the storm, the roof 
was inspected and didnt require any repairs. The photos taken of flat roof by the surveyors 
shows repairs (which they would, given emergency repairs were carried out the day after the 
storm). And given the age of the roof, there is likely to be wear and tear. But the photos 
show, in my opinion, a flat roof in reasonably good condition.
By the time L&Gs surveyors attended the flat roof had been repaired. L&G declined the 
claim because of the natural breakdown of materials but it has not explained what it means 
by this, why its of the view this was the reason for roof damage and rain water ingress and 
where on the roof there is a natural breakdown of materials. I dont feel the report from its 
surveyors fully explains the reason for the claim decline.
Ive read the report of the company that attended to complete emergency repairs and feel 
this is persuasive. Its a first-hand opinion on what was found and experienced opinion on 
what the cause of the damage was to the flat roof. And in the absence of a detailed 
explanation from L&G on why it concluded the cause of damage was wear and tear, I think 
this report is more persuasive. So, Im minded to support this part of Mr Gs complaint.
That said, I wont be asking L&G to cover the cost of a new flat roof. Mr G chose to have a 
new roof several months later as the company that completed the emergency repairs 
couldnt guarantee its works. It was when the roof was being replaced that the contractor 
noted the gable end had some displaced tiles and the cement render had crumbled and 
failed and it thought this was storm damage.
Its not clear whether the gable end was damaged at the time of the storm event in February 
2020 or by another event. L&Gs surveyors werent given the opportunity to inspect the 
damage to the gable end as this wasnt reported by Mr G to L&G at the time, he made the 
claim. And because this wasnt reported by Mr G, L&Gs position has been prejudiced as its 
not able to inspect damage to determine whether the repairs are covered by the policy.
Because of this, Im minded not to support this part of Mr Gs complaint.
Regarding the rain water ingress damage to the ceilings, L&Gs surveyors say the cause of 
two areas of damage to the ceilings was the flat roof. As Im minded to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint that the damage to the flat roof was as a result of the storm, Im also minded to 
uphold this part of Mr Gs complaint.
I intended to direct L&G to:
Pay £485.00 for the cost of the emergency repairs with interest added at 8% simple 
per annum from the date Mr G paid the invoice until the date of settlement.
To pay or repair the internal damage as a result of rainwater ingress, in line with 
policy terms and conditions.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have responded and accepted the provisional decision. Im satisfied that my 
provisional decision represents an outcome thats fair and reasonable. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. And direct Fairmead Insurance 
Limited, trading as Legal and General to:
Pay £485.00 for the cost of the emergency repairs with interest added at 8% simple 
per annum1 from the date Mr G paid the invoice until the date of settlement.
To pay or repair the internal damage as a result of rainwater ingress, in line with 
policy terms and conditions.
1HM Revenue & Customs requires Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as Legal and 
General to take off tax from this interest. If it deducts tax it must give Mr G a certificate 
showing how much tax, its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to 
ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman