DRN-3635803
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement provided by Black
Horse Limited trading as Land Rover Financial Services. He says the car has had issues
with a rattle since shortly after he got it
What happened
Mr O acquired a used car in September 2017. He paid a total deposit of £5,861.66 and the
rest of the cost was funded by a hire purchase agreement with Black Horse taken over five
years. The car was around 11 months old and had travelled around 23,128 miles when Mr O
got it.
Mr O says he began to have problems with a rattling noise shortly after he got the car. The
earliest record Ive seen of the car being returned for repairs was January 2018  but the job
sheets from this time dont mention a rattle. Mr O also says the car was returned in May
2018 for the same issue.
I wont list the whole history and details of repairs I do have evidence for here as both Mr O
and Black Horse are fully aware of this. But, Ive seen job sheets from the following dates
where a rattle or similar is mentioned and various repairs have been attempted:
18 September 2018 at 33,823 miles
23 October 2018 at 33,880 miles
18 October 2019 at 39,129 miles
31 October 2019 at 39,542 miles
31 July 2020 at 44,049 miles
25 September 2020 at 45,513 miles
Mr O complained to Black Horse. In December 2020 Mr O brought his complaint to our
service. He said he heard the rattling in the first month he had the car and reported it at the
time. He said the attempted repairs hadnt worked. And he said the rattle was embarrassing
and hed had to sometimes hire a car.
Later in the same month Black Horse issued its final response and didnt uphold his
complaint. It said, in summary, that there was no evidence the rattle was present at the point
of supply. And it said the car was reasonably durable given the mileage covered by Mr O.
While we were looking into things, in January 2021 Mr O told us the situation with the car
had worsened and it was now becoming hot while running and he was feeling a vibration
through the steering wheel.
Our investigator issued an opinion and upheld the complaint. He said, in summary, that he
thought it was most likely Mr O did let the dealer know about the rattling earlier than
September 2018 and thought it was most likely this was investigated by it in January 2018.
Our investigator said he thought the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
He said Black Horse should end the agreement, refund Mr Os deposit, refund 10% of
payments made towards the agreement from 25 January 2018 and pay him £200 to reflect
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Black Horse agreed to go ahead with what our investigator said. Mr O remained unhappy.
He said he wanted to swap the car for another one. Or he said he thought he should get
back 80% of the payments he made towards the agreement. Our investigator said it wouldnt
be practical to swap the car at this point. And he said he didnt think it would be reasonable
for Mr O to get back more than what hed recommended.
Mr O remained unhappy so the case was passed for an ombudsmans decision. While the
case was waiting to be assigned, Mr O told us hed settled the agreement as he needed to
get another car and didnt want two agreements in his name. He told us that in April 2022
hed taken the car for an MOT and was told it was the valves and actuators causing the
issues. In May 2022 he said the car was now a non-runner as it wasnt going into gear. 
In June 2022 he said he was only using the car very occasionally when it worked. Mr O 
provided a photo showing the mileage of the car was 61,000.
The case was passed to me to decide.
I sent Mr O and Black Horse a provisional decision on 28 June 2022. My findings from this 
decision were as follows:
Mr O complains about a car supplied under a hire purchase agreement. Entering into
consumer credit contracts like this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can
consider Mr Os complaint against Black Horse.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  Black Horse here  has a
responsibility to make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price,
mileage and description.
So, here Ill consider that while Mr Os car was used, it was under a year old and had
covered around 23,000 miles. I dont think a reasonable person would expect the car to be in
the same condition as a brand new one. But, given the age of the car, and the fact Mr O paid
over £28,500 for it, I still think they would have very high standards for the car and wouldve
expected trouble free motoring for some time.
It seems here that, given Black Horse accepted what our investigator said and agreed to put
things right in the way he recommended, that all parties are now in agreement that the car
wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. So, Ill only very briefly comment here to
quickly explain why I also think this was the case.
Firstly, Im satisfied Mr Os car had an ongoing fault with a rattle. I say this as this is
mentioned numerous times on the job sheets as set out in the background. Mr O has been
consistent in his testimony here. And hes provided videos where I can hear a rattling or
rasping sound.
Secondly, Im in agreement with our investigator that the issue likely arose earlier than the
first recorded entry on the job sheets. I say this as Mr O has given a significant amount of
detail about what happened here  for instance hes provided specific dates where he says
things happened and has provided full names of staff that he spoke to. I agree on balanceits most likely the rattle was investigated when the car went to the dealer on 25 January
2018.
Thirdly, Im satisfied the fault was most likely present or developing at the point of supply. I
say this as Mr O has consistently told us he noticed the rattle early on. And, in January 2018
the car had only done around 5,000 miles since Mr O got it.
Considering all of this, Im satisfied a reasonable person wouldnt have expected this issue
to be present on a car of this age, mileage and cost. It follows that Im satisfied this means
the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr O.
Its worth pointing out here that even if I accepted Black Horses initial thoughts that the
issue didnt arise until it was first mentioned on the job sheets from September 2018, I would
still uphold the complaint. I say this as Im satisfied a reasonable person wouldnt expect the
car to develop what appears to be an underlying fault which could not be repaired at this
point in time. It follows Im satisfied this would mean the car wasnt reasonably durable and
so still of unsatisfactory quality.
So, I now need to decide what would be fair and reasonable to put things right. Ill consider
what rights Mr O has under the CRA given Im satisfied the car wasnt of satisfactory quality.
Ill start by saying Im satisfied the car wasnt repaired despite several attempts. So, I agree
with our investigator and Mr O here that it wouldnt be reasonable to ask Black Horse to
repair the car as Im not convinced this would have a reasonable chance of success.
Ive considered the right to a replacement that Mr O says is his preferred method of putting
things right. But, at this point, Mr Os car is several years old. Finding a like for like
replacement of the same age, model, specification and mileage isnt practical. So, I dont
think this would be a reasonable thing to ask Black Horse to do.
Ive considered whether it would be reasonable to give Mr O a price reduction and for him to
keep the car. But, given the issues with it, and that around seven attempts at repair havent
put this right, I also dont think this would be a fair and reasonable option.
So, it follows this that I think the fairest way to put things right would have been to allow Mr O
to reject the car.
I have considered if this would still be reasonable, given Mr O has now repaid the finance
and taken ownership of the car. But, I dont think fundamentally this changes the situation.
So, I still think this would be fair  but Black Horse will need to take back ownership to allow
this.
Ive also considered if this would be reasonable as Mr O says the car isnt running. Theres
limited information here  for instance he says a garage has told him this is linked to the
rattle he experienced, but he hasnt provided evidence of this. Part of the issue now appears
to be with the gears. And, despite him saying the car isnt running he has said he uses it
occasionally.
Ive carefully thought about whether it would be reasonable to instruct Black Horse to take
the car back given these problems. But, in this case, I think it is. I say this as Im satisfied its
most likely on balance that the issues are linked to the problems Mr O had with the rattle
given what hes said. I appreciate this is finely balanced and there isnt much evidence here.
But, whatever happened, had Mr O been supplied with a car of satisfactory quality, Im
satisfied this overall situation wouldnt have arisen.Ive considered what else would be fair to put things right. Our investigator said he thought it
would be fair for Mr O to be reimbursed 10% of his payments from when the car was looked
at in January 2018. Mr O said he should be reimbursed 80% of the repayments, as
otherwise he would be in a worse financial position than if he didnt acquire the car.
Ive carefully thought about this. And I understand Mr Os point. But, I dont think it would be
reasonable to put him in the exact financial position he wouldve been in had he not taken
the car, as I need to consider his use of it.
I appreciate Mr Os car wasnt working as he couldve expected it to given the rattle. But, he
has still covered not far off 40,000 miles in it. Its reasonable that he should pay for this
usage. And effectively only paying 20% of the monthly payments due under the agreement
wouldnt reflect this.
Thinking about everything, I appreciate the rattle must have been annoying when driving.
But, it doesnt appear to have affected the overall use of the car. Im satisfied on balance
that 10% is a reasonable amount to reflect the impaired usage of the car Mr O had.
Ive considered that Mr O says he mostly stopped driving the car towards the end of the time
the agreement was in place. Theres limited information about the mileage available here, so
Ive had to use what evidence I do have to try to put together what likely happened. I have
evidence of the mileage at the finance inception, the last time the car was inspected and
most recently from when Mr O provided a photo of the dash. These stand at 23,128 on 9
September 2017, 45,577 on 25 September 2020 and 61,000 on 16 June 2022.
I appreciate this doesnt tell the whole story. But, it appears the usage of the car, on
average, actually increased since the last time it was inspected. So, I havent seen enough
to make me think its likely the usage of the car dropped. It follows, I think its reasonable that
Mr O is reimbursed 10% for the whole time the agreement was in place, rather than a higher
amount at the end.
That being said, I dont think, given the overall picture here, that it would be fair and
reasonable to allow Black horse to retain any further payments to cover any usage of the car
Mr O had since the finance was repaid.
Finally, I also agree with our investigator that Mr O has suffered distress and inconvenience
here. It must have been stressful and frustrating to have to keep taking the car for repairs.
So, I think its fair Black Horse should pay Mr O £200 to reflect this.
I gave both parties two weeks to come back with any additional evidence or information. 
Black Horse didnt come back with anything further for me to consider.
Mr O replied and was very unhappy with the decision. He said it wasnt logical for Black 
Horse to take ownership of the car when it was rightfully his. And he asked to clarify what 
should happen to the money he used to clear the outstanding finance when he repaid the 
agreement. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr O said in response to my provisional decision. I can 
appreciate his frustration with the situation. But, I still think, considering whats fair and reasonable along with his rights under the CRA, that rejection would be the fairest outcome 
for both parties here. Im happy I explained the reasons for this in my provisional decision. 
And I still dont think it would be fair to Mr O to leave him with the car, given what hes said 
about its current state. 
In relation to the money Mr O used to pay off the agreement, thinking about the fact he 
decided to take ownership of the car, and given I think on balance the car was still being 
used after this point, I think its fair Black Horse retain this to reflect the usage of the car.
Ive carefully considered everything else in relation to this case again. I still think the 
complaint should be upheld, for the same reasons I explained in my provisional decision and 
set out above. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Black Horse Limited trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services to put things right by doing the following:
Take ownership of the car back from Mr O
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O
Reimburse Mr O 10% of all repayments made towards the agreement from 25 
January 2018 to when the agreement was settled*
Reimburse Mr O his deposit from 9 September 2017 - £5,861.66*
Pay Mr O £200 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused
Remove any adverse information from Mr Os credit file in relation to this agreement
* These amounts should have 8% simple yearly interest added from the time of payment to
the time of reimbursement. If Black Horse considers that its required by HM Revenue &
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr O how much its taken off.
It should also give Mr O a tax deduction certificate if they ask for one, so they can reclaim
the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2022.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman