DRN-4036109
The complaint
Mr S complains about faults with a new car supplied to him on a hire purchase agreement 
with Suzuki Financial Services Limited (SFS).
What happened
Mr S entered a hire purchase agreement with SFS on 25 May 2022 for the supply of a brand 
new car. The cash price of the car was £26,288 and Mr S paid a £6,000 deposit. The 
remaining balance was added to the hire purchase agreement along with the cost of GAP 
and tyre and alloy wheel insurance (£858 altogether). After an initial payment of £247.16, Mr 
S was expected to make monthly payments of £246.72 over about four years, followed by a 
balloon payment if he wanted to keep the car at that point.
On 1 June 2022 Mr S took delivery of the new car. For a little while, all was well, but on 6 
July 2022 Mr S says the vehicle lost engine power and needed to be recovered to the 
supplying dealership (GH) the next morning.
Mr S was very unhappy with how GH handled the situation. He says he was told that a 
technician had sniffed the fuel inlet pipe and believed Mr S or his wife had put diesel in the 
car instead of petrol, and this was the cause of the problem. Mr S said this was not the case, 
he says he provided receipts showing he had only filled up with petrol, and questioned how it 
would even have been possible to mis-fuel the car with diesel, as a diesel nozzle would be 
too big to fit the car. Mr S also said hed checked with the filling station he used and they had 
not received any complaints of contaminated fuel.
GH, it seems, was unconvinced and Mr S understood it had sent a sample of fuel off to a lab 
to be analysed to see if it contained diesel, on 11 July 2022. Mr S says GH then told him on 
22 July 2022 that the lab hadnt been able to look into the issue of diesel contamination, but 
that they (GH) had poured some of the fuel from the tank onto the floor and set it on fire. It 
had produced smoke so GH said it must have had diesel in it.
By 1 August 2022 Mr S had become fed up with GH and complained to SFS about what had 
happened. SFS contacted GH on 4 August 2022 to ask what was going on and seek its input 
on the faults Mr S had reported. SFS didnt receive a reply until it followed matters up by 
phone and email on 22 August 2022. A senior person at GH then contacted SFS to say that 
the key personnel at the dealership (including himself) were on holiday, but that a junior 
member of staff would be following up with the details. He also said all the evidence pointed 
to incorrect fuel being put in the car, and that GH was waiting for results to come back from a 
specialist lab in Lancashire to confirm. Its unclear if this was the same lab test Mr S has 
referred to, but the dates are not consistent with each other so it would appear not.
Theres no evidence on file that SFS received any further submissions from GH. SFS did 
however speak to Mr S on 16 September 2022. On this call Mr S expressed a desire to hand 
back the car because of the delays in getting things sorted out. A few days later SFS wrote 
to Mr S, offering to allow him to do just that. SFS explained that it would also:
Refund his £6,000 deposit.
Refund his monthly payments (at that point in time  a total of £740.60).
Pay him £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
SFS also said it would add compensatory interest to any refunds. Mr S rejected this offer. He 
said SFS hadnt understood his complaint correctly. He said the testing of the fuel had 
shown he was blameless and yet he had not had an apology. He noted that he hadnt had 
the benefit of the insurance he was paying for because the car had been parked up the 
dealership. He might also have to pay insurance cancellation fees. Mr S also opined that he 
was unlikely now, in the current economic climate, to get a 0% interest deal, and that hed 
wasted lots of his time in dealing with the issues with the car. He said £6,665 would be a 
reasonable compensation figure.
The complaint was referred to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent 
assessment. One of our investigations looked into the matter. He spoke to Mr S and 
established that hed had the use of an old car while the new one was at GH, although hed 
not been given any courtesy vehicle. Our investigator concluded that although SFSs offer 
was broadly in the right place, it would be fair and reasonable of it to cover the cost of 
keeping the car insured while it had been at the dealership, plus any costs associated with 
cancelling the insurance. Our investigator also thought SFS should pay £400 compensation 
to Mr S instead of £200.
SFS accepted our investigators assessment. Mr S did not. He said our investigator hadnt 
understood his complaint and that he should receive a larger amount of compensation. £400 
was derisory. He highlighted that the issues with the car had created difficulties for his wife, 
who needed suitable transport to help with his elderly mother.
Because no agreement could be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because SFS supplied the car which is the subject of this complaint to Mr S under a hire 
purchase agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit Act 1974, I am able to consider a 
complaint about the quality of the car.
Theres a term treated as included in hire purchase agreements that where goods are 
supplied to a consumer, as here, they will be satisfactory quality. In the context of a car, 
what constitutes satisfactory quality will depend on things such as the age, mileage and any 
description of the vehicle. In this case the car was brand new and so I think it is fair to say 
that a higher standard of quality would be expected than, for example, that of a 10 year old 
car which had covered 80,000 miles.
Where goods are not satisfactory quality then the person to whom they have been supplied 
has certain rights under consumer legislation. Where faults which cause the goods to not be 
satisfactory quality emerge more than 30 days after supply, the supplier is allowed an 
opportunity to repair or replace them. Repairs must be carried out in a reasonable time and 
without significant inconvenience to the consumer. If this is not possible then the consumer 
can insist on rejecting the goods and receiving a refund.
The car in this case was recovered to GH suffering from a lack of engine power, just over a 
month after it was supplied. Mr S considered this to be the result of a fault. If thats the case 
then I think it is straightforward to conclude that this meant the car was not of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr S. Its not reasonable in my view for a brand new car to develop 
a fault causing the engine to lose power, so soon after purchase. 
The other possibility is that the car lost engine power due to something Mr S or someone 
else driving the car did. GH seemed sure someone had put the wrong type of fuel, or 
contaminated fuel, in the car, and this was the cause of the problems with it losing power. 
Mr S strongly denies this. 
I think if GH was going to allege Ms S damaged the car himself by putting the wrong fuel in 
it, this was something it needed to provide convincing evidence of, and especially so 
because GH was essentially accusing Mr S of being untruthful. Sniffing a fuel pipe doesnt 
strike me as being a very robust or scientific way of proving someone had put the wrong fuel 
in the car, and nor does (allegedly) setting fire to a puddle of fuel to see how much smoke it 
gives off. GH appears to have sent samples of the fuel to a lab, possibly on more than one 
occasion, but the results of the tests are not in evidence. If the results of the tests supported 
GHs allegations, I would have thought the first thing it would have done would have been to 
offer these results to either Mr S or SFS as evidence.
I think Mr S also makes a good point in that it would be difficult to misfuel a petrol car with 
diesel. This is because most diesel fuel nozzles will not fit a petrol car. In any event there is 
a lack of evidence in my view that the car developed a fault due to misfuelling by Mr S or 
someone else who was using the car. 
In light of the above, my conclusion is that the car supplied to Mr S developed a fault shortly 
after supply and was not satisfactory quality as a result. This brings me on to the question of 
what should be done to put things right.
Because the car developed a fault more than 30 days after supply, SFS would have been 
allowed one opportunity to repair it before Mr S would become entitled to reject it, so long as 
the repair could be carried out in a reasonable time and without unreasonable inconvenience 
to Mr S.
Mr S did initially request repairs but had changed his mind by 16 September 2022 when he 
told SFS he wanted to reject the car. I think by this point he was within his rights to reject the 
car as repairs had still not been organised and it had been a month and a half since the car 
had developed a fault. SFS offered to accept rejection of the car a few days later.
In general, when a car is rejected and returned to the hire purchase company because it was 
not satisfactory quality, I would expect the consumer to receive a full refund of their deposit 
and any repayments for months where the car has been off the road due to it being 
undriveable, or because it is being repaired or awaiting repairs. Id also expect the 
agreement to be ended and marked as settled. Where the quality issues with the car have 
caused distress and inconvenience, or additional costs, I would also expect compensation to 
be paid in respect of this.
SFS originally offered £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience. It has since 
agreed to increase this to £400 and also cover the cost of Mr S having to insure the car from 
when it was returned to GH with a fault, plus the cost of cancelling that insurance policy. I 
note that the full refund of repayments SFS has offered will also include payments which 
were made towards the other insurance policies bundled with the car, so Mr S will not pay 
anything for those policies.
Mr Ss view is that more compensation should be paid. He has referred to a figure of £6,655. 
This is a very specific figure which I cannot see Mr S has broken down. He has however 
referred to being unlikely to be able to get a 0% interest deal on a new car, loss of use of the car, having to spend lots of his time dealing with the issues with the car, and difficulties the 
situation had caused for his wife. 
Loss of a 0% deal
Mr S has referred to changes in the economic climate meaning it wont be possible to get a 
0% finance deal on a new car. Research of the new car market shows there are still 0% 
finance deals available even now, so I dont think there is much force behind Mr Ss point 
here. In any event, it would be unlikely to be fair or reasonable to find SFS responsible for 
such a loss given the quality of the car it supplied to Mr S would not have been the only or 
possibly even the most important cause of him being unable to get a 0% finance deal.
Loss of use of the car
Compensation for Mr Ss loss of use of the car was built in to SFSs original offer. As our 
investigator explained in his assessment of the complaint, it would be expected that 
compensation for loss of use would normally take the form of a refund of money paid to use 
the car. In Mr Ss case, this meant refunding his monthly repayments along with 
compensatory interest. I dont think further compensation on top of this would be 
appropriate.
Difficulties caused for Mr Ss wife
Our rules say that I can only award compensation for the impact on the complainant  which 
is Mr S. Unfortunately, this means I cant factor into any compensation award I make, the 
impact caused to anyone else of the car not being satisfactory quality.
Mr Ss time and effort dealing with the issues
Ive got no doubt that Mr S has experienced inconvenience and annoyance as a result of 
being supplied with a car which wasnt satisfactory quality. Hes had to make several trips to 
the dealership along with making phone calls and writing letters and emails. Hes been 
disappointed at having problems with a brand new car. Its obviously fair that hes 
compensated for that, but I think the figure of £400 which our investigator arrived at is 
reasonable. I appreciate Mr S thinks that doesnt go far enough, but the figure he has quoted 
is in my view very high, at around a quarter of the cash price of the car, and disproportionate 
to the impact hes described. 
Mr S may wish to review our published guidance on compensation awards on our website, 
which sets out our approach and examples of when we have awarded particular amounts.1
1 https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/consumers/expect/compensation-for-distress-or-
inconvenience I would add here that Mr Ss poor experience with GH is not something I can require SFS to 
compensate him for. I can quite understand why Mr S is very unhappy with GHs handling of 
the situation  after all he was accused of damaging the car and then lying about it. And Id 
observe that GH expended far more effort in trying to prove Mr S was wrong, than in 
addressing the issues with the car. Overall, GH doesnt seem to have handled things in a 
very professional way. However, SFS is not responsible for GHs poor customer service and 
so I am unable to factor this in to the compensation award or require SFS to apologise for 
GHs behaviour. I therefore remain of the view that £400 is a fair amount of compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and direct Suzuki Financial 
Services Limited to take the following actions:
A) End the hire purchase agreement and arrange to take possession of the vehicle at no 
cost to Mr S. The agreement should be marked as settled on Mr Ss credit report 
and all arrears removed (if any).
B) Refund Mr Ss deposit of £6,000.
C) Refund the £740.60 mentioned in its final response letter, plus any further 
repayments Mr S has made towards the agreement since.
D) Add 8% simple interest per year* to the amounts mentioned in B and C, calculated 
from the date Mr S confirmed he was rejecting the vehicle or, if later, the date Mr S 
made the payment in question to SFS.
E) Reimburse Mr S his car insurance premiums for the faulty vehicle, covering 7 July 
2022 onwards. If there is a fee for cancelling the policy, SFS must also reimburse 
this. SFS does not need to provide the reimbursement outlined in this section, until 
Mr S provides evidence of payments he has made, or demands for payment from his 
insurer (as appropriate).
F) Pay Mr S £400 compensation.
*If Suzuki Financial Services Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman