DRN-2501415
The complaint
Mr F & Mrs F complained of various issues when making international payments from his 
bank account with Santander UK plc (Santander). 
What happened
Mr F says he was unhappy with several aspects of Santanders online international payment 
process before and after making payments to family members. Mr F says he wasnt happy 
with a) he couldnt save payee details for future international payments and Santanders 
reasons for this arent credible, b) Santanders fees are higher than competitors and arent 
clear before making payments like these, c) Santanders website doesnt fully work on his 
tablet and isnt simple to navigate. Mr F says he wants Santander to apologise to him and 
refund him the extra fees he paid compared to a competitor bank, of £31 and a total of £125 
by way of compensation for the inconvenience caused.
Santander says their policy is not to store payee information for international payments for 
reasons of security and fraud to protect its customers. Santander also say the fees are 
quoted both in the terms and conditions of the account and detailed before the payment is 
made online. 
Mr F & Mrs F werent happy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this 
service.
The investigator looked at all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. He 
felt Santander acted fairly when charging the fees and it was a reasonable business decision 
of theirs not to allow saved international payee details. 
Mr F & Mrs F didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can see Mr F & Mrs F are unhappy with a number of aspects of Santanders online 
international payment processes, charges and also the explanations given to them. When 
looking at this complaint I have considered if Santander acted reasonably in charging the 
fees they did for the international payments and acted fairly when not allowing payee details 
to be stored on their systems to make future payments easier for Mr F & Mrs F. I have also 
considered if Santander were responsible for Mr F & Mrs F not being able to easily navigate 
their website from Mr Fs tablet device. 
I do understand when first using a new online banking facility its unfamiliarity may be 
frustrating and not always straightforward. So, this could have played a part here and what 
might look reasonable to Mr F might not be compatible to the processes and terms and 
conditions Santander apply to their online international payment systems. 
I say this because a key part of Mr F & Mrs Fs complaint centres around Santanders 
systems not allowing for payees to be saved for future payments Mr F & Mrs F may wish to 
make. While Mr F may not agree, Santander have made the decision that by doing this it will 
help assist in preventing security risks and fraud against its customers. Santander have said 
it is also there because of ever changing international payment restriction and sanctions. Mr 
F disagrees with Santanders reasons here and believes it would be less likely to cause 
these issues or mis typing errors if the payee details could be saved. Mr F says Santander 
have implied from the wording in their final response letter, that all banks have similar rules 
to this. On balance, from the information I have seen I am satisfied Santander havent said 
this but simply say fraud and security risks are a bank wide problem. When Santander refer 
to the process , while Mr F may not agree, I am satisfied they are referring to their own 
processes and not of all banks, as these can vary bank to bank. Mr F has also made the 
point he believed the payee details would be saved, but this isnt the case and I can 
understand that was a disappointment to Mr F. That said, I cant see anything from the 
payment process to suggest this would happen or why Mr F might have thought it would. 
Mr F says other banks provide better protection against  financial loss and while that may be 
his view, I cant see any evidence to support that - while Santander processes are different 
perhaps to other banks that doesnt mean they have to adopt the same processes as its 
competitors. I understand the points Mr F has made, but I am satisfied the explanation of 
why they dont save the payee details provided to Mr F & Mrs F was a reasonable one. 
Mr F & Mrs F feel the charges Santander have made for the international payments are not 
only uncompetitive but are unclear. What is worth saying here is screen shots provided to 
this service, by Santander, show the amount of the fees to be charged for international 
payments are detailed before any payment is authorised. Mr F feels the details of the 
charges should be earlier in the process, but thats the way Santander have designed their 
system and I am satisfied it is clear, as I would expect. The investigator referred to a set of 
account terms and conditions provided by Santander that explain customers like Mr F will be 
advised of the charges for international payments before agreeing instructions with them. Mr 
F has pointed out these terms and conditions were out of date and Santander cant be 
trusted as a result. What is important here is that we do obtain various documents from 
banks when investigating complaints and while this document wasnt the most current set of 
terms and conditions, the wording regarding how and when the charges are applied are the 
same under section 2F1.2 of the terms and conditions Mr F refers to, of October 2018. Its 
also important to say that during a telephone conversation with Santander in February 2020 
the agent explained the charges before Mr F & Mrs F went on to make the next international 
payments from their account. It follows I cant say that Mr F & Mrs F werent made aware of 
these charges. 
Mr F & Mrs F says when using a tablet device, they couldnt properly access Santanders 
website  its worth mentioning that Mr F says his device is an older model so its possible 
that could have contributed to any access issues he was having, although that isnt 
something I can comment on. Mr F says Santander should upgrade their website to make it 
more accessible for all devices and while I understand what Mr F is saying here, its not my 
role to instruct Santander or any other bank how to design their websites or what content it  
must have. 
Having said this, I should say it remains Mr F & Mrs Fs responsibility to have read the 
instructions fully before making the international payment online or to have checked  the 
terms and conditions of their account before they made the international payments  I am 
satisfied there were other options available for them to do this, if they werent certain. Mr F feels Santanders charges are higher than its competitors and has partly based his 
refund request on this, however, given Mr F was made aware of these charges it was his 
decision to make these international payments rather than use a competitor bank like the 
one he describes. My role isnt to tell Santander what level of fees they should charge for 
this service, only that they are clear to its customers, and for the reasons I have given, I am 
satisfied this was the case here. 
While Mr F & Mrs F wont be happy with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of 
Santander here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F and Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman