DRN-3642472
The complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
This decision relates only to Mr Hs complaint about the information that Barclays Bank UK 
PLC trading as Barclaycard has recorded on his credit file. The details of this complaint are 
well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. Instead Ill focus on giving my 
reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As noted above this decision is in response to Mr Hs complaint that Barclaycard recorded 
incorrect information on his credit file. 
Mr Hs Barclaycard account went into default at end of 2015. Barclaycard is required 
to provide accurate information to the credit reference agencies. The default was 
recorded on Mr Hs credit file with the default amount of £12,835. I find this is an 
accurate reflection of his account at that time.
Barclaycard sold Mr Hs account to a third party in 2019. I note Mr Hs concerns 
about this given his ongoing complaints at the time. But there was nothing that meant 
Barclaycard wasnt allowed to sell Mr Hs account to the third party and from this 
point, it was the third partys responsibility to report information regarding the account 
to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr H received a refund from Barclaycard in 2018 following an internal review. This 
was for around £708. Mr H says that his original default balance should be reduced 
by this amount as the refund related to interest and charges on his account before 
the default was applied. I understand the point he has made. However, in this case 
as the account defaulted with the £12,835 balance, I find it accurate that this is 
reported. The refund reduced the amount still owing on the account and is reflected 
in the current balance. I find that this gives a fair reflection of the status of Mr Hs 
account.
While I understand that the issues with Barclaycard have been ongoing for an extended 
period and Mr H feels that many of his concerns havent been fully addressed, this decision 
relates only to the recording of the information on Mr Hs credit file by Barclaycard and in this 
case I do not require Barclaycard to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard to do 
anything further in response to this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman