DRN-3487528
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B made a payment using their account with Wise Payments Limited (trading as 
Wise) for £4,210, thinking they were paying to rent a property, but this turned out to be a 
scam. They are unhappy that Wise was unable to stop the payment from leaving the account 
and the customer service they received when making contact about this. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B say they found a rental property online using a well-known website. They 
agreed to make a payment to secure the property and this later turned out to be a scam.
They say they contacted Wise an hour later to block the payment but were told to call back 
the next morning to see if the payment had been successful or not. They felt this was 
incorrect advice and the payment could have been stopped by Wise when they initially called 
up to report the scam.
Wise didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said, as the customers completed the 
transaction it couldnt be cancelled or recalled. It went on to say it doesnt t have the ability to 
be involved in disputes between senders and recipients, so it recommends that customers 
know and trust the person or business that money is being sent to. And, that it is only 
responsible for foreseeable loss and not those beyond its control  so before a transaction 
leaves its systems but not afterwards. It attempted to recall the payment, but this was 
unsuccessful and so was any recovery of the funds. Wise has provided evidence that it 
attempted to contact the recipient account on the next day, but no funds remained in the 
account.
Unhappy with Wises final response on the matter Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to 
our service. One of our investigators looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. In 
summary he said:
- Due to the nature of this type of account it was opened, and the payment made 
online, without any interaction between the customers and the business.
- There wasnt anything about the payment that ought to have put Wise on notice that 
Mr and Mrs B were at risk of fraud. 
- He didnt think that Wise had missed an opportunity to identify the payment as being 
in relation to a scam.
- He was satisfied that Wise took steps, once it was aware the payment was in relation 
to a scam and did what it could to attempt to recover Mr and Mrs Bs funds  but this 
was unsuccessful. 
- He was satisfied that by the time Mr and Mrs B contacted Wise about the scam, the 
payment had already been made. 
- He appreciated that Mr and Mrs B were given incorrect information when they initially 
called, but he didnt think any incorrect information or poor service meant they should 
receive a refund. 
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings and raised the following points:
- Wise could have acted a little more aggressively in calling back the money or 
blocking the receiving account and wanted to see the timeline of events around this.
- Why were they told the money hadnt left the account (as it was late in the afternoon)  
and to try again in the morning, before the money had fully transferred they felt 
something may have been overlooked as they were convinced the money hadnt left 
the account.
- They asked if Wise could be held responsible for negligence over its customer 
service.
The investigator provided the timeline of the payment and explained that when dealing with 
international payments it was often be difficult to recall and recover money. International 
banks and payment institutions arent subject the same UK obligations, in terms of when and 
how it should respond. But he was satisfied that Wise did what it could, in its attempts to 
recover Mr and Mrs B funds. 
Overall, he was satisfied the payment left the account shortly after it was authorised by Mr 
and Mrs B. So, the information they say they received on the phone wasnt correct. But he 
was satisfied that the payment couldnt have been stopped or prevented at this point. He 
went on to say he wouldnt be holding Wise responsible for a refund of the losses because of 
the customer service it provided. He said whilst the service could have been better this 
wouldnt have any impact on the success of the claim. 
As Mr and Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings, they asked that an ombudsman 
review the matter. So, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I agree with the investigators findings and cant fairly 
hold Wise liable for Mr and Mrs Bs losses. Ill explain why.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs B authorised the transaction and that means that under 
the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of the account they are presumed 
liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking into account the law, regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Wise should fairly and reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams. 
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. 
Its important to note that this was the only transaction on the account. As such, Wise would 
have no legitimate activity to compare this transaction against and therefore no real basis for 
deciding that the transaction was unusual or out of character. The payment was 
international, but I understand making international payments is the main reason Wises 
customers use its services. So, it would be difficult to say that such activity ought to have 
stood out for this reason. The value of the payment, though clearly not insignificant, wouldnt 
alone be enough to give Wise any cause for concern. 
I appreciate that now, with the benefit of hindsight, Mr and Mrs B feel that Wise 
ought to have stopped this payment. But based on the knowledge that Wise had at the
time, I dont think there was anything about this payment that ought to have put
Wise on notice that Mr and Mrs B were at risk of financial harm. 
So, I dont think it was unreasonable of Wise to process the payment. And therefore, I dont 
think it unreasonable for Wise to then decide not to refund to Mr and Mrs B for these 
reasons.
Could Wise have done more after the scam?
Ive also considered Wises actions after it was notified about the scam. Ive also carefully 
reviewed its terms and conditions on completing, cancelling and attempting to recover funds 
after a payment has been authorised. Having done so, I dont think Wise should refund Mr 
and Mrs B for these reasons either.
Wises transaction logs show the payment was converted and processed instantly. So even 
if Mr and Mrs B called Wise within an hour of making the payment, it had already been 
processed by Wise. 
Wises terms and conditions also say that; a payment cannot be cancelled once the funds 
have been converted into the target currency, and a completed transfer cant be cancelled. 
So, Im satisfied that Wise correctly adhered to its own terms and conditions here when it 
said the payment couldnt be stopped. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they were told to call back as the money hadnt left the 
account but that wasnt the case. Whilst I dont doubt what Mr and Mrs B have said about 
this conversation, Wises notes dont reflect that these details were discussed. But even if 
they were, this doesnt lead me to conclude that Wise is responsible for or could have 
prevented Mr and Mrs Bs losses at this point. 
Wise attempted to contact the beneficiary bank the following day and whilst I think it could 
have acted quicker in general, Im not persuaded this would have prevented Mr and Mrs Bs 
losses .I say this because the bank responded and said no funds remained. In my 
experience, fraudulent funds tend to be moved quickly once received. So overall I didnt 
think it likely the funds couldve been recovered had Wise acted sooner than it did.
Overall, Im satisfied Wise couldnt have prevented Mr and Mrs Bs losses after the payment 
had been made.
My final decision
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs B, but I dont uphold the
complaint against Wise Payments Limited (trading as Wise)Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 July 2022.
 
Sophia Smith
Ombudsman