DRN-3106077
The complaint
Mr L complains Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat didnt carry out sufficient affordability
checks. Had it done so, then Mr L says Cashfloat wouldnt have provided him with these
loans.
What happened
Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ls complaint. Both Mr L and Cashfloat didnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion. The complaint was then passed to me. 
I issued my provisional decision explaining the reasons why I was intending not to uphold 
Mr Ls complaint. A copy of the background to the complaint and my provisional findings 
follow this and form part of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision:
Mr L took three loans between December 2017 and March 2018. Ive included some of the
information weve received about these loans in the table below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived 
daterepayment 
datenumber 
of    
paymentslargest 
repayment
1 £200 13/12/2017 31/1/2018 2 £125.31
2 £250 01/02/2018 29/03/2018 2 £166.70
3 £300 29/03/2018 31/05/2018 2 £207.66
Our adjudicator didnt think it was wrong for Cashfloat to have granted loans 1 and 2. But the
adjudicator thought that loan 3 shouldnt have been lent.
He said Cashfloat ought to have made enquires with Mr L about whether he had any
outstanding short-term loans. Had Cashfloat made such enquires, the adjudicator says it
wouldve likely discovered he had 9 outstanding loans and knowing this Cashfloat wouldnt
have provided the loan.
Mr L didnt agree with the outcome, he said that all the loans were unaffordable. But he
didnt provide any further information.
Cashfloat also didnt fully agree with the adjudicators assessment, it was unhappy loan 3
had been upheld. In summary, it said;
Loan 3 was given early in the lending relationship
It wouldnt be proportionate to have asked for bank statements at the third loan
Mr L took small loans over a short repayment term
Mr L declared he was living with his parents so that explains the lack of monthly
outgoings
Mr L had enough disposable income to be able to afford the repayments he was
committed to making, and
Mr L had a good repayment history.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr L could afford to pay back the amounts
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks couldve taken into account a number of different
things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ls income
and expenditure.
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr L. These factors include:
Mr L having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr L having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr L coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr L.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr L could sustainably repay the loans  not
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr L was able to repay
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case.
The Financial Conduct Authoritys (the industry regulatory) in the Consumer Credit
Sourcebook (CONC) states payments are sustainable if they are made without undue
difficulties and in particular, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and
without having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have
realised, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further,
then it follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ls complaint.
Cashfloat says that for each loan it asked Mr L about his income and expenditure. Cashfloat
also says it tested the expenditure figures provided on national averages and used a third
party to ascertain the reasonableness of Mr Ls declared income. It then used an internalcredit score algorithm which uses up to date information to decide whether Mr L was able to 
afford these loans. Overall, Cashfloat says its checks were proportionate.
Loan 1
In order to repay this loan, Mr L had to make two payments of around £125. And so, it was
this sum that Cashfloat needed to see that Mr L was likely to be able to afford. In order to do
this, and as Ive set out above Cashfloat was required to carry out a proportionate check.
For this loan Mr L declared he had a monthly income of £1,750 with monthly outgoings of
£450. This wouldve left Mr L with around £1,300 per month in order to meet the repayments
he was committed to paying. In these circumstances it wouldve been reasonable for
Cashfloat to believe that Mr L could afford the repayments.
The monthly outgoings may seem a little low, but given Mr L declared that he was living at
home with parents, I dont think it was unreasonable for Cashfloat to believe this explained
the fairly low monthly outgoings.
There was also nothing else in the information that Ive seen that wouldve led Cashfloat to
believe that it needed to go further with its checks  such as verifying the information Mr L
had provided.
Given it was still quite early on in the lending relationship, I think it was reasonable for
Cashfloat to have relied on the information Mr L provided and the income and expenditure
figures show that Mr L had sufficient disposable income to afford the repayments he was
committed to making. So, like the adjudicator Im also not intending to uphold Mr Ls
complaint about this loan.
Loan 2
Mr L repaid loan 1 on time and without any apparent repayment difficulties. The day after
this loan was repaid he returned for loan 2. This loan was for slightly more than his first loan,
consequently, the repayments that he needed to make increased to £166 per month.
So, like loan 1, considering what it knew Mr L was due to repay, Cashfloat was required to
conduct a proportionate affordability check. Mr L declared that he earned £1,857 per month
 which is similar to what he declared for loan 1. And his outgoings had increased to £694
per month. This gave Mr L a disposable income of £1,163 to afford the repayments be was
committed to making.
For similar reasons for loan 1, and given it was early on in the lending relationship, the
information provided showed the loan was affordable and it doesnt appear Cashfloat was
aware of any other information that wouldve likely have given rise to further checks. Im
intending to conclude for loan 2 that the checks carried out by Cashfloat were proportionate
and these checks showed the loan was likely to be affordable.
Loan 3
The adjudicator, upheld Mr Ls final loan because in their view the rapid uptake in lending
ought to have prompted Cashfloat to carry out further checks and investigated Mr Ls
potential other outstanding short-term loans. And had Cashfloat done this it wouldve likely
discovered he had other loans and not lent. However, I dont agree with the adjudicators
assessment about this loan.
I do accept, that had Cashfloat carried out further checks, it likely wouldve thought that Mr Lcouldnt afford the loan, but by doing so, in my view, it wouldnt have carried out a
proportionate check  which is what it was required to do. Ive explained why below.
Mr L again repaid loan 2 without any obvious repayment problems. The payments were
made on time and he paid the amount that Cashfloat was expecting. And he returned for
further credit on the same day the previous loan was repaid. I think this could be the start of
Mr L showing signs that he had an ongoing financial need for credit and wasnt using it as a
temporary solution to a cash flow problem. But I cant reasonably conclude that with only two
occurrences that this meant a pattern was well established. If anything, it was just the start of
a pattern being formed.
Mr L borrowed more for his final loan (£300), but it was only marginally more than he had
required for the previous loan. And like the second loan Mr Ls payments increased by
around £50  so he was committed to paying around £207 per month to repay this loan.
Mr L declared that he had a monthly income of £1,750 with monthly outgoings of £700.
Leaving a disposable income of £1,050. Based on these the monthly repayments
wouldve looked affordable to Cashfloat.
So, thinking about what Cashfloat knew about Mr L, as well as the repayment and loan
history, I dont think it had quite reached the stage where it needed to carry out further
checks or have verified any information with Mr L (such as finding out about any other
potentially short-term loans). I still think it was just about reasonable for Cashfloat to have
relied on what Mr L was declaring.
What Cashfloat did, in my view, was proportionate, and these checks showed that Mr L was
likely to be able to afford the repayments he was due to make. Given this, I dont think it was
unreasonable for Cashfloat to have approved this loan.
Overall, I dont think Cashfloat needed to have verified Mr Ls circumstances for any of the
loans. I do acknowledge that had it done so, its likely that it may have concluded Mr L
couldnt afford the repayments. The checks showed that Mr L was likely to be able to afford
the repayments he was committed to make.
I appreciate that Mr L will be disappointed by this outcome and I hope my reasoning has
explained why Im not able to uphold his complaint. I can see that he has spent considerable
time providing this service with details of his circumstances at the time each loan was
provided. But, based on what Ive seen, Im intending to not uphold Mr Ls complaint.
Both Mr L and Cashfloat were asked to provide any further comments or evidence by 
10 October 2021. 
Cashfloat told this Service it accepted the findings of the provisional decision and it didnt 
have anything else to add. 
Mr L also responded. He explained it was clear that he was in financial difficulties and he 
already had outstanding loans that were unpaid, and this information was reflected in his 
credit report.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr L says, and Im sorry to hear about the difficulties he was facing. 
But at the times the loans were approved, Cashfloat didnt have any indication about his financial problems. The checks, in my view that it carried out were proportionate and didnt 
identify that Mr L had unpaid loans. 
Mr L says that his credit report wouldve shown Cashfloat that it shouldnt have lent. 
Cashfloat has confirmed it carried out some sort of credit check, but it only holds the 
information it gathered for 12 months. Given these loans are older than 12 months, the 
information can no longer be provided to this Service. 
Its important to note that the information that Cashfloat may have seen in its credit check 
may not be the same as what Mr L is able to view in his full credit report. Even if I rely on the 
credit report that Mr L previously provided this Service, there is evidence of previous payday 
loans, but there doesnt appear to have been any active at the point these loans were 
approved. 
And while, Ive seen the other evidence Mr L has provided this Service, that historically he 
had other loans with other lenders in the year leading up to these loans it isnt clear that 
Cashfloat wouldve had this information available to it as part of its credit check. 
Looking at Mr Ls wider situation including his bank statements and his loans give to him by 
other companies, I accept that the loans provided by Cashfloat were likely not affordable for 
him. 
But, Cashfloat, as Ive explained was entitled to reply on the information it was provided with, 
which indicated Mr L could afford the loans. There wasnt anything else, in either the checks 
or what Mr L declared that wouldve led Cashfloat to have carried out further checks, which 
may have showed Cashfloat that Mr L was having wider financial problems.  
So, having thought about Mr Ls additional comments, these havent in this instance, 
changed my mind about the outcome of the case. The checks Cashfloat carried out went far 
enough for each loan and the checks showed Mr L would likely be able to afford the 
repayments he was committed to making. 
So, I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained and in my provisional decision, Im not upholding Mr Ls 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman