DRN-2819606
The complaint
Mrs G complains that Insure Group Limited, trading as Home Emergency Assist, (HEA) 
wouldnt repair her central heating boiler when it broke down and she claimed under her 
home emergency insurance policy with HEA.  
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs G took out a home emergency policy with HEA online covering her 
plumbing, drainage, boiler, heating and utilities, at an annual premium of £137. In June 
2020, her boiler broke down and she called on HEA under her policy. A representative of 
HEA attended, but said it couldnt assist as the fault was still covered under the 
manufacturers warranty, and a term of the policy excluded cover in this event.
Mrs G complained to HEA that she had discussed the policy on the phone with HEA before 
she bought the policy, and she wasnt told about this exclusion. She said the policy had been 
mis-sold to her and asked for her premium to be returned.
HEA didnt agree it had mis-sold the policy. Although it had spoken to Mrs G by phone, she 
had in the end taken out the policy herself on line, in the course of which she had to confirm 
she had read and understood the terms and conditions, which included the following 
provision:
GENERAL EXCLUSION
We shall not be liable for costs arising from or in connection with:

10. Materials or labour charges covered by manufacturers, suppliers or installers guarantee 
or warranty.
So HEA didnt agree that it had mis-sold the policy, or that Mrs G should be entitled to any 
refund.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. She had listened to the 
phone call between Mrs G and HEA before she decided to buy the policy. She said Mrs G 
had told the representative that her boiler was three years old and covered by the 
manufacturers five year warranty. But Mrs G nevertheless said she wanted to insure the 
boiler anyway for peace of mind.
She thought Mrs G knew there would be some element of duplicate cover. But the 
representative didnt tell her that under the policy terms this might mean the cover was 
actually ineffective. The investigator thought he should have, and his failure to do so was 
misleading and unfair.
The investigator agreed with HEA that Mrs G had an obligation to read the policy terms and 
conditions. But equally, she could see that Mrs G thought cover would be provided, having 
mentioned the boiler warranty specifically to the representative, and then having him confirm 
that cover would be provided on this boiler.
The investigator recommended that HEA should refund the premium Mrs G had paid, less 
the amount of £72 representing the value of the boiler service it had carried out, plus a 
further £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it had caused her. HEA 
had said Mrs G had made two further claims which should be taken into account. But the 
investigator said nothing was paid under these.
HEA responded to say, in summary, that:
some elements on its policy wouldnt be covered by a manufacturers warranty, so 
there wouldnt be a complete duplication. It was a customers responsibility to check 
what was duplicated and so not covered by HEA;
Mrs G had ticked the box to confirm she had read and understood the terms; and
the cover would always have been valid for non-duplicated areas of cover.
The investigator acknowledged that Mrs G would have got some benefit if a claim had arisen 
under other areas covered by the policy  for example drains, pipes, central heating. But she 
was satisfied Mrs G wouldnt have bought the policy if she had been given the correct 
information, namely that there was a risk that some boiler claims wouldnt be covered.
Mrs G had rung HEA specifically to clarify just what was covered by the policy. But the 
representative had failed to point out a significant circumstance where cover might not be 
provided, when the fact that the boiler was still under manufacturers warranty had been 
discussed.
HEA didnt accept the investigators recommendation and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed. So it has been passed to me to issue a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the several phone calls between Mrs G  and HEA before she decided to take 
out a policy with HEA, and then did so online. Its clear she was very cautious, and wanted to 
make sure that her boiler would be covered by the policy should she need to make a claim. 
She told the representative that the manufacturer had said she didnt need such a policy 
because she still had the benefit of its five year warranty, but she wanted to take such a 
policy for her peace of mind.
Given what she was saying, I think the representative should have explained that there could 
be circumstances where HEAs cover wouldnt apply, and she would be reliant on the 
manufacturer fulfilling its obligations under the warranty. But he kept silent. In fact, when it 
came to it, the manufacturer failed to carry out its obligations, and HEA said cover didnt 
apply. So Mrs G ended up in the position she was trying to avoid.
HEA suggests that Mrs G viewed the warranty as first point of call, and the policy as merely 
back up, and that somehow lessened the onus on the representative to point out the 
limitation affecting the cover. I dont agree. I think from the phone call its clear she wanted to 
have the full protection of both the warranty and the policy.
Having made the representative aware of her intentions, I think his failure in the conversation to point out the limitation overrides whether or not she read and understood any small print 
in the written terms and conditions.
Its not clear why Mrs G initially said her boiler wasnt under warranty when she claimed 
under the policy, or why hadnt claimed under the warranty first. But her claim wasnt 
accepted by HEA and I dont think anything turns on this.
Like the investigator, I conclude that the representative was made aware that Mrs G wanted 
to be in the position to claim both under the warranty and the policy. He should have made 
her aware that there could be circumstances under the policy terms where this wouldnt 
happen.
I think if Mrs G had been made aware of the true position, she wouldnt have proceeded to 
take out the policy, and that accordingly the policy was mis-sold by HEA. I think its fair and 
reasonable that HEA should compensate her as the investigator suggested.
Putting things right
To put things right, I think HEA should take the steps, and pay the money, as set out in my 
final decision below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Insure Group Limited, trading as Home 
Emergency Assist, to:
1. refund to Mrs G the premium she paid, less the amount of £72 representing the value 
of the boiler service it carried out; and
2. , pay Mrs G £100 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has caused 
her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman