DRN-2200447
The complaint
Mrs B complains that a representative of Legal & General Assurance Society Limited
recommended that she take out an investment Individual Savings Account (ISA) that was
unsuitable for her as it was a higher risk than her cautious attitude.
In making her complaint, Mrs B is represented by a Claims Management Company.
What happened
In November 2006 Mrs B, together with her husband, sought advice on her investments. At
that time, she invested solely in cash-based investments and ISAs. Their documented needs
and objectives at the time were for Better potential growth than cash can provide over the
medium to long term.
Legal & Generals representative recommended that Mrs B place £5,000 into an investment
ISA, split equally between an Equity and Bond Fund and its UK Property Trust Fund.
Mrs B maintained her ISA until 2011, when she surrendered it and received back £4,992.29.
In 2018, Mrs Bs representative complained on her behalf about Legal & Generals
recommendation, saying that the investment carried a greater degree of risk than she was
made aware of or was willing to take. It said that Mrs B was a novice investor; that she
wasnt given enough time to decide whether to go ahead with the advice; and that she didnt
have the capacity to make up any loss from the investment.
Legal & General said that Mrs B had wanted to discuss diversifying her investments to try
and achieve greater growth over the longer term. It said its representative had made a
recommendation in line with Mrs Bs agreed attitude to investment risk which was cautious.
Legal & General said that it had recommended she invest equally between a moderate and
a cautious fund, and that its adviser had discussed risk versus reward. It said the information
given to Mrs B confirmed that investment returns werent guaranteed and the value could go
up as well as down.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She
said that the documentation from the time was clear about what was discussed, and Mrs B
had accepted the recommendation. The investigator said Mrs B had wanted to achieve
growth and so chose low risk investments, rather than no risk ones.
Mrs Bs representative didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to
be reviewed. It didnt agree that the recommended funds were suitable for her as it said they
had significant volatility and liquidity risk.
My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in June 2020. In summary, I thought it 
should be upheld as I didnt think the recommendation Legal & General made was right for 
Mrs B.
I said that Mrs B approached Legal & General for advice together with her husband, and 
much of their joint circumstances were taken into account, however, the recommendation for 
Mrs B was for an ISA, which is an individually held investment. The notes from this meeting 
said that Mrs B and her husband were reviewing their savings and wanted a better return 
than they were getting from their cash-based savings, which were largely held in an instant 
access account. The notes also showed that Mrs B had not invested her savings before in 
anything other than cash:
Because your portfolio is made up of cash on deposit, you have only invested in cash
previously as you have not been aware of the other options open to you and were unsure
about taking any risk at all with your capital.
I said that Mrs B was assessed as having a cautious attitude to investment risk. She 
answered yes to the question: Would you be prepared to put a portion of your lump sum 
into a higher risk fund providing that your overall portfolio risk profile stays the same?.
Legal & Generals recommendation was for Mrs B to invest £5,000 into an equity ISA, split
between its UK Property Fund and an Equity Fund. The reasons why letter sent to Mrs B
after the meeting set out that this, alongside keeping an amount of £6,000 on deposit,
would give diversity in their portfolio to match her cautious attitude to investment risk. This
suggested that the amount kept on deposit would balance out the higher risk of investing in 
the equity fund.
I said I thought the fact find completed during the meeting with Legal & Generals 
representative was very sparsely completed. It didnt give much information about Mrs Bs 
lifestyle; future plans or her ability to be able to make up any losses from investments. But I 
thought about Mrs Bs particular circumstances - her age; retirement status and monthly 
income and outgoings  and also what she and her husband were looking for from the 
advice. And, on balance, I wasnt persuaded that Legal & Generals recommendation was 
right for Mrs B.
This was because, based on the existing savings she had with her husband, her risk profile
was described as minimal, and it was noted that, together with her husband, they were 
unsure about taking any risk at all with their capital. They hadnt previously done so.
The fact find noted that Mrs B was willing to put a portion of money into higher risk funds to
provide an overall risk profile that stayed cautious. However, Legal & Generals description
of cautious was someone investing in gilts and lower yielding corporate bonds; with-profits or
distribution bonds; and cautious managed funds.
The reasons why letter also showed that they were advised to keep £1,680 in deposit-based
accounts. However, Mrs B and her husband chose instead to keep around £6,500 as they
preferred to be strong in cash. And I said I thought this could show they may have had 
concerns about taking investment risk with more of their capital.
I said that although I appreciated that Legal & General may consider that Mrs Bs overall 
portfolio of savings and investments matched her need for a cautious approach, because the 
cash element off-set the risky elements, I wasnt persuaded that Mrs B was either willing or 
in a position to accept the risk associated with this recommendation for a fairly high 
proportion of her savings.So I said that Legal & General should compare the performance of Mrs Bs ISA with a 
benchmark. This should be the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index for 
half the investment, and the average rate from fixed rate bonds for the other half. I said this 
should be from the date of investment to the date the ISA was surrendered and 8% simple 
interest per year should be added from the end date to the date of settlement. 
The responses
Mrs Bs representatives responded to say that she agreed with my provisional decision.
Legal & General responded to say that, although it didnt agree with the entire rationale for 
upholding the complaint, it was willing to concede that the recommendation may not have 
been entirely suitable for Mrs B. So it said it would make an offer in line with the directions I 
set out. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Mrs B has accepted my provisional decision, and Legal & General has confirmed that it 
will make an offer in line with my findings, I see no reason to change the conclusions I 
reached.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mrs B 
as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given unsuitable 
advice.
I think Mrs B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely what she 
would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable 
given Mrs B's circumstances and objectives when she invested. 
What should Legal & General do? 
To compensate Mrs B fairly, Legal & General must:
Compare the performance of Mrs B's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Legal & General should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
ISA 
surrenderedfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate 
surrendered8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Legal & 
General should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mrs B wanted capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mrs B's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mrs B into that position. It does not mean that 
Mrs B would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mrs B could have obtained from investments suited 
to her objective and risk attitude. The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date. If Legal & General considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its 
taken off. It should also give Mrs B a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. My decision is that Legal & General Assurance Society Limited 
should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman