DRN-3840474
The complaint
Mr T complains that Revolut Ltd closed his account and returned funds to the senders.
What happened
Mr T had an account with Revolut. In September 2020, Revolut blocked the account  and in 
October, decided to close the account and return the remaining funds in the account to its 
senders. This included £11,432.72, and £105.62 in foreign currency.
But Mr T had been using the account to buy and sell cryptocurrency using a peer-to-peer 
cryptocurrency exchange. So when Revolut returned the funds, it returned the funds to the 
buyers of Mr Ts cryptocurrency.
Dissatisfied, Mr T referred matters to us.
Our investigator looked at the complaint and thought it should be upheld. Revolut didnt 
agree. The complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Financial businesses like Revolut are subject to a number of legal and regulatory 
requirements. This means Revolut needs to monitor their customers transactions and may 
need to review an account at any time. When it does this, it may also need to restrict the 
account  and doesnt need to give its customer reasons. Based on what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that Revolut was acting in line with these legal and regulatory requirements when it 
carried out its review. Im also satisfied that Revolut carried out the review in a timely 
manner.
Revolut then decided to return the funds to the accounts that had sent money to Mr Ts 
account. But having looked at everything Revolut has sent us, Im not persuaded this was 
justified. Based on what Ive seen, these payments mainly related to the sale of 
cryptocurrency. Mr T was using a peer-to-peer cryptocurrency exchange: the exchange in 
question held cryptocurrency in escrow until the parties had transferred the funds outside the 
platform. In this case, Mr T received payments to his Revolut account - which meant Mr T 
received funds directly from the accounts of the other party to the cryptocurrency 
transaction. 
Mr T has sent us screenshots from the exchange showing his trades with various third 
parties.  Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied that the payments Revolut returned related to 
genuine cryptocurrency trades. I see no reason that if Revolut had asked Mr T for further 
information about these payments, he wouldnt have provided this information. Revolut 
doesnt appear to have received any claims on these payments from the senders. Based on 
everything, it appears Mr T was entitled to the funds in question. Mr T was selling digital 
assets and received the funds in return  but now has lost both the digital assets and the 
funds.
Ive also considered whether Revolut treated Mr T unfairly in any other way. Mr T said hed 
paid a metal plan fee in January 2020  and is unhappy that this payment covered the 
period after his account was blocked and then closed.  I can see that after the account was 
blocked, it was unlikely Mr T would still be able to benefit from the plan. I also note that Mr T 
contacted Revolut a number of times to find out what had happened to his account. Given 
the sums involved, I can see that the lack of response would have caused Mr T some 
distress.
For these reasons, I conclude that the complaint should be upheld.
Ive therefore considered what Revolut needs to do to put things right. Ive concluded 
Revolut shouldnt have returned the funds to source. So Revolut should return them to Mr T. 
As Mr T has been out of pocket. it should also pay Mr T simple interest (the rate is 8% a 
year).
For the reasons Ive explained, I also think Revolut should pay Mr T a partial refund of the 
metal plan fee, reflecting the period the account was blocked until it was due to renew.
Ive thought about the further impact this all had on Mr T. Given the amounts involved, I can 
see that losing access to these funds would have been distressing. Mr T has also told us 
about the difficulties this caused paying for travel and constructing a property. With this in 
mind, I think Revolut caused distress and inconvenience. I think Revolut should pay Mr T 
£300 to reflect the trouble and upset it caused.
Putting things right
For the reasons above Revolut should:
Pay Mr T the amounts it returned to source.
Pay simple interest (the rate is 8%) on these amounts from the 16 October 2020 until 
the date Mr T gets the money back. If HM Revenue & Customs require Revolut to 
pay tax on this interest, Revolut should send Mr T a certificate setting out how it 
calculated this if he requires one.
Pay Mr T £300 for the trouble and upset it caused.
Pay Mr T a partial refund of the metal plan fee, reflecting the period from when the 
account was blocked until the plan was due to renew.
My final decision
For the reasons above I uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Revolut Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Hardman
Ombudsman