DRN-2436531
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about the way Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited handled a 
claim they made on their buildings insurance policy.
Mr and Mrs H are represented by Ms T.
What happened
In April 2020, Mr and Mrs H discovered a leak in their kitchen, which was repaired. But their 
kitchen suffered damage as a result of the leak and so they got in touch with Lloyds to make 
a claim on their home insurance policy.
As a result of the Covid-19 pandemic; national lockdown restrictions were in place. So the 
claim was referred to a personal claims consultant (PCC) to be handled. The PCC 
suggested that due to the lockdown, Mr and Mrs H should get a builder out to provide a 
quote for repairing the damage. Mr and Mrs H did so. The builder found that the water leak 
had seeped beneath the plywood covering the main flooring. He said that the kitchen units 
which had been damaged would need to be taken out and thrown away. But he also said he 
wouldnt be able to match the units with the existing, undamaged ones, so he felt all of the 
kitchen units ought to be replaced. Additionally, he thought new flooring would need to be 
laid onto new plywood, as he couldnt match the flooring which was already there.
Mr and Mrs Hs claim had been referred on to a more local PCC who reviewed the quote. As 
he said that non-damaged matching items werent covered by the policy terms; he asked if 
Mr and Mrs H could obtain a quote which provided a breakdown of the cost of replacing the 
damaged and non-damaged items separately. They did so and sent this on to the PCC.
Ultimately, in early June 2020, the PCC offered to cover the cost of replacing the floor; 
together with the damaged areas of the kitchen; the tiles and a 50% contribution towards the 
non-damaged matching kitchen items. This meant the PCC offered a cash settlement of 
£8000 for the kitchen and £1426.80 for the flooring. Initially, the cost of the new tiles was 
missed from the settlement, but Lloyds later made a separate payment of £250 to Mr and 
Mrs H to cover this cost.
Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with the way Lloyds had handled their claim and in particular, 
with the actions of their PCC. They didnt think that their claim had been handled with care or 
understanding and they didnt think reasonable adjustments had been made for them, given 
their personal circumstances. 
Lloyds accepted it hadnt handled the claim as well it mightve done and so it offered Mr and 
Mrs H £100 compensation. As Mr and Mrs H didnt think the offer was enough to recognise 
their trouble and stress, Ms T asked us to look into their complaint.
Our investigator thought Lloyds offer was fair. He thought Lloyds notes suggested that Mr 
and Mrs H had told their first PCC that they didnt want anyone to go out to their home and 
they wanted to wait until lockdown was over. He noted the policy didnt cover undamaged 
items which formed part of a matching set, but that it had paid 50% towards those items as 
we would generally expect it to do. He acknowledged that Lloyds couldve been clearer in 
the way it handled Mr and Mrs Hs claim, but he thought the offer of compensation it had 
made was reasonable. So he didnt think it needed to do anything more.
Ms T disagreed. She said the service Mr and Mrs H had received from their PCC had been 
appalling and theyd been left stressed and concerned with the way hed handled their claim. 
They didnt think £100 was representative of the stress theyd been caused.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think Lloyds offer of compensation is fair and reasonable. Ill explain why.
First, while Ive summarised the complaint, Id like to reassure Mr and Mrs H that Ive 
carefully considered everything theyve said and sent me, including the call they recorded 
between them and the PCC. In making my decision though, Ive focused on what I think are 
the key issues.
Did Lloyds settle the claim fairly and reasonably?
It seems from what Ms Ts told us that Mr and Mrs Hs complaint isnt really about whether 
Lloyds settled their claim fairly. During the claims process, the PCC explained that 
undamaged items which form part of a matching set arent covered by the policy terms. He 
also told Mr and Mrs H that Lloyds would cover their floor and 50% of the undamaged 
matching kitchen items. Mr and Mrs H accepted the offer.
Ive checked the policy terms and its clear that Lloyds specifically excludes from cover 
undamaged things which are part of a matching set. However, our general approach in 
cases like these is that its fair and reasonable for an insurer to pay 50% of the value of 
undamaged items which are part of a matching set as compensation for the loss of match. 
So Im pleased to see that Lloyds took this approach into account when it calculated its offer. 
Ive also listened to the call where the PCC explained how hed worked out the offer and 
what Lloyds contribution towards both the damaged and non-damaged items would be. I 
think this was clear and Mr and Mrs H appeared to understand and accept the offer he set 
out.
So overall, Im satisfied Lloyds offer of settlement was fair and reasonable and was in line 
with our general approach when considering cases like these.
Did Lloyds handle the claim fairly and reasonably?
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. From 
all Mr and Mrs H have said, I understand they feel Lloyds didnt treat them fairly. So Ive 
thought about all theyve said and Ive considered their call recording, together with Lloyds 
claims notes, which also form part of the evidence which shows what happened at the time.
Ms T told us that Mr and Mrs H didnt feel Lloyds had been understanding of their situation 
and hadnt made reasonable adjustments. Lloyds notes show that when Mr and Mrs H first 
made the claim, the call handler recorded that they were vulnerable and shielding due to 
Covid-19. It was on this basis that a PCC was asked to handle the claim. The notes also 
state that when Mr and Mrs H spoke to the first PCC, they didnt want anyone to go out to their home. So the PCC suggested they get their own builder to provide a quote for the 
repairs. And the notes say that when the second PCC spoke to Mr and Mrs H, they told him 
that they didnt want anyone to visit their home and they didnt want a drying company to 
come out. On this basis, it does seem that Lloyds did take Mr and Mrs Hs wishes into 
account and tried its best to ensure the claim could be progressed during the early days of 
national lockdown.
The claim was made on 14 April 2020 and the PCC made his cash offer on 3 June 2020. It 
seems the builder first visited Mr and Mrs Hs home on 23 April 2020 and provided his 
revised quote on 27 May 2020. Given he couldnt visit the property, I think it was reasonable 
for the PCC to ask for a breakdown of costs which separated out the damaged and non-
damaged areas, so that Lloyds could establish what was and wasnt covered by the policy. I 
dont think asking for this information unreasonably delayed the claim. The PCC had 
suggested that a builder who could potentially colour-match the existing units might be able 
to help Mr and Mrs H get the damage fixed without needing to replace the whole kitchen. But 
I think, given Mr and Mrs H said the smell of the kitchen was intolerable, it was appropriate 
for the PCC to pay them a cash settlement at that point. This would allow the repair works to 
be done as quickly as possible rather than delay things further.
I understand Mr and Mrs H feel the PCC was unhelpful and provided poor service. The 
investigator asked Lloyds if it had recordings of the discussions between the second PCC 
and Mr and Mrs H. But it said these calls arent recorded because theyre made from mobile 
phones. Mr and Mrs H sent me a recording they made of a call between them and the PCC. 
I do think there were some failings in the way the PCC spoke to Mr and Mrs H. Both parties 
were clearly frustrated and I dont think the PCC was as clear as he could and should have 
been. Having considered all of the evidence though, I dont think a breakdown in 
communications between the PCC and Mr and Mrs H caused their claim to be unreasonably 
delayed. I dont think a period of roughly six weeks to settle a large claim during a lockdown 
situation is unreasonable.
Taking the above together with the failure to initially include the £250 payment for the tiles in 
the settlement paid to Mr and Mrs H, I think £100 is fair compensation to recognise the 
trouble and upset Lloyds caused them. I think Lloyds has acknowledged that it didnt handle 
the claim as well as it shouldve done and Im satisfied £100 recognises the impact this had 
on Mr and Mrs H at an already stressful time. Its inevitable that a large-scale claim will 
cause some inconvenience and it was unfortunate that the claim happened during a period 
of national restrictions. This likely did have some effect on how quickly insurers could 
appoint contractors or resolve claims.
All in all, I think Lloyds offer to pay Mr and Mrs H £100 compensation is fair and Im not 
directing it to pay anything more.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that Lloyds offer of compensation is 
fair and reasonable.
I direct Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs H £100.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 March 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman