DRN-4307644
Complaint
Mr D has complained about loans Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Personal 
Finance provided to him under its Hitachi brand. For ease of reference Ill refer to the 
respondent as Hitachi in this final decision. 
He says Hitachi failed to conduct proportionate checks and if had carried out such checks it 
would have seen that he shouldnt have been provided with these loans.
Background
In May 2019, Hitachi provided Mr D with a first loan for £6,000.00. This loan had an APR of 
18.9% and a 36-month term. The total amount to be repaid of £7,747.92, which included 
interest, fees and charges of £1,747.92, was due to be repaid in 36 monthly instalments of 
£215.22. 
Mr D successfully applied for a second loan for £8,000.00 in November 2019. This loan had 
an APR of 16.9% and a 60-month term. The total amount to be repaid of £11,601.60, which 
included interest, fees and charges of £3,601.60, was due to be repaid in 60 monthly 
instalments of £193.62. So when this loan was provided to Mr D hed have to make 
combined payments to Hitachi of £408.84 for two and a half years, before hed then only be 
left with making the required payments of £193.62 towards loan 2. 
One of our investigators reviewed what Mr D and Hitachi had told us. And she thought that 
Hitachi hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr D unfairly. So she didnt recommend that 
Mr Ds complaint be upheld. Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ds complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Hitachi needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Hitachi needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr D 
could afford to repay before providing these loans. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
Hitachi provided Mr D with personal loans for £6,000.00 and £9,000.00 in May 2019 and 
November 2019. These loans were due to be repaid in 36 instalments of just over £215 and 
just over £190 respectively. And as Ive explained, Mr D had to make combined payments of 
just over £400 to Hitachi for at least two and a half years. 
Hitachi says it agreed to Mr Ds applications after he provided details of his monthly income 
and some information on his expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against the funds 
being received into his bank account and information on credit searches it carried out and all 
of this information showed Mr D could comfortably afford to make the repayments he was 
committing to. On the other hand, Mr D has said he was in financial difficulty, had always 
had a poor credit score and was in negotiations with partially settling a loan with another 
lender to avoid going into bankruptcy.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr D and Hitachi have said. 
The first thing for me to say is that Hitachi has provided a record of the results of its credit 
searches. Hitachi searches appear to show that Mr D had existing credit but that his 
commitments at the time were relatively well maintained. And while I appreciate that Mr D 
has provided a copy of a letter offering to short settle, what looks to be a car finance 
agreement, this loan didnt show as being outstanding at the time of Mr Ds applications to 
Hitachi.
Its unclear why this outstanding balance didnt show on Novunas credit searches. But Ive 
also seen that the details of this agreement do not show up on the copy of the full credit file 
Mr D has provided us with in support of his complaint. Indeed the only reference to the 
agreement in question is a possible address link. And as that agreement was recorded 
against a different address to the address recorded for Mr Ds Hitachi applications, this may 
well be the reason why it didnt show on Hitachis credit searches.  
As Hitachi clearly wasnt aware of the agreement Mr D has referred to, I cant reasonably 
say that it ought to have factored into its decision making. And crucially, according to the 
credit searches, Mr Ds debt total at the time of the respective applications were reasonable 
in comparison to his declared income and they appeared to be relatively well managed  
indeed Mr D had made all of his repayments to loan 1 in full and on time by the time he 
applied for loan 2.
I know that Mr D says he didnt earn £50,000.00 a year at this time. He says he was self-
employed and put down £50,000.00 for his earnings as this is what he hoped to earn during 
the course of the year. This may be the case but as Hitachis checks on the funds Mr Ds 
current account was receiving suggesting that this was a plausible declaration of income, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for Hitachi to have proceeded with Mr Ds applications 
on the basis of him having an income of £50,000.00 a year  particularly as there doesnt 
seem to be anything else obvious to have contradicted Mr Ds declaration.
Furthermore, the rest of the information demonstrated that when Mr Ds regular living costs 
and credit commitments were deducted from this income, he still had enough left over to be 
able to make the payments to these loans. So its difficult for me to say that Hitachi needed 
to do more, or more importantly it should have decided against lending to Mr D.    I accept that Mr Ds actual circumstances were not have fully reflected either in the 
information he provided, or the information Hitachi obtained. I know that Mr D has said that 
he has had mental health issues since childhood and this has meant that hes constantly 
been in a negative financial position. And its also clear from the credit file information that 
Mr D has now provided his circumstances took a significant turn for the worse from around 
the middle of 2020. Im sorry to learn of all of this and I do sympathise with the position Mr D 
is in.
However, the key here is whether Hitachi ought reasonably to have known this. And I dont 
think that this is the case here. As Ive explained there wasnt anything that could have put 
Hitachi on notice of Mr Ds mental health issues at the time of the applications and there was 
no way it could know that Mr Ds circumstances would change in the way that they did in 
2020, or the massive impact that this would have on his financial position. 
Indeed, the credit file information Mr D has provided now shows he had a good credit 
repayment record from June 2017 to around May 2020. So given this is what the information 
provided now shows, I can only say that all Hitachi could do was make reasonable decisions 
based on the information it did have at the time of the respective applications. 
Ive also kept in mind that loan 2 was taken relatively soon after loan 1. But it as Ive 
explained Mr D had maintained his payments to loan 1. And there wasnt anything to indicate 
that the total amount Mr D would owe, or the combined monthly payments, would be 
unmanageable give what Hitachi reasonably believed Mr Ds income to be. 
Furthermore, given the amounts involved, it wasnt immediately obvious that Mr D might 
have been taking loan 2 because of the effect the repayments to loan 1 was having on his 
finances. And there isnt anything else obvious in either of these applications which lead me 
to think that further checks would have been reasonable and proportionate, particularly as all 
of the information that was obtained showed the loans to be affordable.
As this is the case, I dont think that Hitachi did anything wrong when deciding to lend to     
Mr D - it carried out proportionate checks and reasonably relied on what it found out which 
suggested the repayments were affordable. And the second loan was provided in 
circumstances where Mr Ds indebtedness didnt appear to be increasing unsustainably 
either. 
So overall I dont think that Hitachi treated Mr D unfairly or unreasonably when providing him 
with his loans. And Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr D. But I hope that he will understand the reasons for my decision and 
that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding this complaint, Id like remind Hitachi of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration should it intend to collect on the outstanding balance on 
Mr Ds loans. I say this in light of the fact of what Hitachi has learned about Mr Ds position 
during the course of this complaint. 
Its also worth noting that Mr D may  subject to any jurisdictional concerns - be able to refer 
a complaint to us, notwithstanding his irresponsible lending complaints not having been 
upheld, should he consider that Hitachi isnt exercising forbearance and due consideration in 
the way it is required to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman