DRN-3324166
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) approved an overdraft 
facility for him when he switched accounts. He says the overdraft wasnt affordable for him.
 
What happened
Mr S opened an account with NatWest and successfully applied for an overdraft in January 
2019. Within a month Mr S was at the top of his overdraft limit and in June NatWest gave 
notice to Mr S that it was going to close his account.
Mr S complained to NatWest that it didnt carry out proper affordability checks when he 
applied for his overdraft. NatWest said his application was fully credit scored and assessed 
against its lending criteria in force at the time. It says all charges were applied correctly in 
line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mr S was dis-satisfied with this and brought his complaint to this service. Mr S would like a 
refund of the interest and charges paid.  
Following this NatWest made the following offer:
NatWest would refund the interest and charges since the account opened on 31 
January 2019 (totalling £704.71).
This left an outstanding balance of £309.95. NatWest advised it would reduce the overdraft 
facility to prevent the charges increasing again and that Mr S contact it to make a payment 
plan to clear the remaining balance. 
Mr S didnt want to accept this offer, he would like negative information recorded on his 
credit report to be removed and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ss complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail. 
NatWest needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
NatWest needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. Our 
website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income 
was low or the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the 
greater the risk of it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial 
difficulty. 
Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether NatWest did what it needed to 
before agreeing to Mr Ss overdraft. Mr S was given what was an open-ended credit facility. 
So overall this means the checks NatWest carried out had to provide enough for it to be able 
to understand whether Mr S would be able to repay his overdraft within a reasonable period 
of time. 
NatWest says Mr S opened an account and applied for a £1,250 overdraft online on 31 
January 2019. The application was fully credit scored taking into account information Mr S 
provided about his income and outgoings as well as information held by other lenders 
provided through credit reference checks. And based on this information NatWest was 
satisfied his score was high enough to provide him with the overdraft facility he requested.
I accept that Mr Ss financial position may well have been worse than the credit check 
carried out showed or in any information he disclosed to NatWest at the time. And it is 
possible that further checks might have told NatWest this. But NatWest was reasonably 
entitled to rely on the credit check it carried out. Given there is no evidence of any adverse 
information shown on the credit check and the amount of credit being advanced was 
relatively low, I think NatWests checks went far enough. 
But in any case, I dont think this matters because NatWest has already agreed to do what 
Id recommend if Id found it had done something wrong.
Where a business accepts (or we decide) it did something wrong, wed expect the business 
to put the consumer in the position they would be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in 
an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a consumer in the position theyd now be in if they 
hadnt been charged the fees and given the credit they shouldnt have.
So where a business provides a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unaffordable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unaffordable  in this case from 31 January 
2019. And if those interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
NatWest has told us that Mr S is left with an outstanding debt, once all adjustments have 
been made, and hes been refunded all of the interest, fees and charges caused by his 
overdraft from January 2019. So while Mr S has been left with a balance and he might be 
unhappy with this, NatWest has offered to do what Id normally expect it to do here.
Furthermore, I understand Mr S is unhappy about negative information being reported on his 
credit file and would like this information removed. But NatWest does have a duty to make 
sure the information it reports on its customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it 
subscribes to is factually accurate. And as Mr S retains an outstanding balance with 
NatWest it is entitled to report this information.
So bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that what NatWest has already agreed to do for Mr S 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case and Im not requiring it to do 
anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr S to decide whether he wishes to accept 
NatWests offer.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what National Westminster Bank Plc has 
already agreed to do is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case. So Im not 
requiring it to do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman