DRN-3779283
The complaint
Mr M complains about the advice given by Pareto Financial Planning Limited (Pareto) to 
transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss.
Mr M is represented by a Claims Management Company, but for ease, Ill refer to the 
complaint as being brought by Mr M.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Ms employer announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business, including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which 
included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined- 
benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their 
benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr M was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of his DB scheme. Mr M met with an Independent Financial Advisor (IFA) in May 2016 to 
discuss accessing his pension for the purpose of purchasing a property. Mr M had already 
left the DB scheme and was contributing to his employers new defined contribution (DC) 
scheme.
Mr M was referred by the IFA to an appointed representative of Pareto. A fact find was 
completed to gather information about Mr Ms circumstances and objectives. Mr M says this 
was completed by the IFA and passed to Pareto.
Pareto also carried out an assessment of Mr Ms attitude to risk (ATR), which it deemed to 
be balanced. However, following further conversations, a fund was recommended assessing 
Mr Ms ATR as conservative.
On 30 August 2016, Pareto advised Mr M to transfer his DB pension benefits into a personal 
pension, take 25% as tax free cash (TFC) and invest the proceeds into a Flexible Access 
Income Draw Down plan. The suitability report said the reasons for this recommendation 
were:
Mr M was concerned around the security of his current occupational scheme 
and Mr M didnt want to risk scaled down benefits or losing the current transfer 
value if it defaulted into the PPF.
Mr M was concerned that his partner may not benefit from his occupational 
scheme in the event of his death given that they were not married.
Mr M wished to access the TFC offered by the personal pension to purchase 
his existing property under the right-to-buy scheme (RTB) and repay a loan. 
However, he planned to continue working to age 67. The personal pension 
allowed him to take the TFC but keep the remaining funds invested in a pension 
plan.
Mr M complained in October 2020 to Pareto about the suitability of the transfer advice 
because he said he realised hed be worse off having transferred his pension.
Pareto didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. It said, in summary, it had discounted the option of 
allowing the plan to default into the PPF or switching to his employers new DB scheme as 
neither allowed him to take the TFC unless he took an income as well, which he didnt want 
to do given his plans to continue working. It said it had discounted borrowing money for the 
RTB purchase as it didnt think it would leave Mr M with enough disposable income.
Mr M referred his complaint to our Service. An Investigator upheld the complaint and 
required Pareto to pay compensation. He thought that Mr M shouldve been advised to take 
his DB pension benefits at the time as this wouldve given him access to the TFC. Whilst this 
meant he wouldve had to draw an income immediately, our investigator said this 
outweighed the benefits of transferring to a personal pension given the amount the pension 
would be required to grow to achieve similar benefits at age 67.
Mr M accepted our Investigators opinion. Pareto disagreed, saying:
Mr M was aware of what was being proposed and this met his objectives.
The amount of TFC available from his DB scheme had he taken the benefits 
wouldnt be enough for the RTB purchase and to repay his loan.
Mr M wasnt dependent on this pension income and was prepared to accept 
some risk.
Mr M had a state pension which he could rely upon in retirement.
Pareto had made it clear that the advice would result in Mr M losing pension 
benefits but still met his main objectives.
The Investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 14 October 2022. In this, I said the following:
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than 
not to have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Pareto's actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for largely the same reasons given by the investigator. However, the redress Im 
requiring Pareto to pay is different to that recommended by the Investigator.
First, Id like to note that Pareto has responded to our Investigator in great detail. Ive thought 
about everything it has said. However, I wont respond to each and every point Pareto has 
made. Instead, Ill be focussing on the crux of this complaint  the advice to transfer the DB 
pension and the main objections Pareto has made to the investigators view. This doesnt 
mean I havent considered all of the arguments; it simply reflects the informal nature of this 
service.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Pareto 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Ms best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied it was 
in his best interests.
Pareto accepts that the critical yield required for the recommended transfer to match the 
guaranteed benefits offered by the DB scheme was unachievable. But it says that the 
transfer achieved Mr Ms key objectives of releasing cash without needing to take an income 
at the time and providing for his partner in the event of his death. I agree that the critical yield 
was unachievable, and Mr M was very likely to be significantly worse off in retirement if he 
transferred out of the DB scheme. So, Ive focussed this decision on whether it was right for 
Pareto to recommend the transfer in spite of this for other reasons.
Flexibility
Mr M didnt want to retire early, but its clear Mr M was motivated by the idea of taking TFC 
to help purchase his RTB. However, Im satisfied he could have achieved this by staying in 
the DB scheme. There were two alternative options from what I can see.
The first option wouldve been for Mr M to borrow the full amount he required to purchase 
the property - £36,500. He couldve done this by taking a mortgage until his expected 
retirement age. A basic mortgage calculator shows that a mortgage of £36,500 taken over 
10 years with an interest rate of 5% (a rate most likely higher than the one Mr M couldve 
obtained at the time) would result in monthly payments of £387. Given that Mr M would no 
longer be paying rent, I think this wouldve likely been affordable for him. And as Pareto 
recorded, the property was worth approximately £80,000, so I dont think its likely the 
mortgage wouldve been denied.
Pareto has calculated that this wouldve reduced his net disposable income (NDI) to around 
£280 per month. However, this doesnt seem to take into account that the mortgage 
wouldve replaced the rent he was paying. So, Im not persuaded that his NDI wouldve 
reduced to this level and Im not persuaded that Pareto fully investigated this option. Its also 
possible that Mr M couldve lived with an NDI of £280. He was living with his partner and 
there were no details of any income she was contributing to the household. Mr M says she 
was working at the time, so I think this shouldve been a consideration as well.
Mr M couldve also been asked whether there was any other way he couldve borrowed the 
funds. Given the low amount, a personal loan couldve been an option. And Mr M has since 
told us he didnt use all of the TFC towards the property purchase as he was able to borrow 
funds from family. I think Pareto shouldve explored all of these options first before 
recommending an irreversible transfer out of his DB scheme. Had it done so, I think it 
wouldve become clear that the transfer wasnt necessary or suitable as there were other 
options available to Mr M rather than taking the TFC.The other option available to Mr M wouldve been to take the benefits from the DB scheme 
at the time of the advice. According to the retirement quote dated 27 July 2016, if Mr M took 
his benefits immediately, he would be entitled to take £23,237 as TFC. This wouldve been 
sufficient to cover the £18,250 Mr M said he needed for his deposit and the £1,500 he 
expected to need to cover the cost of the house purchase.
Pareto says that in order to secure and be able to afford the mortgage of £18,250 Mr M 
needed to also pay off his car loan of £6,000. But I havent seen evidence to this effect. The 
suitability report says:
My understanding from the information that you have provided is that accessing the 
maximum tax free cash from the pension scheme now is your only viable option as you 
require £18,250 for deposit, £1,500 for costs and £6,000 to clear your car loan to enable 
affordability on the mortgage. This would come to £25,750 which exceeds the tax free cash 
offered by the pension scheme as you do not have other assets which you could reasonably 
use to make up the difference.
But I dont think this demonstrates that Mr M obtaining the mortgage was contingent on him 
clearing the car loan. I also cant see any evidence to demonstrate that Mr M wouldnt have 
been able to afford both the car loan and the mortgage. The mortgage calculator shows that 
a mortgage of £18,250 taken over 10 years with an interest rate of 5% would result in 
monthly payments of £194. I dont know what Mr Ms monthly car loan repayment was 
because Pareto didnt record these details. But I find it hard to believe that Mr M wouldnt 
have been able to afford both the mortgage and the car loan, particularly as by taking his 
benefits early from the DB scheme hed be receiving around £3,500 per year in income. This 
increased his annual income to £30,000 and after tax, this meant an increase to his monthly 
pay of over £250. This was more than enough to cover the cost of the mortgage.
And in any event, after covering the costs associated with the house purchase, Mr M 
wouldve been left with just under £3,500 of his TFC. The fact-find completed by the first IFA 
said Mr M had £2,200 in savings. The two together wouldve more or less enabled Mr M to 
repay the car loan, if in fact he needed to do so, to be able to secure the mortgage. So, Im 
not persuaded by Paretos argument that transferring Mr Ms pension was the only way he 
could achieve his objective of purchasing his home.
According to the information gathered by Pareto, Mr M said he needed approximately 
£12,000 per year in retirement. As Ive said above, if Mr M took benefits from the DB scheme 
at 56 he would be entitled to an annual income of around £3,500 per year. However, this 
pension wouldve increased annually in line with the scheme rules  so Im satisfied that this 
wouldve increased to at least £4,500 by the time Mr M reached age 67. Pareto has recorded 
that Mr M was expecting a state pension of approximately £8,000 per year at age 67. These 
two sources of income combined would have been sufficient to meet Mr Ms requirements. It 
was also noted that Mr M planned to contribute to his employers new DC scheme, so he 
wouldve had additional funds to rely on, which wouldve given him extra flexibility.
Overall, I dont think it was suitable advice for Pareto to recommend that Mr M transfer his 
DB benefits to a personal pension to facilitate the purchase of a house. As Ive demonstrated 
above, I think borrowing money by another means, or taking the DB pension benefits at the 
time, wouldve enabled Mr M to meet his objective.
On balance, I think Pareto shouldve advised Mr M to remain in his DB scheme and take his 
benefits from the scheme instead. I say this because I dont know if Mr Ms RTB offer 
precluded him from taking a mortgage for the full purchase price. Im also mindful that Mr M approached Pareto because he was only interested in taking a mortgage for 50% of the sum 
he needed.
I think it wouldve been suitable advice for Mr M to access his benefits because he couldve 
used the TFC to cover his property deposit and associated fees and used the remainder to 
part pay down his car loan or boost his savings. While this would mean Mr M wouldve also 
started receiving income that he didnt strictly need, I think this additional income wouldve 
given him scope to pay off his new mortgage or car loan sooner. In any event, I dont think 
the fact Mr M wouldve had to pay income tax on this extra income shouldve been a barrier 
to him taking the benefits. Paretos suitability report said Mr M wasnt relying on this income 
in retirement as he thought his and his partners state pension would be sufficient. So, the 
fact Mr M would be paying extra income tax on this pension wouldnt have mattered to him, 
particularly as he wouldve still been a basic rate taxpayer. And in my view, this was a small 
price to pay for Mr Ms security in retirement.
Death benefits
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr M. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr M might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr M about what was best for his retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement. And I dont think Pareto explored to what extent 
Mr M was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
Pareto says that its unlikely that Mr Ms partner wouldve been entitled to the spouses 
benefit through the DB scheme because they werent married. But the spouses benefit 
couldve been paid to Mr Ms partner even if they werent married. And I think the value of 
this benefit was underplayed. I think it wouldve been useful if Mr M predeceased his partner 
 it was guaranteed and it escalated, whereas the sum payable on Mr Ms death depended 
wholly on investment performance and how much of the funds remained.
Furthermore, if Mr M genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his partner, which didnt depend 
on investment returns or how much of his pension fund remained on his death, I think Pareto 
shouldve instead explored life insurance. If explored on a term assurance basis, this was 
likely to be affordable.
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr M. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Concerns about financial stability of BSPS
Mr M was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently made the announcement 
about its plans for the scheme and he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. 
Hed heard negative things about the PPF and thought hed he preferred to have control 
over his pension fund.
So, its quite possible that Mr M was also leaning towards the decision to transfer because of 
the concerns he had about his employer and the PPF. However, it was Paretos obligation to 
give Mr M an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interest.And given that I think Mr M shouldve been advised to take his benefits immediately, I think 
that Pareto shouldve reassured Mr M that the scheme moving to the PPF wasnt as 
concerning as he thought. Mr Ms TFC wouldnt have been affected because hed have 
taken it before the scheme moved. And although his annual pension was likely to be 
reduced once the move completed, I dont think the reduction wouldve been significant 
because the early retirement factors were more favourable under the PPF particularly where 
TFC had been taken. So, I dont think that these concerns shouldve led to Pareto 
recommending he transfer out of the DB scheme.
Summary
I dont doubt that the access to the TFC and potential for higher death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension would have sounded like attractive features to Mr M. But Pareto 
wasnt there to just transact what Mr M might have thought he wanted. The advisers role 
was to really understand what Mr M needed and recommend what was in his best interests. 
Overall, I dont think that transferring out of the DB scheme was in Mr Ms best interests as 
he had other options available to him to meet his objectives.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr M was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring, Mr M was very likely to obtain 
lower retirement benefits and, in my view, while Mr M could have transferred his benefits to 
facilitate his house purchase, I dont think that was in his best interest. As Ive said above,
I think suitable advice in Mr Ms circumstances wouldve been to take his DB scheme 
benefits. This wouldve meant Mr M remained in the scheme and moved with it to the PPF.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr M would've gone ahead anyway, against Paretos 
advice. Pareto argues that Mr M had already taken the decision to leave his previous 
employers scheme and wouldve done so even if it had advised him against this. It says 
Mr M was very engaged throughout the process, knew what he was giving up and wanted 
access to the TFC.
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr M wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the DB scheme, against Paretos advice. I say this because, whilst Mr M 
mayve been engaged in the process, he was an inexperienced investor with a balanced 
attitude to risk and this pension accounted for the majority of his retirement provision other 
than state benefits and pensions. So, if Pareto had provided him with clear advice against 
transferring out of the DB scheme, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests and how he 
could meet his objectives by instead taking his benefits from the scheme, I think he wouldve 
accepted that advice.
Ive thought about Mr Ms concerns about the security of the scheme. But I am not 
persuaded they were so great that he wouldve insisted on the transfer knowing that a 
professional adviser, whose expertise he was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him 
or in his best interests. Especially given he wouldve already been able to take his TFC 
before the scheme moved to the PPF and his annual income was unlikely to have been 
reduced by that much.
In light of the above, I think Pareto should compensate Mr M for the unsuitable advice, using 
the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the PPF that should be used for comparison 
purposes.
Our investigator felt that an award for distress and inconvenience was warranted in this 
case. Ive thought about this, but I disagree. I do think the advice met some of Mr Ms 
objectives as it allowed him to purchase his property. And it was explained to Mr M what he was giving up. This doesnt mean the advice was suitable. But I think its only recently that 
Mr M has found out that the advice was unsuitable. Because of this, I dont think the advice 
has caused a significant amount of upset to warrant further compensation above what I am 
already recommending.
I went on in my provisional decision to set out how I thought Pareto should put matters right. 
I wont repeat this here as Ill cover this again later in this decision.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional decision before 28 October 2022.
Mr Ms representative responded on his behalf in great detail. In summary, it said:
Evidence suggested that Mr M wouldnt have retired until age 65 had he been 
properly advised and the redress I was proposing based on him retiring earlier than 
this means he would be under compensated. It pointed out that he still hasnt retired.
Mr M couldve easily obtained a mortgage to purchase the RTB property. It felt I had 
confused a RTB with a shared ownership mortgage when saying he may not have 
been able to obtain a mortgage for the entire amount he needed.
Ultimately Mr M didnt proceed with purchasing the RTB and purchased a separate 
property using the TFC to fund the deposit and a mortgage and funds from family to 
fund the balance. 
It said that Mr Ms actions showed that he wouldve remained in the scheme and 
ultimately joined its replacement scheme when it was finalised.
It asked that I revisit the proposed redress and base it on Mr M retiring at age 65.
Pareto responded saying, in summary:
It believed Mr M wouldve transferred his pension, regardless of the advice he was 
given.
It questioned my decision to calculate compensation from Mr Ms 55th birthday given 
that he opted out of the scheme some months after this. 
It maintained that it felt Mr M wouldnt be financially disadvantaged by the transfer 
and that he can still afford to meet his expenditure requirements in retirement.
Ive now decided I have enough information to proceed and issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be responding to each and every point that Pareto and Mr M have made, nor in the 
detail in which theyve responded to my provisional decision. Thats not because I havent 
thought about everything theyve said. It simply reflects the informal nature of this service.
Having considered both parties submissions, I find myself coming to the same conclusion 
that this complaint should be upheld for largely the same reasons. And I maintain that the 
redress I proposed within my provisional decision remains suitable in this particular case for 
the same reasons. I will address some of what I consider the key points that both Pareto and 
Mr M have raised in their responses to my provisional decision. 
Mr Ms key point is that he says he wouldve retired from the scheme at age 65 and the fact 
that he is still working evidences this. Mr M also says that he didnt need access to the TFC.Ive thought about both of these points and it seems to me that this argument is being made 
with the benefit of hindsight. And this isnt something I can take into account when making 
my decision. I need to consider what I think was suitable advice for Mr M at the time and 
what he wouldve likely done knowing what he knew then, not now.
It's clear Mr M was concerned about the viability of his employers pension scheme. And this 
on its own was a reason for him to at least consider his options with the pension. 
Furthermore, at the time it seems Mr M had clear plans of what he was going to do with the 
TFC. Pareto argued that the TFC available under the DB scheme wasnt sufficient to meet 
his needs. I explained why I didnt agree with this. But that doesnt mean I think Mr M 
wouldve simply left his pension as it was and remained in the scheme. Whilst he may not 
have used the TFC in the same manner he expected, I note he still did use some of the TFC 
to put towards the purchase of a different property. So, it seems likely to me that he wouldve 
used the TFC available from the scheme in the same way.
Mr M has argued that he couldve easily arranged a mortgage which was what the bulk of 
the TFC was planned for. And he says he believes I may be confusing a RTB with a shared 
ownership. Im aware of the difference between these two products. Whilst some lenders will 
allow a tenant to borrow 100% of the cost on a RTB purchase, not all will. Many still require 
a deposit from the borrower as well. Of course, I cant know what type of mortgage Mr M 
wouldve been eligible for. But he may well have needed a deposit, and, even if not, he 
wouldve needed to pay some upfront fees. I cant see Mr M had access to funds to be able 
to provide this at the time. Im also mindful that Mr M first approached Pareto wanting to only 
take a mortgage for 50% of what he needed to purchase the RTB. Keep mortgage costs 
lower would likely have been appealing as well. When taking into account paying off the car 
loan, I think Mr M had clear and committed plans for the TFC and wanted to access a lump 
sum in some way.
Overall, I think the concerns of the viability of the DB scheme at the time, coupled with the 
need and appeal of taking the TFC available under the existing scheme means that Mr M 
was always likely to take action here rather than simply remain in the scheme and working. 
However, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I think the right advice at the 
time was for Pareto to tell Mr M to take benefits at the time instead of transferring. And I 
think, on balance, had Pareto advised Mr M to do this, he wouldve done so. Hed sought 
expert advice from them and, as he followed the advice to transfer, I think he wouldve 
followed advice to take benefits at the time. Especially considering it met his objectives of 
releasing TFC and leaving his existing scheme.
While not an issue raised by either side in response to my provisional decision, Id like to 
clarify I point I made in that decision relating to the DB scheme death benefits. As 
I understand it, a common law partner would not benefit from the spouses pension under 
the DB scheme. However, this doesnt make a difference to my findings as I think Mr Ms key 
reason for seeking advice was to determine how he could access some cash to purchase his 
RTB property. And for the reasons Ive already given, I dont think he shouldve been 
advised to transfer to meet that need  he shouldve been advised to take the scheme 
benefits instead. I dont think any concerns Pareto said Mr M had about his partner not 
benefitting from the spouses pension was such a priority that transferring out of the scheme 
wouldve been in his best interests or suitable advice.
Pareto has said that it believes Mr M wouldve transferred his pension regardless of its 
advice. Ive already explained why I dont think this is the case. I agree Mr M was concerned 
enough that he no longer wanted to be a part of the existing DB scheme. But transferring 
wasnt the only option. I think it shouldve advised him to take his benefits at the time and I 
think he would have.I also recognise Mr M opted out of the existing scheme. But I think this is likely due to his 
concerns over the viability of the scheme and the fact that it was likely to close. So, this 
doesnt affect the outcome of my decision which is considering the advice to transfer as a 
whole. 
Pareto has questioned why I am asking it to base compensation on Mr M retiring on his 55th 
birthday. I think this is a misunderstanding on Paretos part. But for clarity, Im saying that 
compensation should be based on Mr M having taken the benefits from his DB scheme at 
the time the advice was given and when the transfer in fact occurred. Mr M was 55 at the 
time, hence my reference to this. But this doesnt mean Im suggesting compensation should 
be based on the date he turned 55.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and has set out its proposals in a consultation document - CP22/15-calculating redress for 
non-compliant pension transfer advice. The consultation closed on 27 September 2022 with 
any changes expected to be implemented in early 2023.
In this consultation, the FCA has said that it considers that the current redress methodology 
in Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for 
unsuitable defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes 
are not necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers 
it could improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate 
redress.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 whilst the consultation takes place. 
But until changes take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their 
compensation to be calculated in line with any new rules and guidance that may come into 
force after the consultation has concluded.
Weve previously asked Mr M whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the any new guidance /rules to be published. He has 
chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint.
I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr M.
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr M, as far as possible, 
into the position he would now be in but for Paretos unsuitable advice. If suitable advice had 
been given, I consider Mr M would have most likely remained in his DB scheme, taken his 
benefits immediately and subsequently moved with it to the PPF.
Pareto must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
As I think Mr M wouldve taken his DB scheme benefits immediately if hed been given 
suitable advice, compensation should be based on him having retired at age 55.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ms acceptance of the decision.Pareto may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ms 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ms SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ms pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr M as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So, making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr M within 90 days of the date Pareto receives notification 
of his acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Pareto to pay Mr M.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In October 2020, due to an improved funding position, the BSPS trustees bought an 
insurance policy as part of the process of the pension scheme exiting its PPF assessment 
and completing a buy-out. Pension Insurance Corporation plc (PIC) will become responsible 
for paying benefits directly to members. The process of the buy-out was expected to be 
completed by late summer 2022.
It's been announced that:
When the buy-out happens all members whose PPF benefits are less than their full Scheme 
benefits (i.e. the amount they would be if the Scheme were not in a PPF assessment period) 
will see an increase to their benefits. All other members will see no change as a result of the 
buy-out.
For most members, PPF level benefits are less than full Scheme benefits. When the buyout 
happens, these members will see an increase to their current level of benefits so they will 
receive more than PPF levels. All other members will see no change to their current level of 
benefits as a result of the buy-out.
If Mr M had received suitable advice hed have taken his benefits from the scheme before it 
had entered the PPF assessment period. Due to the lower early retirement reduction factor 
which would have applied in the PPF, I think (albeit without certainty in advance of knowing 
the detailed terms of the buy-out) that entry into the PPF would have produced an overall 
better outcome for Mr M. As such, I think its more likely the case that there would be no 
deficit in the PPF benefits which could be made up by the buy-out process.For this reason I require Pareto to undertake a redress calculation on the current known 
basis, rather than wait for the terms of any future buy-out to be confirmed. This is in order to 
provide a resolution as swiftly as possible for both parties, and bring finality to proceedings.
If Mr M accepts my final decision, he will be doing so on the basis of my understanding as 
set out above. Its important that Mr M is aware that, once any final decision has been 
issued, if accepted, it cannot be amended or revisited in the future.
If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect Pareto Financial Planning Limited to carry out a 
calculation in line with the updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Pareto Financial 
Planning Limited to pay Mr M the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Pareto Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr M any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Pareto 
Financial Planning Limited to pay Mr M any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Pareto Financial Planning Limited pays Mr M the balance. I would additionally recommend 
any interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr M.
If Mr M accepts any final decision I issue, the money award becomes binding on Pareto 
Financial Planning Limited. 
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr M can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr M may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman