DRN-2739942
The complaint
Mr B complains that Suffolk Life Pensions Limited trading as Curtis Banks Pensions (CBP) 
is charging fees to his Self Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) account, without serving 
proper notice.
What happened
Mr B had a SIPP with another business Ill refer to as E. In June 2016 E went into 
administration and the business was purchased by CBP. Mr B was sent a letter in November 
2016 (the application letter) enclosing a transfer application form. This was sent to Mr Bs 
registered home address. 
This application letter explained that CBP would establish a Suffolk Life MasterSIPP (the 
MasterSIPP) on receipt of the signed transfer application form. Amongst other things, the 
application letter said the MasterSIPP yearly administration fee for 2016 would have a 
permanent discount applied for former clients of E. This was to bring fees in line with what 
clients had been paying with E.
The application letter said that if Mr B didnt reply by 5 December 2016, CBP would consider 
this as deemed consent and it would then transfer his current plan to the MasterSIPP. 
However, without the express consent the MasterSIPP would not be fully active.
By 2019 CBP had received gone away notices in response to letters sent to Mr B, so began 
trying to trace him. On 17 April 2019 it sent Mr B a letter to a new address it found which 
said that unless he made contact, due to concerns about the security of his personal data, 
CBP wouldnt send him anything further. 
In August 2019 CBP wrote to clients who had previously been with E about increases to its 
fees, which it said would take affect from October of that year. CBP said that affected clients 
could transfer away from CBP without its usual transfer out fees applying. As CBP hadnt 
heard from Mr B since its letter sent in April 2019, he wasnt sent this letter.
In May 2020 Mr B contacted CBP as hed decided to transfer to another provider. In 
response to this he was told hed need to submit an application for the MasterSIPP. Shortly 
after submitting this form he received an invoice for accrued MasterSIPP charges of £1,187. 
Mr B complained. He said he should have been made aware of the new fees before signing 
the application form. He was also unhappy that CBP was retaining part of his pension funds 
as a float.
CBP rejected the complaint. It said it had taken steps to try to locate Mr B and when he 
hadnt responded, it didnt think it was appropriate to send him any further correspondence 
until it heard from him. CBP said Mr B still had the option, free of charge, to move to one of 
its other plans, which had a lower fee structure. But its offer to waive its fees if he transferred 
out, had now expired.
Our investigator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. It was noted that CBP hadnt 
included its schedule of fees with the transfer application form sent to Mr B in May 2020. 
But our investigator thought the need to read this had been brought to Mr Bs attention in the 
application form itself. In terms of the float that CBP had retained from Mr Bs pension 
funds, he said the terms and conditions of the MasterSIPP made it clear he (Mr B) was 
required to hold a minimum balance of £1,000 in the MasterSIPP account. So, he didnt think 
CBP had done anything wrong in this regard. 
Mr B disagreed. He said his relevant point was that CBP hadnt met its regulatory 
requirement to send him the schedule of fees with the application form.. So, the matter has 
been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think CBP has acted unfairly or unreasonably in Mr Bs case. Before 
I explain why, I think its still important for me to recognise the strength of feeling Mr B has 
about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive 
read and considered carefully. However, my findings focus on what I consider to be the 
central issues.
I should also say that my role is to consider the evidence presented by the parties, and 
reach what I consider is an independent, fair and reasonable decision. Its not my role to 
punish the business for any regulatory breaches either, thats the role of the industry 
regulator the Financial Conduct Authority. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must 
consider the relevant law, regulation and best industry practice, but perhaps unlike a court or 
tribunal Im not bound by this. 
In terms of the level of fees CBP charges, I appreciate Mr B thinks these are too high 
particularly compared to his previous SIPP provider. But the amount of fees a business 
charges is a legitimate business decision for it to make. I wouldnt seek to interfere with this. 
I can see that CBP did initially say a permanent discount would apply to Mr Bs particular 
SIPP but I can also see its terms and conditions do allow it to make changes to its fee 
structure provided it gives affected clients 30 days notice. And CBP did give this notice to 
affected clients. However, its fee letter wasnt sent to Mr B as it couldnt be sure he lived at 
the address it had found through its searches.
When CBP found a new address, it wrote to Mr B. Given the letter sent in April 2019, was 
correctly addressed, I think this was likely to be correctly received at Mr Bs new address. Im 
sorry he cant remember receiving it but I think, on balance, it was correctly received. As the 
letter wasnt responded to, I dont think it was unreasonable or unfair of CBP not to write 
further to Mr B given its concerns about protecting his personal data.
Whilst Mr B didnt receive the increase in fees letter, which was sent in August 2019, I think 
CBP took reasonable steps to locate him. I think its likely if Mr B had responded to the letter 
sent in April 2019, which tried to establish if he lived at the new address found by CBP 
through its searches, he wouldve received the notice about the new, higher fees. Under 
these circumstances, I dont think CBP has acted unfairly or unreasonably when it increased 
the fees on Mr Bs MasterSIPP account which applied from October 2019 onwards. 
I take on board what Mr B says about CBP not enclosing the schedule of fees when it sent 
him the MasterSIPP application and transfer-out forms in May 2020. But the application form 
said on the front page and in the declaration section, that before he signed it he should 
carefully read the following for your own benefit and protection. Among the documents it referred to, was the schedule of fees. So, if Mr B had any doubts about whether he wanted 
to be expressly bound by the MasterSIPP agreement, he couldve taken steps to contact 
CBP and ask for a copy of the documents referred to in the application form. 
In any event, prior to signing the application form he was still subject to the terms and 
conditions of the MasterSIPP under deemed consent. Hed been subject to these since 
5 December 2016. But because Mr B didnt have a sufficient cash balance, CBP couldnt 
take the fees from his account. So, I dont think Mr B was financially disadvantaged by not 
seeing the fee schedule before he signed the application form as he was already subject to 
the MasterSIPP terms and conditions before this.
It should also be borne in mind that Mr B cannot transfer out to a new provider without 
signing the MasterSIPP application form first. So, I think even if Mr B was unhappy about the 
fees when he found out what these were, he still would have needed to have signed the 
application form in order to arrange the transfer of his pension to a new provider.
Finally, in terms of the float referred to by Mr B, I think this is clearly explained to him in its 
terms and conditions. At paragraph 6.5 (a) of the terms, it says that for the effective 
operation of the MasterSIPP, clients are required to maintain a minimum balance of £1,000. 
So, I dont think CBP is doing anything wrong by requiring Mr B to do this whilst he holds an 
account with it.
For all these reasons, whilst I appreciate Mr B will be disappointed with this outcome, Im not 
upholding his complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Yolande Mcleod
Ombudsman