DRN-2555798
The complaint
Miss L complains that the loans she had from Bamboo Limited were unaffordable to her.
 
What happened
Miss L took out two loans with Bamboo between May 2016 and December 2017 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Monthly 
RepaymentDue Repaid
1 18 May 2016 £2,000 36m £97.39 31 May 2019 5 Dec 2017
With loan 2
2 5 Dec 2017 £2,245.91 36m £105.02 30 Nov 2020 17 Jul 2020
Miss L says that Bamboo didnt do enough checks before approving her loan. She says it 
checked her income but did not take into account that her outgoings, which included 
repayments on other loans were very high. She said had it carried out better checks, it would 
have seen the loans were unaffordable. Miss L says she had to take out other loans to make 
the repayments and this resulted in high levels of stress and a diagnosis of an anxiety 
disorder. She adds that she still has high levels of debt and a poor credit rating which means 
shes unable to purchase a home.
Bamboo says it asked Miss L for information about her circumstances, including her income 
and expenditure. It says it also used third party data and information from Miss Ls credit file 
to assess affordability. Bamboo says it found Miss L had an excellent credit profile, sufficient 
monthly disposable income and the loan repayments were sustainably affordable. It says 
that, combined with the support of her guarantor, meant it was able to approve the loan.
Our adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He considered Bamboo 
should have carried out better checks, based on the information it had. He said, had it done 
so, it would have found that both loans were unaffordable. Our adjudicator recommended 
that Bamboo should refund any payments Miss L made above the principal (plus 8% 
statutory interest) and remove any associated negative information from Miss Ls credit file.
Bamboo responded to say, in summary, that, although it agreed with the view of loan 2, it 
disputed the findings with regard to loan 1. It says, in summary:
It was satisfied Miss Ls expenditure on rent was in line with the £700 shed declared;
She had significant expenditure on discretionary items;
It was aware of the default, but it was for a small amount and Miss L was repaying it;
An analysis of Miss Ls income and expenditure from her bank statements show 
Loan 1 was affordable.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when Bamboo lent to Miss L. Its 
rules and guidance obliged it to lend responsibly. As set out in the regulators Consumer 
Credit Sourcebook (CONC), this meant that Bamboo needed to take reasonable and 
proportionate steps to assess whether or not a borrower could afford to meet its loan 
repayments in a sustainable manner over the lifetime of the agreement.
CONC 5.3.1G states that:
1. In making the creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  a firm 
should take into account more than assessing the customer's ability to repay the 
credit.
2. The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  should include the 
firm taking reasonable steps to assess the customer's ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit agreement in a sustainable manner without the customer 
incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse consequences.
Repaying debt in a sustainable manner was defined as being able to meet repayments out 
of normal income while meeting other reasonable commitments; without having to borrow 
further to meet these repayments; without having to realise security or assets (CONC 5.3.1G 
- 6) or without incurring or increasing problem indebtedness (ILG 4.3).
(The Office of Fair Trading was the previous regulator and it produced a document entitled 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance which the FCA referenced in its consumer handbook. 
CONC 5.3.1G  6 specifically referenced ILG 4.3.)
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
borrower of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance, potentially by carrying out more detailed checks
the lower a persons income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
In addition, as per CONC 5.3.1G  4b: it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for 
its assessment of the customer's income and expenditure, on a statement of those matters 
made by the customer.
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Miss Ls case, I have considered the 
following questions:Did Bamboo complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Miss 
Ls loan applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way? 
oIf not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown? 
Did Bamboo make a fair lending decision?
Did Bamboo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Loan 1
With regard to the first question, I can see Bamboo asked Miss L about her income and 
housing costs and also completed a detailed credit check. Bamboo also says it used a tool 
to confirm Miss Ls income was at least the minimum required to make the loan affordable. 
Bamboo says that these checks, combined with a third-party data source for Miss Ls other 
expenditure showed the loan was affordable.
Im satisfied Bamboos income check was proportionate and that it was reasonable to use 
the figures in her credit file to calculate her credit commitments, but I need to consider 
whether it was reasonable for Bamboo to have used statistical date to estimate Miss Ls 
other expenditure.
I acknowledge Bamboo says the Financial Conduct Authority confirmed in its 2018 Policy 
Statement1 that such data was an appropriate basis for determining an applicant's living 
expenses, but I cant agree that applies in all circumstances. Indeed, there was no specific 
guidance on this point at the time of the loan.
Nevertheless, I have considered whether it was proportionate for Bamboo to have used 
statistical data as a reasonable assessment of Miss Ls other expenditure, in light of the 
Policy Statement.
The Statement says the following:
[A firm] may also take into account statistical data unless it knows or has reasonable 
cause to suspect that the customers non-discretionary expenditure is significantly 
higher than that described in the data, or that the data are unlikely to be reasonably 
representative of the customers situation;
[A firm] needs to understand the risks and limitations of such data or evidence when 
assessing whether the information is sufficient to carry out a reasonable 
creditworthiness assessment;
Where a firm relies heavily onthird-party data, it needs to be able to demonstrate 
that it understands the risks and limitations of such data.
In Miss Ls case, I dont consider using statistical data to estimate her expenditure was 
sufficient to carry out a reasonable creditworthiness assessment because:
1 https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps18-19.pdfThe loan required monthly repayments for three years;
The lender is in the sub-prime market;
Using this estimate gave Bamboo a figure of under £280 per month for Miss Ls 
disposable income, of which almost £100 would be further committed to the loan;
Miss L was already committed to spending almost 40% of her net income on credit 
and, with the additional loan this would rise to almost 43%;
Miss L had two defaults on her credit file, and one of these was from less than five 
months earlier, indicating shed had recent financial difficulties.
Given the above, I find that the statistical data was unlikely to be reasonably representative 
of Miss Ls situation. There was little margin for error when considering Miss Ls estimated 
disposable income, so I cant agree that Bamboo carried out reasonable and proportionate 
checks when assessing Miss Ls loan application.
So I find proportionate checks should have included verifying Miss Ls income and 
expenditure, including her rent and regular expenditure.
Ive had a look at Miss Ls bank statement, in the month prior to the loan, to see what it 
showed:
Miss Ls monthly income was roughly in line with the £2,293 shed declared to 
Bamboo;
Miss Ls rental cost was roughly in line with the £700 shed declared to Bamboo;
There was an additional loan showing on Miss Ls bank statement that wasnt yet 
showing on Miss Ls credit file as shed only taken it out the previous month. This 
took her monthly credit commitments to £962;
Miss Ls other regular payments, including bills and telecoms costs totalled about 
£270;
Food purchases were around £150;
Miss L spent well over £300 on travel, excluding taxis;
Miss L had incurred £46 in bank charges.
So I find Miss Ls regular expenditure, based on her bank statement, was significantly higher 
than the figure used by Bamboo. Indeed, I calculate Miss Ls outgoings already exceeded 
her income leaving nothing for additional loan repayments.
Im satisfied, therefore, that Miss Ls bank statement showed she was already struggling to 
manage her money and Im not satisfied Bamboo made a fair lending decision when Miss L 
applied for loan 1.
Loan 2
As Bamboo agreed with the adjudicators view on loan 2, I wont consider it further here.
In summary, Im upholding Miss Ls complaint about both loans and Bamboo should put 
things right.
  My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. Bamboo Limited (trading as Bamboo Loans) 
should:
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Miss L towards interest, fees 
and charges on loans 1 and 2;
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss L which 
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss L originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled;
C. Pay Miss L the total of A plus B;
D. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ls credit file in relation to loans 
1 and 2.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Bamboo to take off tax from this interest. Bamboo must 
give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021. 
Amanda Williams
Ombudsman