DRN-3898126
The complaint
Mr T is unhappy with Standard Life Pension Funds Limiteds (Standard Life) process for 
pension fund withdrawals. Hes also unhappy Standard Life were unable to complete a 
withdrawal payment within the 2020/2021 tax year. Hes said this has affected him 
financially.
What happened
In February 2021, Mr T made a formal complaint to Standard Life about certain aspects of 
their process for pension fund withdrawals. And about their failure to process a withdrawal 
payment within the 2020/2021 tax year. 
In summary, Mr T said he logged into to his online pension account to withdraw a £4,000 
payment and was told he would need to review some documentation and then complete a 
form. He is unhappy with this as he expected the process to be easy and for him to be able 
to complete this online. Mr T said as hed been in drawdown for a number of years and his 
bank details had not changed, he didnt see why he had to do anything beyond logging in to 
his online account which he felt was sufficiently secure. Mr T said he should be able to 
withdraw funds at any time with no further actions for him to complete since he has an online 
account. 
Mr T also said he was told the £4,000 payment he wanted was above the limit on his 
account. He said hed never been told any limit and the never agreed to one. He feels he 
should have been informed of the limit directly and if he had, it could have been removed 
earlier. Hes also questioned why he wasnt put into a flexi-access drawdown product as 
soon as it became available. 
In addition, Mr T is unhappy because he tried to take £4,000 in the 2020/2021 tax year but 
was told it was too close to the end of the tax year in question to be possible. He said hes 
been affected financially by not being able to take funds from his pension in the 2020/2021 
tax year as he needed this money. And, he lost the tax-free advantage on the amount in 
question. He feels Standard Life need to update their systems to be more modern. And he 
says they need to accept that their administration and communication in relation to personal 
pensions falls well below the standard required so they need to put measures in place to 
address this. 
Standard Life looked into Mr Ts complaint but didnt think it had done anything wrong. It 
said, in relevant part:
All customers who began taking drawdown payments prior to April 2015 were put into 
a capped drawdown product because flexi-access drawdown was not available at that 
point. From 2015, customers could move into flexi-access drawdown if they wished.
Information was provided about capped drawdown to Mr T on his annual statements, 
along with details about how he could change this if he wanted to.
If a customer who does not use a financial adviser wishes to take funds from their 
pension, Standard Life have an obligation to ensure they fully understand the 
implications of their decision and the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
expects them to have a process in place in order to meet this regulatory obligation.
Whilst they appreciated that Mr T feels some of the questions asked during the 
process were personal and repetitive, they were relevant and reasonable to them 
satisfying their regulatory requirements.
Where a customer has taken a break from withdrawing funds from their pension, 
Standard Life say it would be remiss of them to assume the customers bank details 
remain the same  the details wouldnt always be the same as previous requests.
Although Mr T feels their withdrawal form is excessive in regard to its length and detail, 
they are required to cover all of the sections in the form in order to remain compliant 
with their regulatory obligations.
The withdrawal request on 2 April 2021 was not denied due to Mr T being in capped 
drawdown. Rather, it was because Mr T had contacted them on the Friday prior to the 
new tax year, which was also a bank holiday, and was seeking for it to be paid before 
the start of the new tax year. Standard Life say this was impossible to process within 
such a short timeframe.
Unhappy with this response, Mr T brought his complaint to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into Mr Ts concerns but didnt agree that Standard Life had done 
anything wrong. In summary, she thought that Standard Lifes processes in relation to fund 
withdrawals were reasonable. And, that they had acted reasonably in relation to the 
information they gave Mr T about capped drawdown and how they dealt with his request for 
payment within the 2020/2021 tax year. 
Mr T didnt agree and so the matter has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons.
At the outset I want to explain that Ive read and considered carefully all the information that 
has been provided by the parties to this complaint. However, to be clear, the purpose of this 
decision is not to address every point raised, but to set out my findings and reasons for 
reaching them. Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I reach my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
I should also note that this service isnt intended to regulate or punish businesses for their 
conduct. And its not my role to decide what Standard Lifes processes and procedures 
should be; thats the role of the industry regulator, the FCA. My role is to decide if Standard 
Life has done anything wrong and where appropriate, award redress for any financial losses 
for which it is responsible and/or compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused. In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice, but unlike a court or tribunal Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, 
based on the information Ive been given, a fair and reasonable outcome to the complaint.
Ill now address Mr Ts complaint points in turn. 
Capped drawdown information
Mr T says he was never told about being in capped drawdown. But from the information Ive 
been provided, Im unable to agree.
When Mr T started his pension plan in 2012 there were generally only two ways pension 
benefits could be taken; he either needed to purchase an annuity or go into an income 
drawdown arrangement. Mr T opted for a drawdown arrangement. At this time, the amount 
that could be withdrawn from the pension was limited to an amount set by the government. 
This was known as capped drawdown. And the amount of the cap was reviewed and 
adjusted every few years by the government.
This all changed in 2015 with the introduction of pension freedoms legislation.  This 
legislation changed the rules for paying into and taking benefits from a pension plan. As part 
of these changes, a new type of drawdown, flexible drawdown or flexi-access drawdown, 
was created. Under a flexi-access arrangement, there is no limit to the amount of money that 
can be withdrawn from a pension. But unlike with capped drawdown, the amount flexibly 
withdrawn may impact the sum that could be contributed to a pension and receive 
favourable tax treatment (known as the annual allowance) in the future, in some cases 
reducing the annual allowance from £40,000 to only £4,000. 
Although I havent seen any of the paperwork when the plan was started, considering that 
flexi-access wasnt available at that time, I think on balance, Mr T would have known he was 
in a capped drawdown arrangement. Furthermore, Standard Life said information about 
being in capped drawdown, and how to change this to a flexi-access product, was provided 
to Mr T in his annual statements. Ive seen a copy of the statements and can see that on 
page 3 they said:
As you are in capped drawdown the government limit the amount of income you can 
take each year. You can change how you take your money at any time, see the 
options below. If you move out of capped drawdown you cant take this option again 
in the future.
The statements then outline the options, including flexible income, and also recommended 
that Mr T regularly review his pension and speak to a financial adviser (or Pension Wise) if 
he was unsure about his options or what they meant.
Mr T hasnt disputed receiving his annual statements in any of his submissions to this 
Service. And having looked at them, I think relevant and clear information about capped 
drawdown and the ability to change to a flexi-access product was regularly provided to Mr T.
Therefore, Im unable to agree Mr T was never told he was in capped drawdown, or that he 
wasnt informed about how to change this if he wished. I consider the information provided in 
the annual statements was presented clearly; and it was fair and not misleading. So I cant 
say that Standard Life have acted unfairly or unreasonably regarding this point. 
Mr T has also questioned why he wasnt automatically put into a flexi-access drawdown 
product when this became available in 2015. Though it was possible for a capped drawdown plan to be converted to a flexi-access plan if more than the capped amount was taken, as 
noted above, the tax rules that apply to each arrangement differed. So I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Standard Life to put in place a process to ensure a consumer is not moved 
to a different arrangement, with different tax implications, without their knowledge or 
consent. And again, it was indicated in the annual statements Mr T received that he would 
have to get in touch with Standard Life if he wished to change from capped drawdown into a 
different product. 
I note that once Mr T made Standard Life aware of his wish to change to a flexi-access plan, 
this was then promptly actioned. And it was a fairly automatic process. Standard Life didnt 
require that M T complete an application or otherwise apply for the new flexi-access plan; his 
plan number didnt even change. So I dont consider Standard Life have been unfair or 
unreasonable in this respect. 
Payment in the 2020/2021 tax year
Mr T made a request to withdraw funds from his drawdown plan on 2 April 2021. This means 
the request was made on the bank holiday Friday before the end of the 2020/2021 tax year. 
Therefore, Standard Life only had one working days notice to process the request. Theyve 
said it was not possible for them to complete it before the end of the tax year as there wasnt 
enough time.
I dont consider this unreasonable. Ive not been provided with any evidence that Mr T has 
received withdrawal payments this quickly in the past.  And in the circumstances Im not 
persuaded it was reasonable for him to expect payment from his pension plan on such short 
notice, especially given that it was made on a bank holiday and at the end of the tax year, a 
time when pension providers are likely to be extremely busy. 
I understand Mr T feels he was denied payment, but I dont agree. He would still have been 
able to make a withdrawal if he wished, its just that it wouldnt have been paid in the 
2020/2021 tax year. And while I appreciate Mr T has said he missed out on tax advantages 
due to the payment not being made in the 2020/2021 tax year, I dont think Standard Life 
were unreasonable in not being able to process the request in the limited time available. This 
means Im unable to conclude that the loss of the tax advantage is the result of something 
Standard Life did wrong. So Im not asking them to do anything further regarding this point.
Standard Lifes fund withdrawals process
I appreciate Mr T has concerns about Standard Lifes overall process for withdrawing 
pension funds and feels that it is too onerous. He is frustrated that he is not able to access 
his pension funds online and that he has to complete a process to verify certain information. 
I know that he feels strongly about this, but I dont agree that Standard Lifes withdrawal 
process is unfair or unreasonable. 
First, I note that Standard Life have said theyve never permitted withdrawals to be done 
online, and Ive not seen any evidence that suggests Mr T made previous withdrawals from 
his pension plan in this way. It may be that Mr T thinks that he shouldnt have been sold a 
pension plan that didnt operate as he wishes. But that is not the complaint before me, so I 
am unable to comment on whether this particular plan was right for him. 
Furthermore, Standard Life are correct when they say there are regulatory obligations on 
firms regarding pension withdrawals. These have been put in place by the regulator to help 
prevent negative outcomes for consumers. Since the introduction of pension freedoms, the 
FCA has been particularly interested in ensuring customers understand the pensions 
decisions they are making. In Retirement Outcomes Review At a Glance, published in 2017, 
the FCA noted that:decisions about how to manage a drawdown product are complex: consumers have 
to manage their own investment and withdrawal strategy and also consider how 
long their pension savings will have to last 
poor choices can lead to consumers missing out on investment growth, being 
exposed to investments that are too risky for them or running out of their pension 
savings sooner than expected
And with identity theft and financial scams becoming more common, it is also important that 
when making payments providers check that funds are paid to the correct account. This 
means there are certain questions they need to ask and certain information they need to 
cover with a consumer, such as Mr T, before a withdrawal can go ahead. 
Of course, this needs to be balanced against the needs of the consumer to have a smooth 
and not overly complicated experience when accessing their pension funds. So Ive looked 
at what Standard Life asked of Mr T.  And having done so I dont think what was required of 
him was unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Standard Life have explained that for the withdrawal to be completed Mr T either needed to 
fill out a withdrawal form or have a conversation over the phone with their withdrawal team. 
Their withdrawal team would cover the relevant information Mr T needed to know for the 
withdrawal and the conversation would take about 25 minutes.
I can see the form could be downloaded online and returned via a secure message. Mr T 
hasnt explained why this was problematic or difficult for him to do. And the form itself is 
largely completed by ticking boxes. And as discussed, he had the option of providing this 
information over the phone. I understand that Mr T thought the length of the call required 
was unacceptable, but Im not persuaded that the information being sought in the call wasnt 
relevant to either meeting their regulatory obligations or ensuring the payment was made 
correctly.  
Given this, and the overall complex nature of pensions and their importance, particularly 
during retirement, I dont think Standard Life have asked too much of Mr T before he could 
make a withdrawal from his plan. 
I appreciate Mr T feels strongly about this and so this will likely come as a disappointment to 
him, but I dont consider Standard Life have made any errors or otherwise acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in these circumstances, so I am not upholding his complaint.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Jennifer Wood
Ombudsman