DRN-3782509
The complaint
Mr P complains that Covea Insurance plc didnt reduce the premium for his commercial 
motor insurance policy after a fault claim was changed to non-fault. He wants a refund and 
compensation for his trouble and upset. 
What happened
Mr P took out a policy with Covea and disclosed a previous fault claim. He then told Covea 
that the claim had been recorded as non-fault. But Coveas policy documents still stated that 
the claim outcome was unknown. Covea said it had recorded the claim as non-fault, but no 
refund of premium was due. Covea removed an amendment fee and paid Mr P £80 
compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its error and delays. But Mr P thought he 
was due a refund and wanted to know the effect of a fault claim on his premium.
Our Investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He saw evidence 
from Covea that Mr Ps premium had been correctly calculated when the claim was recorded 
as open or at fault. He also saw evidence that the premium had been correctly calculated 
when the claim was amended to non-fault. And so he thought Covea had calculated the 
annual premium fairly and Mr P wasnt due a refund. He thought Coveas compensation offer 
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr P replied that the claim was still showing as unknown in his latest renewal documents, 
and he thought this may have affected his premium. He asked to see Coveas pricing 
information. Mr P asked for an ombudsmans review, so his complaint has come to me for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr P feels frustrated that he didnt receive a refund of premium when 
his claim was correctly changed to non-fault. Our role in complaints like this is to make sure 
that a customer has been treated fairly and in line with how other customers have been 
treated. 
I agree that its very unusual for a fault or open claim not to lead to an increase in premium. 
But I also think it doesnt necessarily mean that the premium will decrease if the claim is 
changed to non-fault. This is because we often find that that a claim or notification itself  
regardless of whos at fault  will affect the premium. 
While some insurers will only rate on No Claims Discount (NCD) disallowed or fault claims, 
others will consider any claim  or even just a claim notification  as a risk factor. This is 
because insurers say that drivers who have been involved in incidents, regardless of fault, 
are more likely to be involved in future claims. 
I can understand that Mr P may find this to be illogical. But being involved in an incident 
could be linked to such things as his use of higher risk roads or junctions or driving at 
particular times. Its not our role to tell an insurer how to price their policies or what factors 
they should consider when calculating a risk. However we need to make sure the insurer is 
applying a fair and consistent approach to all consumers.
Insurers regularly update how they rate the risk of consumers. And their rates continually 
change. Covea has provided us with confidential business sensitive information to explain 
how Mr Ps premiums were calculated. As our Investigator has explained, I cant share this 
with him, but I can assure him that weve checked it carefully. 
Im satisfied the prices Mr P was quoted with the fault claim and with the non-fault claim 
have been calculated correctly and all of Coveas customers in his position will have been 
charged a similar premium. And so Im satisfied that Mr P isnt due a refund because of the 
change in how his claim was recorded.
Mr P has provided his latest renewal with a different insurer, but from the same agent. And I 
can see that the status of the claim is still recorded on his documents as unknown. Coveas 
agent has explained that this is due to a system error that its investigating. It has apologised 
for this and previously provided Mr P with a letter stating that the claim is non-fault. 
Covea has confirmed that the claim is recorded on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange 
(CUE) database as non-fault. Coveas agent has explained that any insurer would check 
CUE if there were any doubts about the claim status and its internal records arent shared 
with other businesses. So, although I can understand Mr Ps frustration, I cant say that this 
error has caused him any loss. 
Covea agreed that it had made a mistake when Mr P first drew the change of claim status to 
its attention. Its agent thought further evidence was required and this caused a delay and 
trouble and upset for Mr P. I think Covea then responded promptly by making the change. It 
apologised to Mr P and it removed the mid-term amendment charge it had applied. And it 
paid Mr P £80 compensation for the trouble and upset this had caused him.
I can see that Mr P was caused avoidable stress and inconvenience by the error. But Im 
satisfied that this award was fair and reasonable in the circumstances as its in keeping with 
our published guidance for the level of impact the error had. I dont require Covea to do 
anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman