DRN-3660474
The complaint
Mr S complains that his finance agreement with Mercedes Benz Financial Service Limited 
(MBFS) was mis sold to him and unaffordable. Mr S also says he wasnt told about the end 
of contract charges.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr S acquired a new car through a hire purchase agreement with MBFS. The 
purchase price of the car was £47,741.61. Mr S paid a deposit of £16,075.59 which included 
a part exchanged amount and a manufacturers contribution. So, the total amount financed 
on this agreement was £31,666.02 payable over 36 months with an optional purchase 
payment of £21,825.
Mr S complained that the agreement was mis-sold to him. Mr S says he suffers from mental 
health conditions which the dealer was aware of and took advantage of.
Mr S says he was given a Personal Contract Purchase (PCP) agreement when he wanted a 
hire purchase agreement. He said he wasnt told that he could incur end of contract charges 
and believes he should never have been given the finance. Mr S said he only intended on 
paying a total of £9,000 on a car and was told his payments would act like an investment. Mr 
S said he felt the amount given to him wasnt financially viable for him and believes he 
should receive compensation to the value of the profits MBFS made on his car, his deposit 
back and an apology.
MBFS issued two final responses to Mr S complaint, one in October 2021 and the other in 
March 2022.
MBFS didnt uphold Mr S complaint as they believe he was provided with all the information 
about the agreement before he entered into it. MBFS said the agreement was affordable for 
Mr S, and that it only became an issue when he part exchanged his car and ended the 
finance.
Unhappy with their decision Mr S brought his complaint to this service for investigation. 
Having considered all of the evidence, our investigator said that they didnt think MBFS 
needed to take any action. Our investigator believed the information about the agreement 
was made clear to Mr S and that it was reasonable for MBFS to consider it to be affordable 
for him.  
Mr S disagreed with the investigators view and challenged the amount of income that was 
recorded on the finance application form. He also provided evidence of his self-employed 
income for the year 2016/ 2017 which was less than half of the amount that was recorded on 
the application form.
Our investigator issued a further view focusing on whether MBFS carried out the appropriate 
checks before providing Mr S with the finance. Our investigator said that although MBFS 
could have done further checks, his outcome remained unchanged as he believed Mr S 
bank statements demonstrated the affordability for the finance and believed had MBFS 
reviewed them, they would have likely approved the finance.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S said the bank statements he provided show his 
turnover rather than his income and felt that this shouldnt have been considered. Mr S 
asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Having considered all the information it seems to me Mr S concerns are centred around four 
main points: The mis-sale of the finance agreement, MBFS irresponsible lending, the end of 
contract charges that Mr S says werent explained to him and that MBFS took advantage of 
his mental health condition. Ive focused my decision on these four areas and have 
addressed each one below.
Mis-sale of agreement
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) outlines fundamental obligations for regulated firms 
within their eleven principles for businesses. Principle seven says a firm must pay due 
regard to the information needs of its clients and communicate information to them in a way 
which is clear, fair and not misleading. MBFS provided us with copies of documents provided 
to Mr S at the point of sale which included information about the advantages and 
disadvantages of both the hire purchase and their PCP Agility agreements. 
MBFS refer to their PCP agreements as Agility agreements. The financial information of the 
Agility agreement that Mr S entered into is outlined on pages one and two which was signed 
by Mr S. Among other things, the financial information shows the total amount payable, the 
monthly repayments, the interest payable, the optional purchase payment, or balloon 
payment that Mr S would be expected to pay if he wished to purchase the car at the end of 
the agreement. It also outlined his rights to terminate the agreement and what hed have to 
pay if he chose to do so. 
The terms and conditions of the Agility agreement is outlined on pages four and five of the 
agreement. The terms and conditions offer a detailed explanation of how the Agility 
agreement works. In addition to this MBFS provided a copy of the adequate explanations 
document which explains the key features of the type of agreement which Mr S signed. 
So, having considered all the information provided, Im satisfied MBFS provided Mr S with 
enough information to give him a reasonable understanding of the different types of finance 
agreements, so he could make an informed choice of which one he would enter into. Irresponsible lending
MBFS needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
MBFS needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S 
would be able to repay what he was being lent before providing any credit to him. The rules 
that cover this is set out in the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), which can be found 
within the FCAs handbook. Our website also sets out what we typically think about when 
deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate.
MBFS confirmed to us that Mr S application was auto approved based on the information 
they held. In the circumstances of this complaint, Im in agreement with our investigator in 
that I dont think the financial information held by MBFS, in relation to Mr S, was sufficient for 
a proportionate check to be carried out. For example, I would have expected MBFS to have 
carried out further checks to establish the affordability and sustainability of the credit. I find 
the amount and term of the lending was significant. 
Given that I find MBFS failed to carryout proportionate checks in the circumstances, Ive 
considered if proportionate checks would likely to have shown the credit was sustainable or 
affordable.
MBFS provided a copy of Mr S signed application showing he had an annual income of 
£80,000. Mr S says his income was considerably less than this. Mr S provided our 
investigator with a tax return document to confirm his income. Mr S also provided our 
investigator with copies of his personal bank statements from January to May 2016. In the 
circumstances Im satisfied the bank statements provide a clearer understanding of Mr S 
income and expenditure and his surplus funds each month; and would provide a more 
proportionate insight into Mr S affordability for the finance.
Having reviewed the bank statements, Im satisfied that the lending would have been 
affordable and sustainable for Mr S. Based on the months prior to the credit being given the 
average weekly turnover through the account was in excess of £2,600. Based on the regular 
outgoings highlighted by Mr S on his statements, the average weekly income was still in 
excess of £1,000 which I found to be sufficient to sustain the monthly repayment of £399 for 
his agreement with MBFS. 
In addition, the balance of his bank account had never entered into an overdraft, or dipped 
below £2,000 in the months leading up to the agreement. On his application form Mr S said 
hed been in employment with the same employer for around nine years as permanent. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest his job was due to change or that there would be a significant 
change in his circumstances. So, with all things considered Im satisfied that had MBFS 
carried out further proportionate checks, the finance would have likely been considered 
affordable and sustainable for Mr S. 
I acknowledge Mr S says the salary amount on the application form was incorrect, however 
Ive no reason or evidence to consider there was any inappropriate action or intent from 
MBFS in relation to this. 
End of contract charges
Clause 12 in the terms and conditions of the agreement advise of additional charges for 
excess mileage. The Vehicle Return Standards (VRS) were also provided with the 
documentation at the point of sale. The VRS outlines the acceptable condition the vehicle 
should be returned in to avoid additional charges. Clause 10.1.4 of the agreement also sets 
out that the vehicle should be returned in a suitable condition. Im satisfied Mr S was given 
the opportunity to review these terms when he entered into the agreement.I acknowledge Mr S believes MBFS exploited his mental health condition. I also recognise 
Mr S strength of feeling about this. However, from the evidence provided, Ive not seen any 
evidence which shows that MBFS took advantage of it. Im satisfied Mr S was provided with 
enough information to make an informed choice about the type of agreement he was 
entering into, and for the reasons explained above I believe the finance was both affordable 
and sustainable for him.
As Ive concluded that Mr S was treated fairly in circumstances, I dont require MBFS to take 
any action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Mr S complaint against Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman