DRN-3729394
The complaint
Miss B complains about how Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited (Aviva) have calculated the 
value of her personal pension plan (PPP).
Her PPP was originally held with another business, but as Aviva are now responsible for the 
management of the plan, for clarity Ill refer to Aviva throughout.
What happened
Miss B had held a PPP since the 1990s following advice from another business. She had 
been advised to open the PPP as opposed to joining the occupational pension schemes 
(OPS) offered by two employers, who Ill refer to as X and Y, during this time. This advice 
was reviewed as part of the then financial industry regulators review of the sales of PPPs 
which involved opt-outs, non-joiners or transferees.
Between December 2001 and January 2002, the review found that the advice shed been 
given was unsuitable, and that she shouldve been advised to remain in the OPS offered by 
X, and to have joined the OPS offered by Y.
On 3 December 2001 Aviva wrote to Miss B with an offer to reinstate the pension benefits 
she wouldve gained had she been in the OPS offered by Y, by whom she was still 
employed. Aviva said it would undertake a redress calculation and purchase the 
membership benefits shed lost as a consequence of its advice, and would use part of the 
value of her PPP to offset the cost. (Miss B accepted this offer on 29 June 2002).
On 25 January 2002 Aviva wrote to Miss B with an offer to redress the loss shed incurred as 
a result of its advice to transfer away from the OPS offered by X. It calculated that shed lost 
benefits worth £6568, so would make an equivalent payment into her PPP. (Miss B accepted 
this offer on 15 May 2002).
In early 2019 Miss B made some enquiries about her PPP, and found that Aviva were now 
responsible for it. Miss B was thinking about taking the benefits from the plan, so on 
6 November 2019 she called Aviva and asked for the current value of her PPP. She was 
quoted £72,732. She called again on 15 November 2019 and was quoted a value of 
£72,845. She received letters from Aviva on 15 and 16 November 2019, quoting the value of 
her PPP as £72,762.48 and £72,309.20 respectively.
On 16 March 2020 Miss B called Aviva for an up-to-date valuation. But she was told that this 
couldnt be given over the phone as this was a pensions review case, and a manual 
calculation needed to be carried out to establish its value. Aviva wrote to her on   
17 March 2020 stating the value of her PPP was £28,161.50.
On 14 April 2020 Miss B complained to Aviva. She wanted to know how the value of her 
PPP had dropped by over £44,000 in four months, and why a manual calculation had to be 
carried out.
In its final response letter, Aviva said that when the funds were returned to her original 
scheme, not all the funds were accepted. This meant the value automatically calculated by 
its system is incorrect, as it didnt take into account the money that had been returned to the 
original scheme and accepted. The automatic valuation provided in November 2019 was 
incorrect, as a manual calculation was required to provide a correct value. It assured Miss B 
that the other valuations shed been provided with, and all those which would be provided in 
the future, would reflect the true value of the policy.
Unhappy with this response, Miss B complained to our Service.
Aviva sent Miss B a statement dated 9 June 2020, where her PPP was valued £31,875.10. 
On 4 August 2020 Aviva sent Miss B a settlement quote which valued the PPP at
£31,511.80.
On 17 November 2021, whilst her complaint was being investigated by our service, Miss B 
contacted Aviva for an up to date valuation of her PPP. She was told it was £83,021. She 
called them again on 30 November 2021 as she was thinking about cashing in the policy, 
and the value £83,021 was confirmed by Aviva.
Due to personal circumstances Miss B decided to cash in the policy in March 2022. She was 
quoted £35,038.45.
However, before the transaction was completed, in April 2022 Aviva sent Miss B a statement 
which showed the value of her PPP (on 27 October 2021) was £83,313.57.
Our Investigator thought Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He thought that although he 
could see that Miss Bs PPP was reviewed under the pensions review and payments into 
and out of the PPP had occurred to redress the losses shed incurred, he didnt think Aviva 
had shown that the value of Miss Bs PPP recorded on its systems was wrong, and needed 
to be manually calculated. He had asked Aviva on a number of occasions to provide a copy 
of the manual calculation it had used to determine what it considered the true value of 
Miss Bs policy to be, but Aviva had failed to provide this. And Aviva had also not explained 
why its systems were unable to reflect the true value of Miss Bs policy.
So as none of the evidence provided by Aviva supported its position that the value of 
Miss Bs PPP should be less than its systems showed, and because Aviva had failed to
show our Service how it had carried out the calculation, our Investigator was of the view that 
Miss B was entitled to the full value of her PPP as recorded on Avivas systems. And in
addition, due to the ongoing misinformation provided to her, and the distress and 
inconvenience shed been caused, Aviva should pay her £300 compensation.
But Aviva didnt respond to this, so as no agreement could be reached the complaint has 
come to me for a decision.
On 2 September 2022 I issued a provisional decision setting out my initial thoughts on the 
merits of the complaint. I agreed with the conclusions of the investigator, but I set out my 
initial thoughts regarding my proposed redress methodology and compensation for Miss B. 
In my provisional decision I said:
Where there is conflicting information available, or indeed a lack of definitive evidence, 
either because of the passage of time or because the required information hasnt been 
provided, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened on the balance of 
probabilities.
The crux of this complaint is whether the value of Miss Bs PPP recorded on Avivas systems was correct, or whether it needed to be adjusted by a manual calculation. And if it did need 
to be adjusted, whether that was fair and reasonable. But other than Aviva saying that it 
needed to do it because Miss Bs PPP was adjusted due to the pensions review, no evidence 
has been provided to support this. And Aviva hasnt explained how the manual calculation 
was carried out.
Ive seen evidence that Miss Bs PPP was reviewed by the industry-wide pensions review. 
And Ive seen evidence that its value was increased as a result of the advice to transfer out 
of the OPS provided by employer X. And Ive seen evidence that a payment was made by 
Avivas predecessor to the OPS of her then employer, Y.
It should be noted that Miss B had benefitted from the investment growth to her PPP whilst 
she wasnt making contributions to the OPS. So when Aviva reinstated the OPS benefits 
shed not accrued, it was fair for it to use some of the funds in her PPP, equivalent to the 
contributions shed made and the associated investment growth, over the period she 
shouldve been in the OPS, in order to do this.
But Aviva are relying on its assertion that the final value of Miss Bs PPP should be reduced 
due to the payment it had to make to her OPS in redress. And it has reduced the final value 
by about 65%. But I cant see how or why this should happen.
Ive seen evidence that Miss Bs PPP was worth £2239 on 25 January 2002. And I can see a 
payment of £9,263.01, most likely as a result of the pensions review redress, was made into 
the PPP on 1 August 2002. So it is a fair approximation that the PPP was worth about
£11,400 in late 2002.
But as Ive said above, it was fair for Aviva to use some of the value of Miss Bs PPP to 
purchase the OPS benefits that shed missed out on from her current employers pension 
scheme. And I can see a payment was made by Avivas predecessor to the OPS of Y for
£1,689.65 on 17 March 2003. So this is most likely to be that redress payment. Using the 
likely approximate value of her PPP at the time, this equates to only about 15% of its value.
So it is fair to say there probably shouldve been some reduction to the value of Miss Bs 
PPP in March 2003. But I cannot see why, as Aviva asserts, this reduction wasnt applied 
and reflected in the value held on its predecessors system at the time it occurred, and 
subsequently passed on to Aviva. And I cannot see why this reduction needed to be 
calculated manually at a later date, or indeed how it was done. And Aviva has neither 
adequately explained this, nor has it provided its calculations to our service so that it can be 
established if its actions were likely fair.
The systems employed by financial businesses to record the values of, and transactions 
within its customers accounts and financial products are subject to external scrutiny, so it is 
fair to accept them as being generally robust and accurate. So I consider it more likely than 
not that the value of a PPP recorded on Avivas systems is an accurate and true reflection of 
reality. But Aviva has said that the value of Miss Bs PPP was about 65% lower than its 
system had calculated, so would not honour the values it said were mistakenly but 
repeatedly given to Miss B. But it hasnt explained why or how this reduction was imposed, 
even when this information was requested by this service. So I cant say it has acted fairly or 
that it is more likely than not that the reduction it imposed was correct.
It should also be noted that businesses were required by the regulator to retain all the 
documentation relating to the pensions review process. So although Aviva wasnt the original 
provider, when it took on the business it shouldve ensured all the records were provided by 
its predecessor and retained them. It is likely that Miss B wouldve been informed of  the 
value of her PPP once the redress process was completed, and if there was to be a future reduction, Id expect shed have been told how it would work and how much she could 
expect to receive at retirement. And Id expect this information, if she was told of a future 
reduction, to be on file.
So Im currently minded to require Aviva to honour the value of Miss Bs PPP as it was 
recorded on its system, without the manual calculation, when she took the benefits in 
March 2022, and make this additional payment to her, plus 8% simple interest to reflect her 
being deprived of these funds. Im aware this may have tax implications for Miss B, so she 
should consider how she wishes this payment to be made.
But Aviva also has a responsibility to ensure its systems, and the information it gives to its 
customers, is accurate. And this is especially true when it comes to customers pension 
provision as this is likely to have a significant impact on them and their future plans. And I 
can see how the misinformation that Miss B was given has caused her quite significant 
distress and inconvenience. So I agree with the investigator that Aviva should also pay 
Miss B £300 compensation. 
I invited both Miss B and Aviva to respond and submit any additional information or 
arguments they wished me to consider. Miss B responded saying she accepted my 
provisional decision. Aviva did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of there not being any new information submitted by either 
Miss B or Aviva, I see no reason to depart from the findings in my provisional decision.
Putting things right
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to do the following:
Honour the value of Miss Bs PPP as it was shown on its system, prior to the manual 
calculation, at the date she took benefits in March 2022.
Pay this full value to Miss B, (minus the amount already paid, less tax, following its 
manual calculation), and;
Add 8% simple interest to this amount, calculated from the date she took the benefits 
in March 2022 until the date of settlement.
Pay Miss B £300 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience shes been 
caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay the amount calculated as set out above. 
Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited should provide details of its calculation of this redress to 
Miss B in a clear, simple format. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman