DRN-3910396
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy with the service she received from Sainsburys Bank Plc surrounding her
request to change the date on which two direct debits were taken.
What happened
Mrs H called Sainsburys to change two direct debit payment dates from the 20th to the 1st 
of
each month. But the Sainsburys agents Mrs H spoke with couldnt find her account details to
action the change and told her to write a letter to Sainsburys requesting the change instead.
Mrs H wrote a letter to Sainsburys as requested, but Sainsburys still took the direct debits
on the 20th of the month. Mrs H wasnt happy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Sainsburys werent able to respond to Mrs Hs complaint within 8 weeks, and so gave Mrs H
the right to refer her complaint to this service, which she then did.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Sainsburys hadnt received
Mrs Hs letter in time to make the direct debit date change for the month in question, but that
Sainsburys should have confirmed to Mrs H that her direct debits for that month would still
be taken on the 20th and that Sainsburys should make a payment of £50 to Mrs H as
compensation for the trouble and upset shed incurred as a result. Sainsburys didnt agree
with the recommendation put forwards by our investigator, so the matter was escalated to an
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 19 December 2022 as follows:
Its a condition of the two loans on which Mrs H wanted to change the direct debit 
repayment dates that the agreed loan repayments must be made on a monthly basis. 
That is to say, a payment must be made towards the loans every month during the 
loan term.
Because Mrs H had asked to change the date of the direct debits from the 20th to the 
1st of each month, Mrs H was in effect asking for her payments to be brought 
forwards by 19 days. This means that if the change of direct debit was to be affected 
in May, Mrs H would make a payment on April 20th, and then another payment 
shortly afterwards, on May 1st  brought forwards from May 20th.
Importantly, it wouldnt be the case that Mrs H could push back the payment from 
May 20th to June 1st, as this would mean that after the April 20th payment the next 
payment would be on June 1st, meaning that no payment was received against the 
loans for the month of May, which would be in breach of the loan repayment terms.
Mrs H has complained that, having written the letter to Sainsburys that she did, she 
wasnt aware that her direct debit would continue to be taken on the 20th. But the 
direct debits hadnt been taken on the 1st of that month  as would need to have 
been the case for the change to have been actioned  and so I feel this should have 
given Mrs H a clear indication that the date change hadnt been implemented and 
that the direct debits would still be taken on the 20th.
Additionally, I note that Mrs H hadnt received any confirmation or acknowledgement 
from Sainsburys that they had changed the direct debit date as shed requested, 
which I also feel should have been indicative to Mrs H that the 20th remained as the 
direct debit date.
Mrs H says she called Sainsburys to change the direct debit dates, but that she was 
passed between agents and that none of the agents she spoke with could locate her 
loans from the reference numbers she provided and didnt attempt to locate them via 
any other information.
Sainsburys have no record of receiving a call from Mrs H as she maintains here, and 
note the reference numbers Mrs H provided in the letter she sent to them were 
incorrect  being direct debit reference numbers rather than the loan accounts 
numbers. Sainsburys also say that Mrs Hs loans could easily have been found by 
any of their staff members using Mrs Hs personal details such as name and date of 
birth, and that their telephony staff do so as a matter of course.
In circumstances such as this, where the positions of the complainant and the 
respondent business contradict each other, I have to decide, if I feel its possible to 
do so, which of the versions of events I feel is most likely to have happened, on 
balance, and in consideration of all the information and evidence available to me.
In this instance, I feel that its more likely than not that Sainsburys didnt receive a 
call from Mrs H as they contend here. The reason I say this is because I find 
Sainsburys position that their standard call flow includes that their agents would, as 
a matter of course, attempt to locate Mrs Hs accounts using her name and date of 
birth or other personal information to be persuasive. And I feel its unlikely that a 
series of Sainsburys agents would fail to follow that process or instruct Mrs H to 
send a letter to Sainsburys including the same information that the agents 
themselves had been unable to locate Mrs Hs loans from.
This isnt to say that Mrs H didnt make a call as she maintains. But only to say that I 
feel the possibility exists that Mrs H might not have made that call to Sainsburys. 
Whatever did happen, I feel its more likely than not that Sainsburys didnt receive a 
call from Mrs H, and so cant have acted unfairly towards Mrs H in regard to that non-
received call.
Ultimately though, as explained above, I feel Mrs H should reasonably have been 
aware that the direct debits would still be taken on the 20th of the month in question. 
This is because the direct debits hadnt been taken on the 1st of that month, and 
because Mrs H hadnt received any confirmation from Sainsburys that the direct 
debit date had been changed.
All of which means that I dont feel that Sainsburys have done anything wrong here, 
and it follows from this that my provisional decision is that I wont be upholding this 
complaint or instructing Sainsburys to take any further action or pay any form of 
compensation.In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs H and Sainsburys the opportunity to 
provide any comments or new information they might wish me to consider before I moved to 
issue a final decision. Sainsburys confirmed they were happy to accept my provisional 
decision, whereas Mrs H did not respond. 
As such, I see no reason not to issue a final decision on the same non-uphold basis as 
described in my provisional decision above. And I therefore confirm that I do not uphold this 
complaint accordingly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman