DRN-2895104
The complaint
Mr N complains that a payment he made from his Canadian bank account to his Bank of 
Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mortgage didnt arrive, and neither bank has been 
able to locate the funds. 
What happened
In October 2020 Mr N contacted Halifax to find out the details he should use to transfer 
funds from Canada to his UK mortgage, held with Halifax. 
Mr N contacted Halifax by phone a number of times and it appears he received conflicting 
information during the calls. He called Halifax on 4 October from the branch of his Canadian 
bank, at the time he was attempting to make the transfer. He explained that he wanted to 
check the information hed been given as the Canadian banks system was rejecting it, 
preventing the payment from being made. 
Mr N eventually made the payment, but it wasnt credited to his mortgage account. Mr N 
enquired about this with Halifax and it directed him to the sending bank, advising that theyd 
be best-placed to trace the payment. Mr N didnt have any success with the sending bank, 
who confirmed the payment had been made, but didnt give any further information. 
Mr N made a complaint to Halifax, as neither the sending bank nor Halifax appeared to have 
the funds. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint and it again referred Mr N back to the sending 
bank. As Mr N wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, he referred his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into everything but he didnt recommend the complaint should be 
upheld. He also recommended that the sending bank  in Canada  would be best placed to 
trace the payment. 
As Mr N didnt accept the investigators opinion the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know itll come as a disappointment to Mr N but Im afraid Im not upholding his complaint. 
Ill explain why. 
Id firstly like to explain that I completely understand the difficult situation situation that Mr N 
finds himself in. And by not upholding the complaint, Im not suggesting that something 
hasnt gone wrong, as its clear that Mr N has made a payment that neither party seems to 
be able to locate. But for me to uphold this complaint  against Halifax  I need to be 
satisfied that Halifax has done something wrong. 
I asked Halifax for a recording of the call that Mr N had with it, from the time he was in the 
branch of the Canadian bank and made the payment. Ive listened carefully to that call. 
Ive cross-referenced the information given to Mr N, with some of the information hes 
provided from his Canadian bank. Primarily Ive been able to check the reference on the 
payment  which Halifax told Mr N should be his 14-digit account number followed by two 
zeros. Ive noted that the Reference Number field on the payment confirmation Mr N 
provided doesnt show this as the reference  it shows a different number. But, there is a 
further section on the form headed Memo which does include the correct reference 
number. It may be that the reference number, although inputted, was entered in the incorrect 
field and this could therefore have had an impact on the payment reaching Mr Ns Halifax 
account.  
I had expected that Mr N was going to send further details of where the payment was sent to 
so that I could verify that the international bank account number (IBAN) and bank 
identification code (BIC) given to him by Halifax were correctly inputted. But as I havent 
received that information from Mr N, and it has now been over two weeks, Ive had to 
continue without it. But having thought about everything, given what Ive said above, I dont 
think this information wouldve made a difference in terms of me deciding that Halifax had 
acted unfairly. 
In a scenario like this its standard practice for the sending bank to initiate a payment trace in 
order to locate the payment. Halifax says it has extensively searched its internal accounts 
and it hasnt received the payment. So whilst I realise its incredibly frustrating, theres little 
more that Id expect Halifax to do in order to help Mr N. I cant direct it to investigate 
something that it says doesnt exist. And as theres no evidence on the contrary to this, I 
cant place fault with Halifax for losing the payment, or for not helping Mr N with his query, as 
it has done what Id expect it to do in this situation. 
Im sorry that this decision doesnt help Mr N with locating his money but Im afraid hell need 
to approach his Canadian bank to pursue this matter further, if he chooses to. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint against Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Sam Wade
Ombudsman