DRN-2929722
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain about their buy to let mortgage with The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc 
(TMW). They complain it has refused them permission to split the title to the property and 
that it has said they are in breach of the mortgage agreement in letting the property as a 
house in multiple occupation (HMO).
What happened
Mr and Mrs R have a mortgage with TMW which they took out in 2016. They took a two year 
tracker rate which expired in 2018.
In the meantime they had built another house on land attached to the property. TMW said 
that was a breach of the mortgage terms and conditions and they should have got TMWs 
permission before carrying out works that might affect the value of its security. It said that Mr 
and Mrs R were not eligible for a new interest rate while they were in breach of the mortgage 
agreement and so their mortgage went onto the standard variable rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs R complained about that, and one of our investigators looked at the complaint. 
He didnt think TMW had acted unfairly and didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R said 
that they didnt want an ombudsman to issue a decision so that complaint closed. Weve 
since told Mr and Mrs R that its too late now to re-open it. I therefore wont be making any 
further comment on those matters in this decision  but the facts of that case are important 
context and background for this complaint.
This complaint is about what happened next. In 2019, Mr and Mrs Rs local authority wrote to 
TMW to tell it their property had been licensed as an HMO. TMW said that under the 
mortgage terms and conditions, using the property as an HMO wasnt allowed. It recorded a 
further breach of the mortgage terms and conditions.
Mr and Mrs R said that there was mandatory licensing in their local authority area, but they 
werent actually letting the property as an HMO, it was let under a single tenancy for the 
whole property. When they provided a copy of the tenancy agreement, TMW removed the 
breach marker from their account.
Mr and Mrs R also applied to TMW for its permission to split the title to the property, 
separating off the new house that had been built onto a separate title and retaining the 
original property on the existing mortgage. This meant that  if successful  the value of 
what was secured under TMWs charge would reduce, since the charge would only be over 
the old property, not the new one, if the titles were split.
TMW said it would require a valuation to check whether the property that would be left 
subject to its charge was sufficient for the mortgage. Mr and Mrs R paid a valuation fee and 
the valuation was carried out.
TMW refused the application to split the title. It said this was because the land was being 
released for development purposes, and because the land retained was being used as an 
HMO. Following further discussions, TMW accepted that the property wasnt being used as 
an HMO. But it still wouldnt agree to split the title. This was because it wanted Mr and Mrs R 
to reduce the mortgage by the value of the new property  but Mr and Mrs R wanted to 
retain it not sell it.
Mr and Mrs R complained. They said the record of the HMO breach was preventing them 
from taking a new interest rate. They complained TMW had refused their application to split 
the title, and said they wanted the valuation fee back if the split didnt go ahead. They said 
TMW had agreed to split the title, the valuation contained errors, and TMW shouldnt go 
back on the agreement now. And they said that recording their account as being in breach of 
the terms and conditions was stopping them going to another lender.
TMW said the fee was non-refundable  a valuation was always needed, whether or not the 
application went on to be granted. But it agreed to refund it as a gesture of goodwill. And it 
agreed the property wasnt an HMO. But it said this made no difference to whether or not 
Mr and Mrs R were eligible for a new interest rate; they still werent, because the mortgage 
was still in breach because of the new house that had been built without its consent.
And it said the reason why it wouldnt agree to the split of the title is because its policy was 
to require the proceeds of sale of the separated title to be used to reduce the mortgage 
balance  but Mr and Mrs R had made clear that they intended to retain the property 
themselves and not sell it. It would only consider the title split if either Mr and Mrs R used the 
proceeds to reduce the balance, or carried out the split as part of re-mortgaging to another 
lender.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the breach recorded because of 
the HMO licence made any difference to whether Mr and Mrs R got a new interest rate. He 
said TMW didnt need to request a valuation because it was always clear Mr and Mrs Rs 
request failed its lending criteria. But he thought its refund of the valuation fee was a fair way 
to put that right. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive set out above, weve dealt with the complaint about the recording of a breach of 
contract for building the second property  and the refusal of a new interest rate that resulted 
 in a separate complaint. And while I appreciate Mr and Mrs R dont agree with the outcome 
of that complaint, weve told them that its now too late to re-open it. Im not therefore going 
to look at those matters again. In this decision I will focus on the later application to split the 
title, and the issue around HMO licensing and whether this stopped Mr and Mrs R getting a 
new rate.
Dealing with the HMO matter first, there are two forms of HMO licensing under current 
legislation  mandatory and additional licensing. Mandatory licensing is required everywhere 
for properties over a certain size or occupancy level. In addition to that, individual local 
authorities can decide to implement additional licensing in their areas. Mr and Mrs Rs local 
authority has introduced an additional licensing scheme which included properties of this 
type.
As part of that process, the local authority inspected the property, granted a license (which 
included a maximum occupancy level), and forwarded a copy of the license to the mortgage 
lender  in this case TMW. All that is in line with the proper process.When TMW received the license, it noted that the maximum occupancy was at a greater 
level than it allowed for its standard buy to let mortgages (like this one). So it put a marker on 
the account and asked Mr and Mrs R for evidence that their property was let within its criteria 
 rather than to the maximum level specified in the license. In particular, it asked to see the 
tenancy agreement.
Mr and Mrs R gave TMW a tenancy agreement, which showed the property was let under a 
single tenancy to four occupants. This was less than the maximum specified in the license, 
and within the limits of what was acceptable to TMW. So it removed the marker.
I dont think it was necessary for TMW to apply the marker. I think it likely misunderstood 
what it had been sent. It seems to have thought that Mr and Mrs R had applied for a 
mandatory license because the occupancy levels of the property required it (which would be 
a breach of contract), rather than Mr and Mrs R being caught up in a local authority 
additional licensing scheme for smaller properties. 
I think it was reasonable for TMW to check that Mr and Mrs R were keeping to the terms of 
the mortgage agreement and not letting their property as an HMO. It was clear with 
Mr and Mrs R what evidence it wanted to see, and it took Mr and Mrs R some months to 
provide that evidence. 
However, in this situation I think it would have been fairer for TMW to investigate whether 
there had been a breach, rather than assume there was until Mr and Mrs R proved 
otherwise.
But I dont think this caused Mr and Mrs R any loss. I say that because even if TMW had not 
applied the HMO breach marker, it would still have the mortgage recorded as being in 
breach of contract because of the construction of the new property. My colleague in the 
other case found that it was fair for that marker to be on their account, and that it was fair 
that TMW didnt consider Mr and Mrs R eligible for a new interest rate as a result. And so it 
follows that even without the HMO breach marker, Mr and Mrs R would still have been seen 
as being in breach of contract and would still have been ineligible for a new interest rate. The 
HMO marker was not the only thing stopping them from getting a new rate; they would still 
have been ineligible without it; and therefore it did not cause them any loss.
Ill turn now to the application to split the title. As I say, my colleague found in the earlier 
case that demolishing the garage and building a new house was a breach of the mortgage 
contract, and that it was fair for TMW to decide that Mr and Mrs R were ineligible for a new 
rate while they remained in breach. I am not going to re-open his findings.
In order to remedy the breach, TMW said that Mr and Mrs R could get retrospective 
permission or apply to split the title, creating a new title for the new house outside the scope 
of TMWs security.
Splitting the title would involve reducing the value of the security held by TMW. The new 
property was built in the place where a garage was demolished at the end of the garden of 
the old property. Mr and Mrs R say that because the garage wasnt explicitly mentioned in 
the valuation report from when they originally took out the property, this must mean that it 
wasnt considered by the lender and TMW didnt include it in the mortgage. But I dont agree 
with that. It might not have been explicitly mentioned by the valuer  but that doesnt mean 
its excluded from the mortgage security. Thats not how mortgages work. The mortgage is 
secured over the title registered at the Land Registry  and the title includes not just the 
house but all the land and outbuildings (including the garage and the ground it stands on). 
What determines whether or not it is included in TMWs security is whether it is part of the 
description of the property forming the title entry at the Land Registry  not whether or not the valuer specifically mentioned it. The former garage (now the second property) and the 
ground it stands on is within the boundary of the existing title, and therefore is included in 
TMWs charge. 
So splitting the title would mean that TMWs security went from being a house, large garden 
and garage to a house and smaller garden, with another house closer by. That would 
potentially reduce the value of TMWs security. It was reasonable for TMW to want to see 
whether the new, smaller, title would still represent good security for its mortgage before 
going ahead. 
However, it was TMBs policy that where it agreed to split the title it would require either the 
newly created title to be sold and the proceeds of sale used to reduce its mortgage, or the 
mortgage to be paid off in some other way.
I dont think this is unreasonable. Splitting the title by removing some of the land, and some 
of the facilities associated with the original property (in this case a garage) is likely to reduce 
the value of the remaining property. If the mortgage balance does not reduce as well, that 
would increase the loan to value.
But Mr and Mrs R did not intend to sell the new property. They wanted to keep it, on its own 
separate title not subject to TMWs mortgage.
TMW agreed to lend to Mr and Mrs R based on a particular property (including land) at a 
particular loan to value. Mr and Mrs R were asking it to agree to change the original lending 
proposition to one based on a smaller property and  because they didnt want to reduce the 
mortgage balance  a higher loan to value.
This is a fundamentally different lending proposition. TMW is not obliged to agree to it. Its 
reasonable for it to be allowed to make a commercial decision about whether it is prepared 
to accept such a significant change to the mortgage and security it originally agreed to. 
TMW wasnt prepared to agree to that. It wanted either the whole mortgage to be repaid, or it 
wanted the amount of the remaining mortgage on the remaining land to be reduced to reflect 
the reduction in the land.
Given it was clear from the start what Mr and Mrs Rs intentions were, and that their 
intentions did not fit with TMWs criteria, there was little point in arranging a valuation  since 
TMW was unlikely to agree to the application whatever the valuation said. TMW now accepts 
that and has refunded the valuation fee. I think thats fair.
But I dont think TMWs policy has led to Mr and Mrs R being treated unfairly. I appreciate 
theyre in a difficult position  theyre not eligible for a new rate with TMW, and have had 
difficulty in moving the mortgage to a new lender. 
Ultimately, though, its a situation of Mr and Mrs Rs making  they chose to build the new 
property without getting TMWs agreement, and made clear their intention to keep it. And 
while thats left them in a difficult position in terms of this mortgage, that position arises out of 
their actions. I dont think it would be fair to expect TMW to agree to a fundamentally 
different proposition to the original mortgage agreement if its not comfortable with doing so. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 29 October 2021.
 
Simon Pugh
Ombudsman