DRN-4196554
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) has handled a claim under their 
legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy unfairly. They say HDI should cover the costs theyve 
incurred when paying for their own legal representatives.
Any reference to HDI includes the actions of its agents. For ease, Ive referred to Mrs T 
throughout my decision as she has been leading on the complaint.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so Ive summarised 
whats happened.
Mrs T has a LEI policy which is underwritten by HDI.
On 25 March 2022, Mrs T sought to make a claim under the policy regarding a 
dispute about her neighbour allegedly trespassing on her land.
The next day, Mrs T issued her neighbour with a cease-and-desist letter.
At the end of March, HDI requested further information to assess the claim  which 
Mrs T provided the same day.
On 11 April, HDI accepted the claim subject to the legal claim having prospects of 
success.
Around this time, Mrs T told HDI that due to the nature of the claim a specialist legal 
team would be required to deal with it.
Mrs T asked HDI for updates on her claim. And on 19 April HDI said it had appointed 
a panel firm of solicitors. But, the following day, HDI told Mrs T the solicitors couldnt 
take on the case due to the time sensitive nature of it.
The next day HDI appointed another panel firm of solicitors (who Ill refer to as S).
Mrs T says she received a letter from her neighbours solicitor on 27 April - at which 
point she says she had to instruct her own barrister.
A week later, Mrs Ts barrister wrote to the neighbour telling them to desist any 
further trespass. The barrister advised Mrs T an injunction wasnt necessary as the 
boundary protocol had been invoked which is designed to resolve boundary disputes 
quickly and with limited costs.
Unhappy with how the claim was being handled, Mrs T complained to HDI. In its final 
response dated June 2022, HDI said Mrs Ts freedom to choose her own solicitor 
only applied when legal proceedings were imminent or if there was a conflict of 
interest with the panel solicitor  and it didnt consider either to apply in the 
circumstances.
It added that even once legal proceedings are issued, it would require its terms of 
business to be agreed with a non-panel solicitor prior to any costs being covered, 
and that it reserves the right to not cover legal costs incurred by a non-panel firm 
without its knowledge or consent.
It did, however, accept that it could have communicated better with Mrs T whilst the 
claim was being handled. Mrs T replied saying that because HDI hadnt progressed 
the claim  and due to the legal matter requiring specialist legal knowledge and it 
being time sensitive  shed had no choice but to appoint her own legal 
representatives.
Unhappy, Mrs T brought a complaint to this Service. An Investigator considered it 
and said due to a breakdown in communication between the parties, it was 
reasonable Mrs T wanted to appoint her own solicitor. He said HDI should consider 
appointing Mrs Ts chosen solicitor and consider any costs already incurred.
Mrs T accepted the Investigators findings, but HDI didnt reply and so, the complaint 
has been passed to me for an Ombudsmans decision.
I issued a provisional decision on 2 June 2023, in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I intend to reach a 
different outcome to the Investigator, and Ill explain why.
Cover for non-panel solicitors costs
The key issue to be decided is whether HDI should cover the costs and disbursements Mrs 
T has incurred since instructing her own legal representative.
Our Investigator said the breakdown in communication between the parties should mean 
HDI considers covering the legal costs Mrs T has incurred. But Im not persuaded thats a 
fair approach here. Whilst I will consider how HDI communicated with Mrs T later in my 
decision, the starting point for determining whether HDI should cover non-panel legal costs 
is the policy document which says under Freedom to choose an appointed advisor:
b) You may choose a qualified appointed advisor if
i. we agree to start legal proceedings or proceedings are issued against you.
ii. there is a conflict of interest.
Im satisfied the policy is clear that a policyholders freedom to choose their own legal 
representative is not absolute and applies only if legal proceedings are imminent or there is 
a conflict of interest. So, Ive gone on to consider whether these apply.
Was there a conflict of interest or had HDI agreed to start legal proceedings?
From what Ive seen, a conflict-of-interest argument hasnt been raised, and its clear to me 
from reading the correspondence between HDI and Mrs T - that HDI hasnt agreed to legal 
proceedings starting. So, what remains for me to consider is whether legal proceedings had 
been issued against Mrs T  and whether its reasonable to direct HDI to cover the legal 
costs shes incurred by appointing her own legal representative.Were there imminent legal proceedings?
Mrs T has said she issued a cease-and-desist notice letter to her neighbour the day after the
alleged trespass occurred. This letter gives notice of an intention to issue legal proceedings
should the activity not stop. The issuance of it doesnt amount to formal legal proceedings
starting  and its not evidence of legal proceedings being taken against Mrs T.
Ive also considered that Mrs T says she received a threatening letter from her neighbours
solicitor at the end of April 2022. I havent a copy to consider. So, based on the available
evidence Im not persuaded theres enough for me to conclude legal proceedings were
imminent.
Furthermore, Mrs T has told this Service that her barrister said an injunction wasnt
necessary. As an injunction would need to be applied for through the court, Im more
persuaded that Mrs Ts barrister advising it wasnt necessary is evidence that court
proceedings werent imminent. In addition, Mrs T has said her barrister has only recently
started pursuing a boundary declaration through the courts to avoid the issue being a blight
on their property. Given this application is taking place approximately one year after the
initial alleged trespass took place, Im not persuaded on the available evidence that its
reasonable to conclude legal proceedings were imminent at the time Mrs T appointed her
own legal representative
Were there exceptional circumstances?
Ive gone on to consider whether any exceptional circumstances apply which mean it would
be fair and reasonable for HDI to deviate from the policy terms and allow Mrs T to appoint
her own solicitor prior to legal proceedings being imminent.
Mrs T has raised a few points to argue why she considers it reasonable for HDI to cover her
legal costs  namely, these are that she has more confidence in her own legal
representatives; the case is too complex for the panel firm of solicitors; the panel firm
solicitor is too far away.
I understand Mrs T has concerns about Ss competency to deal with the legal matter  shes
said the appointed solicitor is too junior to deal with what she considers to be a complex
legal claim. Whilst I appreciate Mrs T feels strongly her legal claim would be better dealt with
by their own solicitor and barrister, S has a duty to say if it isnt able to effectively deal with a
legal claim of Mrs Ts nature. But it hasnt said this. Furthermore, in the absence of
persuasive evidence which explains why the claim cannot be dealt with by S due to its
complexities, Im not persuaded its reasonable to say S isnt suitably qualified to deal with
the legal claim. And whilst I acknowledge Mr T is a qualified legal professional and is
perhaps better placed than most to comment on this, this alone doesnt persuade me HDI
should cover the costs incurred in using their own legal representative before court
proceedings became necessary.
Mrs T has also said that because S is too far removed from her property, it acting as her
legal representative isnt a viable option. She said her barrister had to visit her property to
fully understand the legal dispute and advise accordingly  something S couldnt do due to
its remoteness. Whilst I appreciate there was a benefit to be had in having Mrs Ts barrister
physically attend the property, I havent been provided with evidence which shows this was 
necessary beyond Mrs Ts opinion about it. And so, Im not persuaded Ss geographical
location should determine that HDI cover Mrs Ts legal costs.
Finally, Mrs T has said case law allows her a general freedom of choice  but thats not the
approach this Service takes. Whilst we have regard to the law, we are not bound by it. And
we dont consider case law to be interpreted to mean a policyholders rights to freedom ofchoice extends to include all preparatory work before negotiation has failed and proceedings
are imminent. And where the terms and conditions of the policy are clear  as I consider
them to be in this case  we dont consider it fair or reasonable to expect an insurer to cover
the costs of a non-panel solicitor before legal proceedings commence and where exceptional
circumstances dont apply.
HDI has appointed S - a panel firm - and based on where the legal dispute was at the time of
doing so, Im satisfied it was entitled to so under the policy terms. HDI has agreed to cover
the claim subject to it having prospects of success and so, its done what Id expect it to do.
Ultimately, its now up to Mrs T to decide whether she wants to continue with her claim using
S as her legal representative.
Excess
Mrs T has complained that HDI has retained her £250 excess. Under what is not covered
the policy says:
The first £250 of any claim under insured event D b), You must pay this as soon as
we accept your claim.
So, Im satisfied the policy is clear that a policy excess is payable. HDI has accepted the
claim (subject to the remaining terms and conditions) and has appointed a panel firm of
solicitors. If HDI has already incurred costs in doing so, I dont consider it reasonable to ask
HDI to return the excess to Mrs T  as the excess is to cover the first £250 of costs.
However, if HDI hasnt incurred costs, and Mrs T isnt going to use the panel firm of
solicitors, I consider it reasonable for HDI to reimburse Mrs T the £250 excess.
Claims handling
Whilst I agree with our Investigator that HDIs customer service fell short at times, I dont
agree this was to such an extent it warrants HDI covering Mrs Ts legal costs. In any event,
HDI has already declined Mrs Ts request to use her own legal representative, so it has
already considered these costs. Instead, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and
reasonable to direct HDI to pay compensation to recognise the difficulties Mrs T experienced
whilst making her claim.
With any claim the insurer needs to satisfy itself there is cover under the policy, and so HDIs
request for further information from Mrs T isnt unusual  and taking just over two weeks to
accept the claim isnt in my opinion unreasonable. Understandably though, a legal dispute is
inherently stressful and so I appreciate Mrs Ts desire for it to progress in a timely manner.
It is, however, usual practice for the insurer to refer the legal claim to a panel firm of
solicitors for a prospects of success assessment as the insurer are entitled to rely on the
solicitors expertise to determine if there is cover under the policy. But, here, its apparent
this process didnt happen as it should. HDI has said that S didnt receive the original
instruction it sent in April 2022  though its not clear when this error was identified and
subsequently rectified.
The final response letter dated June 2022 says S has confirmed safe receipt of instruction
and that someone from S will be in contact with Mrs T. So, Ive thought about whether Mrs T
would have acted differently had this error not happened, but Im not persuaded she would
have done. I say this because approximately one week after Mrs T was informed S had been
appointed by HDI, she instructed her own legal representative. But Im not persuaded this
would have given S sufficient time to review legal documents and draft a legal opinion. So, I
think its more likely that Mrs T had always intended to instruct her own legal representativeand that her decision to do so wasnt because of HDIs poor case handling  particularly as
Mrs T wouldnt have known at the point of appointing her own representative that the
instruction to S hadnt been received.
Ive also thought about whether Mrs T would have potentially switched to the non-panel
solicitors had they been instructed when they ought to have been but again, based on Mrs
Ts concerns about using them  as set out earlier in this decision - Im not persuaded she
would have done. So, whilst I acknowledge HDIs service fell short, Im not persuaded Mrs T
would have acted differently had things happened as they should.
I also understand Mrs T considers HDIs response time to her emails to have been too slow.
HDI has said it would have been preferable to speak on the phone and for someone to have
a hold on what was happening with the claim - and I agree. Had there been telephone calls,
its likely these could have alleviated some of the frustration Mrs T was feeling, and because
HDI didnt always meet its service agreement timescales, I am satisfied its fair to ask HDI to
pay compensation  and in the circumstances I consider £200 to be reasonable.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to direct HDI Global Speciality SE to pay Mr and Mrs
T £200 compensation.
If it hasnt already incurred legal costs and Mr and Mrs T arent going to use the panel firm of
solicitors, HDI should reimburse the excess Mr and Mrs T has already paid.
Responses to my provisional decision
HDI responded to say it accepted my provisional findings. Mrs T also replied. In summary 
she accepted her legal representatives had been appointed before legal proceedings had 
started but she said her legal dispute had now reached a pointed where proceedings were 
imminent - and so she wanted assurance that HDI would agree to appointing her own 
solicitors moving forwards. 
Our Investigator correctly explained the scope of my decision is limited to considering the 
complaint Mrs T initially brought to HDI and this Service. He advised Mrs T to get in touch 
with HDI to let them know legal proceedings were imminent so it could consider her request. 
I understand Mrs T has faced difficulties in getting an answer from HDI on this matter but Im 
unable to comment on this further as part of this complaint.
Mrs T later added that she considered there to be a conflict of interest between HDI and S. 
She said S charges below market rates to stay on HDIs panel  and having lower costs is in 
HDIs interest as it minimises its outlay. She added that to be commercially viable, S 
employs junior staff and dismisses cases without consideration to keep HDIs costs down  
which in turn means policyholders claims arent given a fair opportunity. 
Mrs T said proceedings could have been imminent as shed had to involve the police to stop 
her neighbour from dismantling her boundary wall. Mrs T says she mitigated the situation by 
having her legal representative write to the neighbour. She says if that hadnt happened, an 
injunction would have been required  meaning proceedings were imminent. 
She said S were appointed three months after the matter started and so she had no choice 
but to appoint her own legal representatives  she said her neighbours solicitor told her to 
appoint solicitors immediately. Last, Mrs S questions the fairness of second guessing what she may or may not have 
done. She says she would have been more than happy for HDI to appoint their solicitors to 
avoid spending her own money on legal fees. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also carefully considered Mrs Ts response to my provisional decision. Having done so, I 
wont be departing from my initial findings. Im satisfied my provisional decision largely 
covers the subsequent points Mrs T, but for completeness Ive addressed those I consider to 
be new. 
Mrs T has said legal proceedings could have been imminent had she not taken steps to 
mitigate her position. Whilst I appreciate Mrs T might not have known if and how her legal 
dispute was going to escalate, at the time of instructing her legal representative legal 
proceedings werent imminent and so, it remains that HDI isnt responsible for covering her 
representatives legal fees in relation to pre-action work as exceptional circumstances dont 
apply here. 
Mrs T has said theres a conflict of interest between HDI and S because theres a 
commercial relationship between the two parties. However, its standard practice for LEI 
policies to give insurers the freedom to choose which solicitor to appoint for advice and 
assistance up to the time where legal proceedings are necessary  and so, the existence of 
a relationship doesnt mean theres a conflict of interest. Importantly, when a panel solicitor 
is appointed by an insurer, the solicitor is acting on the policyholders behalf, not the 
insurers  though the insurer is entitled to rely on the advice provided. And so, the panel 
solicitor is required to adhere to its professional code of conduct  like any other legal 
representative  and declare if there is a conflict of interest. Here, for example, theres no 
evidence to suggest S has had any prior involvement with Mrs T or her opponent, and so Im 
not persuaded a conflict of interest exists in these circumstances.  
Mrs T has said she would have been happy to use the panel solicitors had HDI appointed 
them within a reasonable time. But I must keep in mind that Mrs T has made numerous 
comments  as detailed in my provisional decision  as to why she considers S to be            
ill-equipped to deal with her legal dispute. This, combined with her decision to appoint her 
own legal representative soon after HDI had appointed S, persuades me it was more likely 
than not always her intention to appoint her own legal team to deal with the matter. 
My final decision
My final decision is that uphold this complaint and direct HDI Global Speciality SE to pay           
Mr and Mrs T £200 compensation. 
HDI must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and Mrs T 
accept my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If it hasnt already incurred legal costs and Mr and Mrs T arent going to use the panel firm of
solicitors, HDI Global Speciality SE must reimburse the excess Mr and Mrs T has already 
paid.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision before 17 July 2023.
 
Nicola Beakhust
Ombudsman