DRN-3319581
The complaint
Mr G complains about how HSBC UK Bank Plc has treated him in relation to a personal loan 
he has with it.
What happened
Mr G has a loan account with HSBC. He says he requested a payment holiday to defer loan 
repayments in June 2020, which HSBC authorised. Once the payment holiday ended, Mr G 
says that he started to make repayments to the loan again, but then requested an extension 
to the payment holiday in February 2021  because his employment status hadnt changed 
as he had been furloughed due to the pandemic.
Mr G says that when he applied for the extension in February 2021, HSBC was very 
unhelpful and so he made a complaint, which was resolved to his satisfaction in March 2021. 
Then in April 2021, HSBC sent Mr G a text message to let him know that his account had 
fallen into arrears and it hadnt received a payment from him since September 2020. Mr G 
says that HSBC told him that it had no record of his request for the payment holiday 
extension and that he owed it money for non-payment of the loan.
Mr G made another complaint to HSBC in May 2021 about the issues he was experiencing.
Mr G says that HSBCs actions have had a great impact on him and his family. He says it 
has impacted his credit score, caused him unnecessary stress and sleepless nights with 
worry.
To put things right, Mr G says he would like an apology from HSBC, acknowledgement that 
its staff training is inadequate and compensation for the stress him and his family has been 
caused.
In March 2021, HSBC responded to Mr Gs initial complaint and apologised for the service 
he had received during a call in February 2021. To compensate Mr G for the distress of the 
call it paid £400 into his bank account. 
Then in May 2021, after Mr G made a second complaint, HSBC responded to this service to 
say that it acknowledged that a bank error had occurred. It said that Mr G didnt complete the 
payment holiday extension form correctly, which caused errors in the application being 
processed. HSBC has acknowledged that Mr G made a number of calls to sort things out. 
Mr G had to go through a second application and once this had been completed, HSBC 
confirmed that it was still reporting arrears on the account and so Mr G continued to receive 
calls about the arrears. 
HSBC says that it has now removed the arrears from Mr Gs account. HSBC said that to 
apologise for the service issues and the delay in processing the payment holiday extension, 
it wanted to offer Mr G an additional £150.
Our Investigator looked into things for Mr G and they thought the complaint should be 
upheld. They thought that Mr G had been asked to jump through hoops in order for the 
payment holiday extension to be initiated  and they didnt think that HSBC had acted in a 
way that showed any coherence in how the payment holiday extension request had been 
managed. The Investigator also found that some of the service Mr G had received on the 
phone from HSBC was of an extremely poor standard. And overall, the Investigator found 
that Mr G had been put under a large amount of unnecessary stress as a result of HSBCs 
actions. Because of this, the Investigator thought that HSBC should pay Mr G an additional 
£1,000 to compensate him  this is in addition to the £400 it has already paid for a poor 
service during phone call and the £150 it offered him for general poor service and delays. 
Mr G didnt agree with the level of compensation suggested by the Investigator. He 
reiterated that the stress caused to him and his family could have been avoided if HSBC had 
handled things better. 
HSBC also responded to the Investigators view. It agreed that the payment holiday 
extension request could have been handled better from start to finish  and that far more 
calls took place than were reasonably expected. It also acknowledged that Mr G must have 
been at his wits end with the whole matter, but it said that the pandemic had affected 
everyone including its staff  which it feels is possibly the reason why personal comments 
were made during the calls and a lack of ownership to put things right. However, it also said 
that Mr G should have been listened to and supported during the difficult time he was going 
through. HSBC agreed with the Investigators recommendation to pay £1,150  which is in 
addition to the £400 already paid.
Because Mr G didnt agree with the level of compensation awarded by the Investigator, the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to this decision only provides a very brief summary of what has happened 
in the lifetime of this case. The facts are well known to both parties, and so I dont intend to 
go over these in a lot of detail here. 
Both parties in this case now appear to be in agreement that HSBCs actions fell very short 
of what should be reasonably expected  both in terms of customer service and competency 
to process what ought to have been a relatively straightforward request. So whilst Ive 
provided some key details below I wont be going into the fine details of what happened for 
the avoidance of doubt, I agree that HSBC did something wrong here.
So, I will look to see whether the additional £1,000 that HSBC has now agreed to, is enough 
to compensate Mr G for all the things that HSBC got wrong.
Processing the payment holiday extension
During the course of the pandemic, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), the industry 
regulator, issued guidance that businesses, like HSBC, should follow when its consumers 
had been negatively impacted by the repercussions of the pandemic. 
One of the measures the FCA suggested businesses took was to offer payment freezes for 
customers who might have difficulty in repaying loans or credit cards as a result of the 
pandemic.Mr G works in the hospitality industry. It has been widely publicised how this industry has 
been negatively impacted by the effects of the pandemic. Mr G was furloughed by his 
employer in March 2020. And not long after, Mr G approached HSBC for a payment holiday 
on his loan  this payment holiday was accepted by HSBC and proceeded normally. 
In February 2021, Mr G contacted HSBC again to request a payment holiday extension. And 
from here is where things started to go wrong. 
As far as Mr G was concerned, the payment holiday extension went through and was 
accepted  which would mean he wouldnt have to make a repayment to the loan until June 
2021. However, he then noticed that a payment for the loan had been taken from his current 
account. Mr G had to contact HSBC to let it know that he was in a payment holiday and that 
the payment should be reversed - he had to chase HSBC again to make sure this happened.
 
Mr G then waited a number of weeks, thinking that the payment holiday was still being 
processed, when he then started to get contacted about a missed payment. After many calls, 
Mr G was later told that his payment holiday request hadnt been added to the master 
spreadsheet, and then a number of calls later, he found out that his initial request had been 
declined because there was information missing from the application and hed need to 
complete another income and expenditure.
After some calls later, Mr G eventually spoke to someone who went through an income and 
expenditure assessment with him, and this person confirmed on the phone the payment 
holiday had been accepted and he would receive a letter in the post in 7-10 days to confirm 
this. At this point, HSBC confirmed that his direct debit would be cancelled  which it 
appears it was.
Again, HSBC made a number of calls to Mr G about the arrears on the account  and to 
request that these were repaid. It then became apparent that the payment holiday request 
hadnt, yet again, been successful because there were arrears on the account.
Mr G then went into branch for help. The person in branch contacted HSBCs head office in 
an attempt to help Mr G, but the representative continued to state that Mr G would need to 
clear the arrears on the account before it would complete another income and expenditure to 
request the payment holiday extension.
This really is only a very brief summary of what happened. Mr G has had to go through a lot, 
over many months, while in financial difficulties due to the pandemic to get his payment 
holiday extension accepted. He has had two payment holiday extensions accepted which at 
least one of these was confirmed by HSBC in writing, only to be told these have been 
declined. Because HSBC cancelled Mr Gs direct debit, he then went into arrears with the 
loan repayments, and he received many calls from its collections team to request a payment 
 even though he was supposed to be in a payment holiday.
I dont think the actions of HSBC here have been reasonable. It should have been a 
relatively straightforward process for Mr G to request an extension to the payment holiday 
and as Ive explained above, it was far from this. Even if Mr G had made an error in the 
application initially, this should have been identified sooner and he shouldnt have been 
made to believe the requests had been accepted when they werent.
Service on the phone
I have listened to all of the calls that HSBC has sent this service. It seems that there are 
some calls missing, but what I have listened to provides me with a clear indication as to the 
level of service Mr G was provided with.I havent commented on all of the calls here  the Investigator has given a good summary as 
to what happened in their view, so I dont think it necessary to go over these again. But I will 
comment on these more generally below. 
Its clear from listening to the calls that some representatives were really trying to help Mr G 
and showed empathy for his situation and what he had been through. But unfortunately, 
even in these calls, little ownership was taken for Mr Gs situation in putting things right. 
There were some calls that were far below the standard of customer service I would expect. 
Some representatives came across as rude, unhelpful, unsupportive and lacked empathy for 
what Mr G was going through. 
Mistakes werent acknowledged, no ownership was taken to ensure that the problem Mr G 
was having was sorted out and incorrect information was given to Mr G about what was 
happening with his payment holiday. 
Mr G made many calls to HSBC. And HSBC made many calls to him  especially once the 
account had gone into arrears. In fact, when the payment holiday was supposed to have 
gone through, and so a payment shouldnt have been due, HSBC called Mr G many times to 
ask him to repay the arrears.
HSBC has sent this service a recording of 16 separate calls. However, based on what I 
understand from the conversations that took place, and what HSBC has told us, there were 
more calls than this. It shouldnt have taken anywhere near this amount of calls for Mr Gs 
payment holiday extension request to be processed. I appreciate that some of the calls 
made to Mr G werent about the payment holiday  and were about repayment of the 
arrears. But Mr G should never have had to receive calls requesting repayment of the 
arrears had HSBC been more efficient in how it dealt with the payment holiday extension 
request. I find that the amount of contact Mr G had with HSBC was excessive, unnecessary 
and distressing for Mr G.
Mr G has said that he felt harassed by HSBC, and I can understand why he felt like this. He 
was also promised calls back that didnt happen. In some of the calls I have listened to, Mr G 
is clearly becoming very distressed and upset  which isnt surprising given what he had to 
go through.
Overall impact
Its probably worth noting here that Mr G has stated that his family were also under 
unnecessary stress as a result of HSBCs actions  this is understandable. But I dont have 
the power to take into account the impact to Mr Gs family when considering a compensation 
award  I can only take into account the impact to Mr G himself. 
Clearly Mr G and his wife have been greatly impacted by the pandemic  Mr G wasnt able 
to work and his wife was working on the front line in a hospital  I cant even begin to 
imagine how stressful the last few years have been for them. And things have been made 
much worse for Mr G by the actions of HSBC.
Theres no doubt in my mind that HSBC handled things very poorly here. From the general 
lack of ownership in processing a request for a payment holiday extension, to how Mr G was 
sometimes spoken to on the phone, the sheer volume of calls that happened to sort out the 
issue, the impact to his credit file and the length of time it took to resolve the matter.HSBC has already compensated Mr G £400 for the poor handling of one of the calls  Mr G 
has already explained that he was happy with this outcome  and I agree that this is fair 
compensation for this particular call. 
HSBC has said it has now removed the arrears from Mr Gs account. And I would also 
expect HSBC to remove any negative entries from his credit file in relation to the loan 
arrears. 
I now need to decide whether the additional £1,150 is a fair amount to compensate Mr G  
and I think it is. From what Ive seen, Mr G hasnt been impacted financially as a result of 
what HSBC has done wrong  what I mean by this is that HSBC hasnt caused him a 
financial loss. So the compensation award relates to the distress and inconvenience HSBCs 
actions caused to him.
Our website gives examples of different levels of compensation that this service will likely 
award in certain example scenarios  these are a helpful guide for all parties when 
considering what might be fair compensation. Ive thought about this in the context of the 
impact HSBCs actions had on Mr G. And in doing so, I think the most relevant 
compensation award is the one below:
An award of over £750 and up to around £1,500 could be fair where the impact of a 
business's mistake has caused substantial distress, upset and worry  even potentially a 
serious offence or humiliation. There may have been serious disruption to daily life over a 
sustained period, with the impact felt over many months, sometimes over a year. It could 
also be fair to award in this range if the business's actions resulted in a substantial short-
term impact.
Examples at the higher end could include where the effects of the mistake are irreversible or 
have a lasting impact on someones health or even resulted in a personal injury 
HSBC has agreed to pay Mr G £1,150 for the delays and poor service, and it has already 
paid him £400 for the service received on a particular call, so in total HSBC said it would pay 
Mr G £1,550.
Theres no doubt in my mind that Mr G has suffered substantial distress because of HSBCs 
actions  this was very clear from listening to the calls he had with HSBC. And I also think 
there has been a disruption to his daily life over the course of many months. Mr G has said 
that HSBCs actions have impacted on his mental health  and I think this too is 
understandable.
Having thought carefully about all of this  also taking into account the guidance available on 
our website which I referred to above  I think the total HSBC has agreed to compensate Mr 
G is enough to reflect the impact this situation has had on him. 
I understand that Mr G doesnt feel that this amount fully reflects what he has been through  
and the reality is, that no amount of compensation can unwind what has happened and how 
this made Mr G feel at the time. And I really do empathise with what happened. But I do 
think overall this is a fair figure for the issues that have happened  and is in line with what 
wed usually award in circumstances similar to those of Mr G.
Putting things right
HSBC must put things right for Mr G by doing the following:
Pay him £1,150 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience caused as a direct result of its errors. This is in addition to the £400 it has already paid him. 
If it hasnt already done so, HSBC should remove any adverse data from Mr Gs 
credit file that relates to the arrears on the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint. I order HSBC UK Bank Plc to put 
things right by doing what Ive said above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2022.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman