DRN-1546819
The complaint
Mr and Mrs N says West Bromwich Building Society mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs N were sold an MPPI policy with a mortgage in 1986. They paid a monthly 
amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs N disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ns case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint for the following reasons.
The sale took place a long time ago, so theres very limited information about how the MPPI 
was sold. I think thats understandable. But it means that I dont think it would be reasonable 
to uphold the complaint solely on the basis that Mr and Mrs N dont think they were aware of 
the MPPI at the time of taking out their mortgage. 
Mr and Mrs N have provided a copy of the mortgage offer. This doesnt mention MPPI. But I 
dont think thats sufficient to say they werent made aware of it, or that they didnt agree to 
the MPPI. For example, the MPPI couldve been mentioned in their interview with the 
mortgage adviser, on the mortgage application form, or there couldve been a separate 
MPPI application form that they completed. And I wouldnt expect the mortgage offer to 
mention MPPI unless it was a condition of the mortgage. Given how long ago the sale was  
I think its understandable that West Bromwich Building Society no longer holds evidence of 
how the MPPI was sold. 
So, I dont think I can say that West Bromwich Building Society failed to make Mr and Mrs N 
aware that they had a choice about buying the MPPI, or that they didnt choose to take it.
West Bromwich Building Society recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs N, and it seems to 
have been right for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. 
I dont know how West Bromwich Building Society explained the cost of the policy  so its 
possible that they couldve made this clearer. But even if the cost was clearly shown, I don't 
think Mr and Mrs N would have been put off by this. Thats because it wasnt particularly 
expensive, given the cover provided, and it appears that Mr and Mrs N could afford it.Its possible West Bromwich Building Society didnt point out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But Mr and Mrs N dont appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
The regulator's rules on high levels of undisclosed commission and profit share don't apply 
in this case, due to when Mr and Mrs N's mortgage account was closed.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ns comments, including what theyve said about their 
sick pay and savings, and that West Bromwich Building Society mis-sold an endowment at 
the same time. But these points dont change my conclusion. The MPPI wouldve paid out on 
top of any sick pay, and wouldve protected them from having to use their savings if one or 
both of them couldnt work for an extended period of time. So, I dont think the MPPI was 
unsuitable for them. And just because one product was mis-sold, doesnt mean another was. 
The evidence available in this case, including Mr and Mrs Ns testimony, isnt sufficient for 
me to say the MPPI was mis-sold to them. I appreciate they will be disappointed by this. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 June 2020.
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman