DRN-2390903
The complaint
Mr D has complained that TSB Bank plc (TSB) made errors when he tried to open a Junior 
Individual Savings Account (JISA) for his grandson. He is also unhappy at the time taken to 
resolve his complaint.
What happened
In July 2019, Mr D visited a TSB branch with his grandson to open a Junior ISA for him. He 
completed the application form and left the branch. A few days later, TSB contacted him to 
say that there had been an error. The JISA had to be opened by the parent, or legal 
guardian of Mr Ds grandson, not by his grandfather.
Mr D complained to TSB. The appointment to set up the account had lasted over an hour 
and he then had to visit the branch again to sort matters out. This involved his time and 
travel costs. TSB responded to Mr Ds complaint at the time and paid compensation and his 
travel costs. But Mr D re-opened his complaint as he still wasnt happy. He then felt that TSB 
had taken too long to deal with his second complaint and that they hadnt provided the full 
story of what happened.
TSB responded to the first complaint in August when Mr D visited the branch. They agreed 
they had made a mistake and apologised. They paid Mr D compensation of £50 for the 
inconvenience and £12 for his travel costs. They said that Mr D was happy to close his 
complaint at that time. Mr D remained unhappy and contacted TSB again to say so and 
wanted the complaint re-opened. TSBs further responses was sent to Mr D on 20 May 2020 
and 9 June 2020. They said that they considered that Mr Ds complaint had been closed and 
he had accepted that at the time. They had nothing further to add to their original response 
to the first complaint. They said that they had made Mr D aware that the timescales to deal 
with a re-opened complaint might be longer.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ds complaint and replied to him on 23 July 2020. He said that 
TSB had dealt with Mr Ds original complaint fairly. They had apologised for their error and 
paid compensation of £50 for the inconvenience, and £12 travel expenses. He thought that 
was fair and reasonable. He said that TSB had closed the complaint when Mr D accepted 
the compensation and its summary resolution letter was sent. Once Mr D made TSB aware 
that he wished to re-open the case, he was advised that the timeframes for dealing with this 
could be longer than the initial response. So, he felt that TSB had acted correctly in 
connection with Mr Ds second complaint.
Mr D asked that an ombudsman review his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In reading the evidence here, it seems to me that while Mr D is unhappy with the original 
error at TSB, he is also frustrated about the time taken by TSB to handle his second 
complaint and he has therefore become suspicious as to whether it has been properly 
looked at.
Looking at Mr Ds first complaint, TSB dealt with this fairly and reasonably. The product 
conditions for a JISA states The adult musthave parental responsibility for the child. 
So, the account hadnt been opened correctly. TSB admitted they had made an error and 
should have told Mr D at the time that he couldnt open the JISA for his grandson. This 
wasted his time. TSB apologised immediately and paid £50 compensation to Mr D, plus his 
travel expenses of £12. I think thats a fair offer that reflects the impact this would have had 
on Mr D.
TSB say that Mr Ds complaint was closed in August 2019 when it sent its resolution letter to 
him. As far as they were concerned, the complaint was closed when Mr D accepted £50 
compensation for inconvenience and £12 for his travel expenses. The resolution letter 
advised him of that. Mr D re-opened his complaint later in August 2019. In these 
circumstances, TSB explained that their timescales arent precise. 
In this case, TSB didnt respond again until May 2020, and in the meantime, Mr D had been 
chasing them for a reply. I can completely understand that Mr D was frustrated by this and 
thats a long time to wait for a response. But TSB did let him know that it would take much 
longer to look at a re-opened complaint in these circumstances. In any event, I think TSBs 
original resolution was fair, so I dont think itd be fair for me to tell TSB that it has to do any 
more here or pay any further compensation.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman