DRN-3544941
The complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, has unfairly refused him a 
better interest rate on his mortgage.  
He says hes suffered a financial loss as hes been paying the standard variable rate (SVR) 
on his mortgage until 2020 when he was able to access a better rate.  
What happened
In 2008, Mr C took out a mortgage with Halifax for around £311,000, plus fees over a 21-
year term. Interest was fixed initially at a rate of 6.39% for three years. 
When Mr Cs fixed rate expired, he says he asked Halifax for new interest rate products but 
was declined as he was told his loan to value (LTV) was too high. 
Recently Mr C has been able to access a better rate  directly through Halifax. He complains 
that hes not been able to do this before, and that Halifax didnt accurately value his property 
and hasnt taken account of the extension to the property since he took out the mortgage in 
2008. Mr C also complains that Halifax has not applied his new interest rate to his 
coronavirus payment deferral period.
Halifax objected to this service considering part of the complaint as it says its been brought 
too late under the relevant time rules. 
I issued a decision on what parts of the complaint this service can consider. In this I said our 
service can consider the following: 
Mr Cs requests for a better interest rate being declined from 1 October 2014
recent valuations of the property
Halifaxs refusal to apply the new interest rate to Mr Cs coronavirus payment holiday
Our investigator didnt think that the complaint about these issues should be upheld. Halifax 
accepted that but Mr C didnt and so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Requests for better interest rates from October 2014
Mr C says that hes called Halifax several times over the years asking for a better interest 
rate but has been declined. He says hes made applications and is unhappy that no records 
of these have been provided by Halifax to our investigator. There is a record of an 
application being made in April 2014  but as I confirmed in my previous decision  this 
service is unable to consider whether this was unfairly declined as it falls outside our 
jurisdiction. 
The period of time that I can consider is from October 2014. Ive considered the information 
available and have thought carefully about what Mr C has said. Ive also borne in mind that, 
even in the absence of a record of a formal application for a new interest rate on Mr Cs 
mortgage  this doesnt mean he didnt call to ask about better interest rates on his 
mortgage.
A brief conversation might not have been recorded by a call handler, an in principle 
discussion where Mr C didnt give his personal details wouldnt have been recorded on his 
file or a mistake could have been made. Its all possible that he could have called to ask for 
better rates, but a formal record was not made. 
Ive listened to the available calls that Mr C has had with Halifax where hes asked about 
better rates. In 2014, there was a conversation where rates were discussed. Ultimately, the 
only rates available at the time were higher than the SVR that Mr Cs mortgage was on and 
so he decided not to complete a formal application  leaving it as it was at the time. Ive 
noted that Mr C also suggests he might look elsewhere, at other lenders, to see the rates 
available. 
I cant be certain what happened in the intervening years  as Ive said I think its likely that 
Mr C contacted Halifax asking about better rates on his mortgage, but as it appears that no 
formal application was made  I have no contemporaneous records to reflect why this was 
not possible. 
I think it's likely that there were no better rates available than the SVR that Mr Cs mortgage 
was on. Or if there were, they came with an Early Repayment Charge (ERC) that might not 
have put Mr C in a better position if he were to exit the mortgage deal early. 
Mr C has said that he tried to apply for better rates in 2019 through a broker but was unable 
to. Halifax doesnt have a record of this but I dont consider this means that Mr C didnt 
discuss his options with a broker who checked the rates that may have been available  Ive 
no reason to doubt what hes said here. But I think its likely that as no better rates were 
available at the time, a formal application was not pursued with Halifax (which is why it 
doesnt hold a record) even though the broker might. 
And so, whilst I dont doubt what Mr C has said  Ive not seen anything to suggest that 
Halifax unfairly declined his requests. As Ive said, I think its likely he did call up every few 
years to ask about better rates  as he says he did. But I also consider it likely that better 
rates were not available. And Ive kept in mind that there was no obligation on Halifax, as a 
lender, to invite Mr C to apply for new rates. 
Lenders change rates and eligibility criteria and whilst hes been able to access a better rate 
recently  I dont consider that this proves hes been unfairly declined rates in the past. 
Having thought about everything, I dont think that Halifax has treated Mr C unfairly in this 
regard. Valuation
Mr C says he was told that he could not get better rates due to his LTV being too high. And 
he says that the valuation held on file is incorrect. Hes contested this and said that he has 
had his house valued at much more by local estate agents. I should explain that a valuation 
from an estate agent is not the same as a valuation from a qualified surveyor. A surveyor is 
sufficiently qualified, and I dont consider it unreasonable for Halifax to rely on a professional 
third party. The valuers are appointed by Halifax but are independent and appropriately 
qualified to provide their own opinion as to the valuation. 
Its clear that Mr C is unhappy with this valuation of his property and the fact that, despite 
receiving messages to say that valuations would be completed on a certain day  no one 
came to his property and the valuations were completed at their desks (desktop valuation). 
Ive thought carefully about what hes said and can appreciate his frustrations. 
Ive kept in mind the timing of the valuation and restrictions due to the coronavirus pandemic. 
The valuation from July 2020 outlines that it was completed without a physical inspection of 
the property to avoid contact with the occupier and that, due to the pandemic, it is 
recommended that the valuation is kept under frequent review. At the time, there was 
uncertainty around the UK housing market. 
Mr C has queried how  later in 2020 when he said that he has involved the Financial 
Ombudsman Service  he was able to re-mortgage to a better rate. 
But I consider that the crucial point here is that Halifax has confirmed that Mr C has now 
been given the lowest rate available  regardless of the valuation. And so, whilst I accept his 
frustrations with the valuation, this hasnt made a difference to the rate his mortgage is now 
on following his application. As a result, I dont consider that Mr C has suffered a loss here.
Coronavirus payment deferral
I can see that Mr C took coronavirus payment deferrals in March 2020 (initially for three 
months) and then later in June 2020 for a further three months. Part of his complaint is that 
Halifax has not applied the new rate retrospectively to the period that the mortgage was in a 
payment deferral. 
I can see that the new interest rate was agreed and applied to the account later in 2020 and 
so, whilst I note Mr Cs frustrations that the payment deferral was applied during the time he 
was paying a higher rate of interest on his mortgage  I dont consider that it would be fair to 
ask Halifax to backdate this. The rate was not agreed until the offer was signed and 
accepted and so I dont consider it fair to retrospectively apply this 
Whilst I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Mr C, on balance I dont think 
that Halifax has treated him unfairly under the scope of this complaint and so I dont think 
that I can fairly uphold it.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2022.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman