DRN-2180836
The complaint
Mr S complains that Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) have incorrectly 
added items to his finance agreement and charged interest on them. He says that settlement 
figures were incorrect and default charges have been incorrectly applied.
What happened
Mr S bought a used car in January 2016. The car was involved in an accident and written off 
in September 2016. Mr S is unhappy about the settlement figures provided and states that 
incorrect figures were included in his finance agreement which has resulted in him paying 
more interest.
MBFS agreed that the road tax was incorrectly added to the finance agreement. The capital 
amount of £110 was refunded to Mr S in March 2016 and MBFS has calculated the 
additional interest at £5.77 and also agreed to refund this amount.
Our Investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint and provided three views to Mr S about the 
complaint. They concluded that no incorrect charges were added to the agreement save for 
the road tax and as MBFS had now agreed to refund the additional interest they couldnt ask 
for it to do anything further.
Mr S remains unhappy that his complaint has not been properly addressed and considered. 
He says that additional charges were added to his finance agreement that should not have 
been and he has paid unnecessary interest. He asked for an ombudsman to review his 
complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts are not in dispute and are well known to the parties, so I wont repeat them in 
detail in this decision. Instead I will focus on giving reasons for my decision.
The signed finance agreement is clear that the total amount financed was £17,909. Mr S 
says that this should be £17,708.61 because £110 for road tax and £90.39 for fuel and 
admin charges was incorrectly added to the finance agreement.
Dealing first with the road tax, Mr S explains that although this was added to the finance 
agreement, it was not provided, and Mr S had to pay the DVLA directly. MDFS refunded Mr 
S the capital amount of £110 in March 2016 but not the interest. MBFS has identified this 
was an error and recalculated the interest. It has agreed to refund the £5.77 additional 
amount and interest at 8% to Mr S and so I cant ask it to do any more.
The admin and fuel fees which total £90.38 are clearly expressed on the invoice and show in 
the finance total. I understand that Mr S is unhappy about these fees but MBFS has 
confirmed that they are costs that are added to all used car finance agreements and were 
properly charged. I cant see from the paperwork that I have, that Mr S queried these 
amounts at the time or raised any issues about how the finance figure of £17,909 had been 
arrived at.
Mr S signed the agreement on 14 January 2016 which clearly shows that the cash price of 
the car is £29,576.39. This is consistent with the invoices produced which shows the total 
price of the car to be £29,376 plus the road tax and fees making a total of £29,576.39.
Mr S says he paid a deposit of £11,667.39 which takes the finance balance to £17,909. 
Although Mr S says he was unfairly charged for tyre protection and gap insurance I cant see 
that these were added to the finance agreement. 
Mr S complains that he has been given different figures to settle the finance and I think that 
this is likely to be down to interest rate fluctuations at the time of requesting the figures. On 
the basis of the evidence I have seen I cant say that Mr S was unfairly or incorrectly 
charged for admin fees. I cant see any other charges were added to the agreement.
I would like to reassure Mr S that I have looked very carefully at all of the figures provided 
and I cant see that MBFS has done anything wrong.
Mr S didnt make his repayments on time after the car was in an accident and he didnt keep 
to the terms of the agreement. MBFS made arrangements for Mr S to repay the arrears but 
he didnt make those repayments and so, in these circumstances, I think that MBFS were 
entitled to record a default.
    
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman