DRN-2648401
The complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Soteria Insurance Limited (formerly CIS General Insurance Limited) 
wont pay part of her claim for storm damage to her roof, and internal damage. For 
convenience Ive referred to Soteria throughout.
What happened
In September 2019, after particularly heavy rain, Miss D returned home to find water pouring 
through her bedroom ceiling. She called out an emergency roofer who said that the damage 
was caused by leaves blocking the gutter outlet. He cleared the leaves and placed a 
temporary wire cage over the outlet. Miss D made a claim to Soteria. It sent a loss adjuster 
out who inspected the damage and initially told Miss D her claim wouldnt be covered as she
had no cover for accidental damage in her policy.
Soteria reviewed the matter and agreed to cover the internal damage under the escape of 
water term in the policy. It said it wouldnt cover the roof damage as it was a maintenance 
issue and the leaves had accumulated gradually. For the internal repairs, it paid out for the
contents damaged. Miss D provided a quote for a new carpet, but Soteria said it would only 
pay what its contractors had assessed as the cost for this, that is £626.22. As it was a cash
settlement it wouldnt pay VAT, so it offered her a payment of £517.68. For the internal
redecoration it offered £2,126. Miss D had a quote for £3,300 (labour only) and felt that she
should receive the higher amount as she wasnt happy with Soterias contractors carrying 
out the repairs.
In respect of the roof, Miss Ds roofer returned in January 2020 to carry out permanent
repairs to the guttering and the felt. The total cost, including the emergency work, was
£1,030.
Soteria paid Miss D an additional £250. £100 was to cover the cost of a deposit to the carpet
retailer which was forfeited as it had taken too long to consider the quote. The other £150
was compensation as Soteria agreed it had taken too long to consider the claim.
On referral to this service our investigator thought that Soteria had acted reasonably in 
respect of the internal repairs as it was entitled under the terms of the policy to pay what it 
would have paid its contractors. However with regard to the external repairs, he said there 
was clearly a storm at the time of the claim. And that it was unfair for Soteria to rely on 
gradual loss, so he said it should pay her roofers costs.
Soteria didnt agree, pointing out in particular that the roof repairs were general 
maintenance. And it included items like replacing defective felt which it believed to be 
defective design. 
I issued a provisional decision. in it I said that I thought the roof repairs werent covered 
under storm damage, but that Soteria should pay an additional sum in respect of VAT on the 
carpet.
Soteria has provided no response.
Miss D advised that she had nothing more to add.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following were my provisional findings (save for all references to CIS having been 
changed to Soteria):
In order for a claim to be covered it first of all has to come under a specific peril listed as
covered in the policy, like storm, escape of water or accidental damage. If the damage would
be covered but for an exclusion in the policy then we can decide if its fair for the insurer to
apply that exclusion. For the internal damage, Soteria has agreed to cover that as an escape 
of water, as the cover is for Loss of or damage to the Buildings caused byEscape of water
or oil from any fixed water or heating system. Soteria has deemed the gutter and outlet 
pipes to be a fixed water system. A similar term applies to the contents cover, meaning the
contents items are also covered.
For the damage to the roof, escape of water isnt relevant as the damage to the roof wasnt
actually caused by the water escaping. Miss D doesnt have extended accidental damage
cover so that doesnt apply either. The only possible cover would be under Storm or flood.
As our investigator pointed out, to decide if the storm cover applies we ask three questions
and it is only if the answer to each of those questions is yes that we would be likely to
uphold the complaint. The questions are:
On the balance of evidence, do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around
the date the damage is said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with what we generally see as storm damage?
Were storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
were there storm conditions?
For a claim to come under the storm cover in the policy there has to be a one-off incident of
storm that caused the damage. Storm is defined in the policy as:
..a period of violent weather involving:
(a) wind speeds with gusts of at least 55 miles per hour; or
(b) torrential rainfall at a rate of at least 15mm per hour.
For the period just before the claim there was torrential rainfall and that would come within
that definition. So, yes, there was a storm.
was the damage consistent with storm damage?
The damage to the roof was firstly caused by the blockage of leaves. Miss Ds roofer
commented:
In my opinion the blockage was caused by high winds blowing leaves stripped from the
trees into the gutter. Because of the style of this roof, which is a hip roof surrounded with a
deep gutter it acts as a trap for the leaves and when combined with heavy rain, which
occurred on this occasion, the leaves were picked up and carried to the roof outlet which
caused the blockage.There were no such high winds around the time of the claim, the peak gust being recorded
as 30mph. So I think it unlikely that the heavy rain alone would have caused the blockage so
isnt consistent with storm damage. The repairs the roofer did apart from clearing the
blockage were repairs to the felt which again isnt consistent with storm damage. Although I
think the answer to this question is no, I will go on to consider the third question.
was the storm the main cause of the damage?
In view of my comments above, regarding the lack of any high winds around the time of the
claim, I dont think it was. I think it more likely that the leaves built up over a period of time
since as Miss D admitted herself she hadnt been able to inspect it that autumn. The
extremely heavy rain is what caused the gutter to overflow. The other work the roofer was to
fit a new wire cage to the outlet, to repair defective felt where the corner of the tiles was
digging into the felt roof and where the guttering was sinking into the felt. He installed zinc
under the gutter and the tiles. That appears to me to be maintenance work and clearly not
storm damage.
So I cant find that the damage to the roof was caused by any insured peril in the policy. As
Ive said I cant look at whether it was fair to apply any exclusions if theres no cover for the
damage.
cost of the internal repairs
Miss D wanted her cost of the repairs covered as she wasnt happy with Soterias 
contractors doing them. Thats understandable but in those circumstances Soteria only has 
to pay what it would have paid its approved supplier. So unfortunately although it may have 
cost Miss D more to carry out the redecoration and the replacement of the carpet I think 
Soterias offer, in the main, was reasonable. If Ms D wants to accept the offer she should 
contact Soteria directly. Ive noted however that Soterias contractors assessed the cost of 
the carpet at £626.22. As it was a cash settlement Soteria wouldnt pay VAT, so it offered 
her a payment of £517.68. I dont think thats fair. If Miss D has had the carpet replaced she 
would have been charged VAT. Or she will be charged VAT if she goes ahead with the 
replacement. So I think that, on production of a VAT receipt Soteria should pay to Miss D the 
VAT element of its offer to her in respect of the carpet. If Miss D has already paid for a 
replacement carpet, Soteria should add simple interest at the rate of 8% per year from the 
date of her payment until it reimburses her.
As regards the compensation paid of £150, I think that was reasonable and in line with
awards we have made in similar cases.
As neither party has commented on my provisional findings, I remain persuaded by them. 
Those findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint in part and require Soteria Insurance Limited, on production of a VAT 
receipt, to pay to Miss D the VAT element of its offer to her in respect of the carpet. And if 
Miss D has already paid for a replacement carpet, it should add simple interest* at the rate of 
8% per year from the date of her payment until it reimburses her.
*Soteria Insurance Limited is required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from any 
interest paid. Should Miss D request it, Soteria should provide her with a certificate showing 
how much tax has been taken off so that, if appropriate, she can reclaim it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 March 2021. 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman