DRN-4034271
The complaint
Mr S has complained about an engineer assigned by British Gas Insurance Limited (BGIL) 
who caused damage to his home while carrying out repairs to their boiler. Mr S is unhappy 
with the settlement BGIL has offered to repair the damage it accepts was caused by its 
engineer. 
Mr S holds a Homecare agreement with BGIL. 
What happened
In May 2022 a leak was found from Mr Ss boiler and an engineer arranged to replace a 
cylinder. When the engineer carried out these works, there was a flood causing damage to 
Mr and Mrs Ss home. The damage was to a ceiling and wall in the hall stairway and landing. 
BGIL accepted responsibility for the damage. It asked Mr S to provide estimates for the 
repairs, which he did. BGIL found the estimates were high - and included decoration works 
to parts of the home that wasnt damaged by the incident. So BGIL appointed a contractor to 
visit Mr and Mrs Ss home. They provided a quote for redecoration which was considerably 
less than the estimates Mr S had provided. 
BGIL said it wouldnt meet the costs to repaint woodwork and doors. Mr S was unhappy 
about this - and he was unhappy that BGIL wouldnt meet the costs to redecorate all four 
levels of the hall, ceilings and landing. He said to leave the other parts undecorated would 
show a clear mismatch. 
In December 2022 BGIL upheld Mr Ss complaint in part. It apologised for the inconvenience 
caused by the engineer and its handling of things since May 2022. 
It offered an increased cash settlement of £1,620. This included the costs its appointed 
contractor could redecorate the hall and landing for, including the undamaged ceiling and 
hall. It didnt agree it should meet the costs to repaint the woodwork and doors. 
For the distress and inconvenience caused, it paid Mr S £200 compensation. It covered the 
costs to replace light fittings that were damaged in the incident.
Mr S remained unhappy and asked us to look at things for him. Our Investigator thought 
BGIL had done enough to put things right. 
Mr S didnt agree. He believes his complaint hasnt been given proper consideration. So he 
wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S provided three estimates. One is for £3,578 including VAT and 
includes the woodwork and decorating of walls, ceiling and hallway. I assume this is for all 
levels as the estimate doesnt specify. Another provides an estimate for £1,440 including 
VAT excluding woodwork. This includes the downstairs ceiling, walls and coving, the hall 
running upstairs and landing. It doesnt include the upstairs ceiling or any woodwork. 
The third estimate is the one Mr S wants BGIL to pay a cash equivalent settlement for. This 
is for £2,640 plus VAT, so £3,168. This includes the ceilings that are unaffected by water 
damage, the walls and hallway and landing. It also includes the woodwork and doors, of 
which Mr S says there are twelve. 
BGIL doesnt agree it should meet the costs to redecorate the woodwork and doors, but it 
has agreed to cover the redecorating costs of the first floor ceiling to match the hall, lower 
ceiling and landing. The cash settlement offered is based on what its appointed contractor 
said they could carry out the works for. 
I understand Mr S doesnt agree that the settlement offer BGIL has made is fair. He says to 
agree to their contractor to carry out the works means he will then need to appoint another 
contractor to finish the works to the woodwork. 
But I dont think BGIL should pay the costs to redecorate the woodwork and doors. I 
understand Mr S says he had no intention of redecorating and he says he hasnt been put 
back in the position he would have been had the damage not occurred. However, I think 
BGILs offer is reasonable to meet the costs to repair the affected areas - and for the ceilings 
on the first two floors to match the walls. Im not persuaded that by redecorating the walls 
and ceilings - but not having the woodwork repainted - will put Mr S in a worse position than 
he was in before the damage occurred. 
It may be that a compromise can be agreed whereby BGILs contractor can carry out the 
additional decorating works - subject to providing an estimate Mr S is satisfied with - so that 
all works are done at the same time to minimise further disruption for Mr and Mrs S. This is 
up to Mr S and BGIL to consider outside of my decision - and for Mr S to pay the costs of the 
additional works he wants done to the undamaged areas. 
I appreciate that the length of time this has gone on for has caused Mr S distress and 
inconvenience. He has explained that he and his wife are in their seventies and he is a carer 
for his wife. I understand that through no fault of their own, their home has been damaged 
and theyve been put to the disruption of having to obtain estimates and the back and forth 
with BGIL. 
Having carefully considered all of the information provided, I think the time its taken has 
mostly been due to the fact that Mr S and BGIL havent been able to agree on an outcome - 
and this has inevitably meant that it has taken longer to settle things. 
However, BGIL apologised to Mr S for the inconvenience it has caused and paid £200 
compensation. It has applied a discount to his renewal premium and met the costs to replace 
the damaged lighting. 
I understand Mr S doesnt agree and Im sorry to disappoint him. But overall, I think BGIL 
has done enough to resolve Mr Ss complaint. This means Im not asking it to do anymore. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Geraldine NewboldOmbudsman