DRN-1640343
The complaint
Mr F complains that Heritage Pensions Limited told him his self-invested personal pension 
fund (SIPP) was valued at more than it was. He says this led to him taking more than his 
25% Tax Free Cash (TFC) entitlement, causing him to lose out financially as a result.
What happened
Mr F held a bond in his SIPP. He signed the paperwork to cash this in, in September 2017. 
Around the same time, he asked his financial advisor to advise him of the implications of 
withdrawing around £20,000-25,000 from his pension fund.
Mr F was sent an annual statement by Heritage Pensions, his SIPP provider, in 
November 2017. This showed the correct value of his fund, which was £156,270.81. It 
referred to the bond, which accounted for most of the money in his SIPP.
The bond was cashed in and the cash proceeds paid into Mr Fs SIPP bank account in 
January 2018. 
Mr Fs financial advisor wrote to him in early April 2018, to point out that the money he had 
disinvested was sat in cash in his SIPP. The advisor said once Mr F had decided whether to 
drawdown funds, he needed to reinvest it to get some returns.
Later in April 2018, Mr Fs financial adviser wrote to Heritage Pensions, indicating that Mr F 
wanted to take around £25,000 from his pension fund. He asked Heritage to send out the 
forms to facilitate this. 
The forms were sent to the advisor at the beginning of May 2018. Mr F contacted Heritage 
Pensions a few days later asking how to complete the forms.
Its not in dispute that Mr F was given incorrect information by Heritage Pensions about the 
value of his fund, leading to a miscalculation of his TFC entitlement. Mr F said he decided to 
take 25% TFC based on the information provided by Heritage Pensions. 
On 14 May 2018, Heritage Pensions told Mr F it was checking and verifying the calculation 
of his payment and would be able to send him his TFC within the next 24 hours. Mr F 
received £73,923.47 on 15 May 2018. 
Heritage Pensions also sent Mr F a letter, dated 24 May 2018, saying the amount he had 
remaining in his Drawdown Pension was £221,770.42.
Heritage Pensions emailed Mr F on the 6 June 2018. It said the following:
You do still have funds invested with Aria Capital Management (approx. £152,237.22) 
and then you also currently have £69,347.44 in cash in your SIPP Bank Account.
This was incorrect. The Aria Capital Management bond had been cashed in and the 
money already paid into his SIPP bank account in January 2018. £73,923.47 had been 
paid out from this, supposedly as TFC. So, after this payment, Mr F only had what was left 
in his SIPP cash account, which was £69,347.44.
On 4 June 2018, Mr F emailed Heritage Pensions asking where his funds were being held 
and what they were invested in, if anything. He also asked about how to start taking his 
pension.
Mr F appointed a new financial advisor in May 2018. His financial advisor had authority to 
speak with Heritage Pensions on his behalf. Mr H says the advisor told him the correct 
value of his pension fund. Mr F said he was horrified as he thought his pension fund had 
considerably more in it, based on what Heritage Pensions had told him. 
In September 2018, Mr F completed a benefit payment form which instructed Heritage 
Pensions to start making an annual drawdown payment to him from his pension fund 
commencing March 2019. 
In November 2018, Mr F was again sent a statement of his account. This showed the 
correct amount of £69,583.45 held in his SIPP cash account. The difference in the 
valuation between November 2017 and November 2018, was due to the cash paid out 
in May 2018.
In March 2019, Heritage Pensions paid Mr F his annual payment of £11,850, as it was 
instructed to do.
In May 2019, Mr F complained to Heritage Pensions. Mr H said he ended up taking nearer 
60% of his pension, rather than the 25% TFC he intended to.
Heritage Pensions apologised to Mr F for the error. It provided him with three options to 
correct the overpayment. The options were:
1.Return the overpayment of £38,059.30 to his SIPP bank account.
2.The overpayment of £38,059.30 could be paid as a net pension 
payment. The gross pension payment would be calculated and a 
tax payment of £6,387.40 would be deducted from the SIPP bank 
account and paid to HMRC. A payslip and a revised Lifetime 
Allowance Certificate would be issued.
3.Return the sum of £25,559.30 to the SIPP bank account and 
Heritage Pensions will process a pension payment of £12,500 in 
March 2020. But no funds will be paid then, as that money will 
have been retained by Mr F. No tax will be payable on that 
amount, as this will be within Mr Fs annual tax allowance.
Heritage Pension also offered to refund £1689.50 SIPP fees and charges and to pay Mr F 
£300 for the trouble and upset caused. 
Mr F didnt accept this. He thought Heritage Pensions should restore his pension pot to the 
amount hed been told it was prior to taking TFC and that it should take responsibility for 
what happened.
Mr F referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into it. She concluded 
that Heritage Pensions should do more to put matters right. She said that had Heritage 
Pensions told Mr F the correct position, likely he wouldnt have taken more than his 25% 
TFC entitlement. 
Our investigator said that Heritage Pensions should unwind the transaction and restore 
Mr Fs pension to the position it wouldve been in, had he only taken 25% TFC. However, she said this would require Mr F returning the overpayment first, because he wouldnt have 
received that amount, given the correct information.
She concluded that given the amount of trouble and upset Mr F had been caused by this 
situation, that Heritage Pensions should pay Mr F £1000 for his trouble and upset, in addition 
to refunding the fees and charges it had agreed to.
Heritage Pensions accepted our investigators view. It also agreed to refund three years 
worth of fees and charges totalling £2,290.42 and to allow Mr F to transfer his pension fund 
free of charge once the tax position had been resolved.
Mr F initially said he thought £5,000 was a more appropriate amount of compensation for his 
trouble and upset. He later provided further representations to say that having relied on the 
information Heritage Pensions had provided, he was in a desperate situation financially, 
living off savings and the future looked very bleak for him and his family.
As agreement couldnt be reached Mr Fs complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am going to uphold Mr Fs complaint. My order for redress is the same as our investigator 
recommended. Ill explain why.
Its not in dispute that Heritage Pensions gave Mr F wrong information about the value of his 
pension fund. Whats in dispute is the amount of compensation Heritage Pensions should 
pay Mr F to put matters right.
When making orders for redress, as our investigator explained, we aim to put consumers 
back in the position they wouldve been in had the error not occurred. 
I accept what Mr F says, that he had been given the correct information by Heritage 
Pensions, likely he would have taken a lower amount from his pension fund, probably up 
to the amount that he could take as TFC.
However, had Mr F been given correct information, the amount of TFC he couldve taken 
wouldve been much less than he received. He wasnt entitled to the additional amount 
of money as TFC. Usually, therefore, it wouldnt be reasonable for me to require 
Heritage Pensions to compensate him for something he wasnt entitled to.
Mr F said however, that he relied to his detriment on the information he was given by 
Heritage Pensions and took action that he would otherwise not have taken, had he been 
given correct information. He says hes seriously out of pocket as a result as he cant 
afford to repay the difference, to avoid the tax penalty, because hes used the money. 
Ive thought carefully about whether it can be shown that Mr F acted reasonably and 
conscionably in placing reliance on the information Heritage Pensions gave him about 
the value of his pension fund. Im not satisfied that this can be shown to be the case. Ill 
explain why. 
At the time Mr F was considering cashing in his bond, he was taking advice from a 
financial advisor, including about the TFC he could take. After cashing in the bond, the 
advisor reminded him that his money was sitting in his SIPP, in cash, and hed need to reinvest it if he wanted to get a return. 
Mr F originally told his advisor he wanted to take around £25,000 TFC, which wouldve 
been below 25% of the true value of his fund.
Mr F signed the paperwork in September 2017, to cash in the bond. So, by the time he 
took his TFC, it ought to have been clear to him that his SIPP no longer contained this 
asset, but only cash. Prior to cashing in the bond, the SIPP fund mainly consisted of the 
monies held in the bond, later encashed, and I think Mr F wouldve known that.
According to Mr Fs November 2017 annual statement, his fund was worth around 
£156,000. He wasnt making ongoing contributions into his fund.
Mr F said he was surprised to be told by Heritage Pensions about the amount he could 
take as TFC, so he checked it a few times and assumed that his investments had 
performed well. I can understand why Mr F was surprised. I cant see how Mr F couldve 
reasonably believed that the information that Heritage Pensions provided him with about 
the value of his plan was right, for him to conscionably rely on it. 
It ought to have been reasonably obvious to him, in my view, that the information he was 
being given was wrong. I say this because his SIPP fund had remained in cash since the 
bond had been cashed in. Hed made no further contributions into the fund and the bond 
(now disinvested) was previously the main asset of the SIPP. The bond had been valued 
not long before encashment at £156,000. In these circumstances, it was unlikely that the 
value of his fund wouldve doubled, after the bond was closed. Hed been told by his 
adviser if he wanted a return, he would need to reinvest the money, which he hadnt. 
And from the November 2017 statement, he ought to have had a good idea about the 
value of his fund.
Having reached this conclusion, I cant fairly require Heritage Pensions to make up the 
shortfall in Mr Fs pension pot.
I agree with our investigator that a fair way to resolve this complaint is for Heritage 
Pensions to pay Mr F £1,000 for the trouble and upset caused by providing him with 
incorrect information. I consider this to be a fair amount in line with the general level of 
awards made by this service.
Heritage Pensions has now agreed to refund three years worth of SIPP fees and 
charges amounting to £2,290.42. I consider this to be a fair response also. 
It has also agreed to allow Mr F to transfer free of charge, but he will need to address the 
tax liability he has arising from this payment in 2018, before he can do so. I also consider 
this to be a fair offer.
It seems Mr F took the drawdown payment in 2019, after he was sent the November 
2018 statement, which showed the correct value of his fund. So, it was open to him at 
that stage to cancel his earlier instruction and not take this annual payment, mitigating 
any further reduction in his fund. He did not do so, so I cant fairly hold Heritage 
Pensions responsible for his decision.
Putting things right
Heritage Pensions should put matters right by:
(1) Paying Mr F £1000 for the trouble and upset it has caused by providing him with incorrect information about the value of his SIPP fund;
(2) Refunding £2,290.42, being three years worth of SIPP fees and charges, into his 
SIPP fund;
(3) Allowing him to transfer his SIPP fund free of charge after he has met his tax 
liability arising from taking more than 25% tax free cash from his fund in 2018.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I order Heritage Pensions Limited to pay Mr F fair compensation as 
set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2020.
 
Kim Parsons
Ombudsman