DRN-3376764
The complaint
Mr B complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has declined his buildings insurance
claim for damage to underground pipes and a septic tank.
What happened
In May 2020, Mr B noticed his downstairs toilet was backing up so he called out his home
emergency provider to unblock the outside drain. Whilst attempting to free the blockage the
home emergency contractor got its jet wash hose pipe stuck in the ground located around
the propertys drainage field (and subsequently had to return to excavate in order to free it).
The home emergency adviser told Mr B that his drain was damaged and suggested he might
want to contact his home insurer. Mr B did so and UKI instructed a drainage company (D) to
look into the cause of damage.
D reported to UKI that Mr Bs home was served by a septic tank located to the front of the
property and that the outlet drains then discharged towards the rear of the property into a
drainage field. Ds engineer carried out a CCTV survey of the drains upstream from the
septic tank towards the property and found them to be in a serviceable condition. The survey
downstream to the drainage field though found the field was holding water. The engineer
also surveyed the septic tank itself and reported it was made of concrete and had extensive
root ingress affecting the walls. D recommended to UKI that a new sewerage treatment plant
was installed in the front garden and the existing septic tank infilled. It also recommended
the excavation and installation of a new drainage field to the rear subject to a managerial site
visit and percolation calculations. D told UKI it would cost £26,000 plus VAT to carry out the
repair.
UKI told D that it usually sent claims involving septic tanks to another of its suppliers to
assess. So it told D to send in its fee and close its file. UKI then rang Mr B to advise it had
appointed another supplier (A) to deal with the septic tank.
A visited Mr Bs property in mid-June 2020. It drained the septic tank and reported from its
CCTV survey that there were no defects and that it was functioning as intended. It also
reported that an inspection of the inlet and outlets to the tank showed the latter had been
installed 600mm higher than the former which would impact the functioning of the system
because the outlet should be at the same level/below the inlet in order to function correctly.
A also commented that it observed that the soakaway arrangement (drainage field) wasnt
functioning correctly and wasnt allowing water to percolate into the surrounding ground at a
sufficient rate. A concluded that the main cause of the damage was the failure of the
drainage field pipework (septic tank outlet) which had perforated and become gradually
silted up over time. A said there was no evidence of any accidental damage to the septic
tank or drainage field at the property. So it recommended that UKI decline Mr Bs claim for
accidental damage to underground services.
UKI reviewed Mr Bs claim and decided to repudiate it because there was no evidence itd
been caused by an insured peril covered by the policy. Specifically it said there was no
evidence that accidental damage had been caused to the septic tank or soakaway.
Mr B disagreed with UKIs decision. He said that the septic tank had been fine but after a wet
February and a dry May it may have suffered from a hydraulic shock that caused it to move
and the inlet and outlet pipes to end up at different levels. He also said that UKI hadnt taken
the presence of the trees and their roots into account.
UKI referred Mr Bs points to A to review but having done so it remained of the view that the
main cause of the issue was the failure of the drainage field which had become silted up
gradually over time and was no longer allowing effluent to percolate the surrounding ground.
It said this was why the home emergency contractor failed to clear it by jetting it. A said there
was no evidence of any tree roots in the pipework which, it noted, had been wrapped in a
permeable membrane to prevent root ingress. And A said any root ingress had only
penetrated the septic tank just beneath the loose concrete slab cover which was well above
operational level. It said this occurred due to a design flaw where the slabs didnt form a tight
seal and so allowed roots to easily penetrate.
UKI maintained its decision to decline Mr Bs claim. Mr B said to UKI that he thought D was a
better company than A to assess the cause of damage. UKI told Mr B that A was its
preferred technical expert for septic tanks and that D had been appointed in error.
Mr B complained to UKI about its decision to decline his claim and about being purposely
mislead by his claims handler. UKI looked into Mr Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. It issued
a final response letter in August 2020 and said it remained of the view that the damage
hadnt been caused by an insured event. It also said that whilst its claims handler had
omitted part of Ds report off an email she had sent Mr B, she hadnt done so maliciously and
had apologised.
Unhappy with the outcome of his complaint to UKI, Mr B complained to this service. Mr B
said he feared his septic tank had been damaged by tree roots and had now ceased to
function in a satisfactory manner contaminating the trees adjacent to the tank (some of
which had now died and been removed) and affecting the performance of the drainage field.
He said hed suffered functional damage to his insured tank. And he said that he was upset
that UKI hadnt honoured Ds findings and had appointed A so it could avoid the claim.
Our investigator looked into Mr Bs complaint and recommended that it was upheld. She said
she couldnt see that A had given an opinion about whether tree root ingress had had an
impact on the functioning of the septic tank and, as the two reports had very different
conclusions she recommended that a third loss adjuster be appointed to report on the cause
of damage. Our investigator also thought UKI had caused confusion by appointing the
incorrect loss adjuster in the first instance.
Mr B accepted our investigators findings. He also said that D, and the home emergency
contractor (B) that came out, were both experts in the drainage business. He reiterated that
the earlier surveys were more logical than the one conducted by A. Mr B said hed contacted
B who had told him that his trees could have died as a result of poisoning due to loss of
function due to septic tank damage. He said UKIs statement that D and B werent septic
tank specialists had no foundation. So Mr B said he was concerned that any further survey,
commissioned and paid for by UKI, wouldnt be impartial.
UKI replied to our investigator to say that it considered As report to be more accurate and
in-depth. Whilst the report itself didnt mention tree roots, UKI referred to As subsequent
comments that did. And it said that A had highlighted the issue with the height of the inlet
and outlet pipes and the perforated drainage pipe and how this was allowing the soakaway
to fail. UKI said neither of these issues was the result of accidental damage. It said too that
D had made no comment that any tree root ingress was affecting the serviceability of thesystem and that, in any event, any tree root ingress would be gradual. So, UKI said, it
disagreed that a third loss adjuster needed to be appointed.
Mr B in the meanwhile asked UKI if itd accept the death of trees adjacent to the septic tank
as evidence of sudden damage to tank function which would allow it to reconsider its earlier
decision about his claim. UKI said that as Mr Bs complaint about his claim was with us, it
couldnt comment. It said for trees to be covered under the policy they would have to be
damaged by one of the insured perils listed in the policy.
Mr B sent our investigator the invoice from his tree surgeon. Mr B also instructed his own
drainage company to survey the septic tank. It reported to Mr B in June 2021 that itd been
instructed to investigate the condition of the septic tank given the recent death of some
adjacent trees. It said it found severe levels of root ingress penetrating the walls of the tank
and that it thought the level of damage and deterioration caused by the roots had damaged
the structural integrity of the tank walls beyond repair. It said, if Mr B required, it could return
to site with its waste tanker to fully empty the system, enter the tank and manually remove
the roots to further inspect the underlying damage. It said though that it thought the extent of
the damage was more than evident from above ground.
Mr Ds drainage company said that root damage would be creating all manner of problems
with the system including allowing ground water to penetrate the tank which could affect the
separation and settlement of solids within the system which in turn can affect its lifespan. It
also said the perforations would allow contaminated effluent to leak out of the tank,
contaminate the surrounding soil and likely contribute to the death of the adjacent trees. It
recommended the installation of a new septic tank.
Mr D also sent us an estimate from his tree surgeon for the removal of two oak and one
sycamore tree all of which were cited as being in heavy decline.
Our investigator sent Mr Ds drainage contractors findings to UKI to review. It responded to
say it had referred them to As technical team. A said any roots within the septic tank were
growing down the tank walls but hadnt penetrated them. A said the roots were above the
tanks operational level so no foul effluent was escaping the tank and no ground water was
entering it. A said the roots werent affecting the tanks function. UKI said there was no
information in Mr Bs contractors report that suggested the claim should be covered so the
claim remained declined.
Our investigator issued a further view on the complaint recommending that it was upheld.
She said that both D and Mr Bs drainage expert had concluded the peril had occurred due
to root ingress so she was persuaded that the cause of the septic tank becoming ineffective
was due to root ingress inside it. She said that whilst she noted that UKI said such damage
had happened gradually (and was thus excluded from cover under the policy), D had said
that Mr B had maintained the system to the best of his ability. She thought that he couldnt
have reasonably been aware of the root ingress until it caused the peril. So she thought UKI
should accept the claim because the septic tank had suddenly stopped working, latterly
causing the trees to die. Our investigator recommended that UKI accept the claim and cover
the cost of replacing the tank.
Mr B accepted our investigators findings but UKI didnt. UKI responded to say that the
system was backing up because of the gradual deterioration of the septic tank outlet (the
soakaway) whereby it had become silted up over time with use preventing foul effluent from
percolating the surrounding ground anymore. It said the claim wasnt covered.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision in February 2022. I 
made the following provisional findings: Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage
caused by one of the perils (insured events)  fire, theft, flood etc.  is covered. Providing it
can be shown that the damage being claimed for has been caused by one of the perils listed
in the policy then the insurer must settle the claim unless it can rely on one of the policy
exclusions to defeat the claim. The burden of proving any exclusion can be successfully
applied rests with the insurer.
Mr Bs policy includes the following cover:
Service pipes and cables.
We will pay for accidental damage to underground drains, pipes, cables and tankswhich
provide services to and from your home.
Mr Bs policy contains the following relevant definition:
Accidental damage
Accidental damage is sudden and unintentional physical damage that happens
unexpectedly.
And the policy contains the following relevant exclusions:
This policy doesnt cover
Wear and tear
Any damage caused gradually
Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials..
It is clear to me that Mr Bs drainage system is damaged; there has been a loss of function.
But the starting point for any claim is whether the damage being claimed for is covered by
the policy terms and conditions.
Theres no report available from the home emergency contractor but its not in dispute that
its jet hose pipe got lodged in the silted-up drainage field/soakaway. And D reported to UKI
that the drainage field was holding water and consequently it had to abandon the survey. D
also noted tree root ingress to the septic tank affecting the walls. One of the photographs
provided shows tree roots penetrating the tank just below where the cover sits. Another
shows tree roots in the tank but the photograph is too unclear to draw a definitive conclusion
about their precise depth. No wall penetration is visible and the report is silent about any root
penetration of the walls.
A said the damage was to the soakaway/drainage field. It carried out a CCTV survey of the
outlet pipework and it observed the open excavation (left by the home emergency
contractor). A observed that the soakaway wasnt functioning properly and wasnt allowing
water to percolate the surrounding ground fast enough. So A said this meant the septic
tanks outlet had failed. Crucially it noted no evidence of any defects or accidental damage to
the material of the outlet pipe, and no evidence of accidental damage to the septic tank or
the drainage field.
Unlike the other 3 contractors that inspected the septic tank, Mr Bs drainage contactor didnt
drain the septic tank before writing its report. It noted severe levels of tree roots penetrating
the walls of the tank but provided no comment on the depth of the penetration. It commented
that it could, if necessary, drain the tank, enter it and manually remove the roots to further
inspect the underlying damage. Despite not inspecting an empty tank, it went on to comment
that root damage would be causing numerous problems, specifically allowing groundwater in
and contaminated effluent out.Its my role to decide if UKI, based on the evidence available, fairly and reasonably declined
Mr Bs claim for accidental damage to his underground drains. Despite the disappointment I
know it will cause Mr B, I have to say, I think it has. Ill explain why.
Firstly, it needs to be shown that that the damage is sudden, unintentional, unexpected and
physical and that it occurred to an underground drain, pipe, cable or tank. A drainage field
is part of a propertys drainage system so can reasonably be said to constitute a drain. With
the exception of Mr Bs contractor that didnt comment at all about the drainage field, the
other 3 drainage experts all noted significant issues with the drainage field/soakaway. That it
was holding water and wasnt allowing the waste to percolate efficiently.
A soakaway will have a finite lifespan as, due to its nature, the water flowing through it will
deposit debris over time. This will eventually clog the soakaway and it will cease to do its job
effectively. As the expiry of a soakaway is something that happens gradually it cant
reasonably be said to be sudden (as required by the policy terms). So the damage to the
soakaway/drainage field isnt accidental in nature and thus is not covered by any of the perils
in the policy.
There is no evidence that the pipework from the tank to the drainage field was damaged. A
surveyed it and said there was no evidence of any tree root ingress in the pipework leading
to the soakaway.
I now move on to the matter of the tree roots identified as having entered the tank. D said
there were tree roots affecting the walls but provided no further detail than that. A carried
out a more detailed survey and, having drained the tank, observed no accidental damage to
it and later commented that any root penetration was confined to just below the lid of the
tank which was well above operational level thereby not affecting its serviceability. It also
said any roots present were growing down  not through  the walls. Whilst Ive thought
about Mr Bs experts comments about the tank (and Ive seen the accompanying
photographs) I cant reasonably ignore the fact they were made without draining it and
inspecting the underlying damage (at operational level) it claimed was there. And as it didnt
drain the tank, its reasonable to assume that the photographs show tree roots above the
tanks operational level. I think that As report and comments are more detailed and
persuasive, and based on a more in-depth investigation, than those of Mr Bs expert.
So I think that As report about the condition of the septic tank, along with the subsequent
comments it has made, were reasonably relied on by UKI to decline the claim. I know that
Mr B thinks that UKI should follow the recommendations made by D but UKI is entitled to
validate a claim how it chooses and here it realised early on in the claim that it had failed to
appoint its preferred septic tank expert in the first instance. Ive seen no evidence that it
appointed A in order to avoid the claim. And I dont think it was unreasonable for it to do so
as soon as it became aware of its mistake. No real delay was caused by its decision.
Nor have I seen any evidence that UKI thought the home emergency contractor and D
werent drainage experts, only that it preferred to instruct A if where there was a claim for
damage to a septic tank. And the findings of both D and A in respect of the damage to the
drainage field arent dissimilar in any event.
And it is the gradual failure of the drainage field thats caused the issues Mr B is
experiencing. It is not in dispute that there is tree root ingress to the septic tank but, for the
reasons given I think its more likely than not that the gradual failure of the drainage field,
rather than any tree root ingress, has caused the problems Mr B has. There is no firm
evidence that the walls of the tank below operational level have been breached by tree roots.
So, it follows, having taken all the evidence into account, that I cant reasonably require UKIto settle a claim for damage that isnt covered by the policy. That wouldnt be fair.
For the sake of completeness, I have also thought about the demise of the trees adjacent to
the septic tank but, aside from speculation from Mr Bs expert, theres no evidence that tree
roots have breached the septic tank walls below operational level allowing effluent out into
the surrounding soil thereby killing the trees. And in any event, I am only able to look here at
issues raised with UKI before it issued its final response letter in August 2020 and the matter
of the trees came wasnt raised by Mr B until after then. Should he so wish, Mr B should
raise this issue with UKI in the first instance.
I also note that Mr B has said he feels he was deliberately mis-lead by UKI but Ive not seen
any evidence that this was the case. I appreciate there was an error by UKI at one point in
not sending him a complete report, but it appears from what Ive seen that the error was
inadvertent. I can also see that UKI has apologised for its oversight; that seems fair to me.
It follows that I dont think UKI has unfairly or unreasonably declined Mr Bs claim for
accidental damage to his underground services.
UKI replied to say that itd received the provisional decision and would await the final 
decision; it made no further comments. 
Mr B replied initially to say he wanted to get his drainage expert to survey a fully drained 
septic tank which he said he now needed to arrange. About a week and half later Mr B 
advised that his expert needed a further couple of weeks to undertake the survey. I agree 
that Mr B could take until 23 March 2022 to provide the survey. Our investigator reminded 
him that it would need to show that there had been accidental damage caused suddenly, 
unintentionally or unexpectedly if the claim was to succeed. 
A couple of days later, Mr B notified us that he had decided to withdraw from our process. 
He said that UKI had avoided sending him a copy of Ds report and, when it did, it omitted 
the final paragraph of the report. On later obtaining the full report, Mr B noted the final 
paragraph of Ds report stated he had a (valid) claim. So Mr B said my statement that I didnt 
accept UKI had not intended to deceive him revealed my naivety and a simplistic denial of 
the facts in the email trail he provided. Mr B said I must consider him to be unintelligent so 
as to be unaware about when he was being deliberately manipulated. Finally Mr B said he 
no confidence in my ability to reach a fair and reasonable conclusion. 
The complaint was returned to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is an unavoidable that one or other party to a dispute (and sometimes both) will invariably 
be disappointed with its outcome. But whilst I fully appreciate the strength of feeling Mr B 
has about his complaint, and the situation in which he finds himself, Im afraid I cant fairly or 
reasonably ignore the evidence. And I set out the evidence to this complaint  and my 
analysis of it  in some detail in my provisional decision, explaining my reasons for reaching 
the conclusions I did. That evidence included Ds full report and why I considered it to be 
less persuasive that As. I appreciate that will have been disappointing for Mr B. 
I reviewed the email trail provided by Mr B in relation to the disclosure of Ds full report. I 
accept that the full report wasnt disclosed to him  as did UKI. But, as I said provisionally, I 
saw no evidence that there was any deliberate attempt by UKI to mislead him. I know Mr B thinks differently but Im unable to agree with him about this issue. Similarly I have seen no 
evidence he was being manipulated by UKI. Without evidence I cannot fairly make a finding 
of fact. To do so would be unreasonable. 
UKI asked that the complaint be referred for an ombudsmans decision so, whilst I note that 
Mr B has withdrawn from our process, having issued my provisional decision, I have to issue 
my final decision on this complaint. My provisional findings now form part of this, my final 
decision. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Claire Woollerson
Ombudsman