DRN-3283493
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr J complain about delays that happened when they made claims on their legal 
expenses insurance policy with Fairmead Insurance Limited, trading as Legal and General 
(Fairmead), to pursue legal claims against their neighbours. Where I refer to Fairmead, this 
includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
Mrs J and Mr J had legal expenses insurance (LEI) as part of their household insurance 
policy. The LEI was underwritten by Fairmead and claims were handled by another company 
on Fairmeads behalf.
In June 2019 Mrs J and Mr J made a claim on their LEI policy to cover the costs of bringing a 
legal claim for damage they anticipated would be caused to their property by works a 
neighbour was planning to carry out on his land. Fairmead declined the claim on grounds 
there was no cover for a potential claim. But the neighbour went ahead with work to remove 
support to a structure on Mrs J and Mr Js property. And Fairmead appointed solicitors on 
Mrs J and Mr Js behalf in August that year. The solicitors didnt think the legal claim had 
reasonable prospects of success. 
In November 2020 Mrs J and Mr J contacted Fairmead again. A new claim was logged. 
Fairmead said that shouldnt have happened and they should have dealt with things as a 
continuation of the original claim. They apologised solicitors hadnt been appointed sooner. 
They acknowledge this led to an unnecessary delay and that there had been some poor 
communication later in the handling of the claim. To compensate Mrs J and Mr J for what 
had happened and delays in responding to their complaint, Fairmead offered them 
compensation of £250.
Mrs J and Mr J werent happy with that. They felt Fairmead should also compensate them for 
delays in their legal claim progressing. So, they brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigators felt Fairmead had done enough to put right the impact of mistakes they had 
made and said Fairmead couldnt be held responsible for anything the solicitors had done 
wrong. Since Mrs J and Mr J didnt agree, their complaints been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs J and Mr J have had in connection with works carried 
out by their neighbours. I can understand it will have been frustrating that their insurance and 
legal claims havent gone as smoothly as theyd hoped. Im grateful to them for the detailed 
information theyve provided. Although I dont set it all out here, I mean no discourtesy. It 
reflects the informal nature of this service. And Id like to reassure the parties that Ive taken 
everything theyve told us into consideration in coming to my decision.
Mr Js raised concerns about how legal expenses cover operates for all customers. My 
power is limited to considering the individual circumstances of his and Mrs Js complaint 
against Fairmead. If he has wider concerns hed like addressed, Mr J would need to raise 
them with the industry regulator for insurance companies, the Financial Conduct Authority.
I wont be holding Fairmead responsible for any failings on the part of the solicitors. The LEI 
policy provides cover for legal costs. But once solicitors are appointed, customers become 
direct clients of the solicitors and the insurer, a separate business, isnt involved in or 
responsible for the legal process. 
In this case, I acknowledge Mrs J and Mr J hadnt entered into a retainer  contract  with 
the solicitors to pursue their neighbour for the damage their November 2020 LEI claim 
related to. And confusion about that is what led to some of the delays that occurred. But for 
reasons Ill explain, I dont think that affects what Fairmead is responsible for here.
This service doesnt have the power to consider complaints about solicitors. I understand 
Mrs J and Mr J have already complained to the legal firm direct who have advised them 
theyd need to go to the Legal Ombudsman if theyre unhappy with their response. 
This decision addresses what happened up to the time Fairmead issued their response to    
Mrs J and Mr Js complaint on 12 May 2021. I know Mrs J and Mr J have concerns about 
whats happened since. They are being looked into separately by this service.
Under the LEI section of Mrs J and Mr Js insurance policy, Fairmead agreed to pay their 
costs of pursuing a legal action for loss directly arising from an event which causes or could 
cause physical damage to their home or any nuisance that affects or will affect them owning 
or living in their home.
When Mrs J and Mr J first contacted Fairmead in June 2019, they were concerned their 
neighbours planned building work might cause damage to their property. When responding 
to Mrs J and Mr Js complaint in May 2021, Fairmead said the 2019 insurance claim wasnt 
accepted because there wasnt any cover for potential events. But the evidence suggests 
that the neighbour carried out work that affected support to a structure on Mrs J and Mr Js 
property while Fairmead was considering the 2019 claim. And the solicitors advised at the 
time the claim had no reasonable prospects of success. Fairmead didnt appreciate this 
initially. This led to the confusion Ive mentioned and which Ill refer to below.
Mrs J and Mr J contacted Fairmead again in late November 2020 when other damage had 
occurred to their property, allegedly as a result of the neighbours works. Fairmead 
appointed the same panel solicitors whod advised in August 2019 on Mrs J and Mr Js 
behalf. Theyve acknowledged there was a delay in appointing the solicitors until early 
December 2021 while they were deciding whether to treat this claim as new or a 
continuation of the 2019 claim. But I dont think the time taken overall was unreasonable.
Mr J contacted Fairmead in mid-January 2021 when he hadnt heard anything from the 
solicitors. It looks as if the solicitors contacted Mr J shortly afterwards when Fairmead 
prompted them. I can see Fairmead did the same when Mr J raised later concerns about 
contact from the solicitors. Fairmead did what Id expect them to have done by chasing the 
solicitors on Mrs J and Mr Js behalf and passing on their concerns about how the solicitors 
were dealing with their case. But that doesnt mean they were responsible for any delay by 
the solicitors.
The solicitors were gathering information and evidence from Mr J about his and Mrs Js 
claim against the neighbour during February 2021. But in late March 2021 confusion arose 
about whether the solicitors should be dealing with the November 2020 claim as a new case, or as part of the case theyd looked at in 2019. They took the view the claim was a new one 
and that this meant, for their costs to be paid under the LEI policy, they needed authority 
from Fairmead to go ahead. So, they contacted Fairmead about that and didnt take any 
further action in relation to the legal case. 
This issue hadnt been sorted out by the time Fairmead issued their response to Mrs J and 
Mr Js complaint on 12 May 2021. I can see there was some correspondence between 
Fairmead and the solicitors during June 2021. But I understand it took until the middle of July 
before Fairmead acknowledged theyd made a mistake and authorised the solicitors to 
progress the legal claim. I understand a different firm is now taking the legal claim forward.
Fairmeads failure to confirm the position on LEI cover by the time they issued their response 
to Mrs J and Mr Js complaint on 12 May 2021 undoubtedly caused a delay to the solicitors 
taking further action up to that point. So, I think its fair they compensate Mrs J and Mr J for 
the impact on them of that. 
Mrs J and Mr J say theyve been impacted in several ways and Ill address each one 
separately. I need to bear in mind that I can only consider the impact of Fairmeads actions 
up to 12 May 2021 and not those of the solicitors. And Fairmead can only be held 
responsible for losses Mrs J and Mr J actually suffered, which are a direct consequence of 
Fairmeads actions, and which were reasonably foreseeable:
Mrs J and Mr J havent been able to recover the cost of around £2,000 for repairing 
the damage they say their neighbour caused to their property in a timely manner.
I dont think any delay up to 12 May 2021 has had a significant impact on whether Mrs J and 
Mr J can recover their repair costs. There is still time for the legal claim to be pursued. 
Whilst I understand the solicitors thought the legal claim has reasonable prospects of 
success, until the outcome is known, it isnt possible to say Mrs J and Mr J have suffered 
any loss. And the outcome of legal action depends on many things such as the strength of 
the evidence and the outcome of any negotiations that might take place. Even if Mrs J and 
Mr J recover less than they hope to in due course, its unlikely that will be as a result of any 
delay on the part of Fairmead. So, its not fair to ask Fairmead to pay Mrs J and Mr J the 
amount they are claiming from the neighbour.
Mrs J and Mr J havent been able to put their property on the market because of the 
unresolved dispute with the neighbour and its appearance because of the damage; 
and theyve lost the chance of buying another property.
Mrs J and Mr J might not want to market their property in its current condition, and I 
acknowledge the ongoing neighbour dispute could make a sale more difficult. I can 
understand theyd prefer things to be resolved before they go ahead and move. But they do 
have a choice about whether to try and sell now or wait until the legal issues have been 
sorted out. 
The problems with the property result from the damage allegedly caused by the neighbour. I 
cant fairly say Mrs J and Mr J have been unable to move because of the delays caused by 
Fairmead. Even if Mrs J and Mrs J could show theyd suffered a loss by not selling when 
theyd like to have done, I dont think I could fairly say it was a loss that could have been 
foreseen as a result of Fairmeads delays  it would be too remote.
Mr Js suffered reputational damage by not taking action against what he considers 
to be harassment by his neighbour over a long period.I can understand Mrs J and Mr J would like to have taken action against their neighbour 
sooner. I acknowledge it will have been frustrating for them that things havent progressed 
more quickly. But theres no evidence to suggest how others see them has been impacted 
by the delay in progressing the legal claim that have been caused by Fairmeads delays. 
Mrs J and Mr J asked that their costs of instructing a high street solicitor to pursue 
the claim be covered.
I understand another panel firm of solicitors is now dealing with things for Mrs J and Mr J, so 
I dont need to consider this any further.
Mrs J and Mr J have suffered distress and inconvenience as a result of whats 
happened.
Ive thought carefully about the distress and inconvenience Fairmeads actions up to 12 May 
2021 have caused Mrs J and Mr J. I dont think the delay in appointing the solicitors initially 
was significant. Even though there may not have been a formal retainer in place between the 
solicitors and Mrs J and Mr J, the solicitors were nevertheless taking action initially as if 
there were. And Fairmead did what Id expect them to in chasing the solicitors to progress 
things in early 2021 when Mr J raised concerns about delays.
The delay I think Fairmead are responsible for happened between late March and mid-May 
2021 when the solicitors were asking for authorisation to go ahead. I acknowledge Mrs J and 
Mr J were already concerned about the time it was taking by then, that the situation with their 
neighbours was stressful and Mr J had spent time chasing progress. So, I can understand 
Fairmeads delays added to their overall frustration and concern. 
Bearing everything in mind, I think the compensation Fairmead offered of £250 was fair. 
Since that offer was made before Mrs J and Mr J brought their complaint to this service, I 
dont uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint. I appreciate they will find my decision 
disappointing, but I think its fair in all the circumstances, for the reasons Ive explained. If 
Fairmead havent already paid the compensation to Mrs J and Mr J, Id encourage them to 
pay it now.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs J and Mr Js complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2022. 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman