DRN-2064267
The complaint
Miss B has complained that Southern Rock Insurance Company Limited cancelled her 
insurance policy and she now isnt able to get cover elsewhere.
What happened
Miss B took out a car insurance policy to commence in May 2020. In June 2020 Southern 
Rock wrote to her to let her know it had cancelled her policy because the policy had been set 
up fraudulently. 
Miss B was unhappy about this and complained to Southern Rock.
Southern Rock told Miss B that after she took out the policy, it carried out standard checks in 
line with its usual procedure and found that there were links between her policy and 
fraudulent applications. It told her its decision related to the method by which she purchased 
the policy. As it didnt give further details, Miss B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator considered whether Southern Rock had acted fairly. He said from the 
information hed been given, he didnt think the cancellation was unreasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate its frustrating for Miss B to not have received a full and detailed 
explanation of why her policy was cancelled, I cant say Southern Rock have been unfair 
here. So I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of the policy Miss B took out. These say, under the 
section Our Cancellation Rights:
we have the right to cancel Your Policy immediately, at any time during Your Policy Period, 
where there is evidence of fraud or a valid reason for doing so.
This means Southern Rock wouldnt have had to give Miss B any notice before cancelling 
her policy in the circumstances mentioned. So Im satisfied it acted in line with the policy 
terms and conditions in that respect.
Ive then considered whether Southern Rock had a valid reason for cancelling the policy. 
From what Ive seen, Im satisfied that it did. I hope Miss B understands were unable to 
disclose any further details to her. An insurer doesnt have to give a customer a reason for 
cancelling a policy. Insurers can choose with whom to conduct business in much the same 
way that customers can choose which insurer to use.
I know this isnt the answer Miss B was hoping for. But having taken everything into account, 
Im satisfied that Southern Rock has acted fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Ifrah Malik
Ombudsman