DRN-4376464
The complaint
Mr E complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc delayed in transferring his ISA which caused him 
financial loss, distress and inconvenience. 
 
What happened
Mr E opened an ISA account with Barclays in February 2023 ready to transfer his existing 
ISA funds (held with another banking provider). Due to large volumes of ISA transfer 
requests, Barclays delayed in processing Mr Es transfer. Mr E was assured that interest 
would be backdated so that he didnt miss out. Barclays says it received a rejection notice 
from the existing ISA provider which delayed things. 
On 19 April 2023, Mr Es ISA funds were applied to his Barclays ISA account and started 
earning interest from this point. 
Mr E complained. Barclays offered him a total of £150 compensation to reflect the distress 
and inconvenience this matter caused him. Mr E referred his complaint to this service. 
Mr E advised Barclays he was unhappy with the offer and requested further detail on when 
interest would be back dated to. He advised due to a brain injury that he was not always able 
to recall information in writing. 
Whilst the complaint was with this service, Barclays said it would backdate Mr Es interest 
from 9 March 2023 up to and including 18 April 2023 which is £358.88. It also offered a 
further £250 compensation to recognise the inconvenience, delay and poor experience 
caused to Mr E. 
One of our Investigators looked into things and she felt the overall offer made by Barclays 
was fair and reasonable under the circumstances. 
Mr E didnt agree and asked an Ombudsman to look into his complaint. He thought the lost 
interest would be paid to him now to avoid Barclays making an error at the end of the term 
when it calculates his interest. He says Barclays told him over the phone that the interest lost 
may be overlooked and if it is, he will have to complain again. 
The complaint has therefore been passed to me for determination. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer made by Barclays is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances and Ill explain why. 
Barclays had 15 working days to transfer Mr Es existing ISA to it. It didnt do so within this 
time, and it has acknowledged that this was due to high volumes of requests. Mr Es ISA 
was eventually transferred on 19 April 2023. 
Barclays has recognised its error and compensated Mr E with interest covering the time the 
ISA was not earning interest (after 15 working days had passed). It calculated this to be 
£358.88. I think this compensates Mr E for his financial loss as Barclays were entitled 15 
working days to transfer his ISA and has covered the period his account was not earning 
interest outside of this timescale. I acknowledge Mr E would like this to be paid directly to 
him now but the terms of his ISA state that interest will be paid at the end of the term  in 
this case in 2024. I appreciate Mr E has experienced poor service and doesnt have much 
faith in Barclays assurances, especially as he says he was advised that this error could 
happen. But Ive seen internal evidence from Barclays showing the interest accumulated on 
Mr Es ISA and it includes the adjustment of £358.88. I have no reason to doubt this wont be 
paid correctly at the end of the term as agreed and so I dont require Barclays to pay this to 
Mr E now. 
In relation to the poor customer service Mr E experienced, I have no doubt he was caused 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience by Barclays. He called Barclays multiple times to 
chase his ISA transfer and clearly found the entire ordeal very stressful. This was also 
exacerbated because of Mr Es health condition  which Barclays had knowledge of. 
Barclays initially offered Mr E £150 compensation but it increased this offer by £250 
following Mr Es complaint referral to this service. I think the total offer of £400 better 
compensates Mr E for the trouble and upset this matter has caused him. I think he was 
clearly impacted by Barclays delays and poor service. 
My final decision
My final decision is, I uphold this complaint and Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Pay Mr E £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this matter caused 
him. This should be paid directly to Mr E. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman