DRN-3085844
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with advice and services provided by Core Financial Services Ltd (Core) in 
connection with her retirement planning. She says the charges were excessive and advice to 
transfer the value of her occupational pension scheme (OPS) benefits was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs T sought advice from Core in January 2017. She was 62 and retiring the following 
month. She wanted to review her pension arrangements, which included three personal 
pensions with different providers and deferred benefits in an OPS. 
Mrs T signed Cores service and payment agreement at the meeting on 19 January 2017. It 
said Core offered a no cost review of Mrs Ts current retirement planning, following which 
fees would be charged. Cores initial fee for the Navigator Platinum service (an investment 
platform and portfolio management service) was 7.5% of the initial investment amount plus 
an ongoing fee of 1.25%. Fees could be taken from the investment or paid direct by Mrs T. 
Examples showing how the initial and ongoing fees were calculated were set out. The 
service level options for Navigator Platinum were shown. Mrs T ticked the box to select the 
Navigator Platinum service and that shed pay via the investment product.
Core wrote to Mrs T on 25 January 2017 about her OPS. Core said it wasnt authorised to 
advise about that and so theyd referred Mrs T to another firm which had the necessary 
permissions to advise on transferring final salary OPS benefits. 
Core issued a suitability report on 20 March 2017. Core recommended that Mrs T transfer 
her personal pensions. Amongst other things the report said: 
Mrs T had three personal pensions and was looking to consolidate them. 
The transfer of those pensions had been discussed and Mrs T was happy to proceed 
with the Navigator Platinum proposition as she felt it was important to have regular 
reviews, online access and a bespoke risk based portfolio. Shed confirmed she had 
enough funds to live on for a year and didnt need her tax free cash. Phasing her 
pension from the following year had been discussed. 
Following a review by the other firm, shed decided to transfer her OPS benefits into 
a personal pension. 
Mrs T had completed a risk profiling questionnaire and her attitude to risk could be 
described as moderate, defined as:  
You are prepared to take a reasonable amount of investment risk in order to 
increase the chance of achieving a better return. Capital protection is less important 
to you than the return on the investment. A typical Moderate investor will usually 
invest in a variety of assets to obtain diversification. There would be a higher 
proportion of equities compared to fixed interest and cash, and the range of assets 
provides diversification benefits. 
Mrs Ts capacity for loss had been discussed and shed also completed a 
questionnaire. Her score indicated she had a medium capacity for loss. Under the 
heading What this means to you it said: 
You may be able to afford a slight under performance of the investment but it will 
cause you to adapt your standard of living.
The total transfer value of Mrs Ts three existing personal pensions was £121,681.18. 
The main objective of the transfer was to enable Mrs T to pool her funds and invest in 
a way which was in line with the amount of risk she was prepared to take. The report 
noted that the funds transferred were projected to be lower at retirement due to the 
higher charges which included Cores fees for providing initial and ongoing advice. 
Core said:
The decision to transfer rests to a large degree on the potential for the new 
arrangement and portfolio to produce the additional returns to match, and ideally 
exceed the projected fund values from your current policy. The additional returns 
required must be realistically achievable considering the range of investment options 
available, your attitude to risk and investment time horizon.
There was a section about charges. It said that Cores initial charge was 7.5% of the 
pension funds transferred. There were also plan charges: a product charge of 
0.2300% pa plus an additional investment charge of 0.7883% pa, a total of 1.0183% 
pa. Core would also take a charge of 1.25% pa of the value of the plan, deducted on 
a monthly basis. 
Core repeated that the funds transferred were projected to be lower at retirement 
under the new plan due to higher charges. And, in bold, the report said that the rate 
of return was higher than Cores acceptable switching guidance. Mrs T had chosen 
for the fee to be taken from the product, hence a higher rate of return was required.  
Core said it wouldnt normally recommend a transfer where the additional yearly 
growth required was over 0.50%, taking into account Mrs Ts circumstances. But 
shed expressed interest in amalgamating her pensions into a SIPP, the wide range 
of fund choices, online access and also the bespoke risk based portfolio. She liked 
the Navigator service and felt that not only the portfolio management but also the 
regular reporting with recommended fund switches would benefit her. 
Cores adviser concluded:
Taking into account of your risk profile, capacity for loss and your understanding that 
the new scheme may not achieve the increased level of growth required or may 
indeed return a lower fund than the existing schemes, I would not normally 
recommend that this transaction proceed. You have however expressed your interest 
amalgamate (sic) your pension into a SIPP, wide range of fund choices, the services 
offer and also the online access. In these circumstances, I feel able to recommend 
the pension transfer to you. 
Mrs T accepted the advice and her three personal pensions were transferred to the SIPP. 
She had another meeting on 24 May 2017 with Core. The meeting note records that the 
transfer of Mrs Ts OPS benefits had been completed and Mrs T now wanted to invest the 
transfer value alongside the funds shed transferred to the SIPP. Mrs T signed another 
service and payment agreement. It said the same as the earlier one except that Cores initial 
fee would be 6.5% as 1% was to be paid to the other firm whod advised Mrs T in connection 
with her OPS benefits. 
Mrs Ts annual review took place on 9 February 2018 at her home. Ive seen an annual 
review form was completed and Core emailed Mrs T on 21 February 2018 confirming what 
had been agreed. Core said that Mrs Ts attitude to risk and her tolerance for loss had been 
discussed and Mrs T was satisfied that the agreed attitude to risk level 3 was consistent with 
her capacity for loss and so no changes were to be made. The value of Mrs Ts pension 
fund, as at 5 February 2018, was £251,788.68. 
Mrs T met with Core again on 2 November 2018. At that meeting Mrs T signed another 
service and payment agreement. It recorded that shed selected the Navigator Platinum service (in respect of which Cores charge was 1.25% pa) but that for drawdown transactions 
for clients whod already invested through Navigator less than years prior, initial fees 
wouldnt be charged. 
Core issued a further suitability report on 18 December 2018. It records that Mrs T wanted to 
take a lump sum to pay off a car loan, make some home improvements and replenish her 
emergency fund. Her pension fund was £238,000 and she was looking to take a lump sum of 
£50,000. The report says that Mrs T had completed a new risk profiler and was happy to 
continue with the risk 3 moderate portfolio. The charges for the SIPP were set out as an 
annual management charge (AMC) of 0.86%, a platform charge of 0.23% and Cores 
ongoing service charge of 1.25% pa. There was a meeting in early January 2019 to discuss 
the report and incorporate the annual review. 
Mrs T complained to Core in March 2020. Core didnt uphold her complaint. Amongst other 
things, it said advice about Mrs Ts OPS had been given by another firm. And Mrs T should 
refer her complaint to that firm. But it had been declared in default by the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) and so any claims should be referred to FSCS. Core 
maintained that its charges were fully disclosed and Mrs T had signed Cores service and 
payment agreements. Shed also been given an illustration which detailed the product, 
investment and adviser charges and the effect on her pension fund, on the various 
assumptions made. 
Mrs T referred the matter here. One of our investigators looked into what had happened. 
She issued her view on 23 June 2021. For the reasons she set out she didnt think Core 
needed to take any action. I dont repeat here all the investigator said but in summary:
Core had explained to Mrs T in its letter dated 25 January 2017 that it was unable to 
review her OPS but it could arrange for an independent pension consultant who held 
the required authorisation to undertake a review; that the consultant was independent 
and not connected to Core. Core wasnt responsible for the advice shed received 
from the other firm. Mrs Ts complaint should be directed to FSCS. 
The charges Mrs T had incurred in transferring her other personal pensions had been 
disclosed. During the meeting in January 2017 shed signed a service and payment 
agreement. It set out what Mrs T would get for the service shed selected and the 
charges. The agreement indicated the initial fee was 7.5% of initial investment 
amount and there was an annual charge of 1.25%. At the meeting Mrs T was told 
that an initial review of her OPS benefits by the other firm was free but, if Mrs T did 
transfer, the other firm would charge a 1% fee. And the report Mrs T received from 
the other firm set out the charge. 
On 24 May 2017 Mrs T had met with Core again to discuss the transfer of her Aviva 
personal pension to her existing Aviva Wrap following the transfer of the OPS. The 
recommendations made were discussed and Mrs T was happy to transfer with the 
funds invested in the risk 3 Navigator portfolio. Core explained the initial fee (usually 
7.5%) would be 6.5% as 1% had been paid to the other firm for the OPS transfer. 
The 1.25% annual fee was also explained to include the management of the 
Navigator portfolio. Mrs T signed another service and payment agreement. It outlined 
the bespoke arrangement  that the initial fee would be 6.5% not 7.5%, because 1% 
was payable to the other firm. 
Although Mrs T regarded the fees as excessive, shed signed both service and 
payment agreements which clearly explained the charges and the fees had been 
discussed in several meetings. There was no regulatory limit on the fees that 
advisors can charge. Whats important is that the fees were made clear which was 
the case. 
Core had provided the overall service it had agreed to and set out in the service and payment agreement. Mrs T would get quarterly reviews as well as annual reviews. 
Core had provided details of its meetings with Mrs T and the reports it had issued to 
her. Core had provided the service it had agreed to provide. 
Mrs Ts attitude to risk had been assessed during the initial meeting on 19 January 
2017. Her answers generated a moderate risk profile which was discussed during 
the meeting and Mrs T confirmed she was happy with a moderate risk 3. Mrs T 
hadnt disagreed with that assessment and Core was entitled to rely on it.  
Mrs T didnt accept the investigators view. Her main points were:  
The level of fees and the impact on fund performance wasnt fully explained. Given 
how high the fees were, she didnt feel her experience as a customer was ever really 
taken into account. 
Shed found it difficult to get information from Core and her original complaint was 
brushed aside. She had no choice but to make a subject access request (SAR) so 
she could establish what had happened to her pension fund. 
Three fact finds had been provided  two dated 19 January 2017 and one dated 24 
May 2017. None were signed. The two with the same date were different  Mrs T 
pointed out several discrepancies. And one of the fact finds recorded that she wanted 
her investment to be safe, even if it meant lower returns. That was different to the 
portfolio shed had through Core. 
Up until then shed had very little investment experience  her previous pensions had 
all been employer related and she had no experience of selecting funds for herself. 
Her risk profile was moderate  more moderately high. And she didnt agree that her 
capacity for loss was medium. 
Overall the advice had been poor and once the pensions had been consolidated 
there was no contact from Cores adviser unless shed initiated it. 
When shed complained the adviser had been dismissive when shed queried why 
her funds had depreciated by some £34,000 in less than one year of investment. 
Shed been offered £150 not to proceed with her complaint.  
The investigator said shed be happy to review the complaint. She didnt think shed seen all 
the documents and asked Mrs T to provide them. The investigator shared Mrs Ts comments 
with Core and asked it to comment on the discrepancies in the different fact finds. The 
investigator also spoke to someone on Mrs Ts behalf who explained Mrs Ts circumstances 
and how shed been affected by what had happened.  
The investigator wrote to Mrs T on 17 September 2021. In summary, the investigators 
further findings were:
Although Mrs T felt the fees were excessive and not explained properly, the 
investigator maintained what shed said in her view  that the fees had been clearly 
set out. 
There were two fact finds dated 19 January 2017 which were inconsistent in several 
respects. But Mrs T had made a SAR and the documents shed been sent included 
draft and final fact finds. The advice had been based on the final version of the fact 
find. 
There were also two fact finds dated 24 May 2017. One related to the meeting on 
that date. The other referred to the date of the first meeting as 2 November 2018. But 
it said Mrs T was retired and that she wanted to release tax free cash of £50,000. 
That, and other details, was consistent with the meeting on 2 November 2018. It was 
likely an administrative error had been made and the wrong date inserted on the fact 
find.
The answers Mrs T had given on both risk profile questionnaires (dated 19 January 2017 and 2 November 2018) were consistent. And the generated risk profile had 
been discussed. The notes indicated Mrs T was happy with a moderate risk 3. There 
was nothing to indicate she was willing or able to take a more substantial level of risk.  
Mrs Ts capacity for loss had been considered and discussed with her. She had 
some capacity for loss which Core assessed as medium, meaning she could afford a 
slight underperformance, but it would cause her to adapt her standard of living. That 
assessment wasnt inappropriate, given Mrs Ts circumstances.
The advice to transfer out of the OPS had been given by another firm. 
The investigator maintained that the service provided by Core after Mrs Ts pensions 
had been consolidated was in line with what Core had said it would do.
Core hadnt identified Mrs T as a vulnerable client. But Cores policy said that it may 
only deal with customers in vulnerable circumstances where we are aware of their 
needs. Mrs T hadnt made Core aware of her circumstances. 
Mrs T remained unhappy with how her complaint had been investigated and the outcome. 
She said she was still waiting to hear from FSCS about her complaint regarding the OPS 
transfer. She said Core had introduced her to that adviser and, if the transfer hadnt 
happened, she wouldnt have dealt with Core. Mrs T asked for the complaint to be reviewed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive considered everything, Ive only referred to the events and documents I think 
are most relevant. 
I understand that Mrs T is particularly unhappy with the advice she received to transfer the 
value of her final salary OPS benefits. I agree with the investigator that Core isnt 
responsible for the advice Mrs T received from another regulated firm which held the 
appropriate permissions (which Core didnt) to advise on final salary transfers. And when 
Core had made it clear to Mrs T (see Cores letter of 25 January 2017) that it couldnt advise 
her about that but it could arrange for another firm to review Mrs Ts OPS. Cores letter also 
said that the other firm was independent and not connected with Core. 
The other firm did advise Mrs T to transfer. Mrs T says if that transfer hadnt taken place she 
wouldnt have dealt with Core. But I dont see that follows. Mrs T approached Core because 
she wanted to consolidate her pension arrangements. As she was advised (by the other 
firm) that she should transfer her OPS, that meant Mrs T could consolidate the value of that 
scheme with her three personal pension arrangements. But I dont see that Mrs T wouldnt 
have gone ahead with consolidating the other plans if she hadnt been advised to transfer 
her OPS benefits. Even if shed been advised to retain her preserved benefits in the OPS, I 
think shed still have been interested in consolidating her three personal pension plans. 
But, even if that wasnt the case, as Ive said, Core isnt responsible for the advice the other 
firm gave. That firm has been declared in default and Mrs Ts complaint about the advice it 
gave that she should transfer is being considered by FSCS. 
Ive carefully considered the other aspects of Mrs Ts complaint about Core. But, having 
done so, I agree with the views reached by the investigator and with the reasons she gave 
as to why Core hasnt acted incorrectly. I know Mrs T will be disappointed. I can see that she 
feels very strongly that Cores advice and service was lacking and that shes been 
overcharged. Im aware that shes found what happened and making a complaint very 
stressful. I dont want to add to her stress but, having considered everything very carefully, 
Im unable to agree with her that her complaint should be upheld. Mrs T has shared with us her circumstances. And I understand why she says she shouldve 
been treated as a vulnerable client.  But, like the investigator, I think Core was entitled to rely 
on what Mrs T told them. If Core wasnt aware that Mrs Ts circumstances were such that 
she might, and in accordance with Cores own policy, be considered as a vulnerable client, 
then I cant see that Core shouldve treated her as such. And when, from what Ive seen, 
there was nothing which might have alerted Core to the possibility that Mrs T might be 
vulnerable. I can understand that Mrs T may not have wanted to share very personal 
information with Core. But I dont think Core can be blamed for her decision and when Core 
wouldnt have known about her circumstances unless shed explained them. 
I note what Mrs T has said about not signing the fact finds. But she did sign the suitability 
report dated 20 March 2017 on 29 March 2017. It said she had no financial dependents and 
that her husband was still working. I think Core was entitled to accept that information as 
correct and proceed accordingly. The suitability report dated 18 December 2018 didnt say if 
her husband was still working but it did say Mrs T had no financial dependents. I cant say 
Core was wrong not to treat Mrs T as a vulnerable client when Core wouldnt have known 
about Mrs Ts circumstances unless shed explained them.  
I dont think its the case that weve regarded as irrelevant the discrepancies in the fact finds. 
The investigator did look into those.  But, as Core has explained, because Mrs T made a 
SAR, the information that was provided in response included draft fact finds. And the 
investigator also identified an administrative error with the date of one of the two fact finds 
dated 24 May 2017. It seems that one of those shouldve been dated 2 November 2018. 
Although it no doubt caused confusion, I dont think it was other than a dating error. The 
contents of the fact find are consistent with the meeting notes and Mrs Ts circumstances at 
the time  for example, as the fact find records, she had by then retired. 
Ive considered what Mrs T has said about her attitude to risk  that it was wrong and it was 
more moderately high than moderate. But Mrs T has also pointed out that shed said that 
she wanted her investment to be safe, even if it meant lower returns, which wasnt consistent 
with the portfolio Core constructed. And shes referred to the losses shes sustained. Her 
comments would suggest that shed have been more comfortable with a lower risk portfolio. 
As would what she says about her lack of investment experience  a novice investor is more 
likely to want to take a cautious or medium risk approach. 
Leaving aside any ambiguities in what shes said, Core did assess Mrs Ts attitude to risk 
more than once. Risk profilers were completed at the meetings on 19 January 2017 and 2 
November 2018. Its common to use a risk profiling tool to assess a clients attitude to risk. 
Id expect there then to be some discussion as to the outcome generated and what it meant. 
It can be the case that some answers given in risk profiling questionnaires might appear 
inconsistent with others. Hence the need to discuss the outcome which is generated and 
which might be modified after discussion. 
The suitability reports and the meeting notes confirm that there were discussions and Mrs T 
was apparently happy with a moderate risk approach and didnt indicate she wanted to take 
a higher degree of risk. A moderate risk outcome seems credible and in line with what Id 
expect, given Mrs Ts circumstances generally. Im not sure that she shouldve been advised 
to take a higher degree of risk. Shed given up work and, although she had some annuity 
income and didnt expect to have to draw on her retirement benefits for a year or so, she 
would need to access her funds before she became eligible for her state pension. She didnt 
have other assets that she could draw on. She had some savings but those had been 
depleted by late 2018 and she was by then looking to access her pension fund by taking tax 
free cash. Mrs Ts capacity for loss is also relevant here. Core had assessed that as medium. Again, 
Mrs T completed questionnaires (capacity for loss evaluations) and the results seem to have 
been discussed and accepted by her. Mrs T says she doesnt recall saying that she may be 
able to afford a slight under performance of the investment but it would cause her to adapt 
her standard of living. But I dont think theres any suggestion she did actually say that  the 
statement is a summary of what a medium capacity for loss means for the investor. The 
statement is prominent and Mrs T signed the forms just underneath it. Although she may not 
have made that statement, shed have known that the assessment of her capacity for loss as 
medium put her in that situation.
I dont fully follow what Mrs T is saying about why that assessment was wrong. She seems 
to be suggesting that she had less capacity for loss than Cores assessment of medium. But 
I dont think thats consistent with what shes said about being willing to take a higher degree 
of risk. In assessing an investors willingness to take investment risk, capacity for loss must 
also be considered. I dont think, even if Mrs T had said she wanted to take a higher degree 
of risk, that wouldve been suitable for her, given she had limited capacity for loss. 
I understand what Mrs T has said about being a relatively new investor and not fully 
understanding the process or having anything to compare Cores service and charges with. I 
think, as an investor gains experience, they are likely to become more confident and willing 
to question or challenge what they are being told. Particularly if they take advice from a new 
adviser who might adopt a slightly different stance in certain areas and/or whose charges 
might be less. 
But Core did set out its fees clearly to Mrs T. She signed several service and payment 
agreements. And the charges, including those of the product provider, were set out in the 
suitability reports. She had an illustration too. I think she may also have received a welcome 
pack, outlining Cores charges. Cores initial review was free of charge. It was open to Mrs T, 
once she knew what Core would charge, to seek advice elsewhere.  
Ive thought about if the charges, including Cores fees, meant that the transferring was 
financially unviable and made the advice to transfer unsuitable. But Core did make things 
plain to Mrs T. As well as setting out its fees and the product charges clearly, Core did 
explain to Mrs T that the funds transferred were projected to be lower at retirement under the 
new plan due to higher charges. Particularly as Mrs T had chosen to pay the fees out of the 
investment. And that the required rate of return meant that Core wouldnt normally 
recommend a transfer. Core went on to recommend a transfer, given that Mrs T wanted to 
amalgamate her pensions into a SIPP and taking into account the wide range of fund 
choices, on line access and also the bespoke risk based portfolio, with regular reporting and 
recommended fund switches, that the Navigator proposition would provide. 
I think Mrs Ts position now might be that she doesnt want or need that type of service, at 
least not for the costs involved. But I think at the time she did want to consolidate her 
pensions and she did consider that the features and service the product would provide were 
important. She was also looking to phase her retirement over the next year or so and so 
shed need a product which allowed her to do that. On balance and taking into account what 
Ive said about Core having made the position clear to Mrs T, I dont think the advice to 
transfer was inherently unsuitable. 
Mrs T has said that there was a lack of contact from Core once her pensions had been 
consolidated. But I also think Core provided the service it said it would. Mrs T had annual 
reviews and she also received the Navigator portfolio reports. And she had access to Cores 
adviser if needed  for example when she wanted to withdraw tax free cash. 
All in all Im unable to uphold Mrs Ts complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint and Im not making any award. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2021.
 
Lesley Stead
Ombudsman