DRN-2822736
The complaint
Mr R complained that the customer service he received was sub-standard under his home 
care / emergency policy with British Gas Insurance Limited (BG).  
What happened
As part of Mr Rs home emergency policy, he was entitled to an annual boiler service. Mr R 
said hed held a similar policy with BG for several years and liked to have his boiler serviced 
before the onset of Winter. In this case, this would have been in November 2020 (12 months 
after his last service).
Mr R complained because of the difficulties he had in arranging a date for his boiler to be 
serviced. The difficulties are well documented and known to both parties, so I wont detail 
every aspect. In summary, Mr R finally had his service carried out in Apr 2021, some five 
months later than Mr R would have liked.
Mr R experienced many difficulties arranging the service, including: administrative 
discrepancies between information contained on letters and what he was told by BG 
representatives, lack of available appointments in 2021, a cancelled appointment in 2021 
and he received no responses to some emails sent.
Mr R said he was furious and left frustrated by BGs inability to provide him with his annual 
boiler service and safety check and wants to be compensated for the inconvenience it has 
caused him in trying to get an appointment scheduled.
BG acknowledged and apologised for the issues, offering £50 in compensation.
Our investigator decided to uphold the complaint, increasing the compensation to £100. She 
said, although BG had acted in line with its terms and conditions, she thought the customer 
service had been poor on several occasions. She compensated Mr R for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by trying to get his appointment arranged. Mr R wanted £175 
compensation, so the case has been referred to an ombudsman.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Rs sense of frustration. He expected to be able to book a service 
appointment for his boiler with a few clicks on his BG web site account. He has wasted a 
lot of his own time in trying to arrange the service which was subsequentially delayed. He 
feels it should have been a straightforward task.
I have looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy. It sets an expectation that BG will 
contact Mr R to arrange his service. I can see BG did contact Mr R, but the scheduling of the 
appointment became difficult, confusing and time consuming for Mr R. BG acknowledged its 
service fell below the standard it would hope to give. Therefore, I need to consider whether 
the £50 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
BG said This year due to the pandemic it has left the business with a backlog of non-
essential work, therefore, any annual services which were not due as a priority were either 
rescheduled or customers were asked to wait until later in the year. Regrettably, in Mr Rs 
case this was not communicated to him and the automated letters reminding him of the 
annual service were still generated, which has caused some additional confusion.
I have considered what BG said in the context of its terms and conditions. The terms say, in 
periods of local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we 
prioritise breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service. I think BG has acted 
within its terms and condition. I think the pandemic is a major incident and will have had a 
major impact on it. It said it caused a backlog of essential work. As the pandemic has 
contributed the problem, I think BG has been reasonable to prioritise high priority jobs over 
annual services. As BG has acted in line with its terms and conditions, I think it has been fair 
in doing this.
BG has acknowledged its mistakes and says it should have communicated better with Mr R. 
As an organisation, it made the circumstances worse by communicating different messages. 
I think the number of times Mr R has had to deal with BG to get his appointment booked is 
unreasonable and I think BG has set some false expectation on the appointment happening 
earlier so for this reason I uphold the complaint, I dont think £50 is fair compensation for the 
involvement Mr R has had. However, I can see BG did provide Mr R with a discount to his 
renewal in November 2020 as part of the complaint resolution.
Fortunately, hes not had any problems with his heating. Also, he still had the benefit of the 
repair element of his policy had he needed it. Therefore, in these circumstances, I am 
awarding £50 additional compensation to the £50 BG originally offered. I think this is fair for 
the distress and inconvenience Mr R has suffered for his involvement during this time. 
Mr R asked for our service to force BG to guarantee his appointment date for this years 
boiler service. Unfortunately, this isnt in the remit of our service to consider.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, British Gas Insurance Limited is required to 
pay Mr R:
£100 compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it that Mr R accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman