DRN-3932473
The complaint
Ms R complains about advice given by Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork 
Partnership in relation to a personal pension and ISAs. She says investments were not 
made in appropriate funds.
What happened
Ms R sought advice from a representative of Openwork. She had an initial meeting in March 
2021 where a fact-find was completed. Her circumstances were recorded as including that 
she: 
was 52 years old, single with no dependents
was employed as a doctor with income of around £95,000 a year and had been a 
member of the NHS Pension Scheme for around 28 years
held £94,000 on deposit with her bank, £25,000 in a stocks and shares ISA and 
£59,000 in another ISA 
owned her home worth £225,000, with no mortgage.
A risk profile questionnaire was completed which recorded that she was a balanced investor 
and was prepared to take some risk, but had little knowledge or experience of investing.
The adviser sent an email to Ms R providing copies of their meeting notes and outlining the 
points discussed. Following further email correspondence between them, a follow-up 
meeting took place on 27 March 2021. An email sent the same day gave a summary of the 
points discussed, including the following: 
The funds at this stage will be in a Balanced fund as discussed but we will go into greater 
detail when everything is completed and we have more time. And We will then go into more 
detail as to the funds you can self select for access to Renewable Energy and you can 
decide where you might like to invest.
There was further email correspondence over the following days, including discussion about 
where funds would be invested. Openwork then issued a suitability report which said Ms R 
wanted to 
invest £80,000 from her bank account, aiming for capital growth with tax efficiencies 
in mind; and 
have ongoing advice and service as she didnt want to make her own investment 
choices.
The report recommended that Ms R invest £80,000  half in ISAs and half in a pension 
(£30,000 to be invested in the pension straightaway, with £10,000 put in cash, to be invested 
in April, being the new tax year). This was recommended on the basis it would meet her 
attitude to risk and was the lowest cost way to invest with the longest performance track 
record.
Ms R signed 'The Openwork Partnership Fee Agreement'. The charges were set out as:
an initial fee of £3,150, equal to 3.5%; and
ongoing service fee of 1.25%, equal to £1,125 a year.
The adviser sent an email on 31 March 2021 providing further information about the funds in 
which shed be invested, including the portfolio factsheet.
On 9 April 2021, Ms R sent an email saying she was keen to move her investments into 
ethical companies. Following some email correspondence, a further meeting took place on 7 
June 2021, with the following notes made in respect of her investment choices:
At present her Attitude to Risk is Balanced and she would like to look at more Ethical Funds 
and I have given her the details of these so that she can decide herself whether to move 
monies across.
I have informed [Ms R] that any decision regarding these Funds would be outside our remit, 
and she would have to take responsibility for this herself, especially if the Funds were 
Speculative. [Ms R] will look at this.
The adviser sent an email the following day, providing copies of their meeting notes. Further 
emails were then exchanged about Ms Rs investment choices. These included Ms R saying 
Re the shares breakdown, am I  investing in the and the holdings? If so, they are not 
investments I would be happy with. Can you advise alternatives please? 
The adviser said if she wanted to invest ethically she would need to come out of the portfolio 
and opt to self-select  he couldnt advise on the funds to choose, though he could provide 
information about funds and said we will look at all the Funds and see if we can come up 
with any solution. 
In December 2021, Ms R complained that she had been misled from the outset about her 
wish to invest ethically, which she was given to believe would be available through 
Openwork. She said as she didnt have any financial experience, she wasnt able to self-
select funds, and was looking to move her investments to an alternative provider which could 
deal with this for her.
Openwork didnt consider there had been any failing, so Ms R referred her complaint to this 
service. Our investigator thought the recommendations made were not suitable for Ms R or 
in line with her objectives, in particular because she wanted to invest in ethical funds, and 
didnt want to make her own investment decisions. He said the complaint should be upheld 
and asked Openwork to carry out calculations to see if she had suffered any loss as a result 
of the advice and, if so, compensate her for that. He also recommended compensation of 
£300 for the distress and inconvenience caused to her.
Openwork didnt agree with the investigator and raised some further comments, including:
the fund was selected initially and she would then be able to consider the most 
suitable funds;
tax planning for the end of the financial year was Ms Rs main priority;
she was told there were funds that would meet her desire to invest ethically, but 
those funds were not in line with her attitude to risk;
the investigator wasnt taking account of the fact it could only assess a clients needs 
as presented to it and then follow the route the client wanted;
Ms R was given all the relevant information and was happy to proceed on the basis 
agreed.
Another investigator reviewed the further comments but agreed that the complaint should be 
upheld. 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to determine.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Openwork had to ensure it obtained the information needed about Ms Rs circumstances to 
be able to advise her, and ensure that its advice was suitable taking into account her 
circumstances, including her attitude to risk. I dont consider the recommendation Openwork 
made was suitable for her. Ill explain why.
It's clear from the suitability report and other documents that Ms R wanted to have ongoing 
advice and service as she didnt want to make her own investment choices. Its also 
documented that she wanted her funds to be in ethical investments. She sought professional 
advice to provide her with an investment recommendation in accordance with her attitude to 
risk and views on ethical investing. Openwork should have recommended something that 
was line with Ms Rs attitude to risk; could provide ethical investments; and did not require 
Ms R to make her own investment choices.
The recommendation didnt meet these requirements. The only ethical investments available 
with the arrangements Openwork made were higher risk, so they were not in line with her 
attitude to risk. And Openworks adviser couldnt give Ms R advice on those investments, so 
she would had to select the investments herself. 
The adviser said it would be easier for Ms R to invest in the Balanced Model Portfolio initially 
and then consider ethical funds for investing at a later time. Ms R wasnt given a factsheet 
for the Balanced Model Portfolio until after the recommendation had been made and she had 
already started transferring funds for investment. And it wasnt until June that she was 
provided with further information about the available ethical funds, including that they were 
outside her attitude to risk and she would have to take personal responsibility for investing in 
these funds.
Although meeting notes and emails in March 2021 indicated Ms R would need to self-select 
these funds, I dont think she was given enough information to understand the implications of 
this, given that she was an inexperienced investor with little understanding of the process. 
And this didnt fit with her need to benefit from ongoing advice and service as she did not 
want to make her own investment choices.
It wasnt until June 2021 that she was advised she would need to come out of the Balanced 
Model Portfolio altogether in order to access the ethical funds offered by Openwork.
It seems the process was driven by the aim of investing before the end of the tax year. But 
even if that was important, it wasnt the reason Ms R had sought advice. 
Ms R chose to follow the advice given as her views on ethical investing had been discussed 
and she was under the impression her investment objectives would be addressed. Even 
though she had been told about the need to self-select, the adviser had offered to provide 
holistic advice. So it was reasonable for her to assume this meant she wouldnt have to 
select her own funds without his guidance and her adviser would be advising her through 
that process. It was clearly recorded that she was seeking ongoing advice and service as 
she doesn't want to have to make her own financial decisions. She should not have been 
put in a position where she had to make her own choices.
Even if Ms R had thought the timescales associated with tax planning were important, she 
was paying for advice and her adviser had to recommend what was in her best interests. I 
appreciate Openwork says Ms R wanted to make the most of the tax planning opportunities available. But the fact she wanted to do that doesnt necessarily mean it should be 
recommended for her if that clashed with her objectives. Openwork had to ensure its advice 
was suitable. 
The adviser should not have continued if he couldnt make a suitable investment 
recommendation - he should either have gained explicit agreement from Ms R to amend her 
investment preferences, or explained that he couldnt offer an investment solution in line with 
her risk profile. It wasnt until June 2021 that Ms R was advised the only ethical funds 
available were not aligned to her assessed appetite for risk and her adviser would be unable 
to provide her with any advice about investment funds.
Ms R had made clear her preference for ethical investments in an email; she had specific 
investment preferences that she shared with her adviser and these needed to be considered 
before he made his recommendations in the Suitability Report. 
In my view, if Ms R had been provided with all relevant information relating to the ethical 
funds offered by Openwork, for which the adviser would have been unable to provide her 
with advice and she would have had to self-select, and which were not in line with her 
attitude to risk, she would not have proceeded with the recommendation and instead would 
have sought advice on options available to her elsewhere  which is what she has now 
done.
I also agree it would have been upsetting for Ms R to find that her funds were not invested 
in the way she wanted, and this had an impact on her feelings about seeking advice about 
her investments. She was also put to the trouble of having to change the investments. I 
agree a payment of £300 in respect of this is fair.
Putting things right
Fair compensation  ISA 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Ms R as close to the position she would probably now be in if she had not been given 
unsuitable advice.
I take the view that Ms R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Ms R's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Openwork do?
To compensate Ms R fairly, Openwork must:
Compare the performance of Ms R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Openwork should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interestEmbark 
Advance 
ISANo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate 
ceased to 
be held8% simple per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Openwork should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if Openwork totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to 
determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms R wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified 
indices representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government 
bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk 
to get a higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms R's circumstances and risk attitude.
Fair compensation - pension
My aim is that Ms R should be put as closely as possible into the position she would 
probably now be in if she had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Ms R would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Ms R's circumstances and objectives when she invested.
What must Openwork do?
To compensate Ms R fairly, Openwork must:Compare the performance of Ms R's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Openwork should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Openwork should pay into Ms R's pension plan to increase its value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into 
the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Openwork is unable to pay the total amount into Ms R's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms R wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms R's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms R is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms R would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Openwork deducts income tax from 
the interest it should tell Ms R how much has been taken off. Openwork should give Ms R 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Ms R asks for one, so she can reclaim 
the tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Embark 
Advance 
Retirement 
AccountNo longer in 
forceFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate ceased 
to be held8% simple 
per year on 
any loss from 
the end date 
to the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Advance Account should be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Openwork totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end to determine the fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms R wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Ms R's circumstances and risk attitude.
Finally, Openwork should pay Ms R compensation of £300 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused to her.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork 
Partnership should pay the amount calculated as set out above.
Openwork Limited trading as The Openwork Partnership should provide details of its 
calculation to Ms R in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman