DRN-1891208
 
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain about the amount offered in settlement of a claim on their building 
guarantee insurance, underwritten by Amtrust Europe Limited
What happened
Mrs and Mr R made a claim on their building guarantee insurance when defects were 
discovered in their chimney. 
Following inspections by a qualified engineer, W, Amtrust agreed that there was major 
damage to the chimney, and it should be replaced. This included remodelling of the hearth, 
the associated redecoration and replacement of the carpet. They however stated the solid 
fuel stove fitted to the hearth should not be replaced, but be removed for the duration of the 
works, and then refitted.
Mrs and Mr R complained to Amtrust. They said that because of Ws report stating the 
condition of the chimney meant it was dangerous to use, they had not used the stove for 
some time. This meant that corrosion had formed within it, and so it needed to be replaced.
In its final response, Amtrust reiterated their decision to decline to include a new solid fuel 
stove in the settlement, saying that the stove wasnt part of the housing unit and structure, so 
wasnt included within the policy.
So, Mrs and Mr R complained to our service.
Our investigator, having considered the insurance policy wording, thought that the stove 
should have been considered part of the housing unit. And having read Ws report, he 
thought the corrosion within the stove was probably caused by it not being used. And it 
wasnt used because of the damage to the chimney. So he thought the cost of replacing the 
stove should be included in the settlement offered by Amtrust.
Amtrust didnt agree. It maintained that it didnt think the stove was part of the housing unit, 
so shouldnt be considered within the claim; and the corrosion to the stove was caused by it 
not being used, not because the chimney was defective. So, the matter has been passed to 
me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where there are differing opinions, I need to decide which are more persuasive, and what I 
think is most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. Having done this, Ive 
decided to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
Firstly, Amtrust have declined to replace the stove as it doesnt think it is included within the 
definition of the housing unit. I have looked at how the housing unit is defined within the 
policy. Amongst other things it includes:
The Structure;
All non-load bearing elements and fixtures and fittings for which the policy holder is 
responsible;
So, having considered this, and the fact that the stove was fitted within the hearth as part of 
the building when Mrs and Mr R moved in, I think it is reasonable to consider it as part of the 
house or housing unit. 
So, having decided I think the stove should be considered as part of the claim, I need to 
decide if Amtrust were fair in their decision that the corrosion wasnt caused by the defect in 
the chimney.
It is not disputed that the corrosion to the stove was caused by it not being used for some 
time. Mrs and Mr R say this was due to the defects found in the chimney, and using the 
stove could have been dangerous. Amtrust have said the lack of use was not linked to the 
damage to the chimney.
W is the only expert to have examined the stove. Along with his report, W included several 
images. And with an image of the corrosion, W has said this shows the corrosion forming as 
a result of being unable to use the appliance for some time now. This, I think, is telling as it 
indicates Mrs and Mr R were unable to use the stove, as opposed to making the decision not 
to. 
And Ws report does include references to the risk, as a result of the defects to the chimney, 
of a serious fire. So, I think it is more likely than not, that Mrs and Mr R felt unable to use the 
stove as a direct result of the defects to the chimney. And this caused the resulting corrosion 
to the stove. 
Putting things right
I am satisfied that the stove should be considered as part of the housing unit. And the 
corrosion of it, caused by a lack of use, was as a consequence of the defects in the chimney. 
So, the cost of replacement of the stove should be added to the settlement already agreed 
between Mrs and Mr R and Amtrust.
My final decision
As a result of all of the above, I uphold this complaint.
I require Amtrust Europe Limited to settle this claim, including the cost of replacing the stove 
with an identical or similar new model, which should be agreed between them and Mrs and 
Mr R.
The final settlement should include 8% simple interest from the date the original settlement 
was offered.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 August 2020. 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman