DRN-2705195
The complaint
Ms B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd didnt explain what it was doing to deal with her 
disputed payment.
What happened
Ms B ordered goods on 2 May 2020 and didnt receive them. She raised a dispute with 
Monzo. It told her it needed evidence she had contacted the merchant. Ms B raised a further 
dispute with the information but didnt hear from Monzo. She pursued this herself with the 
merchant and received a refund.
Monzo issued a final response letter accepting that it had communicated poorly with Ms B. It 
had raised a dispute. It had paid her £10 in compensation. When it referred the complaint to 
this service it said that its process had changed at that time and not all agents were familiar 
with it. The progress of the dispute would have been provided to Ms B on a push notification 
on her phone and also visible on its app.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and Ms B paid a further £40. 
He said that there had been an opportunity to tell Ms B that her dispute had been raised. 
And she hadnt known what was happening as she had sent in another dispute form and had 
pursued the merchant herself. Monzo still said that it had followed its new process but in 
order to resolve the dispute would pay the additional £40.
Ms B didnt agree. She said that the compensation wasnt suitable and at the lower end of 
what could have been offered. She had previously indicated that she would have wanted an 
amount in the region of £250.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms B explains that she raised the dispute three times. On the first occasion she was told that 
there was insufficient evidence to show she had disputed the matter with the merchant. She 
submitted this dispute again on 30 June 2020. Monzo has shown that it did process a 
chargeback request on 1 July 2020. Its explained to this service that it would then need to 
wait for the merchant to respond. On 9 July 2020 having heard nothing Ms B submitted the 
dispute again. This was closed as a duplicate by Monzo and Ms B got in touch with the 
merchant about the refund. On 16 July 2020 Monzo told Ms B it had raised the dispute but 
that it had failed to update her about this.
I dont see that Monzo made a mistake in processing the dispute when it had the evidence it 
needed. But I think that its lack of clarity about the way it did so and the communication to 
Ms B led to her being uncertain about what was happening. And Monzos staff told her an 
error had happened. I dont know if Ms B had activated relevant notifications on her phone or 
not. But had she been confident and clear about what Monzo was doing I dont think shed 
have pursued things further with the merchant.
Putting things right
Ms B has received a refund and so isnt out of pocket. The issue is the appropriate level of 
compensation for the inconsistent communication and inconvenience caused. I think that the 
offer Monzo has now made of a total of £50 is reasonable. And I wouldnt have been minded 
to award anything more than this.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Monzo Bank Ltd to pay Ms B a 
further £40 as it has now offered to and making total compensation of £50. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman