DRN-4004724
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Barclays Bank Plc (Barclays) prevented him from trading in his 
holding of Multi Units Luxembourg Lyxor Australia (S&P/ASX 200) UCITS ETF (Lyxor). To 
put the matter right, he wants financial compensation. 
What happened
In May 2020 Mr S invested £89,500 in the above Lyxor Australia fund in the GBP Sub-Fund 
via Barclays Smart Invest in his SIPP. At the end of 2021 he wanted so sell his holding but 
saw the fund was Delisting and he was unable to proceed with the sale. At the time the 
holding was valued at around £137,400. 
Mr S contacted Barclays but wasnt given any explanation or told when he would be able to 
access his money. He wanted to sell his holding but was stuck with no explanation or 
timeframe and wanted to be able to access other investment opportunities. 
Mr S complained to Barclays on 14 April 2022. In its letter of 11 July 2022, it didnt uphold 
the complaint. It said that Lyxor had removed the investment from the London Stock 
Exchange on 16 December 2021 and Barclays didnt have any vehicle to be able to sell the 
holding. Smart Investor is an execution only broker and wouldnt advise Mr S or provide him 
with any personal recommendation. It had no part in the decision made by Lyxor.
Mr S wasnt happy with the outcome and brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman. He told us the fund price was being updated so it was trading somewhere. He 
had no way of getting his money back. 
Our investigator thought Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said;
The Lyxor fund had stopped trading in GBP, but it carried on trading in USD. It was 
Barclays internal processes that meant it couldnt facilitate a sale until the Lyxor fund 
was converted into USD. Hed seen nothing to suggest Barclays was restricted from 
converting the fund earlier. 
From the evidence Barclays had provided he thought it indicated that Barclays could 
convert the holding to USD if it was still trading on the London Stock Exchange. 
He thought Barclays should have acted in Mr Ss best interests and carried out his 
instruction to sell the holding on 19 January 2022. 
He was satisfied that Mr S would have reinvested the sale proceeds but there wasnt 
anything to show what he would have reinvested into. 
To put the matter right Barclays should look at an average return of Mr Ss pension at 
the time and assume Mr S would have reinvested the sale proceeds in the same 
way. 
Mr S thought the matter should be put right in a different way. He said if he had been able to 
sell when he wanted to, he would have held onto the proceeds pending an interesting entry 
point into another investment. He didnt want to sell at the current price so suggested he be 
paid the difference between the value of the holding on 19 January 2022 and its current 
price. 
Our investigator explained that the redress recommended was to put Mr S back in the 
position he would have been in but for Barclays mistake. And he wasnt persuaded that     
Mr S would have kept the sale proceeds in cash as the expected behaviour of an investor 
would be for them to be reinvested. And when bringing his complaint, Mr S had mentioned 
that he had missed out on the opportunity to invest the money elsewhere. 
Barclays didnt agree with the investigators conclusion. It said that the notifications it was 
given in its role as nominee didnt call for it to take any action. It was a delisting of the 
currency class, and the fund wasnt being liquidated so it was correct that the position was 
maintained. It wasnt obligated to convert the fund and there was no requirement or 
obligation noted by Lyxor in its communications for it to do so.  
The investigator reiterated his view that it wasnt that Barclays should have converted the 
asset when the notice was issued by Lyxor, but that it had an obligation to act in the best 
interests of Mr S and should have looked to move the asset when it was told by him that he 
wanted to sell the holding on 19 January 2022. He was satisfied that Barclays was able to do 
this. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved, it has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays told us that the UCITS ETF  the GBP fund conversion to the CLS B $ - the USD 
fund was completed on 21 June 2022 for all of its customers. 
From what Barclays has told us, the GBP fund would be considered a fungible asset  which 
means it is interchangeable with another asset of the same type. And my understanding is 
that this would apply to the USD class of the same fund in this case. 
The investigator had concluded Barclays was responsible for converting the fund and should 
have done so when Mr S instructed that it be sold. 
I asked Barclays for more information about this as this as I wanted to consider whether the 
action taken was fair in the particular circumstances of this complaint. I say this because the 
corporate action itself is driven by the fund manager and the instruction to Barclays about 
what action it should take was provided via the industry settlement agency, CREST, and Id 
seen a copy of that CREST notification. 
In its response, Barclays made clear that at no point was it given instruction to move the 
GBP asset to the USD version of the asset. And from the copy of corporate action instruction 
it provided that seems to be the case. It told us the conversion to the USD version only came 
about as a result of customer feedback and Barclays approaching its custodian to consider 
the different class of asset. 
Barclays said that while this wasnt something it would usually do, it was able to do so on 
this occasion and it was able to change the class of the Lyxor shareholding held by its 
customers. But it did stress this was outside of its normal procedures and not something that 
it was under any obligation to do. Barclays told us it is reliant upon the information provided by CREST about corporate 
actions and was told by Lyxor the class held by its customer was to be delisted. It wasnt 
asked to switch into a different share class. It is not obliged under its own terms and 
conditions or any regulatory requirement to seek an alternative option for its customers. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ive reviewed Barclays terms and condition and I need to consider the fairness of the 
outcome they would create. The Barclays Smart Investor Terms say;
3. Corporate actions and voting rights 
3.1 Unless we agree otherwise with you, where we hold Assets which give you rights 
in relation to a company, including if we become aware of any proposed class action 
or group litigation: 
(i) we will not be responsible for taking any action in relation to these 
matters, except to give effect to Default Action if you do not give us an 
Instruction; 
(ii) to the extent permitted by Regulatory Requirements we will not be 
obliged to notify you or obtain your Instructions in relation to these 
matters;
So, on the face of it, it seems clear that Barclays did carry out what was required of it in that 
it noted the Lyxor share classes held had been delisted and it told us it wasnt given an 
indication of any alternative action that it could take. 
And Barclays has provided us with a copy of the notification of 16 December 2021 which 
details the delisting and includes nine of Lyxors share classes. Mr Ss Lyxor ETF was one of 
the share classes that was being removed from the London Stock Exchange. At the bottom 
on the notice and highlighted in red it says; 
Please note the share classes will not be liquidated. Listings on other trading venues 
will not be affected. [original emphasis.]
But Im not sure that the underlined comment would have drawn Barclays attention to the 
fact that the share classes being referred to in the notice could be converted to another 
class. It only refers to listings on other trading venues which would be other than the 
London Stock Exchange which is where Barclays traded. But equally, I consider it was 
sufficient to prompt an inquiry as to whether a conversion would be made. And as the 
operator of a share trading platform, Barclays should have been familiar with what might be 
possible in these circumstances.
However, as well as the notification Barclays provided to us, Ive also seen the Notice to the 
shareholders of the Multi Units Luxembourg  Delisting of 7 sub-funds from London Stock 
Exchange. It confirms the delisting of the sub-funds, which included Mr Ss GBP holding. 
The Notice continues;
Following the above-mentioned delistings, the Share Classes will be only removed 
from London Stock Exchange. Indeed, the listing of the shares within the Share 
Classes from the other stock exchange listed on the table below will not be affected.The Investors protection is not at risk. If they want to sell their positions, it can be 
made on the following other stock exchange where the Share Classes are listed: [my 
emphasis].
It then goes onto to include Mr Ss share class asset which has the same ISIN (the stocks 
unique International Securities Identification Number) but in a USD currency and tradeable 
on the London Stock Exchange. So, Im satisfied those shareholders at the time would have 
seen that an alternative was available. I asked Barclays for confirmation as to whether it had 
seen the notice as it begins with the statement We count you amongst the investors of the 
funds in table below as acting in its role as nominee I dont think its unreasonable to 
assume that Barclays would have received the notice.
Barclays didnt provide any further information about this but in my opinion, acting in its role 
as nominee, I think its more likely Barclays would have received full details from the 
investee company itself, so I think this information was available to Barclays. And because of 
that I dont think its unreasonable to conclude that in its role as custodian for its customers 
investments, it should have read those notices and other information that was publicly 
available. And if it had taken account of the information given in those notices, I think it more 
than likely it would have concluded that to act in the best interests of its customers it should 
convert the non-tradable GBP Lyxor fund to the USD fund which was tradeable as it later 
did. 
In response to my other questions Barclays told us that as part of its operating model it takes 
a regular review of assets held and it was at that time it was determined it could move the 
GBP denominated class into the USD denominated class and this was completed in       
June 2022. 
But it also told us that the decision to convert the Lyxor fund to USD was because of 
customer feedback which suggests to me that other customers had also raised the issue 
with Barclays. 
Ive borne in mind that Mr Ss assets with Barclays were held on a pooled basis with all of its 
other customers assets. But it had to take into consideration its customers best interest in 
its role as nominee.  
Barclays had told us that its customers cannot expect us to find an alternative solution on 
every occasion [of a similar corporate event] but the above notices suggest that Barclays 
wouldnt need to find an alternative as one was already available at the time. 
Barclays said any decision about action to be taken on those pooled assets would need to 
be carefully considered. And that is perfectly understandable. While a USD denominated 
asset might not have suited all of its customer base, I dont think it would be unreasonable to 
assume that a customer priority would be for those assets to be freely tradeable rather than 
delisted but not liquidated, and the customer not being able to take any action during that 
time. And the comment Barclays made  that the decision to convert the fund to USD was 
because of customer feedback suggests to me that other customers had also expressed 
their need to trade. If Barclays inaction meant that its customers were left with an asset they 
could not trade, then that is something Barclays should have considered if it was to act in the 
best interests of its customers.
Its clear that Barclays took the action to convert to the USD in June 2022 as a result of its 
own review and customer feedback. But I am satisfied there was sufficient information 
available for Barclays to have reached this conclusion at a much earlier date and at least 
when Mr S expressed his wish to sell the holding on 19 January 2022. Taking all of the above into account, I think Barclays should have converted the Lyxor fund 
after being told about the delisting, rather than waiting for several months. This would have 
meant the shares were tradeable when Mr S called to say he wanted to sell his holding. Mr S 
has been put in a detrimental position  by not being able to trade as he wanted to  
because of Barclays inaction. And I dont think that Barclays treated Mr S fairly or 
reasonably by not acting sooner. 
So, for the reasons given, and in the particular circumstances of this complaint, I uphold     
Mr Ss complaint and Barclays needs to put the matter right. 
Putting things right
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in if he had been able to sell his holding on               
19 January 2022.
I asked Mr S at what point he was made aware of the conversion to the USD class and that 
it was tradeable again. He told us that he only became aware of the conversion when he 
launched his complaint and there was no notification from Barclays via its platform. And 
even though the fund conversion took place on 21 June 2022, Mr S wasnt advised of this by 
Barclays in its final response to his complaint on 11 July 2022. Mr S told us that by the time 
he was aware it was possible for him to sell his holding, the value of his investment had 
fallen well below where he had planned to sell it. 
When considering redress for a complaint I need to assess whether the complainant has 
done what they can in order to mitigate any loss. In the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, I dont think it would be fair to have expected Mr S to have had to sell at the point 
he became aware the investment was tradeable again and as a result have lost out because 
of Barclays actions. So, I dont find it unreasonable that Mr S didnt sell at that point of his 
awareness. 
In response to the investigators assessment Mr S said that he would have retained the sale 
proceeds rather than reinvested them. But I note from his complaint form that Mr S told us 
that by not being able to sell when he wanted to, he hadnt been able to invest into other 
opportunities. So, I think its more than likely that Mr S would have reinvested those sale 
proceeds rather than retaining them in cash. 
Clearly, its not possible to say precisely where Mr S would have invested the proceeds of 
the sale, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Ss 
circumstances.
To compensate Mr S fairly Barclays should:
Calculate the net amount Mr S would have received, had he sold on 19 January 
2022. 
Calculate compensation based on what Mr S would have got from investing these 
proceeds based on the average total return of his portfolio from 19 January 2022 to 
the date of the settlement.
Barclays should pay into Mr Ss pension plan, to increase its value by the amount of 
the compensation. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. Barclays shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if 
it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If Barclays is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr S would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.
If Barclays doesnt pay Mr S the sum above within one month of receiving from us 
notification of Mr Ss acceptance of my decision, Barclays must also pay Mr S simple interest 
on the outstanding amounts at the rate of 8% per year from the date of my decision until the 
date those amounts are paid.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and Barclays Bank Plc should put the 
matter right as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Catherine Langley
Ombudsman