DRN-3371854
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited dealt with their requests for 
payment deferrals and to convert their mortgage to an interest only buy to let. They ask that 
it applies a payment deferral from March 2020, in accordance with the regulators guidelines, 
and agrees to switch the mortgage to an interest only buy to let mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L took out a residential mortgage with Shawbrook in 2017. Their circumstances 
changed soon after. Mr and Mrs L have been living overseas since late 2017 for family 
reasons. Shawbrook granted them consent to let the property.
In late 2019 Mr and Mrs L asked Shawbrook for a payment holiday without adverse effect on 
their credit files as they were having difficulty meeting mortgage payments. They said they 
had to refurbish the property after evicting tenants that damaged the property and didnt pay 
rent. The request was declined. The mortgage account has been in arrears since December 
2019.
Mr and Mrs L applied for a three-month payment deferral in March 2020, under guidelines 
for lenders issued by the regulator in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. Despite Mr and 
Mrs L contacting Shawbrook a number of times this wasnt confirmed until June 2020. In the 
meantime, Shawbrook recorded missed payments on Mr and Mrs Ls credit files, meaning 
they were unable to look into re-mortgaging.
Shawbrook then applied the three-month payment deferral from April, rather than March 
2020. It recorded a missed payment on Mr and Mrs Ls credit files for March. Mr and Mrs L 
say there were also difficulties with their request for second payment deferral.
In May 2020 Mr L asked Shawbrook if they could convert the mortgage to buy to let as their 
family circumstances meant theyd be overseas for longer than expected. He contacted 
Shawbrook about this a number of times and both parties agree he was given incorrect and 
inconsistent information. In late November 2020 Shawbrook told Mr and Mrs L they needed 
to make a new mortgage application and should seek independent financial advice.
Shawbrook offered compensation of £100 in January, £100 in April, £50 in July, and £60 in 
November 2020 for the inconvenience and upset caused by delays and misinformation.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out what I thought about this complaint. In 
summary, I said Shawbrook should adjust Mr and Mrs Ls account as if it had applied the 
payment deferral from March 2020 and remove the missed payment recorded on their credit 
files. I said it should pay compensation of £400 to Mr and Mrs L, in addition to the £310 
already paid, for the upset and inconvenience caused by its poor service.
Mr and Mrs L agreed. Shawbrook didnt agree saying it had concerns about the amount of 
compensation. It said while its service had fallen down an additional £200 would be more 
reflective and suitable for this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The first payment deferral
In March 2020, the UK entered a nationwide lockdown due to the Covid-19 pandemic. The 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) issued guidance to lenders in late March saying that no 
payments would need to be made towards a customers mortgage for three months. This 
was later extended to six months. The payment deferrals were to be regarded by lenders as 
taken in exceptional circumstances and lenders shouldnt report them to a consumers credit 
file.
Mr L called three times in the later part of March 2020 to ask for a payment deferral. Ive 
listened to these call recordings. Mr L said the property had been refurbished and was ready 
to let, but this wasnt possible as Government restrictions meant no viewings. It was clear on 
the calls that Mr L wanted the payment deferral to start in March.
The payment deferral scheme required lenders to grant payment deferrals when they were 
requested with minimal checks and with ease. Shawbrook had to take what Mr and Mrs L 
said at face value and grant the payment deferral, unless it was clearly not in their best 
interests.
I dont think Shawbrook was fair when it didnt apply the first payment deferral from March 
2020, as Mr and Mrs L requested.
Shawbrook said as Mr and Mrs Ls payment was due on 9 March 2020 and they requested a 
payment deferral on 24 March it couldnt backdate the payment deferral. I dont think thats 
fair. Mr L had told Shawbrook in March theyd struggle with essential outgoings if they made 
the payment. Shawbrook said they could cancel the direct debit payment, but couldnt give 
advice about whether to do so or what the consequences might be for their credit files. 
I appreciate that when Mr L spoke to it in March 2020 Shawbrook wasnt yet sure how the 
rules would apply in all circumstances. But I think it gave the impression the payment 
deferral would likely apply from March  as Mr and Mrs L requested. And in the final 
response letter it sent to Mr and Mrs L in April 2020 it said their application is being 
reviewed for the months of March, April and May 2020.
It was three months before Shawbrook confirmed the payment deferral, despite Mr L calling 
a number of times. Shawbrook says this was due to a backlog of requests. I appreciate that 
Shawbrook was helping a lot of customers while itself having to operate within social 
distancing guidelines. However, I think Shawbrook could have dealt better with Mr and 
Mrs Ls request. Mr L was given inconsistent information about the application. And 
Shawbrook should have taken what Mr and Mrs L had told it about their circumstances into 
account when it did finally process their request.
The regulator required Shawbrook to put the payment deferral in place with minimal checks 
and with ease. I cant see that the regulators guidance prevented Shawbrook applying the 
payment deferral from March 2020  and I think that would have been the fair thing to do. Mr 
and Mrs L were expecting the payment deferral to start in March and werent told otherwise 
until June 2020.I think Shawbrook should have applied the payment deferral from March 2020. It should 
rework Mr and Mrs Ls account as if it had done so. And remove the missed payment from 
Mr and Mrs Ls credit files.
The monthly payment for September 2020
The regulators guidelines said that borrowers could have payment deferrals for up to six 
months. Shawbrook applied the payment deferral to Mr and Mrs Ls account from April to 
September 2020.
When Shawbrook adjusts the six-months payment deferral to start from March 2020 this 
would then end in August 2020  meaning the contractual monthly payment would be 
deemed to be due in September 2020.
While Mr L told Shawbrook in August 2020 they were able to resume payments in 
September 2020, I cant see that they did make a payment in September 2020. I think that 
Shawbrook should give Mr and Mrs L the opportunity to make up the September 2020 
payment, if theyre able to do so. If, within 45 days of accepting this decision, Mr and Mrs L 
make an additional payment equal to the contractual monthly payment they missed in 
September 2020 Shawbrook should apply this to their account with effect from the date the 
payment was due and adjust the account accordingly.
I think Mr and Mrs L were caused upset and confusion by Shawbrook taking so long to 
confirm the payment deferral, and then applying it from April instead of March 2020. While 
they didnt make a payment in September 2020, this might have been because the payment 
deferral was in place for September 2020. In the circumstances I dont think it would be fair 
for Shawbrook to record a missed or late payment on Mr and Mrs Ls credit files for 
September 2020 regardless of whether they make up the payment.
The request to switch to a buy to let mortgage
Shawbrook accepts that Mr and Mrs L requested a switch to buy to let on an interest only 
basis in May 2020 and spoke to it another 11 times before late November 2020. It also 
accepts they were given incorrect information that suggested their request was being dealt 
with. In fact, Mr and Mrs L needed to make a new application for a buy to let mortgage. 
Shawbrook said they should contact an independent financial adviser or broker to make the 
application. Shawbrook told them this in late November 2020  six months after theyd first 
made the request.
I dont think it was reasonable or fair for Shawbrook to take six months to tell Mr and Mrs L 
they needed to make a new application. Shawbrook was aware that Mr and Mrs L were 
struggling to meet their monthly payments. They told Shawbrook they wanted to progress 
the switch to buy to let while the payment deferrals were in place, before they had to resume 
monthly payments.
I cant reasonably require Shawbrook to offer Mr and Mrs L a buy to let mortgage  they will 
need to make an application. But I think its fair that Shawbrook pays compensation for the 
additional worry and upset the delay caused. If Mr and Mrs L make an application, it should 
consider it fairly.
Putting things right
Shawbrook responded to complaints from Mr and Mrs L about poor service, delays and 
misinformation in January 2020, April 2020 and July 2020. It offered £310 for things that it 
agreed went wrong.I dont think this amount of compensation is fair and reasonable. In reaching this decision, 
Ive taken into account:
The amount of inconvenience and stress caused by the number of times Mr and Mrs L 
had to contact Shawbrook about their requests for a payment deferral and the buy to let 
switch.
Mr and Mrs L were calling from overseas in a different time zone. They were given 
incorrect and inconsistent information on many calls. And they were dealing with the 
death of a close family member.
The number of calls made (despite the inconvenience) demonstrates how worried Mr 
and Mrs L were about their mortgage payments, and their wish to improve the situation.
Delays with the first payment deferral delayed Mr and Mrs L being able to apply for a 
second three-month payment deferral, causing them further worry.
Mr and Mrs L were concerned about meeting contractual monthly payments when their 
payment deferrals ended. They wanted to progress switching to an interest only buy to 
let mortgage. Shawbrooks errors caused unnecessary delays with this.
Mr and Mrs L said while they wanted to look into taking out a buy to let mortgage with 
another provider in mid-2020, they didnt feel this was possible until the payment deferral 
was confirmed and issues with their credit files resolved.
Shawbrook says a lower amount of compensation would be more suitable. It didnt explain 
its reasoning for this. When considering what compensation is fair, I need to take into 
account the effect an error has on the customers. After taking all the matters above into 
account, I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Shawbrook to pay 
£400 compensation in addition to the £310 it has already offered.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Shawbrook Bank plc to:
Apply the payment deferral from March 2020 and adjust Mr and Mrs Ls account 
accordingly, and remove the missed payment recorded on Mr and Mrs Ls credit files in 
March 2020.
Adjust Mr and Mrs Ls account as described above if they make an additional payment 
equal to the contractual monthly payment due in September 2020 within 45 days of 
accepting this decision. It should not record the payment due in September 2020 as late 
or missed.
Pay £310 to Mr and Mrs L, as it has offered to do, less any amounts it has already paid.
Pay £400 to Mr and Mrs L, in addition to the £310 mentioned above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman