DRN-3166971
The complaint
This complaint is brought by Mr and Mrs H against Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
Their complaint regards two payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 1988 
and 1999 respectively. Each policy covered the respective mortgage payments in the case 
of accidents, illnesses or redundancies. Mr and Mrs H paid for each policy with a regular 
monthly premium, which did not attract interest.
Background
I sent Mr and Mrs H and Halifax a provisional decision on 14 October 2021, to explain why 
I didnt think the policies had been mis-sold. In that decision, I said:
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. I do understand that Mr and Mrs H consider 
their complaint to go beyond mis-selling, though the allegations theyve raised  such as 
Halifax adding the policy without their consent, or not making the costs clear enough  are 
considered mis-selling allegations. In any case, Ive taken all their points into consideration 
along with all the relevant evidence. Though I will focus my decision on the key points.
The 1988 sale
Neither side have the original documents from this sale, which is both understandable and 
rather unsurprising given that the sale was well over three decades ago. Indeed, under data 
protection rules Halifax was required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Hs data rather than hold onto 
it for too long. Meanwhile, Mr and Mrs H dont remember discussing PPI, and thats also 
understandable given all the time thats passed, and given that buying insurance is not often 
memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most likely to have happened based on the 
limited information available.
It would have been a very serious failing for Halifax to have misled Mr and Mrs H into having 
PPI. And I have no evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen any 
wider problems with Halifaxs sales process from the time. And this particular sale was far 
too long ago for me to reasonably require Halifax to be able to produce documents from the 
time to defend itself now. So I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that Halifax 
misled Mr or Mrs H here  I have nothing with substantiates that. I think its more likely that 
Halifax followed a relatively normal sales process, where it offered PPI and Mr and Mrs H 
chose it at the time.
This policy covered Mr H, and its not clear whether Halifax recommended this policy for him 
or not. The requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it  so to be as fair to 
Mr and Mrs H as possible, Ill assess things as if it did. That would mean Halifax had to 
check the policy was right for Mr H  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time, I think that it was.
For example, it looks like Mr H was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its 
main exclusions or limitations. The policy would have paid out on top of his work benefits 
and offered him more comprehensive cover, not least for when his benefits reduced to just a 
fraction of his normal pay or ran out. It also meant Mr and Mrs H could effectively protect 
their savings and use them for other things, instead of potentially needing to sacrifice one 
asset to save another. I understand that Mr and Mrs H had an endowment policy, but that 
was for very different things to the PPI and was not an alternative to PPI, so Im afraid it 
wasnt relevant here. I also understand that Mr H felt secure in his job, but accidents, 
illnesses, and redundancies can and do happen  even in situations that feel secure at the 
time. And ultimately, if Mr and Mrs H had fallen behind on their mortgage they couldve lost 
their home. So it seems reasonable that they took out the PPI to protect their home.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But that, on its own, does not necessarily mean the policy was mis-sold. 
Instead, the question is whether I think better information was likely to have changed their 
minds. But as I said above, it doesnt look like Mr H was affected by any of the exclusions to 
or limits on the PPI, and it could have been useful in case something went wrong. The PPI 
was competitively priced, with only a modest cost. And it was paid on a rolling monthly basis, 
so Mr and Mrs H could cancel it at any time without any penalty. So I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put them off taking it out. 
The 1999 sale
Mr and Mrs H applied for this policy with a specific PPI application, separately to applying for 
the lending itself. The PPIs cost was set out separately from the mortgages cost  it was 
not a hidden cost, nor was it part and parcel of the lending. Mr and Mrs H checked they were 
eligible for the policy and signed the form to confirm their choice to buy PPI. Mr and Mrs H 
suggested that if they signed any such documents, it was only because they thought they 
were signing for the mortgage. But this form was a separate application specifically for PPI, 
and I think it would have been clear what it was. So I think that Mr and Mrs H chose PPI 
here, though I can understand if they no longer recall doing so after so many years.
I understand that Halifax recommended this policy for Mr and Mrs H, which means it had to 
check it was right for them. And again, based on what Ive seen of their situation at the time, 
I think it was. Mr and Mrs H were both eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of its 
key exclusions or limitations. The policy would have paid out for far longer than their work 
benefits  up to two years in each claim. Again, it meant they could effectively protect their 
savings, and Im afraid their endowment policy wasnt an alternative form of cover and was 
not relevant here. So the PPI could have really been useful for Mr and Mrs H in protecting 
their home and providing some peace of mind.
The cost of the policy was set out on the application, so I think Mr and Mrs H would have 
understood how much they would pay for it if they took it out.
It is possible that Halifax didnt sufficiently point out all the main things the policy wouldnt 
cover. But as I said above, Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of those things, so I dont 
think that was likely to have made a difference here.Other points
Mr and Mrs H said their PPI costs didnt appear on their mortgage statements. I can 
understand why they thought to raise this, but its quite normal. Their PPI policies were 
separate products to the mortgages  they were not part and parcel of each mortgage. Mr 
and Mrs H would usually need to have set up separate direct debits to pay for the PPI, 
though the mandates wont still be available because of all the years that have passed and 
data protection rules requiring that such data is disposed of. Their payments for PPI would 
have been on their bank statements much like other insurance direct debits.
Mr and Mrs H felt it was suspicious that each policy got cancelled some years later. They 
suggested that Halifax may have done this after a certain amount of time to secure 
commission or hide the policies. But in order to cancel the policy, it would normally have 
required Mr and Mrs H to cancel it. And its quite normal for customers to change their mind 
and cancel products years down the line. The 1988 policy was only cancelled after six years, 
and then Mr and Mrs H waited another five years before taking out the 1999 policy  which 
they then kept for seven years. Its unsurprising if they changed their mind about PPI over 
such lengthy periods. As above, its also rather unsurprising for the documents around the 
cancellations to no longer exist after so long, given the rules about disposing of old data.
Like I said before, Ive not seen anything to substantiate that Halifax added either policy 
without Mr and Mrs Hs consent  indeed, for the 1999 sale Ive seen rather convincing 
evidence that Mr and Mrs H explicitly chose PPI. Ive not seen anything to substantiate that 
Halifax cancelled either policy, let alone that it did so in order to hide them, and I dont think it 
wouldve had a good reason to do so. Halifax would not have earned extra commission by 
getting these policies cancelled years down the line, as Mr and Mrs H have suggested.
Mr and Mrs H also pointed out that both policies got cancelled in the November of that 
particular year. I appreciate they feel this has some significance, but given that there are 
only 12 months in the year its not noteworthy for two policies to happen to close in the same 
month of different years.
Lastly, Mr and Mrs H pointed out that weve found Halifax to be in the wrong in other cases. 
I understand where theyre coming from, but that doesnt mean Halifax got things wrong in 
every case by any means. And when it comes to PPI, different policies worked in different 
ways, were suitable in different circumstances, were sold using different methods at different 
times, and so on. So while some PPI policies were mis-sold, others were not. We look at 
each case on its individual merits, and Ive explained above why I have not found these two 
policies to have been mis-sold.
As I have not found these policies to have been mis-sold, this means Halifax doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to give me  so long as I received it by 
11 November 2021. Halifax didnt add anything further. Mr and Mrs H made some further 
comments, which Ill talk about below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H reiterated that they never discussed PPI or signed for it. They suggested their 
signatures had been forged. But in the 1999 sale, Mr and Mrs H did sign and submit a form 
specifically for PPI. The signatures match up with the ones they gave our service, and Ive 
not found any indication they were forged or tampered with. And as I explained before, Ive 
not seen anything to substantiate that Mr and Mrs H were misled into buying PPI in 1988 
either, and I dont have a fair basis on which to conclude that they were. I think its more 
likely that Halifax followed a relatively normal sales process and offered them a choice. 
Mr and Mrs H also said they werent liars or senile. But we never said or implied that they 
were. Buying insurance is not often memorable, and its quite normal not to remember 
agreeing to a policy from decades ago.
Ive not found any other reason to conclude that these policies were mis-sold. So having 
reconsidered the case, Ive come to the same conclusion as before.
That means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Halifax has offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Halifax didnt tell 
them, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Halifax has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.What the business needs to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premiums. Halifax should also pay back to Mr and Mrs H any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
That means Halifax should pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra they paid each month 
because the commission and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Halifax should also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% simple 
interest on payments before April 1993).
*Businesses are required by HM Revenue & Customers (HMRC) to take basic rate tax off this simple interest. 
Mr and Mrs H can claim back the tax from HMRC if they dont pay tax.
My final decision
These two PPI policies were not mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premiums. If it has already done this, then 
I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman