DRN-2416266
The complaint
Miss P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) closed her account without telling 
her, and that she received poor customer service when she called Barclays to discuss the 
matter.
What happened
Barclays says it wrote to Miss B on 14 May 2019 to say it would be closing her account on 
15 July 2019. Miss B says she didnt receive the letter and only found out her account was 
closed when she called Barclays to check her balance.
Miss B says Barclays were rude to her when she called to discuss her account on 16 July 
2019. She complained, saying she wanted to know why Barclays had closed her account. 
But the people Miss B spoke to wouldnt tell her the reason. Miss B was unhappy with 
Barclays, so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator felt Barclays had complied with the terms and conditions of Miss Bs 
account when it closed her account. And that Barclays staff werent rude to Miss B.
Miss B insisted she hadnt received a copy of the letter Barclays says it sent and maintained 
Barclays hadnt treated her fairly. So, she asked for an ombudsman to review the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of that account.
Barclays says it closed Miss Ps account in accordance with s11 on page 37 of its terms and 
conditions. S11 states that Barclays can close an account by giving a customer at least two 
months notice. Theres no requirement to give a reason for the closure
Ive looked at the evidence Barclays has provided me to explain why it closed Miss Ps 
account. And Ive thought about how that sits against the terms of the account. 
Ive seen a letter from Barclays dated 14 May 2019, telling Miss P that her account would be 
closed on 15 July 2019.
Miss P says she didnt receive that letter, and I have no reason to disbelieve her. But I have 
to balance that against any evidence Barclays has provided to show the letter was sent. Ive 
seen a copy of the letter Barclays says it sent to Miss P. It was addressed to the same 
address Miss P gave our service when she contacted us. And I can see it was dated 14 May 
2019.
Im not suggesting Miss P did receive the letter, but I cant hold Barclays responsible for 
what happened after it sent the letter. It may be that the letter went missing in the post. But, 
on balance, Im persuaded that Barclays did send the letter. So, it follows that Im satisfied 
Barclays followed its procedures when it closed Miss Ps account. I recognise this wont be 
much consolation for Miss P, but given what Ive said above, I cant say Barclays acted 
unfairly when it closed Miss Ps account.
Customer service
On 16 July 2019, Miss P called Barclays to check her balance. Ive listened to four calls on 
that day between Barclays and Miss P. Miss P was clearly frustrated with Barclays as she 
said she hadnt received its letter telling her her account would be closed. 
Miss P asked why Barclays had closed her account several times, but each time she was 
simply told it had decided to do so and that the call handler couldnt give a reason. On one 
occasion, Miss P spoke to a manager who said she couldnt tell Miss P why Barclays had 
closed her account. The manager terminated the call with Miss P, saying she wasnt happy 
with the way she was being spoken to and that Miss P was raising her voice.
Having listened to the calls, I can see how frustrated Miss P is with Barclays. And given she 
says she didnt receive the notice to close letter, I understand why she was frustrated. The 
call handlers did decline to explain the reason for Barclays decision, which Im sure felt 
unfair to Miss P. But given that Barclays doesnt have to give a reason for its decision to 
close Miss Ps account, I cant say it was unreasonable for the call handlers not to tell Miss P 
why. 
I think its fair to say the calls could have gone better, particularly the call between Miss P 
and the manager. Miss P was frustrated and demanded to know why Barclays had closed 
her account. But I didnt hear anything that I would consider to be poor customer service: the 
call handlers were limited in what they could tell Miss P so their hands were tied.
I recognise this isnt the outcome Miss P was hoping for. But having considered all of the 
evidence both parties have provided me with, I cant reasonably ask Barclays to re-open 
Miss Ps account, given that it complied with the terms of the account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 February 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman