DRN-3026259
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C, who are represented by a claims management company (CMC) complain that 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited rejected their claim under s 75 Consumer Credit Act 
1974 in respect of a timeshare purchase.
What happened
Mr and Mrs C purchased a holiday membership from a company I will call D in May 2011. 
The purchase was funded by a point of sale loan provided by Clydesdale. 
They believe the product was misrepresented to them and that they were treated unfairly 
during the sale. They asked Clydesdale to look into this and refund the total cost of the 
product. 
Clydesdale investigated the claim under s 75 of the Consumer Credit Act but said it didnt 
believe there had been either a breach of contract or misrepresentation. Later it told this 
service that the claim had been brought too late. Specifically, it said that Mr and Mrs C did 
not bring their claim within the time period set out in the Limitation Act. So, it didnt think it 
needed to look into your claim any further. 
Unhappy with Clydesdales conclusion, the CMC raised a complaint. As the matter was 
unable to be resolved, the complaint has now been referred to this service. The complaint 
was considered by one of our investigators who didnt think it should be upheld. They gave 
an initial opinion that there was insufficient evidence of a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. In a second opinion he said that he agreed that the claim had been made 
out of time. 
Neither Mr C nor the CMC responded to this opinion and so the matter has been referred to 
me a for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint, Im 
required to take into account: relevant law and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, 
guidance and standards and codes of practice.
Under s.75, Clydesdale is jointly and severally liable with the supplier of the goods or 
services for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. This means, you 
have a like claim against Clydesdale just as you would have against the supplier. So, if your 
claim against the supplier of the timeshare has likely expired under the Limitation Act, then 
that is something Clydesdale could take into account when it considers your claims against 
it.
The Limitation Act sets out the time limits which apply to different types of claims. Mr and 
Mrs said the timeshare they bought was misrepresented to them.
Under the Limitation Act, they had six years from the date upon which they suffered a loss 
as a result of the misrepresentation to bring their claim. 
As Clydesdale steps into the shoes of the supplier for the purposes of the s.75 claim, to work 
out when the clock starts running under the Limitation Act, we need to work out when it 
would start if the claim had been brought directly against the supplier.
Misrepresentation claims can be made once the person bringing the claim has experienced 
damage and or loss as a result of the misrepresentation.  In this case, given the nature of 
the complaint, I think damage occurred when they suffered a financial loss as a result of 
purchasing the timeshare. Ill explain why below.
 The CMC says that as a result of the suppliers misrepresentation, Mr and Mrs C paid to 
enter an agreement which has caused them to suffer a loss. It says that but for the 
misrepresentation, they wouldnt have entered into the contract at all and wouldnt have paid 
any money to the supplier.
So, I think the point of loss was the point at which the transaction was entered into, which 
was in May 2011. Thats the moment when they accepted any potential benefit under the 
contract, and it was also the moment they accepted the cost under the contract.
The time limit applicable to misrepresentation is six years from the date of loss. So, they 
needed to raise their claim no later than May 2017. As I understand it, they raised a claim in 
December 2017, which is more than six years after the loss occurred.
They may say that they werent aware they could raise concerns about the 
misrepresentation until much later. But the time limits set out for misrepresentation claims 
such as this, start to run from the date of loss, which may fall earlier than the date they 
became aware that something might have gone wrong.  
Ive also considered section 140A (s.140A) of the Consumer Credit Act when looking into 
your complaint. Under s.140A, the courts may make an order under section 140B in 
connection with a credit agreement if it determines that the relationship between the creditor 
and debtor arising out of the agreement is unfair to the debtor due to a number of factors. 
Only a court has the power to decide whether a relationship between the credit and debtor is 
unfair, but it is relevant law we need to take into consideration. 
The Limitation Act still applies for these types of claims. For a s.140A claim, you would have 
six years from the date the related finance agreement ended. From the information I have, 
the finance agreement ended in October 2011 so a s.140A claim needed to be raised no 
later than October 2017. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs C raised their claim in December 
2017, which is more than six years after the finance agreement ended.
Ultimately, it is for the courts to decide whether or not any claim you may have against the 
supplier or the creditor has expired under the Limitation Act.
However, given the above, it seems to me that this misrepresentation claim against the 
supplier and the like claim against Clydesdale more than likely exceeded the relevant time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act. So, it would not be unreasonable for Clydesdale to take 
this into account when considering the s.75 claim against it. 
So, given that the claim now is more than likely time barred under the Limitation Act, I think 
Clydesdales decision not to look into the claim was fair. Breach of Contract and Misrepresentation
For the sake of completeness, I would add that I agree with the conclusions reached by our 
investigator. I have seen no evidence that wouild allow me to conclude that there was 
evidence that would form the basis for a successful s 75 claim. There concerns seem to 
have stemmed from a change in ownership and that the merchant was only able to offer 
limited availability. Neither of these amount to a breach of contract or indicate any 
misrepresentation. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 February 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman