DRN-3729432
The complaint
Mrs B complains that NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid irresponsibly provided her with, and 
increased the limit on, a credit card that she couldnt afford the repayments on.
What happened
NewDay provided Mrs B with a credit card and increased the limit as follows:
Date Limit
Account opening 31/7/2019 £900
First increase 23/2/2020 £2,150
Second increase 23/8/2020 £3,400
 
Mrs B says that at the time of applying for the card she was a single parent with an income 
supplemented by tax credits. She got into increasing difficulties making the payments and 
had to borrow more. The credit limit was increased twice without her asking for it. 
Mrs B complained to NewDay who had passed the debt on to a debt collector and 
complained further about receiving intimidating letters and calls. Mrs B complained about 
another credit card under a different brand name, also provided by NewDay at the same 
time. That is the subject of a separate complaint, although the payments due under that card 
were part of Mrs Bs overall credit commitments, and thus part of the affordability 
assessment for this card.
NewDay said that it was satisfied that it had performed adequate checks before issuing the 
card and increasing the credit limit. It said that the card was issued and the credit limit 
increased appropriately.
On referral to the Financial Ombudsman our investigator said that although the card itself 
was issued appropriately, NewDay shouldnt have increased the credit limit on either 
occasion. She didnt think it had carried out enough checks before increasing Mrs Bs limit 
substantially- and that increasing her access to credit was likely to increase her overall 
indebtedness.
NewDay hasnt responded, so the matter has been passed to me for further consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Considering the relevant rules, guidance, and good industry practice, I think the questions I 
need to consider in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint are:
Did NewDay complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B 
would be able to repay the credit advanced in a sustainable way?
If not, would those checks have shown that Mrs B would have been able to do so?
Bearing in mind the circumstances at the time of each application, was there a point 
where NewDay ought reasonably to have realised it was increasing Mrs Bs 
indebtedness in a way that was unsustainable or otherwise harmful and so shouldnt 
have provided further credit?
application
At the time of the application Mrs B said she had an annual income of £28,000 (about £1800 
net a month).  She had £2,100.00 of unsecured debt and a mortgage (with an outstanding 
balance of £148,000.00). Mrs B had a total of eight accounts and, in terms of adverse credit 
file data, one historic County Court Judgment (CCJ) and six historic defaults. However there 
were no other adverse indicators. NewDay performed a credit check and verified Mrs Bs 
income and assessed her living expenses. 
I think the checks performed, given the level of credit, were appropriate and that the 
necessary payments would have been affordable. I think NewDay made a fair lending 
decision in respect of the issuing of the card.
first increase
This was provided by NewDay without an application from Mrs B, and only seven months 
after the card was issued. The increase was from £900 to £2,150, more than doubling the 
limit. At the same time it had also increased the limit on Mrs Bs other credit card with it. She 
had reached the previous limit, and gone over that limit twice, in the months leading up to 
the increase in limit. Her level of outstanding debt had also increased to £12,200. Her 
borrowing other than on credit/store cards had risen from £424.00 to £9,310 in 
October 2019, which appeared to show a new loan had been taken out around this point. In 
addition, the number of active accounts had increased from eight in July 2019 to eleven 
around seven months later.
Since Mrs Bs income hadnt gone (Im not sure if NewDay checked this) I dont think I need 
to carry out any further assessment to find that clearly this amount of extra credit would have 
been unsustainable. She had reached the limit on her card and had gone over it twice and 
had vastly increased her level of indebtedness. I dont think NewDay acted fairly in 
increasing the limit.
second increase
Mrs Bs credit limit was increased by £1,250 to £3,400 again at NewDays instigation, just six 
months after the first increase. A similar increase was applied to her other card. Mrs B had 
taken out four new credit accounts between the two limit increases, and her total credit 
commitments had reached £14,000. At this point, she was using 96% of her existing credit 
limits. Whilst she hadnt exceeded the limit, she had only been making minimum payments. 
Again I think these were clear indicators that she would be unable to afford any further 
increase in her limit. I appreciate she could have refused the increase but thats not an easy 
thing to do when she was at that level of indebtedness. There was no indication that her 
income had increased. And again I dont think NewDay made a fair lending decision.communication
Mrs B feels that the communication with her had been intimidating amounting to harassment. 
There are just details of just the one successful call made to Mrs B - I havent seen evidence 
that it was intimidating. Ive considered the correspondence in July and August 2021. These 
were just letters advising firstly that her account was in default and warning what would 
happen if she didnt make payment of the arrears on the account. As this wasnt paid this 
was followed by a letter advising that the full balance of the account was due. Whilst I 
understand that Mrs B was upset by these I dont think they were unduly threatening or 
intimidating. So I wont require NewDay to take any action in that respect.
Putting things right
As I dont think NewDay should have increased Mrs Bs credit limit above £900, I dont think 
its fair for it to charge any interest or charges on any balances which exceeded that limit. 
However, Mrs B has had the benefit of all the money she spent on the account so I think she 
should pay this back. Therefore, NewDay should take the following actions:
Rework the account removing all interest and charges that have been applied to 
balances above £900. 
If the rework results in a credit balance, this should be refunded to Mrs B along with 8% 
simple interest per year* calculated from the date of each overpayment to the date of 
settlement. NewDay should also remove all adverse information recorded after 
23 February 2020 regarding this account from Mrs Bs credit file. 
Or, if after the rework the outstanding balance still exceeds £900, NewDay should 
arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mrs B for the remaining amount. Once Mrs B 
has cleared the outstanding balance, any adverse information recorded after 
23 February 2020 in relation to the account should be removed from their credit file. 
As NewDay has sold the debt to a third party, it should arrange to either buy back the 
debt from the third party or liaise with them to ensure the redress set out above is carried 
out promptly. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires NewDay to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require NewDay Ltd trading as Fluid to provide the remedy set 
out under Putting things right above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman