DRN-3311184
The complaint
Mr G and Miss T complain that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has unfairly said it wont meet 
a claim they made for water damage to their adjoining flats.
What happened
Both parties know whats happened during this complaint, so I wont go into detail. But in
summary:
Mr G and Miss T live in adjoining basement/ground floor flats which were created when a
large building was reconfigured several years ago.
In January 2021 they both discovered water damage in their respective properties, and
made a claim on the buildings policy that covers the whole building.
Covea agreed to look at the claim and sent a contractor to look at the damage. Covea then
said it wouldnt meet the claim because it believes the tanking system meant to keep the
property dry was defective and this has caused the problem.
Mr G and Miss T say no proper investigation was carried out by Coveas representative, and
a survey theyve had done suggests there may be other reasons why the tanking system has
been overwhelmed  not simply that its defective.
When Mr G and Miss T complained, Covea didnt change its stance, so theyve asked us to
look at the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt think Covea had done enough to say it could fairly apply the exclusion
its relied upon and should meet the claim, but not pay to replace the tanking. She also
recommended Covea pay any associated costs Mr G and Miss T had had, and that they pay
Miss T (who has in the main dealt with the claim) £300 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience shes suffered. 
Covea sent no meaningful response to the investigators recommendation, so I issued my 
provisional findings in January. In summary, I too didnt think Covea had done enough to 
show it could avoid meeting this claim by using an exclusion that meant it need not meet a 
claim if the damage had been caused by either inherent defects or general wear and tear.
I reached that conclusion because:
There is no agreement about what caused the problem. Coveas representative only 
carried out a visual survey and said the tanking might be faulty  not that it was. Mr G 
and Miss T had a more extensive survey carried out  and their surveyor thought an 
external drain might have caused the problem. 
The tanking itself is only a few years old  so unlikely to be suffering from wear and 
tear. There have been no problems before this claim.
Covea suggested that Mr G and Miss T claim on any guarantee they might have for 
the tanking  but Mr G and Miss T say they dont have one, so that isnt an option. I 
didnt think Covea could pass off its responsibilities under the insurance policy based 
on this argument, especially when the tanking hasnt been established as the cause 
of the problem.
Taking everything into account I thought Covea should meet the claim, pay any additional 
costs Mr G and Miss T had incurred and pay them £450 compensation for the way it had 
handled the claim - £300 to Miss T as shed had the majority of the contact with Covea, and 
the remainder to Mr G.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea hasnt responded to my provisional decision other than to say it received it. It has 
taken no additional steps to clarify what exactly caused the problem  and so I must 
presume its content to meet the claim as I suggested. 
Mr G and Miss T responded, accepting my provisional findings. 
Given the above I see no reason to change my provisional findings and Im going to uphold 
this complaint.
Putting things right
Mr G and Miss T have pointed out that there might be additional damage caused because of 
the delay and that as any remedy will likely mean removal and replacement of the floor 
(inevitably damaging the tanking) they included that in the quote they sent. They say theyve 
attempted to get further quotes but its taking time because this is a specialist area of work. 
However, from what theyve received so far the costs seem to be comparable across a 
couple of contractors. Mr G and Miss T also want to be sure that any work carried out meets 
the relevant regulations.
Mr G and Miss T want clarification of exactly what work will be carried out, as they think 
otherwise there might be problems getting the work done  and most importantly getting it 
paid for by Covea.
Im afraid I cant give Covea explicit instructions other than to meet the claim as the policy 
specifies, nor can I comment on problems that havent occurred.
I also cant say exactly what work needs to be done, as sometimes the extent of work 
changes as repairs progress. But Covea must return them to the position they were in before 
the claim, which will include repairing the damage caused by the water ingress and replacing 
the tanking if it gets damaged. Covea will also need to repair and re-decorate their 
respective properties as needed. Covea needs to provide lasting repairs, so its reasonable 
to expect that any relevant work is carried out in line with current standards and regulations. 
If Mr G and Miss T are responsible for any external pipe that proves to be the cause of the 
problem, then theyd need to get that fixed, as otherwise any repairs might fail.
In order to put things right, Covea should:
Meet the claim subject to any other terms and conditions in the policy. For clarity Covea can not rely on any exclusions that include failed tanking, intrinsic faults or 
wear and tear. 
Covea can choose how to settle the claim. That means it can carry out the work 
itself, or give Mr G and Miss T a cash settlement. If Covea only offers a cash 
settlement, then that figure must be based on reasonable quotes provided by Mr G 
and Miss T. If Mr G and Miss T dont want Covea to carry out the work, then Covea 
can base a cash settlement on the costs it would have incurred, rather than Mr G and 
Miss Ts quotes. In either case Covea will likely want to survey the damage to cost 
the repairs. I expect Covea to handle this claim promptly given the delays its already 
caused.
Covea must pay Mr G and Miss T any additional costs theyve suffered  such as 
storage or rent, etc., up to the point repairs are completed or a cash settlement paid. 
Mr G and Miss T will need to provide evidence to support these costs.
Mr G and Miss T want this claim to be paid as a joint claim, rather than two separate 
claims. Id expect Covea to accommodate that request if at possible given they are 
claiming under the same policy and are both listed on the paperwork.
Covea should pay Mr G £150 and Miss T £300 to compensate them for the way its 
handled the claim.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Covea Insurance plc to meet the 
claim as outlined above. It must also pay Mr G and Miss T the compensation outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Miss T 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman