DRN-1571775
The complaint
This complaint is about an unsuccessful mortgage application Miss S and Mr V made to 
Virgin Money plc. Virgin declined the application because it wasnt satisfied Mr V earned the 
amount hed stated. They think the decision to refuse the mortgage was wrong and would 
like their valuation fee refunded.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint is about the exercise by a lender of its commercial judgment my role is to 
decide whether that judgement has been exercised fairly and reasonably; it isnt to substitute 
my own judgement for that of the lender. So Im not going to tell Virgin it should have agreed 
the mortgage for Miss S and Mr V. 
That in turn means I wont be assessing any compensation they might be due by reference 
to any differences in cost between the aborted application with Virgin and the mortgage they 
did take out instead. This is solely about the valuation fee Miss S and Mr V paid to Virgin. I 
agree that the fee was clearly identified as being non-refundable, but overriding that is 
whether its fair of Virgin to stand on the non-refundable status. In all the circumstances, I 
dont find that it is.
I might have taken a different view if there was any suggestion that Mr V was suspected of 
having overstated his income. But theres nothing in the evidence that would cause me to 
think that, or to believe Virgin thought hed done so. Rather, this was about how Virgin chose 
to interpret the information it had about Mr Vs income.
Mr Vs employer had written to confirm that on the hourly rate it was paying him, Mr V would 
earn over £40,000 a year, and Virgin has said this figure would have supported a decision to 
lend. However, it chose instead to take an average of three payslips which equated to an 
annualised figure of around £34,000, despite knowing there were very good reasons why 
one of these payslips was a lot lower than normal. Virgin did that, knowing Miss S and Mr V 
had paid the valuation fee and would lose out as a result of its decision to interpret the 
income evidence in the way it did. 
For the reasons I gave earlier, Im satisfied Miss S and Mr V acted in good faith when they 
applied for the mortgage; overall fairness now requires Virgin to do the same by refunding 
the valuation fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I direct Virgin 
Money plc to:
pay Miss V and Mr V £275, representing a refund of their valuation fee; and
pay Miss S and Mr V interest on the refund at 8% simple per annum*, from the date the 
fee was paid to the eventual date of settlement.
*If Virgin Money plc considers it necessary to deduct basic rate tax from the interest element 
of my award, it may do so provided it also supplies Miss S and Mr V with the relevant tax 
certificates(s).
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S and Mr V to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman