DRN-2342488
The complaint
Miss T complains that Wesleyan Financial Services Ltd {Wesleyan} mis-sold a decreasing 
term assurance policy to protect her mortgage
What happened
Wesleyan recommended several policies for Miss T at the time she took out a new mortgage 
in 2004. These policies were for income protection, stand-alone critical illness and mortgage 
protection. The mortgage protection policy included life and critical illness cover for the 
amount and term of her new mortgage.
Miss T complained to Wesleyan in 2019 that the mortgage protection policy had been mis-
sold. She felt it was unnecessary because she had taken policies to protect her income if 
she was off work sick, and critical illness cover which she couldve used to pay off the 
mortgage if she suffered a critical illness. She said Wesleyan told her all these policies were 
necessary to ensure her mortgage would be paid if she was unable to work.
In their final response, Wesleyan explained they didnt uphold Miss Ts complaint. They said 
the income protection and stand-alone critical illness policies were recommended to protect 
Miss Ts standard of living. Wesleyan said the mortgage protection policy was put in place to 
pay off the mortgage debt if she died or suffered a named critical illness.
Miss T didnt accept Wesleyans final response and brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into things for Miss T and thought that although the mortgage 
protection policy had life cover, it was suitable to protect her mortgage as it matched the 
term and amount. He thought the income protection and stand-alone critical illness policies, 
in addition to the mortgage protection policy, provided comprehensive cover but didnt mean 
the policy had been mis-sold.
Miss T didnt agree with our investigator and has asked that an ombudsman decide her 
complaint. She says that Wesleyan focused on the fact she was single and that hers was the 
only household income. Miss T says she didnt initiate any discussion about the stand-alone 
critical illness cover and that it seems unreasonable that a healthy person in their twenties 
would raise these sorts of concerns, regardless of their profession.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether the mortgage protection policy with life and critical 
illness was unsuitable for Miss Ts needs at the time. For much the same reason as the 
investigator, I consider that the mortgage protection policy wasnt unsuitable, and I will now 
explain why.
Wesleyan did recommend income protection and took into account Miss T would receive 
income from her employer for up to 10 months. Miss T would receive a monthly income after 
52 weeks that would increase by 5% per annum. Wesleyan also recommended a stand-
alone critical illness policy to provide a lump sum of £130,000 to protect her lifestyle. Ive 
noted Miss Ts comments that she was single and there was only her income coming in to 
the household, so I wouldve expected Wesleyan to consider this when advising Miss T and I 
m satisfied they did. I also feel Wesleyan considered the impact on Miss Ts lifestyle if she 
suffered a critical illness, which again is something we would expect a financial adviser to 
consider.
In addition to this, Wesleyan recommended a mortgage protection policy with critical illness 
cover to specifically protect Miss Ts new mortgage. Miss T considers this policy was 
unnecessary because Wesleyan had already recommended enough income protection and 
critical illness for her needs. Miss T also felt that the life cover element of this plan wasnt 
required as she was single, and her property could be sold to pay off the mortgage if she 
died. 
Ive considered whether the income protection and stand-alone critical illness policies made 
the recommendation of the mortgage protection policy unnecessary. I dont consider they do. 
The income protection policy would provide long-term protection if Miss T was unable to 
work, but it wouldnt pay-off the mortgage. The stand-alone critical illness policy would 
provide a lump-sum that would help Miss T adapt her property or support a change in her 
lifestyle if she suffered a critical illness. This policy wasnt particularly designed to provide a 
lump-sum to pay-off the mortgage. It was a whole of life policy in which the amount of cover 
could be increased or decreased at future reviews and is not normally considered suitable to 
be used to pay-off a mortgage debt because of this. This would leave Miss T with the 
mortgage debt if she died or she suffered a critical illness during the term. 
I appreciate that Miss T says she wouldve used the stand-alone critical illness policy to pay-
off her mortgage if she suffered a critical illness, but in the early years this would have taken 
a significant amount from the £130,000 benefit. This may have had an impact on Miss Ts 
lifestyle, therefore I dont think its unreasonable for Wesleyan to recommend a mortgage 
protection policy with critical illness cover to protect Miss T against this happening.
In respect of the life cover attached to the mortgage protection policy, Miss T says that if she 
had died the property wouldve been sold and the mortgage cleared. However, its not 
unusual for policies like this to include life cover as well as critical illness cover. The monthly 
premiums are likely to be cheaper with a combined plan than if there were two separate 
policies. So, I dont consider it was unsuitable that Wesleyan recommended a combined life, 
terminal illness and critical illness mortgage protection policy at the time.
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2021.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman