DRN-2141785
The complaint
Mr R complains that MBNA Limited (MBNA) offered a misleading interest free promotion on 
a credit card account, charged interest he wasnt aware of and failed to advise this despite 
him contacting it to confirm the details. He would like the interest refunded.
What happened
Mr R used a comparison website to check credit card offers and followed the link to MBNAs 
site. He applied online, ticking a declaration box to accept the terms and conditions (T&Cs) 
of the account, which was opened in April 2018. Mr R says there was an interest free period 
for the first 30-months. He says he intended to use the account up to the credit limit and 
make only the minimum payment by direct debit. He planned to clear the balance at the end 
of the interest free period, a strategy hed used previously.
 
Mr R had opted for paperless statements which MBNA sent email reminders to check for 
each month. He says he checked the statement in June/July 2018 and saw no interest was 
being charged. He says he then spent close to the limit of the card but didnt check any other 
statements. He says he called MBNA at least twice, in October 2018 and January 2019, to 
ask when the interest free period ended and when he needed to pay to avoid any interest. 
He says he was advised that this was October 2020. 
Mr R says he was shocked to receive a letter from MBNA in January 2020 warning about 
persistent debt as hed only made minimum payments and had paid more in interest over the 
last 18 months than hed repaid capital.
Mr R called MBNA. He was told that the interest free period which ran to October 2020 only 
applied to transactions made in the first 60 days, so between April and June 2018. As most 
of the transactions were after June 2018, interest was being charged on most of the balance. 
Overall Mr R says hed been charged more than £3,000 in interest. He made a payment to 
reduce the balance a few days later and complained to MBNA.
Mr R said it wasnt clear that the interest free period only applied to transactions made in the 
first 60 days. He said MBNA hadnt advised him interest was being charged when hed 
called. He said it should have sent the persistent debt communication sooner and alerted 
him that he hadnt logged in to check his account for some time. 
MBNA didnt uphold the complaint. It said the terms of promotional offer on the interest rate 
was clear on the application, the covering letter enclosing the card and on the monthly 
statements. It said when Mr R called in January 2019 (the October 2018 call couldnt be 
located) the call handler had provided factual information in response to Mr Rs questions 
about the end of the promotional period. 
MBNA said the call handler would expect Mr R to be aware of his balances from the 
statements sent. It said the persistent debt letter was issued based on the requirement to 
monitor the account over an 18-month period, so couldnt have been sent any earlier. It said 
it had sent monthly email reminders about the latest statement and felt this was an adequate 
prompt for customers to log-in and check details. MBNA did refund three months interest 
payments as a gesture of goodwill. 
Mr R referred his complaint to our service and questioned the impact on his credit score. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the details of the promotional offer were 
clear in the terms and conditions (T&Cs), on the application and on the letter enclosing the 
card. They were also detailed on the monthly statements, which after June 2018 showed 
interest being charged each month. 
Our investigator said MBNAs call handler had answered the specific questions asked by Mr 
R. He said there was no requirement in the T&Cs for MBNA to prompt customers to log-in if 
they hadnt. He said the rules relating to persistent debt required businesses to adhere to 
them by September 2018 and the account monitoring period was 18 months. 
Mr R disagreed. He said the offer on the comparison site was misleading as similar offers 
didnt have the 60-day transaction limit.  He said reference to the 60 days wasnt clear on 
MBNAs online application as it was on the second of three pages in the T&Cs. He said the 
call handler hadnt answered his question correctly because hed asked about any interest. 
He was surprised that the persistent debt monitoring period was as long 18 months, which 
could disadvantage those in debt or whod missed crucial features like himself. He said 
MBNA and others should change processes to avoid this.
As Mr R doesnt agree it has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding the complaint.
Terms of the Account
I understand Mr Rs frustration but dont think MBNA has made any error here or treated Mr 
R unreasonably. Neither Mr R or MBNA have provided any evidence to show how the offer 
was promoted. But from what both have said it was from a third party comparison website. 
So, in coming to my decision Ive focused on the information I can see was sent to Mr R.
I dont think the MBNA application Mr R completed or the documents sent to him are 
misleading. They do say the interest free period related only to transactions made in the first 
60 days. Whilst the 60-day limit isnt given the same prominence as the 30-month period, Mr 
R confirmed hed read and agreed to the T&Cs when applying. These details were repeated 
on the letter enclosing the card itself. 
The June 2018 statement (presumably the one Mr R checked, being the only one not 
showing interest) also confirmed that the interest free offer applied only to transactions made 
in the first 60 days. Its unfortunate that Mr R didnt check subsequent statements. Or notice 
that the minimum payments being taken on the direct debit were somewhat larger than they 
would have been had there been no interest at all. But I cant say the information provided 
by MBNA about the offer was unclear or inadequate. And I think a monthly email reminder 
about the latest statement being available is a reasonable way for MBNA to remind 
customers to check their accounts. 
Having listened to the call I have some sympathy for Mr R, he did ask about any interest. 
But this was in relation to a specific query about the interest free promotional period and he received a specific answer to it. I dont think the answer given was unreasonable especially 
as Mr R did have ready access to the details by logging in to his MBNA account.
Mr R has queried the 18-month review period relating to persistent debt notification. This 
timeframe is set out in the regulations banks are required to follow, rather than being 
MBNAs own process. It does appear to have followed these requirements by contacting Mr 
R when it did. 
Our role is that of an independent dispute resolution service, so we cant tell a business to 
change its procedures as we dont have a regulatory role. But we can award redress if 
procedures result in unfair outcomes in individual circumstances. But I dont think that is the 
case here. I think the terms of the offer were clearly outlined and accepted by Mr R and 
repeated before the card could be used. The monthly statements also made it clear interest 
was being charged and MBNA did send reminders that the statements were available to 
view. 
Impact on Credit Score
Mr R has provided copies of his credit reports from the period but hasnt been able to 
provide details of his monthly credit scores themselves and this isnt information our service 
can access. So, it isnt clear whether this was negatively impacted. Its worth saying that 
these scores are something that the credit reference agencies calculate themselves and can 
be influenced by a number of factors. Whats important here is that I can see that the reports 
made by MBNA to credit reference agencies appear to be both routine and accurate. They 
dont show any missed or late payments which would be considered adverse. 
Mr R never intended to make anything more than the minimum payment due on the account 
in any case. So, the actual impact of interest being applied was that his average account 
balance was a little higher than it would have been otherwise, and when viewed in the 
overall context of Mr Rs other financial arrangements 
I can also see that Mr R was also able to arrange promotional offer deals with other credit 
card providers during the period. This suggests any negative impact on his credit score 
wasnt that significant although it obviously isnt clear without a sight of the scores. But as I 
dont think MBNA has made any error and what Ive seen shows that the information 
recorded has been accurate it wouldnt be reasonable to hold it responsible even if there had 
been a negative impact on Mr Rs credit score.  
I think MBNAs gesture of goodwill, in refunding three months interest payments, was very 
fair in the circumstances and it hasnt treated Mr R unreasonably, so I wont be asking it to 
do any more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I that I do not uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 January 2021.
 
Nigel Bracken
Ombudsman