DRN-3036384
The complaint
Mr E said he owed some money on a credit card, but when he went to a branch of HSBC UK
Bank Plc to pay it off, he was told it had been written off. Mr E says he doesnt have the
money now, but hes being chased to pay this debt. He doesnt think he should have to pay.
What happened
Mr E was living overseas from early 2015. Mr E said that he got statements to his overseas
address, but no correspondence about his credit card.
Mr E said hed gone into a branch of HSBC in July or August 2016 to pay off his outstanding
credit card debt, of a little under £10,000. But he said he was told then that the debt had
been written off. Mr E said that he had an accident after this, and the money was used to
pay medical bills, so he didnt have the money any more.
Mr E said hed since found out that, sometime in mid-2016, HSBC went back on its word and
sold his debt to a third party. Mr E said that hed had no contact from this third party until
summer 2020, when this third party wrote to his UK address and asked him to pay the debt.
Mr E said that given what had happened, he didnt think he should have to pay.
Mr E then wrote again to say that he thought that there had been a mix-up, with HSBC
writing to him under a different name. He has shown us that he has changed his name. Mr E
thought that HSBC may have written off his debt, under one name, and then sold the debt
under a different name.
Mr E also wrote to say that HSBC had referred to the credit card account using two different
numbers, so again, he thought that HSBC must have written off the debt under one number,
and reinstated it under another.
Mr E said that this debt had affected his application to remortgage, and had stopped him
from moving house. So he said that he wanted HSBC to pay sizeable compensation.
HSBC said it could find nothing to suggest it had cancelled Mr Es debt. It told us that it
doesnt cancel debts of this size. It showed us letters it had sent to Mr E, asking for payment.
HSBC has said to Mr E that its sorry if any communication in branch was unclear, but it had
already asked a third party to help it recover Mr Es debt in July 2016. Its since shown us it
has actually sold this debt to a third party, in 2017. HSBC wouldnt waive this debt now.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. He said that it would be very
unusual for HSBC to cancel a credit card debt of this size. He said that whatever was said
back in 2016 when Mr E was in the branch, it was likely that the staff just meant that the debt
was no longer being pursued by HSBC, not that Mr E didnt have to pay. And if Mr E had
understood he didnt need to pay, that didnt mean HSBC needed to waive this debt now.
Our investigator looked at the confusion around Mr Es name, and said he was satisfied the
two names used in correspondence about the debt were the same person, and both names
had been used by Mr E. So he thought if Mr E had received post sent to his old name, he
should have realised this was for him.
Our investigator said that although two account numbers had been used to refer to this
account, that was just because one was the number on the card, the other was the number
for the account. So he couldnt agree with Mr E that a balance outstanding was written off on
one account number, or under one name, and then reinstated under a different account
number, or with a different name.
Our investigator said he was satisfied that HSBC had acted fairly in closing Mr Es account,
reporting its performance to the credit reference agencies and transferring any outstanding
debt to a third party. He said there was no dispute that Mr Es account fell into serious
arrears, so HSBC did have the right to close the account and demand full payment of any
amounts outstanding.
Our investigator said that in these circumstances HSBC is also allowed to sell the debt on to
a third party. And he thought that Mr E had been warned that this could happen, when HSBC
sent Mr E a final demand. Even if Mr E didnt get the final demand letter of 3 April 2015, it
was sent to the right address. And Mr E had spoken to HSBC only a couple of weeks before
that, on 13 May 2015, so he knew the status of his account, and was aware of the arrears.
Our investigator said he understood what Mr E had said about going into the branch to pay
off the debt, but HSBC had said a year earlier that it may sell this debt to a third party.
Our investigator didnt think HSBC had to do any more.
Mr E didnt agree, he said that our investigators summary and view were both biased. He
said that the statement that his debt was written off was made in front of a witness, although
he didnt name this witness or offer any statement from them. He wanted to know why we
hadnt got a statement from the HSBC staff member who told him the debt was written off.
Mr E said he didnt get any correspondence about his debt. But HSBC did write to him at his
overseas address, sending him statements there. He said hed received no correspondence
about the debt from any third party until summer 2020, and HSBC had acknowledged that it
had sold this debt without informing him first. Mr E said if HSBC hadnt written to him about
this, then it should be prevented from enforcing the debt.
Mr E said that HSBC knew about his change of name, but it later reverted to using his old
name. And he repeated that it wasnt using his overseas address for credit card
correspondence.
Mr E said that wed ignored two HSBC letters which confirmed the debt had been written off,
and hadnt got a statement from a senior member of staff. Mr E said HSBC had been
negligent, which was another reason why he didnt need to pay. He felt that the statement he
has told us HSBC made, when he was in the branch, would be a negligent mistake, so
HSBC would be liable because of this.
Mr E said that it defied logic for a credit card account to have a separate number to the card
number.
Mr E said that if hed been contacted about the debt, he would have explained the arrears
had built up because he couldnt check statements, as they werent being sent to him. He
stressed that he had been paying his mortgage at the same time as this credit card debt was
falling into arrears. And that, although the address HSBC wrote to about his credit card was
the one on his mortgage, HSBC knew he wasnt living there at the time, from his card usage.Mr E denied discussing his credit card with HSBC in early 2015.
Because no agreement was reached, this case was passed to me for a final decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did not propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Before I begin, I ought to stress that our service can only look into a complaint if Mr E 
has previously raised that point with HSBC, then brought it to our service. The 
complaint Mr E raised with HSBC was in two parts 
-that he was now being asked to pay this debt by a third party HSBC had sold 
the debt to, although HSBC told him in branch in 2016 that it had written off 
the debt.
-that he was also told during this 2016 branch visit that HSBC would forward 
post to him at his overseas address, but it didnt send him post after that.
That is the complaint that HSBC has previously had the opportunity to consider, and 
the only complaint I can address here.
I cannot consider the additional points that Mr E has sought to include now, such as 
why the arrears on his card built up, or that the account was closed without reference 
to him, or that the debt was sold without prior notice, or that his card account 
shouldnt have two numbers, or that HSBC wrongly reverted to using his old name. 
Thats because our service isnt able to consider points that HSBC hasnt already had 
a chance to respond to.
Ill look at Mr Es complaint about his address first. Mr E said that HSBC told him it 
would forward post to him overseas, during his branch visit in July or August 2016. 
He said he was already living overseas at the time, but after this visit he still didnt 
receive post to his new address for this card.
Mr E has told us that he did receive other post from HSBC, including for his 
mortgage, but nothing for the card.
I can see that the final demand for Mr Es credit card debt was sent to his UK 
address on 4 April 2015. HSBC says it did then start to use his overseas address, 
because it sent correspondence to that address, starting 14 April 2015. But it 
appears that HSBC was unsure if Mr E was receiving this correspondence, because 
it wrote again to his UK address in July 2016, saying it had been having difficulty 
contacting him about his accounts, and asking him to get in touch.
HSBC says it has notes from October 2016 asking it to change Mr Es contact details 
back to a UK address, although different from his previous residence.
Mr E has told us he was getting information about his mortgage and other HSBC
correspondence while he was overseas. But he said he didnt get information about 
his credit card. Hes complained that this still didnt change, after he had been into 
the HSBC branch in July or August 2016, and asked HSBC to send further post to 
him overseas.
Mr Es credit card account had been closed for just over a year, by the time that Mr E 
has told us he went into the branch. HSBC says it cant see if it sent any correspondence to Mr E after this, because of the passage of time. But it doesnt 
seem likely that HSBC would be sending statements or other regular account 
correspondence to Mr E after this date. I think thats most likely to be why Mr E didnt 
get further correspondence about his credit card whilst he was overseas. So I dont 
think Mr Es complaint on this point should be upheld.
HSBC has told us that Mr Es card debt wasnt sold to a third party until early 2017. 
And by this time Mr E had apparently asked HSBC to start using a UK address again.
Now Ill turn to what Mr E says he was told about this debt. Mr E has always said that 
a member of HSBC staff told him his debt was written off. And he has assumed 
that, if he was told that his debt had been written off then this means that he has no 
further responsibility for paying any part of this debt.
I dont know if HSBCs staff member did say to Mr E that his debt had been written 
off. I dont think it would be helpful now to ask this staff member, as they are unlikely 
to have a clear and specific recollection of a single interaction around five years ago.
But even if this was said to Mr E, I wouldnt assume that this meant HSBC had to 
cancel this debt now.
Firstly, I would have to be able to see that Mr E had relied on what HSBC told him. I 
know Mr E has told us he doesnt have the money now, but he said thats because 
he had an accident, and medical bills used up his savings. Its not because Mr E 
relied on what HSBC said, and chose to spend this money elsewhere.
And Id have to be able to say that what was said was wrong, as well as that it was
reasonable for Mr E to rely on this. I dont think I could do that either, and thats 
because this term just doesnt have one agreed meaning. In my experience, banks 
use the term written off in different ways. Some will use it to mean a debt never has 
to be paid by anyone. Others will use it in the accounting sense, so it simply means 
that the bank is no longer expecting that it will receive the full amount in repayment, 
and has made the relevant accounting adjustment.
So even if Mr E could show that this was exactly the statement made to him in 2016 
by an HSBC staff member, that his debt had been written off, I dont think that 
would mean HSBC has to take steps now to prevent the third party who has bought 
this debt from enforcing it. 
I have seen no other evidence to suggest to me that HSBC didnt intend Mr E to have 
to pay any part of this debt. And HSBC has been clear that it doesnt cancel debts of 
this size.
Again, that fits with what I would expect, and my previous experience. So I dont think 
that was ever HSBCs intention.
I dont think that HSBC has to cancel this debt now.
I know Mr E will be disappointed, but I dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both parties replied. 
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC simply said it had nothing further to add. 
Mr E said he felt HSBC should be estopped from enforcing this debt, because, if it was its 
intention not to write off this debt, then it could have sent him an electronic encrypted 
message to say so. He sent us evidence that HSBC is able to send messages like this 
promptly when he misses a mortgage payment. 
Mr E said that this late payment notification from HSBC was wrong, and that showed HSBC 
does make mistakes. 
He said similarly, when a senior HSBC bank official says that a debt is written off, then 
HSBC shouldnt be allowed to take that back. Mr E didnt agree with me that there was no 
one agreed meaning of this term, he thought it only meant the debt was unenforceable. 
Mr E said that HSBC could always have taken money from his other account to make the 
payment, and he wanted me to consider that it failed to do so.
Mr E said that I had been remiss in not considering that he was unable to audit his credit 
card account while he was away from home. Mr E said he felt deprived of legal rights, and I 
hadnt been fair and even-handed. 
Mr E also said that Id made a mistake in what Id said about whether hed spent the money 
allocated to repay the credit card on medical bills. I said it didnt look as if he had relied on 
HSBCs statement when he spent this money, but Mr E said that the distinction was hollow 
and void as the end result is the same. He said this was all the after effect of HSBCs 
pronouncement to write-off the debt. He said he had relied on that.
And Mr E also said that I wasnt correct to say that HSBC hadnt written off large sums. Mr E 
mentioned news items when large sums had been written off, and he said that the reality is 
that HSBC along with other banks constantly write off bad credit card debts with 
bankruptcy and company liquidation running into millions if not billions. He wanted to know 
why he was treated differently. 
Finally, Mr E wanted me to look at the big picture, he said that there was a litany of failures 
on the part of HSBC over a lengthy period of time. He said that this was contributory 
negligence, and it was indefensible, as was the right to audit the credit card transactions. He 
quoted a famous legal saying about estoppel, that it is a shield not a sword. He asked me to 
follow this, and uphold his complaint.
I think I should start my response to what Mr E has said, by setting out again that Im only 
allowed to consider the complaint that Mr E has already asked HSBC to respond to. The 
complaint Mr E raised with HSBC was in two parts 
-that he was now being asked to pay this debt by a third party HSBC had sold 
the debt to, although HSBC told him in branch in 2016 that it had written off 
the debt.
-that he was also told during this 2016 branch visit that HSBC would forward 
post to him at his overseas address, but it didnt send him post after that.
So I cant consider what Mr E says about how this debt built up, and in particular that he 
didnt have the opportunity to check his credit card transactions while he was overseas, or 
that HSBC couldve taken money from a different account to pay his card. Thats simply because those points werent part of the complaint that Mr E asked HSBC to look into, then 
referred to us. 
I know that Mr E disagrees with me about the meaning of written off. But I still think that it 
has the meanings I set out in my provisional decision. So I dont think that HSBC ever made 
a clear statement to Mr E that it intended to cancel his debt, or that it had done so.
Mr E said that HSBC shouldve sent him an electronic message on his account if it didnt 
intend that this debt would become unenforceable. But I havent been able to see that HSBC 
did ever state clearly to Mr E that it did intend to cancel his debt, or that it had already done 
so. In other words, I dont think HSBC had said one thing, then later changed its mind about 
this. And because of that, I dont think HSBC had to tell Mr E that it had changed its mind. 
Mr E also said that I was wrong to say he hadnt relied on HSBCs word, when he spent 
money on medical bills. But what I had understood from Mr E was that this wasnt an 
optional expense. He had to pay these bills. So it still seems most likely that he didnt spend 
this money elsewhere because he thought HSBC didnt want him to pay his card back. He 
spent this money because he had an accident, and needed to cover the financial costs of his 
medical care overseas. 
Mr E also wanted to know why he was treated differently to companies or people who are in 
bankruptcy and company liquidation. I think that is simply because Mr E isnt in bankruptcy. 
Thats a legal process through which people who cant repay debts can seek relief from 
some or all of their debts. And as far as I am aware, Mr E hasnt been through that legal 
process. So I dont think that HSBC has to treat him the same as someone who has. 
Mr E wanted me to look at the big picture. I dont think Im able to use this argument to 
circumvent the rules of our service, which restricts me to considering what Mr E has 
complained to HSBC about. But, within the constraints of the points I am able to consider 
here, I havent seen anything which makes me think that it was unreasonable or unfair for 
HSBC to have sold this debt, rather than cancel it. I do accept, as Mr E has stressed, that 
HSBC does sometimes make mistakes. But I havent been able to see that it made a 
mistake here.
I know Mr E will be disappointed, but I havent changed my mind. I still dont think his 
complaint should be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman