DRN-3835976
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC was unfair to apply an early repayment 
charge (ERC) when they repaid their mortgage. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs M had a mortgage with Barclays. They took out a one-year fixed interest rate 
product in early 2021. Mr and Mrs M repaid the mortgage during the product term and 
Barclays applied an ERC. 
Mr and Mrs M say this is unfair. They say they wouldnt have had to pay the ERC if theyd 
repaid the mortgage three weeks later. They say they were told when they took out the 
product that the ERC would greatly reduce over the product term. When they repaid the 
mortgage they were shocked to discover theyd still be charged over £2,000.
Our investigator said Barclays applied the ERC in accordance with the mortgage terms and 
conditions. There was no evidence it had given Mr and Mrs M incorrect information. Mr and 
Mrs M didnt agree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M took out a new interest rate product in early 2021. The terms of the product 
were set out in the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs M in February 2021. The product 
expired at the end of May 2022. It included an ERC, payable until 31 May 2022. The 
mortgage offer said the basis of the charge was 2% of the amount repaid. It set out how 
much this would be if the mortgage was repaid between March 2021 and 31 May 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M repaid the mortgage on 11 April 2022. Barclays applied the ERC, as it was 
entitled to do under the mortgage terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs M say this is unfair, 
given they could have repaid the mortgage without incurring the ERC a few weeks later. 
They say they were misled about the terms of the ERC. And they have children and 
increased living costs to meet.
I should explain here that where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I 
reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances. 
Barclays says Mr and Mrs M applied for the new product online. Mr M says he spoke to 
Barclays and was given incorrect information about the ERC. Barclays says it doesnt have a 
record of a phone call with Mr and Mrs M at about that time. The mortgage offer said 
Barclays hadnt recommended the mortgage, and Mr and Mrs M had to make their own 
choice whether to accept it. 
I dont think in the circumstances I can fairly find that Mr M was given incorrect information 
by Barclays, that the ERC would reduce over the product term. And I must take into account 
that Mr and Mrs M were given correct information about the ERC in the mortgage offer.
The cover letter asked Mr and Mrs M to read and understand the mortgage offer and contact 
Barclays if there was anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M say they were aware of the ERC. They 
say they took out a one-year product as they were looking to move to a larger property. In 
the circumstances, I think it would have been reasonable for them to check the ERC set out 
in the mortgage offer was as they expected, and contact Barclays if not. 
Mr M called Barclays in October 2021 to check the amount of the ERC. Barclays told him the 
ERC was a percentage of the balance, and this would be about £2,000. Mr M commented 
that meant it wouldnt reduce much over the next few months. Mr M said theyd been looking 
at rates offered by other lenders. He asked about the possibility of porting and what rates 
Barclays was offering. Barclays said he could look at rates and apply for an agreement in 
principle on-line. 
Mr and Mrs M took advice from a broker and applied for a mortgage with another lender. 
I can understand Mr and Mrs Ms frustration that they could have avoided having to pay an 
ERC by repaying the mortgage a few weeks later. But I dont think this was due to an error 
by Barclays. 
Based on the available evidence, I dont think Barclays misled Mr and Mrs M about the ERC 
when they took out the product. The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage offer. And 
Barclays gave Mr M correct information when he called to ask about the ERC. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to require Barclays to refund the 
ERC.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman