DRN-2169004
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Barclays Bank UK Plc wont refund a disputed bank transfer 
made from their current account.
Background
On 10 June 2020, a bank transfer of £2,000 was made from Mr and Mrs Cs current account, 
using mobile banking. The table below provides a timeline relevant to this complaint:
Date Time Method Details
10 June 2020 13:36 Mobile banking Mr Cs mobile banking is successfully 
accessed using fingerprint technology 
(touch ID) 
10 June 2020 13:41 Mobile banking While logged on, a payment is initiated 
to a named individual, but not 
completed
10 June 2020 13:58 Phone call Mr C makes or receives a call to/from 
his mobile to his father
10 June 2020 Around 14:00 - Mr C says his phone was hacked and 
inaccessible for around 24 hours
10 June 2020 14:03 Mobile banking Mr Cs mobile banking is successfully 
accessed using his passcode
10 June 2020 14:08 Mobile banking While logged on, a payment is 
successfully made to the same named 
individual as the payment initiated at 
13:41.
10 June 2020 19:34 Mobile banking Mrs Cs mobile banking is successfully 
accessed using her passcode
10 June 2020 Time unknown Phone call Mr C logs a fraud claim with Barclays
What Mr and Mrs C have said
Mr and Mrs C said that on 10 June 2020, Mr C was working as a delivery driver and using 
his mobile phone as a sat-nav. At around 14:00, Mr Cs phone screen showed what 
appeared to be a Samsung update and he was unable to use the phone. Theyve said this 
lasted until around 15:00 the following day. Mr C said he didnt get home from work until 
around 20:00, at which point he checked his online banking and discovered £2,000 had 
been transferred from his account. He says he now believes his phone was hacked and that 
the update screen on his phone wasnt genuine. Mr C called Barclays that evening and 
raised a fraud claim.
Mr and Mrs C said that Barclays usually send a text whenever a new payee is set up, but 
that no text was sent on this occasion which stopped them being aware of the transaction 
sooner. Theyve said theyd never transfer money to someone they dont know. Mr and Mrs 
C have provided correspondence between them and Samsung, as evidence that the update 
screen on Mr Cs phone wasnt genuine. Theyve also provided call and data usage 
evidence from Mr Cs phone provider to evidence that Mr C was not using data at the time of 
the online transfer.
What Barclays has said
Barclays rejected Mr and Mrs Cs claim, stating that there was no evidence of attempt by a 
third party to compromise, or otherwise impersonate Mr and Mrs C. Barclays said that in 
order to set up a new payee, details from Mr Cs card wouldve been needed for verification. 
Mr C had confirmed that his phone and card were in his possession, that no one knew his 
passcode and that he hadnt written it down anywhere. Therefore, Barclays is holding Mr and 
Mrs C liable for the transaction. 
Barclays also said that while a passcode had been used to login to Mr Cs mobile banking to 
make the disputed transaction, there had been a payment attempted around half an hour 
earlier to the same payee name using touch ID.
Barclays acknowledges that it doesnt appear a SMS was sent to Mr and Mrs C following the 
transaction, but that it doesnt consider this changes the outcome of the claim as it considers 
Mr and Mrs C liable for making it.
As Barclays was unable to resolve Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, Mr and Mrs C referred the 
complaint to our service.
An investigator considered everything Mr and Mrs C had told us, as well as everything 
Barclays provided. The investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think it was 
plausible that a third party would be able to make the payment, as Mr C hadnt shared his 
card or banking details with any third parties. She also didnt think the data usage provided 
by Mr Cs phone provider accurately represented the times he used his data, based on other 
banking logins that Mr C doesnt dispute. She also said that while Samsung had confirmed 
the update screenshot provided wasnt genuine, it hadnt confirmed this took place on Mr Cs 
phone.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators opinion. Mr C said he now recalls he keeps 
all his banking and card details on his phone notepad which a hacker couldve accessed. Mr 
and Mrs C also want an explanation as to why they were not contacted by Barclays following 
the transfer. As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators opinion, the complaint has 
been referred to me for a final decision.
My further investigation
I asked Mr C during my investigation of this complaint whether he recalls logging onto his 
mobile banking via touch ID at 13:36. He said it couldve been him, as he usually uses this 
more secure method to login and check his balance and acknowledged the only way for a 
third party to access his mobile banking would be to use his passcode. I explained that a 
payment was initiated (but not completed) at this time to the same named payee as the 
payment he disputes. Mr C said he would only make smaller payments to people he knows. 
He also wanted an explanation for why this earlier payment wasnt successful.
I also asked if the call made at 13:58 was him. He confirmed it was, and that this was when 
his phone was still functioning. Mr C also said that as he needed a sat-nav to complete his 
job, he returned home when his phone stopped working and used his wifes phone or a 
spare phone to finish working.
Mr C has said that between 13:00 and 14:24 he was driving and has provided Google Maps 
journey listings from 10 June 2020 as evidence.My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the investigator that its 
reasonable for Barclays to hold Mr and Mrs C liable for the transaction. Ill explain why.
The relevant regulations here are the Payment Service Regulations 2017 which detail the 
liability for transactions that take place on a consumer's account. Barclays can normally hold 
Mr and Mrs C liable for transactions on their account that theyve authorised. Mr and Mrs C 
have said they didnt authorise the transfer in question, so I need to consider whether 
Barclays acted fairly and reasonably by not refunding it. Im making a finding on whether I 
think Mr and/or Mrs C more likely than not authorised the transaction themselves.
Barclays has provided evidence to show that Mr Cs mobile banking was accessed using his 
banking passcode to make the disputed transaction. Barclays has said that as this was a 
new payee being set up, details from Mr Cs debit card wouldve also been entered for 
authentication. But all that shows is that this payment was properly authenticated and that 
isnt enough on its own for Barclays to hold Mr and Mrs C liable. I also need to consider 
whether they consented to the transaction.
As I cant know for certain what happened when this transfer was made, I need to consider 
the evidence on the balance of probabilities and decide whether its more likely than not that 
Mr and Mrs C consented to it. From what Ive seen, I think its more likely than not that Mr 
and Mrs C did consent to the disputed transaction. Therefore, I dont think its unreasonable 
for Barclays to hold Mr and Mrs C liable for it.
Mr C has said that he lost access to his phone at around 14:00. When asked whether it was 
him that logged onto his mobile banking at 13:36 using touch ID, hes said that it might have 
been. I also think its likely that it was Mr C that logged on at this time based on his mobile 
banking being accessed using fingerprint technology. I think its highly unlikely a hacker 
would be able to access his banking app in this way, and if they had, why they wouldnt have 
made transfers at this time, rather than wait for around another half hour. While no transfer 
was made at this time, I can see that one was initiated and that a payees name was 
entered. This name is the same as that entered at 14:08 in the transaction Mr and Mrs C are 
disputing. As I think it was Mr C that logged on at 13:36, this means he knew the name of 
the payee at this time for the transaction hes disputing. Thats inconsistent with Mr Cs view 
that this payment was carried out by a hacker, and not someone known to him. 
Mr C has asked for an explanation as to why the transaction didnt go through at this time. 
Unfortunately, this information isnt available from the audit records Barclays holds  
Barclays has said it could be for a number of reasons, such as a loss of connection, or 
incorrect account details entered. I dont consider this particularly suspicious - as I can see 
from Mr Cs banking records that there are other undisputed payments, in some cases to 
regularly used payees, that have also not gone through. From Barclays audit records, it 
appears a payment amount was also never entered. I cant know for certain, but its possible 
the payment was simply abandoned before being completed.
In addition, a call was made or received from Mr Cs mobile number at 13:58 that Mr C 
confirms was him when his phone was still fully functioning. This also indicates he had 
control of his phone up until this point and that any phone use prior to this time was Mr C 
and not a hacker. Mr C has provided evidence from Samsung confirming, in general terms, that the screenshot 
he provided them with is not a genuine update. However, Samsung hasnt been able to 
confirm that this update screen was ever on Mr Cs phone, or provide anything to suggest 
that his phone was hacked. Mr C has also provided a bill from his phone provider that shows 
he wasnt using his internet data when the transaction took place  but I dont think this bill 
accurately reflects all periods of data use. I say this because I can see there are other 
undisputed mobile banking payments made by Mr C where login times arent reflected in his 
phone bill. As an example, Mr C made a transfer through mobile banking on 26 May 2020 at 
14:24 to a family member, but his internet banking only indicates use at 10:47 and 21:20  
so I dont think this alone indicates that Mr Cs phone was hacked.
Mr C has also provided me with several Google Maps screenshots, which he says show he 
was driving at the time of the disputed transaction. The screenshots show times and 
addresses from 10 June 2020. From reviewing the Google Maps app, I can see the app 
records locations visited on a given day, but its functions also allow this data to be amended. 
As a result, Im unable to place as much weight on this evidence and its not enough to 
persuade me that Mr and Mrs C didnt consent to this transaction.
The transaction that Mr and Mrs C are disputing was for £2,000. Having reviewed Mr and 
Mrs Cs statements from the time, I can see that after the disputed transaction took place, Mr 
and Mrs Cs account was still in credit by over £300.
This is significant because Id typically expect a fraudster to attempt to get maximum benefit 
from any single fraud. Mr Cs mobile banking records suggest no further transfers were 
attempted, despite Mr C stating his phone remained inaccessible for around 24 hours.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs C authorised 
the disputed transaction and it follows that Barclays it entitled to hold them liable for it.
Mr and Mrs C have questioned why Barclays didnt send a SMS to confirm a new payee had 
been setup. I agree this is unusual  and Barclays hasnt been able to confirm why this 
happened. But since Ive found (on balance) that they authorised the transfer and therefore 
were aware of the new payee, this doesnt impact my decision on whether they should be 
held liable for it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to accept or reject my 
decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Kirsty Upton
Ombudsman