DRN-3148931
The complaint
Mr S complains about the amount that hes been charged by ALD Automotive Limited for a 
car that was supplied to him under a hire agreement but which he returned because it wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
What happened
A new car was supplied to Mr S under a hire agreement with ALD Automotive in February 
2020. He made an advance payment and the first hire payment but then agreed a payment 
holiday as a result of the government imposed restrictions in response to the pandemic. He 
says that there were faults with the car and it lost all power whilst being driven in late March 
2020 and he was advised not to drive the car until it was repaired. Mr S says that he didnt 
use the car until it was repaired in mid-May 2020 but the issue reoccurred twice in June 
2020 and in July 2020. 
He complained to ALD Automotive in June 2020 and it agreed that he could return the car so 
the agreement was ended and the car was collected from him in mid-August 2020. ALD 
Automotive says that Mr D told it that hed driven 4,000 miles in the car but the cars mileage 
when it was returned was 6,500. ALD Automotive said that Mr S owed it £1,432.63 but he 
disputed that amount and complained to ALD Automotive. It said that it had agreed to the car 
being rejected but that didnt remove the requirement for Mr S to pay the outstanding rentals 
(and other amounts) but as a goodwill gesture it was prepared to accept payment of 
£1,432.63 to settle the account. Mr S wasnt satisfied with its response so complained to this 
service. 
Our investigator recommended that his complaint should be upheld. He didnt agree that it 
was fair or reasonable for ALD Automotive to charge Mr S both full monthly rentals and for 
usage. He said that it would be fair to charge him for the months that he had the car and, as 
his mileage was under the mileage allowance set out in the agreement, he didnt believe that 
it would be appropriate for ALD Automotive to charge Mr S for mileage usage anyway. He 
recommended that ALD Automotive should: adjust the amount owed by Mr S to £880.43 
(which represented three months usage minus the one monthly payment that Mr S had 
made); deduct from the balance the advance rental of £1,319.44 with interest; and remove 
any adverse information in relation to the agreement. 
ALD Automotive has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It says 
that it looks at the mileage that was done when accepting a rejection. It says that the car was 
returned with a mileage of 6,500 which, at 36p per mile, is £2,340, there were deferred 
payments of £1,759.24 and Mr S had paid £1,759.25 so the amount due from him was 
£2,339.99. It says that it has agreed to honour the mileage of 4,000 that it was given by Mr S 
which reduces the mileage cost to £2,340 and the amount owed by Mr S to £1,439.99 and 
that it has also given a goodwill credit of £326.61. It says that the car had to have been fit for 
purpose to do 6,500 miles and that when a car is rejected after 30 days there will be a cost 
of use taken from any monies paid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for these reasons:
ALD Automotive, as the supplier of the car, was responsible for ensuring that it was 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S - whether or not it was of 
satisfactory quality at that time will depend on a number of factors, including the age 
and mileage of the car and the price that was paid for it;
the car that was supplied to Mr S was a new car and I consider that it was 
reasonable for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects;
Mr S has described the issues that he had with the car, ALD Automotive says that it 
agreed with his complaint about faults with the car and arranged the rejection so I 
dont consider it to be necessary for me to make a finding as to whether or not the 
car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr S;
ALD Automotive says that as part of its rejection process it offered Mr S a refund less 
a deduction for usage which resulted in him owing it £1,432.63;
the car was supplied to Mr S in late February 2020, he made an advance payment of 
£1,319.44 and has paid one hire payment of £439.81 for the car and the car was 
returned in mid-August 2020;
Mr S says that he didnt use the car between March 2020 and mid-May 2020 as he 
was advised not to drive it and he had further issues with the car in June and July 
2020 which required repairs and which will have limited his use and enjoyment of the 
car;
I consider that its fair and reasonable for Mr S to pay for the use that hes had from 
the car but Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for him to be 
required to pay all of the monthly rentals for the period until the car was rejected and 
an additional charge for his usage of it;
between the car being supplied to Mr S and it being rejected in August 2020, I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Mr S to make a total of three monthly 
hire payments as payment for the use that he had from the car  hes already made 
one payment of £439.81 so I consider that he should pay a further £879.62 for his 
monthly payments to ALD Automotive;
ALD Automotive says that Mr S should also pay a usage charge based on the 
mileage that he was able to drive in the car at a rate of 36p per mile, but the monthly 
hire payments include his use of the car  the agreement had a total contract mileage 
of 60,000 and an excess mileage charge of 9.15p per mile;
I dont consider that the mileage of 6,500 when the car was rejected justifies a 
charge, in addition to the monthly hire payments that I consider that Mr S should pay;
as ALD Automotive has agreed with Mr Ss complaint about faults with the car (which 
started soon after the car was supplied to him) and has arranged for it to be rejected, 
I dont consider that its fair or reasonable for it to keep the advance payment of 
£1,319.44  so I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to refund that amount 
to him, with interest; and
I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for ALD Automotive to remove any 
information about the hire agreement from Mr Ss credit file.
Putting things rightI find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for ALD Automotive to 
refund to Mr S an amount calculated as follows:
a refund of the advance payment of £1,319.44;
plus interest on that amount at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
less the two monthly hire payments of £879.62.
I also find that it would be fair and reasonable for ALD Automotive to remove any information 
about the hire agreement that its recorded on Mr Ss credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint and I order ALD Automotive Limited to:
1. Make a payment to Mr S of the amount calculated as set out above.
2. Remove any information about the hire agreement that its recorded on Mr Ss credit 
file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires ALD Automotive to deduct tax from the interest payment 
referred to in the calculation above. ALD Automotive must give Mr S a certificate showing 
how much tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021. 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman