DRN-1328456
 
The complaint
Mr O complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited declared his car to be a total loss 
rather than repairing it after a claim on his motor insurance policy. He wants Admiral to 
repair his car and compensate him for his travel costs in the interim. 
What happened
Mr Os car was stolen and then recovered damaged. Admirals approved repairer assessed 
the necessary repairs as costing £11,652.20 and it declared the car beyond economical 
repair. Mr O had a garage assess the repair costs and it said they would be about £5,000. 
But Admiral said his report wasnt sufficiently detailed. It then instructed an independent 
assessor who said the repairs would cost £4,525.74. But Admiral refused to change its 
decision to declare the car a total loss. It paid Mr Os finance company the settlement for the 
claim which left him out of pocket. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Admiral 
should have accepted that the repairs would cost much less than its approved repairer had 
estimated. He thought it had wrongly deemed the car to be a total loss. He thought it should 
pay for the car to be repaired and returned to Mr O, reclaim the settlement from the finance 
company, and reimburse Mr O for his travel costs, with interest, from the date it received the 
independent assessors report. 
Admiral replied that Mr Os estimate was from a non-approved garage, not an independent 
assessor. It said its independent assessors report was vague and contradictory and didnt 
properly take into account safety issues. It said hed made his estimate by adding a few 
items onto the non-approved garages estimate. It said its approved repairer had provided a 
detailed estimate that took into account the relevant safety issues and was manufacturer-
approved. It said it wasnt responsible for Mr Os travel costs as it had settled the claim after 
the car was deemed to be a total loss.
Mr O later said that he just wanted his car back. Admiral replied that he could purchase the 
salvage if he wished to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr O wanted his car repaired. But Admiral decided that the cost of necessary 
repairs made the car beyond economical repair. 
This service doesnt assess whether or how damage to a vehicle would be caused as this is 
a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance companies and engineers. Our 
role in these complaints is to determine whether an insurance company has considered all 
the available evidence and whether it can justify its decision about repairs.
Admiral received a repairs estimate from its approved repairer. Its inhouse engineer 
reviewed this and decided that the car was beyond economic repair. Mr O initially accepted 
this, but he said he later changed his mind after seeing photographs of the car. He took his 
own assessor from a non-approved garage to inspect the car. 
This engineer said the car would cost around £5,000 to repair. Hed previously provided a 
report saying that replacing the locks and ECU would cost £2,000. But he didnt provide a 
sufficiently detailed report specifying the costs of parts and labour for Admiral to review.
As the parties were in disagreement, Admiral decided to have an independent assessor look 
at the car. I think thats fair and reasonable as its what wed require when there are similar 
disputes. 
The instruction that Admiral gave to the independent assessor was:
Please inspect the vehicle to determine if the vehicle is economical to repair or not. The 
policyholder doesnt agree with our approved repairers estimate. The policyholder feels the 
costs on that estimate are inflated. We are in the process of arranging for that estimate to be 
sent to you. Please include all costs involved.
The independent assessor produced a report that assessed the repairs as costing 
£4,525.74. He said the car was repairable. I think he acted on Admirals instruction. And I 
cant see evidence that he made his assessment to appease Mr O, as Admiral later thought. 
Admiral passed the report to its inhouse engineer, but I cant see that he reviewed this at the 
time. Instead, he said that as the car had already been sent to salvage then he wouldnt 
enter into repairs. He said further damage could have been caused. He also said that there 
could be undetected mechanical damage due to the theft. He said that Mr O had already 
been indemnified. But he thought Mr O could buy back the salvage, at his own risk. So 
Admiral declined to change its mind about repairing the car. 
In response to the investigators view, Admiral has provided details of further 
correspondence from the independent assessor to explain its decision. The assessor said 
his estimate was based on that provided by Mr Os garage, with some extra repairs included. 
He said these opted to repair rather than replace damaged parts. 
Admiral said this was flawed and so it was confident that it could rely on the manufacturer-
approved repairers estimate. These were based on manufacturer approved parts, timings 
and processes. It said this would indemnify Mr O and ensure the cars safe repair. 
But I think if this was so, then Admiral would have told Mr O this at the time and so justify its 
decision to not pay for repairs. I can also see that these further comments were made four 
months after the inspection. I cant see that Admiral relied on them at the time it decided not 
to accept the independent assessors report. 
I dont think its reasonable for Admiral to dismiss its independent assessors report out of 
hand. So Im not satisfied that Admiral justified its decision not to repair Mr Os car. 
Admiral said it has already indemnified Mr O as hed accepted its valuation of his car for its 
total loss and it had paid this amount to his finance company. But as I think Admiral decided 
in error that the car was beyond economical repair, then I think its for Admiral to recover this 
amount from the finance company.
Putting things right
To put things right for Mr O, our investigator recommended that Admiral repair Mr Os car 
and compensate him for his travel costs incurred by being without it. Mr Os car has been in 
a salvage yard for over a year due to the ongoing dispute. But Mr O has told us that he still wants it back. So I think Admiral should return his car to him and pay Mr O the amount of the 
repairs estimate made by its independent assessor. It should also ensure that the car is no 
longer recorded as beyond economic repair. 
Because Admiral decided not to act on the independent assessors report and repair the car, 
Mr O has been without transport. He didnt want to buy a replacement in case the complaint 
was found in his favour and he had two cars. Mr O has provided travel receipts for the period 
from when I think Admiral should have agreed repairs until the investigator sent his view. I 
think Admiral should reimburse these, and further travel expenses Mr O can evidence he 
has incurred. 
Mr O has been without his money for some time. So I think Admiral should pay interest of 
8% simple a year on the repairs estimate from the date of the independent assessors report 
and on the travel costs from the date they were paid to the date of settlement.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Admiral to take off tax from this interest. Admiral must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman