DRN-3901909
The complaint
Mr P complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money blocked transfers from his 
account and took too long to contact him about them.  
What happened
The circumstances surrounding the complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont 
repeat them here. Instead, Ill focus on the reasons for my decision below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicator for largely the same reasons. Ill explain why in 
more detail. 
Mr P set up a new payee on his Virgin Money account, which was an account with a third-
party provider in his name. He made a payment of £1 to the account on 12 July 2022 but this 
was blocked and referred for further checks by Virgin Money. Mr P then attempted 
subsequent payments of £1 to the new payee over the next few days, however as the initial 
payment had been referred, all later payments were also blocked. 
On balance, I dont think it was unreasonable that Virgin Money referred the payments for 
further checks, especially as they were to a new payee. This is an added layer of security 
designed to protect Mr Ps account and considering the amount of authorised push payment 
scams, I think this was sensible. 
Mr P says Virgin Money took too long to contact him. It appears the first payment was 
attempted just before 5pm on 12 July, and the notes suggest Virgin money attempted to call 
Mr P on 13 July at around 9am. While I can appreciate M P says other banks have called 
him within minutes when a payment has been referred for extra checks, I can only consider 
Virgin moneys actions. Having done so, I dont think the delay in attempting to contact Mr P 
was significant and I dont think they made an error in the circumstances. Unfortunately,     
Mr P rejected the initial telephone call so Virgin Money sent him a letter instead. As they 
were unable to establish contact over the telephone, I think it is reasonable that they 
therefore attempted to contact him another way.
Virgin Money did attempt to contact Mr P again by telephone on 15 July. Mr P has said he 
felt the call handler was trying to phish for information for illegal purposes, so he hung up. 
Ive listened to the call in question and while I acknowledge the call handler did ask Mr P for 
his year of birth on two occasions, Ive seen no evidence that this was not for genuine 
security purposes. As Mr P hung up the telephone and did not continue with the call, Virgin 
Money were not able to verify the new payee and process the payments as Mr P had 
requested. In this instance, I cant see that Virgin Money has caused this delay. 
I can see that Mr P used the chat function on Virgin Moneys website and Ive seen the logs 
of the conversations. In this, Mr P was clearly told that they could not deal with the issue 
over the chat function and was provided with a telephone number to call instead. The 
conversation logs suggest Mr P attempted to call the number but could not get through right 
away. While this is frustrating, it is not unusual for there to be call wait times during busy 
periods. 
On 21 July, 9 days after the first attempted payment, Virgin Money sent a final response 
letter to Mr P and explained they had lifted the blocks on the new payee. As a result, Mr P 
could now make payment to the new payee without issue. It should be noted that this was 
done as an exception as Virgin money still had not been able to speak with Mr P directly. 
They have done so as a gesture of goodwill and this is more than I would have expected 
them to do in the circumstances. They have explained that the £1 transactions were returned 
to Mr Ps account 24 hours after they were initially attempted, meaning Mr P had been put 
back in the position he was in prior to the attempted transactions. 
In summary, I think Virgin Money applied the initial block to the new payee correctly and did 
not make an error in the process. I think they attempted to contact Mr P within a reasonable 
period of time and when they could not get through, they sent correspondence in another 
form, which is what I would have expected them to do. And when Mr P contacted them via 
the chat function, they clearly explained how he could deal with the issue he was facing and 
gave him the contact details to do so. Virgin Money then lifted the block as an exception 
without speaking with Mr P, as a gesture of goodwill. As a result, I do not direct them to take 
any further action to remedy this complaint.    
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ps complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 May 2023. 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman