DRN-1622197
 
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr W complain that Yorkshire Building Society (Yorkshire) mis-sold them a 
mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs M and Mr W bought a MPPI policy which started in June 1999 to protect their mortgage 
repayments. The policy covered Mr W only against any accidents, unemployment or 
sickness. The first 6 months worth of cover was free. The policy and mortgage ended in 
2009.
Mrs M and Mr W believe Yorkshire mis-sold the policy. They say they were never told the 
policy was optional and thought if they didnt take it they wouldnt be accepted for a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. As Mrs M and Mr W doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs M and Mr Ws case.
Yorkshire has said to our service that it didnt give advice to Mrs M and Mr W, but they think 
it did. After looking at the forms used, where the MPPI policy was sold and what I know of 
sales at that time, I think it more likely than not did give advice to Mrs M and Mr W, and so I 
will proceed that this was the case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ws complaint because:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mrs M and Mr W during the meeting. 
But I think, after considering the documentation provided, it is more likely that they 
were advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect their mortgage 
repayments. I have seen the sales documentation provided including a sample MPPI 
application form from around the time of sale that Yorkshire say would have been 
used. I think on seeing this, it is more likely than not Mr W signed separately for the 
MPPI policy and there is nothing to suggest in the other sales documentation that he 
was not given a choice to have it. 
 
I do acknowledge what Mrs M and Mr W have said about the sale and that they were 
not told the PPI was optional. But their recollection of the sale is not detailed. This is completely understandable due to the many years that have passed. So with this in 
mind and what I have already concluded, I do not uphold Mrs M and Mr Ws 
complaint on this point.
 
I think Yorkshire recommended the MPPI to Mr W as the sole policy holder, but it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr W says he cant remember what sick pay he had but 
remembers being off sick for several weeks and still being paid. So I took this into 
consideration. But the policy would have paid out in addition to the provisions he had 
at the time. The policy would have paid the mortgage repayments in what would have 
been a difficult time. So I can see Mr W would have found some benefit in having it. I 
could also not see any other reason such as a significant exclusion or term that 
would have affected him or made the policy unsuitable either.
 
Yorkshire has provided some information about the costs relating to the MPPI 
that Mrs M and Mr W took out. But I cant be sure that it relayed those costs to them 
in the meeting. That said, even if it did in a clear way, I dont think Mrs M and Mr W 
would have changed their minds about the MPPI policy for the reasons I have 
already given.
 
Its possible Yorkshire didnt point out other key information that the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr W wouldve been affected by any of these for the reasons I 
have already given.
 
In conclusion, I dont uphold Mrs M and Mr Ws complaint. That said, Yorkshire has paid 
back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M and Mr W because: 
Yorkshire got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs M and Mr W about that. Because Yorkshire 
didnt tell them, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Yorkshire has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M and Mr W. 
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back to Mrs M and Mr W any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 20 May 2020.
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman