DRN-3674878
The complaint
Mr B and Mrs B complain about U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) decision to decline their car 
insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr B and Mrs Bs car was stolen from their drive while Mr B was loading items into the car. 
They made a claim to UKI, but this was declined on the basis the car had been left 
unattended, the drivers side door and boot open, and with the keys left in the ignition. Mr B 
and Mrs B complained about UKIs decision. They also said the car was later traced and 
recovered but had been damaged. Mr B and Mrs B said they now wanted to claim for the 
costs to get their car roadworthy again.  
UKI responded and explained they declined the claim on the basis the car was left 
unattended and unlocked when it was stolen. UKI also said the keys had been left in the car 
so this wouldnt be covered by the policy. UKI said, even though the claim had been 
changed from a stolen car to repair costs, this didnt change the fact that the claim relates to 
damage caused following the car being stolen  and the circumstances leading to this wasnt 
covered by the policy. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr B and Mrs B. He thought UKI hadnt acted unfairly 
in declining the claim. Mr B and Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr B and Mrs B will 
be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
My starting point is Mr B and Mrs Bs car insurance policy. This sets out the terms and 
conditions and says Mr B and Mrs Bs car is covered for loss or damage as a result of theft. 
Then, under a section headed What is not covered it says, loss or damage caused by theft 
or attempted theft if the keys and/or other devices which unlock your car and/or enables your 
car to be started and driven are left in or on your car which is unattended, or if your car has 
been left unattended and not properly locked Theres then a FAQ section which says, Am 
I covered if I leave my car unlocked or the keys in the car?, and this says UKI wont pay a 
claim where a car is left unlocked or left with keys in. 
Theres no dispute that Mr B and Mrs Bs car was parked on their drive, the car was 
unlocked with a door open and with the key in the ignition. Mr B says the car wasnt 
unattended as he was eight to nine feet away from his car at all times while going in and out 
of his house to load items into his car. I have carefully considered Mr Bs comments, but Im 
not persuaded this means his car wasnt unattended. Ive seen evidence which has both 
video and audio, and this shows Mr B coming out of his home and taking items to his car. 
So, I agree Mr B was loading items into his car immediately prior to it being stolen. The next 
video shows Mr B and Mrs Bs neighbours enter Mr B and Mrs Bs home and they say, Your 
cars been stolen. Mr B replies, Youre joking and then says his keys were inside the car. 
UKI say Mr B was unaware the car had been stolen until his neighbours told him. UKI say if 
the car wasnt unattended, then Mr B wouldve seen the car being driven away. Taking into 
account the information Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for UKI to take this view. 
And, given that the circumstances which have occurred here are set out in the policy as an 
exclusion, I cant say UKIs decision to decline the claim is unfair. 
    
I note Mr B says he didnt receive the terms and conditions at the outset. I cant see this 
specific complaint has been addressed in UKIs complaint response. So, Ill leave it to Mr B 
and Mrs B to decide whether they wish to raise this complaint. I can see Mr B asked for a 
copy of the policy booklet after his claim was declined and this is sent to him by post two 
days later. UKI say it can take up to 10 working days for this to be received, but a further 
request was made two days later after it had been posted. UKI say the policy booklet 
shouldve been received but they cant be held responsible if the postal service hasnt 
delivered it. The policy booklet was then sent by email which was received by Mr B. So, I 
think UKI have responded to Mr Bs request within a reasonable time. 
Mr B and Mrs B have my sympathy and I fully acknowledge it will be very upsetting to be 
victims of theft. I understand the basis of their claim changed from a stolen car to claiming 
for damage to their car after it was recovered. However, this doesnt change the fact that the 
claim still arises out of circumstances which are excluded by the terms and conditions. My 
role here is to decide whether UKI have acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim  
and from the information Ive seen, I think they have. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman