DRN-3735500
The complaint
Mr and Mrs I complain about Hiscox Insurance Company Limiteds handling of their buildings 
insurance claim.
All references to Hiscox also include its appointed agents.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My decision considers events from April 2019 up to Hiscoxs final response to Mr and Mrs I 
in January 2022. Any reference to events outside of these dates are purely for the context of 
answering this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr and Mrs I feel strongly about whats happened and have provided several 
submissions to support their complaint. I want to assure them Ive considered everything 
theyve said very carefully.  However, were an informal dispute resolution service, set up as 
a free alternative to the courts. And in deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I consider 
to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This isnt meant 
as a discourtesy to Mr and Mrs I, but it reflects the informal nature of our service, its remit 
and my role in it.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for 
these reasons:
The policy defines subsidence as any downward movement of the ground beneath 
the buildings, other than normal settlement. The policy defines buildings as any 
permanent structure including items fixed to or that form part of it  this also includes 
drains.
From looking at the damage reported, and work carried out, I can see this extends 
beyond just damaged drains. Vertical cracks were observed and the brickwork at the 
damaged bay window was reported to be sloping downwards. This is consistent with 
subsidence and in line with the definition set out in the policy. Ive not seen any 
evidence to persuade me this is obviously wrong, so Im satisfied Hiscox have acted 
fairly in classing the claim as subsidence.
Mr and Mrs I have pointed to communication made by one of Hiscoxs agents, who 
said should the damage be subsidence they would have expected the drain to have 
moved, which they believed not to be the case. 
However, there are expert opinions setting out there was subsidence at the property. 
And it was previously agreed, between Hiscox and Mr and Mrs I, to deal with all 
matters as one claim, as initially they were being dealt as two. So even if I consider 
the damage to the drain itself was not affected by subsidence, Im satisfied the other 
damage, for the reasons Ive set out above, is. So, I think Hiscox has acted 
reasonably in classifying this claim as subsidence.
As part of accurately reporting claims, Hiscox is obligated to report all costs related to 
the claim.
Hiscox has provided a breakdown of its costs for the claim. But Mr and Mrs I have 
asked for further specific detail of these costs, which Hiscox wont provide. Hiscoxs 
costs are commercially sensitive, so I dont think its unreasonable for it to do this.
However, having reviewed the scope of works and the breakdown of the costs and 
work carried out, Im satisfied it is a fair representation of the things addressed in the 
claim. 
Several items of work developed during the claim, such as Hiscox agreeing to re-lay 
the driveway and works needed to create sufficient support to the Bay Windows. An 
underpinning solution was put in place to ensure a lasting and effective repair for the 
Bay Window, after other measures were insufficient. This is often an expensive repair 
in itself.
Mr and Mrs I provided responses to questions they put to a Quantity Surveyor. In the 
email the Quantity Surveyor says works should have cost significantly less than the 
figure provided by Hiscox. But from reviewing the email, Im not persuaded it sets out 
all work and investigations carried out. For example, it doesnt mention the eventual 
underpinning work  which had to be pursued after another option had failed to effect 
a lasting repair. So, Im not persuaded the figure provided by the Quantity Surveyor is 
an accurate representation. And as Ive set out above, Im not persuaded the amount 
costed by Hiscox is unreasonable. 
Hiscox have an obligation to correctly report the details of claims it handles. I 
understand the concern, and potential impact having a subsidence claim recorded 
causes, but I dont think Hiscox have acted incorrectly or unfairly to record the claim 
as it has for the reasons Ive set out.
Its not unusual for claims of this nature to take some time to be resolved, so I wont 
be holding Hiscox responsible for delays I believe were reasonably unavoidable in 
the timeframe Im considering in this complaint.
However, I can see there were delays in further works commencing following 
drainage repairs. This was due to miscommunication within Hiscox and so this was 
avoidable. But I dont think otherwise Hiscox has caused further avoidable delays in 
how its progressed the claim. 
Our investigator recommended Hiscox pay Mr and Mrs I £200 compensation for the 
avoidable delays and in the circumstances, I agree this fairly reflects the 
inconvenience caused.
So for these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Is complaint.
To put things right, I direct Hiscox Insurance Company Limited to pay Mr and Mrs I £200 
compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 Michael Baronti
Ombudsman