DRN-3986876
The complaint
Mr K complains about charges at the end of a hire agreement for a car taken with Mitsubishi 
HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (Novuna).
What happened
In July 2017 Mr K acquired a car using a hire agreement provided by Novuna. The 
agreement was initially taken over four years and was later extended.
The car was returned and an inspection was carried out in November 2022. This noted the 
following damage and charges:
Area Charge
Carpet hole £402.44
Front alloy left corrosion/rust £65
Front alloy right corrosion/rust £65
Rear alloy left corrosion/rust £65
Rear alloy right corrosion/rust £65
Front bumper scuffed £175
Total £837.44
Mr K was unhappy with this and complained to Novuna. It issued its final response at the 
end of November 2022. This said, in summary, that the car had been assessed in line with 
the British Vehicle Leasing and Rental Association (BVRLA) guidelines on fair wear and 
tear. It said it was removing the charge for the carpet. But, it said all the other damage had 
been recorded correctly. It said Mr K owed £435.
Mr K remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service.
Mr K says the damage he was charged for is fair wear and tear. He said the inspection took 
place in the dry  not raining as recorded. He said the inspector recorded the paintwork 
incorrectly. He says one charge was removed, which has made him question the validity of 
the remaining charges.
Mr K also said the alloys werent damaged but had suffered wear and tear. He provided 
some information about corrosion to alloy wheels. And he said the damage to the bumper 
could only be seen from below, so while he accepted this was there, he didnt think it was 
fair to charge for given the age of the car.
Our investigator issued an opinion. In summary, he said he thought all the remaining 
charges fell outside of the BVRLA guidance, so it was reasonable to charge Mr K for this.
Mr K disagreed. In summary, he said he accepted the charge for the bumper. But, he said 
he didnt accept the charges for the alloys. He said the alloy wheel corrosion had been 
reported to the manufacturer, but it wouldnt repair it as the car was out of warranty. He said 
the corrosion to the alloys hadnt been noted or repaired by a garage who saw the car later. 
Mr K said there was no accident or impact damage to the wheels, so the marks must have 
been due to natural surface deterioration.  He said the BVRLA used to say surface 
deterioration was acceptable.
Mr K said the BVRLA guidance contradicted itself by saying fair wear and tear shouldnt be 
confused with damage, but then saying alloys should have no corrosion. And he said 
Novuna shouldnt lease cars past the period they are covered by a warranty.
Our investigator explained this didnt change his opinion. So, the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
Mr K complains about charges at the end of a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr Ks complaint 
against Novuna.
Ive firstly considered whether Novuna were entitled to charge Mr K for any damage to the 
car. Looking at the paperwork Mr K signed at the time, under KEY FEATURES OF THE 
AGREEMENT, this says:
you must return the vehicle in good condition, allowing for fair wear and tear. In determining 
fair wear and tear, we apply the recognised industry standards published by the (BVRLA). 
You will be charged for any damage outside of fair wear and tear
So, Im satisfied Mr K agreed to return the car in line with the BVRLAs guidance and be 
charged if this wasnt the case.
Mr K no longer disputes the damage to the bumper, and the carpet charge has been 
removed. So Im going to consider the damage to the wheels.
In relation to alloy wheels, the BVRLA says:
Any damage to the wheel spokes, wheel fascia, or hub of the wheel/alloy is not acceptable. 
There must be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels
Ive looked at the photos of the wheels from the inspection. 
For the front left alloy, I can clearly see marks around the centre of the wheel bordering on 
the spokes.
On the rear left alloy, I can see quite extensive marks on several of the spokes of the wheel. 
Looking at the photos of the front right alloy, I can see an obvious mark on one of the 
spokes.
On the photos of the rear right alloy, there are very obvious large marks over all of the 
spokes and the centre of the wheel.
Considering the BVRLA guidance, Im satisfied all of these alloy wheels fall outside of fair 
wear and tear.Ive considered the other points Mr K has raised here.
Mr K says the BVRLA guidance contradicts itself, because it says corrosion on wheels isnt 
acceptable, but also says fair wear and tear shouldnt be confused with damage. I think the 
point Mr K makes here is that he believes the alloys appear the way they do even though he 
says they have been used normally. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr K says here. But, Im satisfied the BVRLA guidance is 
clear around what is acceptable for alloy wheels  and Im satisfied in this case the alloys fall 
outside this guidance. I appreciate Mr K says the alloys werent damaged  but Im satisfied I 
would not expect a set of modern alloys to appear the way these do after normal use. So, I 
think its fair to say damage is present  and so it follows I also dont think the BVRLA 
guidance contradicts itself in this case.
I appreciate Mr K tried to claim on the warranty for the wheels but was denied this. But, 
ultimately, I dont think this changes the fact the damage was present, nor that Novuna can 
charge him for this.
Mr K says the BVRLA used to say surface deterioration on alloys was acceptable. And hes 
provided some evidence of this. But this guidance was from around thirteen years before his 
car was inspected. So I dont think its relevant here and Im satisfied the up to date guidance 
should be applied.
I understand Mr K feels a garage should have corrected this issue earlier. I dont know what 
happened here, but again this doesnt change the fact the alloys fell outside of the wear and 
tear guidance when the car was returned.
Ive also thought about the fact Mr K says the weather on the day of inspection was recorded 
incorrectly as well as the paint finish of the car. But, even if I accept this, it doesnt change 
the fact the photos are clear, nor that Im satisfied the damage falls outside of fair wear and 
tear.
I want to reassure Mr K that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said in relation to 
this complaint. But I still think it should not be upheld.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman