DRN-2982789
The complaint
Mrs J has complained Nationwide Building Society wont arrange a refund of £1,290 to her 
account.
What happened
In April 2020 Mrs J was intending to buy a car. She used her bank debit card (Ill call this 
bank Y) to pay £1,290. For a number of reasons the car wasnt available for her and she 
arranged with the dealer to refund the money. The dealer couldnt do this directly to her 
account as Mrs J had switched bank accounts in the meantime.
Mrs J was given the refund in cash  actually £10 less than the money owed. She paid 
£1,280 into her new current account with Nationwide on 14 April 2020. On 22 April 
Nationwide debited her account in the amount of £1,290. The narrative on her statement 
describes this as a correction for a debit card transaction in favour of the car dealer. This 
money was sent from Nationwide to Y at their request.
Mrs J complained to Nationwide as she believed shed now been debited twice for the same 
thing. Nationwide credited her account on 19 May as they initially raised a dispute. They 
then re-debited her on 1 July 2020. Nationwide confirmed they had no basis to raise a 
dispute as the debit card used to make the original transaction was her debit card with Y and 
not them.
Unhappy with this outcome, Mrs J brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator agreed with Nationwide. The original transaction hadnt been completed 
using her Nationwide account so they had limited mechanisms to use to assist her.
Mrs J couldnt understand how shed been debited twice for the same transaction but was 
unable to get this sorted. Shes asked an ombudsman to review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs J said she used her debit card with Y on 1 April 2020. Her account switch to Nationwide 
was completed on 3 April 2020. I believe the balance of Mrs Js account with Y was already 
being transferred to Nationwide and therefore £1,290 was never debited from her account 
with Y. The transaction on 22 April 2020  the result of a request from Y  was done to 
correct this.
Ive reviewed Mrs Js final statements with Y and cant see the transaction debiting her 
account before it closed. Im therefore satisfied Mrs J was only ever debited £1,290 once 
(and that was 22 April 2020). As she accepted cash from the dealer in exchange for that 
transaction, Im satisfied Mrs J is not out of pocket. Well apart from £10 which she accepts.
Nationwide mentioned the original debit card transaction was on 22 March but I cant see 
this being the case from Mrs Js statements with Y. Although this is the date quoted on 
Nationwides letter to Mrs J of 22 June, I think its an error (which then got repeated through 
all off Nationwides customer notes). She was complaining about the transaction that hit her 
Nationwide account on 22 April. This also contradicts what Mrs J has stated throughout her 
complaint that the original transaction was on 1 April. Theres no debit on Mrs Js statements 
with Y on 22 March which match this transaction.
I do take issue with one aspect of how Nationwide has managed this. I think its fair to say 
this awry transaction and the resulting confusion happened as a result of Mrs J switching 
accounts exactly at the same time. The guarantee given to customers who switch is that 
their new financial institution will sort out any problems they may have with payments. I cant 
see that Nationwide followed this through. This has inevitably caused Mrs J a great deal of 
concern as she firmly believed she was £1,290 out of pocket and was struggling to get 
Nationwide to sort this.
Nationwide has offered to pay Mrs J £75 in apology. I think thats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Nationwide has said theyll make this payment immediately to Mrs J.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mrs Js complaint against 
Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman