DRN-1973156
The complaint
Mrs M is unhappy with the increases in premiums on her home buildings insurance with 
Legal & General Insurance Limited.
What happened
Mrs Ms insurance policy with Legal & General started in 2011 when it took over the 
underwriting of the policy from another insurer. It initially cost £586 for the year, which was 
the same price the previous insurer had charged the year before. The next year, 2012, 
Mrs Ms insurance cost £626. 
By 2017, Mrs Ms policy cost £760 for the year. At that time Mrs M found she could get 
insurance for about £200 for the year, and she complained about being overcharged by 
Legal & General. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed, so Ive been asked to make a 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the underwriter of the policy, Legal & General is responsible for setting the price. 
I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price risk and what an insurance policy 
should have cost. I would be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should 
operate  and thats not my role. But I can look at whether Legal & General has treated 
Mrs M fairly throughout the period she held its insurance policy.
If I find that Legal & General hasnt treated Mrs M fairly, I will look to see what compensation 
would be fair. But, in this case, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint.
An insurer hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing the premium at renewal. 
Insurers will typically, over the years, revisit and reassess the risk  using more up to date 
and refined models. If an insurer thinks theres a greater risk than before, the premium will 
increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this.
But where an insurer knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt 
engaging with the renewals process, they should have taken care to make sure they treated 
these consumers fairly  and that they didnt take advantage of the consumers behaviour by 
increasing their premiums just because they didnt engage with the cost.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mrs M was engaging with the cost of the policy over 
the years. However, I dont think Legal & General were aware of that when it took over the 
underwriting of the policy. The initial price matched that charged by the previous insurer the 
year before. In most years that followed, the price went up, but in my opinion the price 
increases dont seem unreasonable. 
Mrs M says her mortgage company wouldnt let her choose her own insurer. But I disagree. 
Ive seen a copy of her mortgage offer from 2006, and it clearly states that she is not obliged 
to take out insurance through her mortgage company. While it was a condition of the 
mortgage that she had adequate buildings insurance in place and provided a quote for 
insuring with the previous insurer, this was clearly optional  subject to an annual 
administration fee for the mortgage company to check her own insurance was adequate.
I can also see that in 2013 Mrs M was invited to provide her mortgage company with 
evidence that she held adequate insurance, in which case her policy with Legal & General 
wouldnt have renewed. So, it doesnt appear that she was obliged to keep the policy and 
she couldve shopped around if shed wanted to. 
Mrs M appears to have done that in 2017 and found insurance for about £200 for the year, 
which is a lot less than she was paying. So, I can understand why this made her think she 
was overcharged in previous years. But insurers often include discounts in order to obtain 
new customers. That means that a new customer will often be paying less than the true cost 
of providing the insurance policy  and such a discount is likely to have been applied to the 
new policy she found.
In addition to this, insurance policies are not all the same  they have different levels of 
cover, excesses and differing terms and conditions that can affect the price charged. And 
each insurers costs may vary depending on many things, including the makeup and 
geographical location of the pool of customers it is insuring. So, just because the policy with 
Legal & General cost a lot more than Mrs Ms new policy  that doesnt mean the amount it 
charged was unfair.
Having considered the available evidence, including what Mrs M has said, I dont think Legal 
& General treated her unfairly when setting the price of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2020.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman