DRN-2776286
The complaint
Mr P complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc, in respect of his let property 
insurance claim for water damage, failed to take reasonable steps to recover its outlay from 
the upstairs neighbour and that this had an effect on his premiums.
What happened
Mr P owns a flat which he lets out to his daughter. In November 2019 they suffered an 
escape of water when the upstairs neighbours water pipes leaked water through the ceiling. 
The flat was empty but Mr Ps daughter managed to access the flat and turn off the water. 
She understood it to have been due to a loose connection under the sink, which was then 
dealt with by the neighbour. Mr P made a claim to RSA who accepted the claim and carried 
out the necessary repairs.
Mr P was satisfied with the repairs but expected to have his excess returned as he believed 
the neighbour had admitted fault. However when he received his renewal notice in 
November 2020 he was disturbed to note that his policy premiums had increased by £200 
and when he enquired he was told that RSA had abandoned the recovery as the
third party (neighbour) wasnt found negligent on this occasion. This was because the leak 
under their sink was found and was resolved upon realisation. It explained that Mr P was 
made aware at the beginning of the claim that it might have an impact on his renewal 
premium.
On referral to this service our investigator said that RSA had acted reasonably and had 
taken the view that it wasnt worth pursuing recovery proceedings. Mr P didnt accept this 
and said he wasnt told, and he expected the excess to be returned. He also felt that RSA 
hadnt taken any steps to verify what the neighbour had said or to investigate possible 
negligence.
The matter has been referred to me for further investigation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted that from the point of view of his claim, Mr P was satisfied with the repairs done. 
However he was disappointed that RSA both didnt chase recovery up and didnt tell him it 
had abandoned it. Hes also concerned that the claim will remain on his record when he 
wasnt at fault.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration - here the water clearly came from the upstairs 
neighbours flat, yet he had to make a claim on his own policy. RSA rightly concentrated on 
the claim that was made and, as Ive noted, it settled the claim and cried out the repairs to 
Mr Ps satisfaction. As part of the claim RSA did make some attempts at recovering the 
costs from the neighbour and Mr Ps uninsured loss, i.e. the excess. However despite seven 
calls to the neighbours insurer from December 2019 through to July 2020, no response was 
made to RSAs requests. It appears that the neighbour may not have reported the claim to 
his insurer. Given that RSA had to decide from the information it had, whether it was worth 
carrying out further investigations including taking legal proceedings against the neighbour. 
In this case, without a clear admission of liability or the evidence showing that the neighbour 
was negligent, RSA took the view that it wasnt worth pursuing the neighbour further. I know 
Mr P believes RSA should have carried out further investigations, but RSA had to balance 
the likely cost of this against the chances of success. Any further costs would have added to 
the cost of the claim and possibly affect the premiums further.
Unfortunately for Mr P its for RSA to decide whether it will pursue recovery and under the 
terms of the policy it can decide whether or not to do this without reference to the 
policyholder. In this case it decided that it would have been unlikely for it to be able to prove 
negligence  it would appear that the leak was repaired as soon as the neighbour became 
aware of it. I know this was disappointing for Mr P, but he was told of his option to have free 
legal advice concerning his recovering the money himself. 
I understand that Mr P wasnt told of RSAs decision until his daughter advised him about the 
renewal terms shed received in November 2020. The claim was closed down in July 2020 
after RSA decided not to proceed any further. Thats disappointing as she had enquired 
early in in the claim about recovering the excess. But ultimately it didnt affect the final 
outcome of the case. I understand also that Mr P is upset that he has lost his no claims 
bonus and that it has affected his policy premiums. Like all insurers RSA had to assess risk 
when calculating its premiums and any claim may affect the no claims bonus. All I can say is 
that Mr P wasnt treated any differently from any customer who makes a claim. 
I think RSA acted reasonably within the terms of the policy. If Mr P wants to take up the offer 
of free legal advice he should get in touch with RSA, or its claim handling service.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman