DRN-4453599
The complaint
Miss J and Mr Ss complaint is in relation to a claim Miss J made on their U K Insurance 
Limited (UKI) legal expenses insurance policy.
Miss J is unhappy that a member of UKI staff spoke inappropriately to her in phone calls that 
took place in November and December 2022, that a call with UKIs panel firm wasnt 
recorded properly and that she received letters from the Court and panel firm saying the 
panel firm would receive papers about her legal claim after they stopped acting for her. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
UKI have accepted that the content of the calls Miss J had with a member of their staff 
was inappropriate. That was because the person she spoke to talked about their own 
personal mental health problems, family circumstances and told her other personal 
things. UKI have apologised and paid Miss J £400 in compensation for this. So, the issue 
for me to decide is whether thats enough to compensate her.
I dont think the person Miss J spoke to intended to make her feel uncomfortable, but I 
appreciate why this might have caused her concern on reflection, especially given her 
own personal circumstances. Given what shes said about the impact of these 
conversations on her, I think £400 is adequate compensation. Thats because that figure 
is representative of situations where a business does something that causes a consumer 
quite a lot of stress and worry and I can see why the tone of the conversations Miss J 
had would have had that effect on her in this case.
Miss J was concerned that UKI told the panel firm that she had a developmental 
disorder, when this wasnt correct. Theres nothing in the calls Ive listened to or the 
correspondence Ive seen that supports this so I cant say UKI did tell the panel firm this. 
Miss J was invited to supply the email she said she saw in which this was contained but 
hasnt provided anything. As such I cant say UKI did something wrong here.
Miss J is unhappy that a call between her with UKI wasnt properly recorded. Whilst this 
is unfortunate, our role isnt to punish businesses in circumstances where things havent 
gone as they should. And given Ive already determined that UKI did something wrong 
and Miss J hasnt said anything that makes me think the advisor she spoke to during the 
call recording that cut off did anything more than talk to her about his personal 
circumstances, which I appreciate might have caused her to feel uncomfortable on 
reflection, I dont think any further compensation is appropriate here.  
I havent seen anything that supports Miss J received letters from the Court and panel 
firm saying the panel firm would receive papers about her legal claim after they stopped 
acting for her. I have seen a Court Order setting out that the panel firm were no longer 
acting for her and that she would be classed as a litigant in person. Its normal for that 
Order to be sent to the panel firm because they were a party to that application. But that 
doesnt mean they were sent correspondence about Miss Js legal claim after they 
stopped acting for her specifically.
Miss J has given reasons why the panel firm stopped acting for her which she doesnt 
consider to be reasonable. I cant determine whether the panel firm were right to stop 
acting for her as the actions of those Solicitors arent within my remit. That complaint 
point is the subject of another complaint shes brought to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service and which Ive determined by way of a different final decision of todays date, so 
I wont be dealing with it here.
Miss J has said that UKIs conduct- particularly in relation to their asking for evidence 
from her that the panel firm had said they werent going to be sent court documents and 
providing her with referral rights to the Financial Ombudsman Service- made her feel 
discriminated against. I dont agree that the approach UKI applied here meant Miss J 
was treated unfairly in her circumstances nor that UKI were wrong to ask her for 
evidence of the assertions shed made when they had evidence to the contrary. 
In response to the investigators view, Miss J has said that UKI allowed her claim to be 
abandoned for no good reason, that they didnt get the panel firm to ask the neurologist 
to amend his report and that they left her to deal with the claim herself. She also said she 
wants to be released from her obligations to UKI without charge and for them to 
understand how bad their panel firm was, and she feels UKI have behaved 
unprofessionally. I cant consider these complaints here. Some of them have already 
been raised with the Financial Ombudsman Service and addressed in final decisions 
issued by me both in October 2023 and in another decision of todays date. Others have 
not been raised with UKI at all and they dont form the subject matter of the complaints 
she brought in this particular case. Miss J is free to raise her complaint about not being 
released from her obligations with UKI without charge with UKI directly if she hasnt 
already done so.
For these reasons, I dont uphold Miss J and Mr Ss complaint.My final decision
I dont uphold Miss J and Mr Ss complaint against U K Insurance Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman