DRN-2573159
The complaint
Mr D complains that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) have undervalued his car following a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr D was insured with UKI and says that, following a motor accident in June 2020, they 
decided to write off his car. This was based on the likely repair cost.
Mr D says UKI initially offered £16,770 and later increased that to £19,268. He considers this 
to be well below market value, arguing that hed paid £23,000 for it within two years of the 
accident. And he considers it to be an appreciating future classic which would mean the 
value would go up rather than down.
Mr D arranged and paid for an independent valuation report which gave a figure of £22,000 
at the time of loss  and may have been higher but for Covid-19 restrictions affecting sales.
UKI maintained their offer was fair so the matter was referred to our service for an 
independent view. An investigator here looked into the matter, reviewing various trade price 
guides. Based on those, the investigator felt UKIs offer was fair.
Mr D didnt agree, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for our service, in cases of this nature, is what the policy says about how 
such claims will be settled. Mr Ds policy provides a market value settlement in the event of a 
total loss, or write off.
Market value is defined as:
the cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model and of a similar 
age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
So, this is not an agreed value policy, which are sometimes used for classic cars and where 
the parties agree on a valuation at the outset. We consider many complaints regarding 
market values and, as the investigator explained, we place significant weight on what the 
motor trade guides say about the value of the car immediately prior to the loss. Considering 
things such as make, model, age, mileage and condition.
Thats because the guides are based on extensive nationwide research of likely (but not 
actual) selling prices. The guides dont have access to actual retail selling prices, but use 
advertised prices and auction prices to work out what likely selling prices would have been. 
That is generally what the insurance industry relies on too.
When UKI first valued Mr Ds car they obtained a figure of £16,770, but this was challenged 
and later increased to £18,980. Theyve said they received a valuation from another provider 
which was £19,556. Their final offer was the average of those, being £19,268.
Before the case was assigned to me our investigator obtained valuations, from two other 
guides. Those came out at £20,244 and 20,500. Considering them alongside the figure of 
£18,980 that UKI obtained, and taking into account their offer falls within the range, I think 
its a fair and reasonable representation of the market value.
Mr D has argued that the valuation he paid for is a truer reflection of his cars worth at the 
time. I do appreciate that he spent money on that and that it suggests a value of £22,000 
would be fair. But ultimately, if I think it was reasonable for UKI to rely on the trade guides in 
reaching their value, I cant uphold this complaint.
I accept that Mr D paid £23,000 for his car in early 2019. But that was around 18 months 
prior to the accident, and various factors could make the market value different compared to 
June 2020  not least what has been said about Covid-19. I also understand what Mr D, and 
his valuer, have said about the car appreciating in value. But I note that the £22,000 
valuation is, at least in part, based on a relatively small number of adverts (I know there may 
only have been a small sample available) which carry a range of prices from £17,950 to 
24,995.
While Mr Ds car is toward the lower end of that range, if you take out the £24,995 one 
(which is a little newer and has a significantly lower mileage than Mr Ds car) the range is 
from £17, 950 to £21,950. Thats closer to the trade guide range, which suggests to me the 
guides arent sufficiently out of line for me to depart from relying on them.
Its also worth stating that these are adverts, and so will be asking prices which are often 
negotiated down. And the report was done in late August 2020 when the country had 
opened up from the earlier Covid-19 restrictions. So, the market may have been different by 
then.
Overall, Im satisfied that UKI was reasonable in their valuation of £19,268.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman