DRN-4034073
The complaint
Miss M complains about the quality of a new car that was supplied to her through a hire 
agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial 
Services (VWFS).
What happened
In June 2021, Miss M acquired a new car through a hire agreement with VWFS.  She 
appears to have had a trouble-free drive of the car since acquiring it, but by June 2022 a 
safety recall was made on her car to address a potential electrical concern.
The supplying dealership were unable to carry out the works required for the recall, and 
referred her to another dealership further away. Miss M said she was unable to reasonably 
get to another dealership due to concerns with the lease mileage for her car and the impact 
it would have on her work.
Miss M complained to VWFS and said she wanted to exit her finance agreement as a result.
In July 2022 VWFS issued their final response to Miss Ms complaint. They upheld her 
complaint and confirmed Miss M would not have to pay any costs to exit the agreement as 
well as receive a refund of her deposit. They also gave her the opportunity to have the works 
carried out if she wished to do so.
Miss M said she didnt receive the final response from VWFS until January 2023 and so 
brought her complaint to our service for investigation. Miss M was unhappy with the offer. As 
a resolution she also wanted a full refund of the monthly repayments that shed made after 
May 2022, when the recall was made. Miss M said a round trip to the nearest dealership that 
could repair the car was about four hours, which she believes is unreasonable. Miss M says 
VWFS have handled her complaint poorly and are forcing her to drive a potentially 
dangerous car.
In January 2023, VWFS contacted our investigator to make a revised offer to resolve Miss 
Ms complaint. In full and final settlement of the complaint they proposed the following:
To end the agreement with nothing further for Miss M to pay
To refund the initial instalment of £4,000 on a pro-rata basis from June 2022
To refund 13% of the monthly rentals paid so far, based on the mileage used 
VWFS said they were unable to contact Miss M to discuss their revised offer.
Having reviewed all the information, our investigator recommended that Miss Ms complaint 
should not be upheld. Our investigator concluded that VWFS had made a fair offer to Miss M 
in resolution of her complaint.
VWFS accepted this recommendation. Miss M didnt. She said she didnt think the 
recommendation went far enough. She believed VWFS reneged on their original offer to 
refund her full deposit, and believes the car was faulty and that the service provided from 
them was poor. So, Miss M asked for an ombudsman to look at her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The agreement in this case is a regulated hire agreement. As such, this service is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. VWFS is also the supplier of the goods under this 
agreement, and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
So, to decide if VWFS have acted fairly here, I need to consider whether the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M. I also need to consider if VWFS treated 
Miss M fairly and whether their offer to resolve Miss Ms complaint was fair in the 
circumstances.
Miss M has raised concerns about the way VWFS have handled her complaint. For example, 
that shed not received their final response and that she had to escalate her complaint before 
VWFS would take any further action. 
Complaint handling isnt a regulated activity in its own right. Nor is it one of the specified 
non-regulated activities that Im able to deal with under our compulsory jurisdiction (DISP 
Rule 2.3.1R). And so, Im unable to look into the specifics of this.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract 
to supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for 
purpose and as described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods need 
to meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
So, it seems likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court 
would consider might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the 
vehicles history. 
Here, the car was acquired new, So, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would 
expect the level of quality to be higher than a used or more road-worn car, and that it could 
be used  free from defects  for a considerable period of time
From the information provided, Im not persuaded that there is a fault with the car. This is 
because Ive seen no evidence that a fault exists; for example, in the form of an independent 
investigation report, or diagnostic outlining the nature of the fault. What Ive seen is a recall 
notice, explaining that in relation to the make and model of Miss Ms car, it may have been 
manufactured with an insufficient amount of extinguishing sand within a particular fuse. The recall notice doesnt confirm that Miss Ms car was manufactured in that way. However, it 
goes on to say that works should be carried out as a precautionary measure. 
I acknowledge Miss Ms concerns about the potential risk to her safety, however from the 
evidence provided, Im not persuaded a fault exists with her car; nor am I persuaded that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to her.
Having considered the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss M, Ive 
thought about whether their offer to resolve Miss Ms complaint is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Miss Ms main concern was that she wasnt reasonably able to take the car into a dealership 
to have the required safety works carried out. Miss M said it would impact her work and her 
allocated mileage allowance. 
In their final response, VWFS offered to end the agreement at no cost Miss M and to refund 
her deposit. As Miss M didnt respond to this VWFS revised their offer to a pro-rata refund of 
the deposit and of the monthly repayments shed made.
Miss M entered into a hire agreement with VWFS. On the hire agreement it references the 
initial payment made by Miss M as an advanced rental, this is typically because the vehicle 
is being hired throughout the term of the agreement. However, this is also sometimes 
referred to as an initial deposit. I think there was some confusion over this as VWFS referred 
to a refund of Miss Ms deposit in their final response, and our investigator referred to it as 
an advanced rental. The hire agreement refers to the initial payment of £4,000 as an 
advanced rental, however, as I havent seen that any other initial payments were made by 
Miss M towards her agreement, in the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that 
VWFS were referring to this advanced rental in their final response. 
In settlement of the complaint VWFS made a revised offer to pro-rata the initial instalment 
of £4,000.01 As the car was being hired rather than being purchased. The initial payment or 
advanced rental, forms part of the overall cost of hire for the vehicle. So, in the event of a 
refund as in Miss Ms case, a full refund wouldnt be reasonable as there would usually be a 
deduction made for the period of usage. So, in the circumstances Im satisfied that a pro-rata 
refund is a fair and reasonable approach. VWFS explained that their proposal was to refund 
the advance rental on a pro-rata basis for 36 months. As the recall was made on 31 May 
2022, I think arranging the pro-rata refund from June 2022 is fair. 
VWFS also offered to refund to Miss M 13% of her rentals made so far. VWFS explained this 
was in calculation of her mileage used to that point. I think this is also fair in the 
circumstances to reflect the usage Miss M had of the car. 
 
In an email to our investigator Miss M said that she felt VWFS had reneged on their initial 
offer to her. In their final response VWFS offered to allow Miss M to exit her agreement as 
well as refund her deposit. I acknowledge Miss M believes VWFS are going back on this by 
offering a pro-rata refund, however in the circumstances I think its likely VWFS intention 
was to provide a pro-rata refund in the first place. VWFS made this clear in their email to our 
investigator when they made the revised offer. 
Having said that, even had VWFS initially intended to provide a full refund of Miss Ms 
deposit, as the agreement is a hire agreement and not a contract to purchase the vehicle, 
Im satisfied that a pro-rata refund is fair and reasonable. It wouldnt be reasonable for me to 
instruct VWFS to provide a full refund of the advanced rental in the circumstances of this 
complaint.All things considered, and for the reasons given, Im satisfied that the offer made by VWFS 
in resolution of Miss Ms complaint is both fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint about Volkswagen Financial Services 
(UK) Limited trading as Seat Financial Services. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman