DRN-1549091
The complaint
Miss D complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc ("RSA") declined her claim under 
a legal expenses insurance policy, and how they dealt with the matter. She wants matters 
put right.
What happened
Miss D had a legal expenses insurance policy with RSA, having previously been insured 
elsewhere. She wanted to bring a claim against her landlord in relation to work undertaken in 
2016 (which led to a collapsed ceiling in the main bedroom in October 2018 following a 
number of complaints by Miss D to the landlord's agents between May 2016 and 2018). Miss 
D made a claim under the policy in 2019, which was declined. Miss D was unhappy about 
this and the time taken to deal with the claim by RSA.
Miss D complained to RSA. It said insured events under the terms and conditions of the 
policy had to take place during the period of insurance; in other words, if the event, dispute 
or cause of action that first happened or started before the insurance was taken out, it was 
excluded. RSA said the first event giving rise to the claim was in May 2016 when Miss D was 
first aware that there was an issue with the work carried out, and told her landlord. As this 
was before the policy started on 28 March 2018, the claim was declined. But RSA accepted 
that the investigation of the claim took longer than usual. It said that it was caused by 
checking the information held was correct.
Miss D complained to us, saying that her concerns before the ceiling collapsed were about 
water ingress into another bedroom, not the room damaged by the alleged failure to repair. 
She explained that the initial concerns had been about both rooms when she bought the 
property, but the work done in February 2016 had alleged dealt with this; her later concerns 
between 2016 and 2018 were then focussed only on the second bedroom, which was only 
damaged due to the failure to repair the damage in the main bedroom. Miss D said that her 
claim was that the work done in February 2016 clearly hadn't been carried out with 
reasonable skill and care, not just the damp issues which had continued after the works (and 
in all likelihood worsened by the works). Miss D also said that RSA took far too long to 
investigate and decline her claim (about six weeks), and caused delay in sorting out the 
situation affecting her home.
RSA said that it was clear damp had been present in the property since 2014, that there had 
been an on-going dispute about this, and it didn't matter that it was the ceiling of the main 
bedroom that collapsed as it was a continuation of the earlier events, including the claim that 
the 2016 works hadn't been carried out effectively.
The investigator's view was that RSA had acted fairly and reasonably in declining the claim. 
He said that the policy excluded existing events or disputes or causes from being covered; in 
other words, issues of which the policy holder was aware when taking out the policy weren't 
covered. The investigator said this was when it was reasonable for a consumer to know 
there was something that could lead to a legal dispute, and in Miss D's case, he said she 
knew there was a problem in May 2016. This was because despite the works to deal with the 
damp issues being carried out, by May 2016 Miss D knew damp was still affecting her property and complained to the landlord's agents. The investigator pointed out that Miss D 
continued to complain right up to the date the ceiling collapsed, and said she was aware of 
the dispute before taking out the policy.
But the investigator thought that RSA had taken too long to investigate and decline the 
claim; he agreed that it hadn't acted promptly as required. The investigator noted that RSA 
had, or could've got, all the key information by early January 2019. He said it should pay 
Miss D £200 for the trouble and upset caused by the delay.
Miss D disagreed. She said that she thought the landlord's agents were dealing with the 
situation as she was repeatedly assured, so she didn't think she was in a dispute. Miss D 
though did agree that £200 compensation for the trouble and upset she suffered due to the 
delay in declining her claim was fair and reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. When I refer to RSA, I'm also referring to 
its agents.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that RSA has a responsibility to handle claims 
promptly and fairly. And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
The decline of the claim
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy itself. I have no doubt that Miss 
D's claim is potentially covered as the policy covers claims about an inference with legal 
rights relating to your home or concerning loss or damage to her home. The key issue is the 
exclusion that says:
"Any event, dispute or cause of action that first happened or started before you
took out this insurance.
What this exclusion is seeking to do is say any claim relating to an event, dispute, or cause 
that existed before 28 March 2018 isn't covered. This means I have to look at when the 
issue was led to Miss D's claim arose. I appreciate her point that a fundamental part of her 
case is that the works carried out in February 2016 were inadequate, and the later damp 
issues affected a different bedroom.
But having looked at all the evidence available, including a report from a specialist who by 
co-incidence attended the property on the day the ceiling collapsed, I think it's fair and 
reasonable for RSA to say that the damp issues are all connected from 2014 onwards. The 
2016 works were meant to repair and prevent further issues, but from May 2016 onwards, 
Miss D knew there were problems, which is why she complained from then onwards (up to 
2018). In fact, Miss D was so concerned, the visit from the specialist was arranged so she 
could satisfy herself about the situation and get independent advice.
I'm not bound by the terms and conditions of the policy, I don't think that it's unfair or 
unreasonable for RSA to decline Miss D's claim. She was sufficiently aware of the 
issue affecting her property that she repeatedly complained to the landlord's agent and 
agreed to a specialist coming to advise her. There doesn't need to be a formal dispute to be 
excluded. By March 2018, Miss D was aware that the 2016 works hadn't dealt with the 
cause of the damp issues, despite the reassurances she received. The exclusion in the 
policy is clear in my view and the circumstances of this case aren't such that it would be 
unfair or unreasonable to apply it to Miss D.The time taken to decline the claim
All parties agree that RSA took about six weeks to decline Miss D's claim. RSA said that it 
was checking the start date of the policy, but I can see that it was told this by third parties 
fairly early on. I appreciate that its agents were waiting for RSA to confirm the position, but 
there was no need to take six weeks to do so. Looking at the evidence available to me, I 
think RSA could've confirmed that the claim would be declined at least two to three weeks 
earlier, which would've reduced the chasing by Miss D and her solicitors for an update.
I bear in mind that Miss D was living in uncomfortable circumstances while she waited for 
RSA's decision. While RSA was not responsible for her living conditions, I think it's likely that 
Miss D suffered additional trouble and upset waiting for a decision, and this is shown by her 
emails, and that of her solicitors. But money never truly compensates for trouble and upset, 
and considering all the circumstances and this service's guidelines, I think £200 is fair and 
reasonable. I note that Miss D agrees.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
should pay Miss D £200 compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its failure to 
promptly consider her claim. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Miss D to accept or reject my decision before 11 June 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ombudsman