DRN-3907012
The complaint
Mrs S is unhappy that Aviva Investors UK Fund Services Limited (Aviva Investors) 
failed to send her documents relating to a property fund her late mother held with it. 
As a result of this Mrs S says she was unable to take action before the fund was 
wound up which has caused her financial loss.
Mrs S is bringing the complaint in her capacity as beneficiary of a policy.
What happened
Mrs Ss mother (Mrs H) sadly passed away in 2017 and Mrs S was appointed as the 
sole executor of her estate and residual beneficiary. Mrs H held three investments 
with Aviva which were to transfer into Mrs S name. 
In December 2017 Mrs S contacted the Aviva Group and notified it of her mother 
having passed away. And in 2018 she provided Aviva Group with the Grant of 
Probate (GOP).
On 3 August 2021 Mrs S received a letter from Aviva Investors about a recent 
withdrawal request from an investment her mother had held.  As Mrs S hadnt 
requested a withdrawal, she became concerned this was fraudulent activity and 
contacted Aviva.
Aviva Investors told her that the letter was in relation to the investment her mother 
held which included a property fund and due to poor performance the property fund 
was being closed down. The property fund made up 40% of this particular 
investment so the letter explained that proportion was being encashed to be paid to 
Mrs S immediately and the remaining proportion of the fund would be paid at a later 
date.
Mrs S was unhappy with this information. She said hadnt received any prior 
correspondence about this and she feels she wasnt given the opportunity to take 
action sooner that could have prevented further losses with the funds value.
Aviva Investors said it was unable to give Mrs S notice regarding the fund sooner, as 
it didnt have a copy of the GOP for Mrs Hs estate and so didnt have authority to 
share information regarding the fund with her.
Mrs S was unhappy with this response and felt Aviva Investors should have been 
aware that her mother had passed away and she was the executor as shed 
previously provided a death certificate and GOP to its offices.
Having looked into the matter Aviva Investors found that it never received the GOP 
for the property fund, because when Mrs S sent it in 2018 to Aviva Group she didnt 
include the property fund policy number in the correspondence. So as the property 
fund was manged by Aviva Investors rather than Aviva Group there was no reason 
the GOP would have been passed on to it. Therefore, while it mailed out to 
registered customer addresses in 2020 about the fund providing options before the 
fund was closed down Mrs S couldnt be informed about the updates on the fund 
because she wasnt on Aviva Investors records.
Mrs S was unhappy with Avivas response and so brought the matter to our service. 
The complaint was assessed by one of our investigators who felt that the complaint 
couldnt be upheld. He agreed that there had been some failings on Avivas part in 
sending information to Mrs Hs old address, and that Aviva should have taken better 
action in updating the GOP to all relevant departments within Aviva. However he 
disagreed that Mrs S had lost out financially as he didnt think shed have taken any 
different action before the fund was frozen. 
Mrs S disagreed with the investigators outcome. She felt the continued mistakes by 
Aviva Investors had caused her considerable stress and added inconvenience of 
having to consistently contact and try to rectify its mistakes. And she maintained that 
Aviva Investors failure to correspond with her regarding the fund sooner had meant 
shed been unable to take any action to prevent further losses to the fund before it 
was frozen. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has been passed to me for a final 
decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Having done so I agree the complaint cant be upheld.
I know Mrs S notified Aviva Group of the passing of her mother and also provided 
the GOP when she obtained it. But I am not satisfied that Mrs S sent the correct 
information to all the Aviva departments that were responsible for administrating the 
policies her mother had left to her.
As stated above when Mrs S sent a copy of the death certificate to the Aviva Group 
on 7 December 2017, she included the account numbers for all three policies that 
her mother had held with Aviva. But when she provided the GOP on 28 November 
2018 (which Ive seen) this letter did not reference the property fund or its policy 
number  it only contained the bond account numbers. Therefore, Aviva Group 
wouldnt have known another investment was held and that the division responsible 
for administrating that policy also had to have the GOP passed on to it.
In my view this isnt unreasonable. The separate divisions within a business group 
are operated independently; they dont have access to each others records and are 
often separate companies in their own right (which is the case here). This is usually 
because of the different types of policies involved require different type of 
administration, legal and compliance requirements.
Therefore, it cannot be assumed that one division would naturally communicate with 
the others nor is there a centralised hub where information about an individual client 
can be stored for all divisions to see. So it is imperative that when communicating 
with any business all account/policy numbers are referenced if changes are to be 
implemented across a number of different types of policies. 
So while I can appreciate Mrs S frustration, as she had not included the reference 
for the property fund on the letter to Aviva Group that contained the GOP it isnt 
unreasonable that the GOP wasnt passed on to Aviva Investors. 
It is also worth noting that Aviva Investors sent Mrs S a letter in the beginning of 
March 2020 confirming there were outstanding requirements for it to act on any 
further instructions regarding the property fund account. It included a bereavement 
form that needed to be completed by the executor and specifically highlighted a copy 
of the Grant of Probate (GOP) was outstanding. 
However, in a call with Aviva Investors in August 2021 Mrs S acknowledged that she 
did receive this letter, but this was at the same time the Covid pandemic had begun 
and as she hadnt yet made a decision on what to do with the fund, she didnt 
respond. 
I can appreciate that given the market volatility at that time along with all the changes 
everyone had to make to adapt to the pandemic that Mrs S may not have acted 
straight away.  However this information shows that she knew in March 2020 that 
Aviva Investors didnt have the GOP for this specific account yet still did nothing. So 
I cant conclude that Aviva Investors did anything wrong. And while she may have 
not yet decided what to do with the fund, she should have sent the GOP as Aviva 
requested. Had she done so she would have then received the update regarding the 
fund much earlier when it was sent to all registered policy holders around this time. Overall, therefore, I am not satisfied that Aviva Investors did anything wrong in its 
handling of this issue  ultimately when Mrs S sent a copy of the GOP she failed to 
include the reference for the property fund which meant Aviva was unable to update 
all departments at the same time. Also, when Aviva Investors did make clear to 
Mrs S in March 2020 that it hadnt received a copy of the GOP for this policy she 
didnt provide it. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 March 2023.
 
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman