DRN-4462426
The complaint
Mr L complains that Revolut Ltd did not refund transactions he lost in a scam. 
What happened
Several of Mr Ls colleagues had invested in a company Ill call B, and had been able to 
successfully withdraw small amounts in returns. He did a quick check online for reviews and 
did not find anything suspicious, so decided to invest. He made the following payments:
10/8/2018  SecurityPort GmbH - €12,500
21/8/2018  Condesk GmbH - €12,500
However, on 27 February 2019, B sent Mr L an e-mail saying there had been a trading 
software malfunction and as a result there had been major trading losses. Following this,   
Mr L was unable to access his funds and felt he had been the victim of an investment scam. 
In February 2023, Mr L raised a complaint via a representative and Revolut initially declined 
to uphold it as they needed more information. The case was referred to our service and our 
Investigator looked into it. They explained that they did not think the payments were unusual 
or out of character when compared to Mr Ls normal account activity, so did not think Revolut 
reasonably needed to intervene or stop the payments. 
Mr L disagreed with the findings. He felt the payments were out of character as the other 
larger payments on his account were to other accounts in his name, whereas these ones 
were international. 
As an informal agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
final decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the Investigator for largely the same reasons and I dont think 
Revolut needs to refund the €25,000. Ill explain why in more detail. 
Firstly, Id like to clarify that because these are international payments, they do not fall under 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) code, which provides additional protection for 
scam payments. This is because the CRM code only applies to payments made between 
two accounts in the United Kingdom in sterling. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
Broadly speaking, the starting position in law is that an account provider is expected to 
process payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account. And a customer will then be responsible for the 
transactions that they have authorised.
Its not in dispute here that Mr L authorised the two payments of €12,500 as he believed they 
were for a legitimate investment. So, while I recognise that he didnt intend to lose the funds, 
the starting position in law is that Revolut was obliged to follow Mr Ls instruction and 
process the payments. Because of this, Mr L is not automatically entitled to a refund.
The regulatory landscape, along with good industry practice, also sets out a requirement for 
account providers to protect their customers from fraud and financial harm. And this includes 
monitoring accounts to look out for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of 
financial harm, intervening in unusual or out of character transactions and trying to prevent 
customers falling victims to scams. So, Ive also thought about whether Revolut did enough 
to try to keep Mr Ls account safe.
Ive looked over Mr Ls statements to see if I think the payments were suspicious enough to 
have warranted intervention by Revolut. There were relatively large amounts coming in and 
out of Mr Ls account in the six months prior to the transactions in question, including €8,500 
to a company, €12,500 to an individual and payments between £13,000 and £23,000 to an 
account in his name. While I recognise some of these were to his own accounts, when 
considering the account activity as a whole, the two payments in question do not look out of 
character when compared to the genuine account activity. 
I say this because the value was not out of character, the pattern of the payment was similar 
to genuine ones in that a top up to the account occurred soon before they were made and 
there was a balance remaining afterwards meaning the account was not drained. In addition, 
the risk is lower as the payments were to two different organisations and there was a gap of 
11 days between them so there werent payments in quick succession.
Considering all of this, I think it was reasonable that Revolut did not intervene prior to the 
payments being processed, and I therefore dont think they missed an opportunity to reveal 
the scam. Ive also considered whether Revolut could have done more to recover the funds. 
However, the complaint was raised five years after the initial payments were made, so I think 
it is unlikely that any remained to be recovered at that point.  With this in mind, I dont think 
Revolut needs to provide a refund for the payments in question. 
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ls complaint against Revolut Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Rebecca Norris
Ombudsman