DRN-3084678
The complaint
Mrs H is unhappy that St Andrews Insurance Plc (SA) increased her buildings and contents 
insurance premium every year, even though she hadnt made any claims. She thinks she 
has been penalised for her loyalty.
Mrs Hs daughter-in-law brought the complaint on her behalf but, for ease, Ill refer only to 
Mrs H throughout my decision.
What happened
Mrs H took out home insurance with SA in 2011 and it automatically renewed each year until 
the 2020 renewal. At this point, her family saw her renewal letter and thought she was 
paying too much. Using a price comparison site, they found a similar policy with the same 
insurer for significantly less.
Mrs H complained to SA because she thought it had taken advantage of her loyalty by 
increasing her premium unfairly over the years. SA looked into her complaint and said it had 
calculated the premium correctly. SA said Mrs H had been free to shop around so it refused 
to refund any premiums.
Our investigator thought SA had charged Mrs H more than it ought to have done and agreed 
that SA should refund some of the premiums. She thought SA shouldve noticed Mrs H 
wasnt engaging at renewal after around five years, so she recommended that it refund the 
difference between the 2016 premium and the premium Mrs H paid for each year thereafter. 
Our investigator also thought SA should pay interest on the difference.
SA didnt agree. It pointed out that Mrs Hs premiums were in line with how it priced its 
policies, and sometimes below, so the premium was in line with how it viewed the risk. SA 
explained that when Mrs H first took out the policy, she wouldve received a new customer 
discount and it was usual practice to recoup that over the subsequent years. SA said this 
was in line with the way it treated all customers.
Mrs H accepted our investigators view but pointed out that SA didnt respond to her within 
the stipulated timescales for complaint handling, and she asked for that matter to be 
addressed.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2021 explaining that I was intending to partially 
uphold Mrs Hs complaint. Heres what I said:
The issue of complaint, here, is that Mrs H thinks SA charged her more than it shouldve 
done just because she renewed each year without engaging with it or shopping around. She 
thinks she has been penalised for her brand loyalty.
There doesnt seem to be any dispute that SA provided the appropriate renewal documents 
to enable Mrs H to make an informed decision. But its clear that she was allowing the policy 
to automatically renew, despite SA telling Mrs H she could ask for discounts or shop around. 
So, what Ive looked at is whether theres any evidence SA unfairly increased the price each 
year, knowing Mrs H didnt engage at renewal.
Its important to say that I dont have the power to tell an insurer how to price its policies  
that would be telling it how to operate, which isnt my role. Instead, I look at whether SA 
treated Mrs H fairly when it priced her policy.
SA prices its policies based on the perceived level of risk for each policyholder taking into 
consideration a number of factors. When Mrs H first bought her policy, its likely SA wouldve 
given her a new customer discount which wouldve meant the premium was less than its 
overall cost to provide the cover. SA wouldve then increased the premium each year to 
recover the cost of the discount. As Mrs H had the benefit of the discount at the start, I dont 
think its unfair SA recouped this discount over time.
Ive thought about whether Mrs H was treated fairly with how the price of the policy changed 
after this discount was recouped and whether SA needs to do anything differently now.
SA explained it has steps in place to make sure premiums dont increase excessively when 
a policyholder has been with it for several years. I cant give the detail due to commercial 
confidentiality but, briefly, SA applies a model to all its policies which sets the price based on 
a number of factors applied consistently to all customers. We refer to this as a target price 
and our service generally accepts its a fair approach.
Ive looked at what Mrs H paid over the years and its clear that SA hasnt charged more 
than its target price. So, although the price of her policy has increased year on year, Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that shes been treated differently or unfairly because of her lack of 
engagement. SA priced the policy in line with its model and while I understand it wouldve 
been disappointing to find that a similar policy with SA was available for considerably less, it 
doesnt mean it was acting unfairly with how Mrs Hs policy was priced. If SA hadnt treated 
Mrs H fairly, Id have expected to see her premium increase beyond the target price and 
continue to creep up. That wasnt the case, here, and in some years the premium was set 
well below its target price. So, Im satisfied that SA hasnt treated Mrs H unfairly when setting 
her premium.
 
Because of this, I see no reason to ask SA to refund any of Mrs Hs premiums. Mrs H was 
expecting to receive a refund so I can understand that she may be disappointed by this, 
especially as Im not able to share the exact details of SAs calculations. But I hope shell be 
reassured that Ive looked carefully at the calculations and I havent seen any evidence of 
excessive charging.
For completeness, Ive looked at the renewal letters to make sure that SA provided Mrs H 
with the information she needed to make an informed decision. In 2015, SA said it had made 
improvements to the policy, and provided a new copy of the policy booklet. In 2016 SA said 
it had improved the policy and covered Mrs H for matching items and an excess waiver, with 
subsequent renewal letters stating:
we're pleased to offer you another year ofBuildings and Contents insurance cover which 
includes;
cover for matching items, e.g. replacing your 3-piece suite or bathroom suite even if 
only one part is damaged because we can't match it; and
no compulsory and voluntary excess to pay on claims for fire, flood or theft through 
forced entry.
We're offering these additional benefits this year as a thank you for staying with
us.I asked SA about this loyalty benefit and it confirmed that it was only offered to policyholders 
who met certain conditions, and it wasnt available to buy as additional coverage. So, Im 
satisfied that it was in place for Mrs H to thank her for her loyalty, as stated. 
Mrs H provided a lot of information about the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) approach 
to pricing, which takes effect next year, and shes aware that our service has been 
considering this issue. I know she feels strongly about it and has concerns that her policy is 
one that mightve been affected. Ive given this matter some considerable thought. While I 
accept that theres a forthcoming change in approach, Ive looked at how SA handled Mrs 
Hs individual policy to see whether it was fair in the circumstances at that time. SA 
confirmed that the new policy included a significant new customer discount  as Mrs Hs 
original policy wouldve done - so the price is unlikely to reflect the true cost of the insurance. 
Its also likely that the level of cover is different, and possibly the level at which the excess is 
set, so it wouldnt be fair to make a direct comparison. For these reasons, I cant see any 
evidence that Mrs Hs policy is one that is affected. 
Finally, Ill address Mrs Hs comment about the way SA handled her complaint. My remit is to 
consider complaints about regulated activities - in this case, Mrs Hs complaint about 
whether SA treated her fairly in respect of her policy premium. While Mrs H is also unhappy 
because she thinks SA didnt adhere to the complaint process timescales, complaint 
handling is not a regulated activity so its not within my remit to decide whether or not SA 
met the expected standards. That said, Ive considered the overall customer service SA 
provided while it looked into Mrs Hs concerns about her policy premium, which includes 
whether it responded to her contacts in a timely manner. 
I can see that it took SA two months to let Mrs H know that it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong when setting her premium price. Two months to reach a decision is within the 
required timeframe but, during that time, SA didnt seek to reassure Mrs H that it was looking 
into her concerns. Given Mrs Hs circumstances, her vulnerability, and how strongly she felt 
about customer loyalty, SAs lack of acknowledgement during that time added unnecessary 
distress and inconvenience. I can understand why Mrs H mightve felt her loyalty wasnt 
valued. I think the minimal contact during the time SA looked into Mrs Hs complaint is a 
customer service shortfall, which Ive taken into consideration when making an award.
Overall, I cant see any evidence that SA increased Mrs Hs premium unfairly because she 
didnt shop around. Indeed, the evidence shows that SA charged less than its target price for 
her policy. However, because of the shortfalls in service Ive detailed here, Ive provisionally 
decided its fair for SA to pay Mrs H £75 compensation.
I said I was minded to require St Andrews Insurance Plc to:
pay Mrs H £75 compensation for the shortfalls in customer service when responding 
to her concerns about how it priced her premiums.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
SA accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs H responded to say she was disappointed but had nothing further to add which might 
make a difference to the outcome.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought again about Mrs Hs circumstances, but I cant see any reason to ask SA to do 
more than pay compensation of £75 for the distress and inconvenience its shortfalls in 
service caused. The evidence shows that SA provided additional benefits in the later 
renewals which werent available to other customers, so I think its reasonable to say SA 
offered those benefits in recognition of loyalty. The evidence also confirms that SA charged 
Mrs H below its target price. So, while I understand that Mrs H is disappointed, Im satisfied 
that SA hasnt done anything wrong when pricing the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold in part Mrs 
Hs complaint and St Andrews Insurance Plc is required to:
pay Mrs H £75 compensation for the shortfalls in customer service when responding 
to her concerns about how it priced her premiums.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman