DRN-4438626
The complaint
Mr M complains the settlement payment Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) did 
not offer a fair market value for his car after it was declared a total loss. 
What happened
Mr M has comprehensive motor insurance with Admiral. The policy began on 9 March 2022. 
Mr M made a claim on his motor insurance policy after his car was damaged. Admiral 
assessed the car and found it to be beyond economic repair. So it was written off as a total 
loss. 
Admiral initially offered Mr M £4,500 in settlement of the claim. After Mr M complained 
Admiral further increased its offer to £5,500. But Mr M says the valuation wasnt fair and 
didnt take into account the condition of the car. 
Following receipt of further information the valuation increased from £4,500 to £5,500 but Mr 
M thinks £6,500 is more appropriate. He says he paid over £7,000 for the car in March 2022 
and spent thousands of pounds restoring it  so it had excellent paintwork and an 
immaculate interior. Mr M says the car had a new custom exhaust, a new radiator, and a 
new suspension. 
Mr M says his car is a classic car and so cant be valued in the usual way. He wants Admiral 
to reassess the value of the car using a classic car specialist to ensure a fair valuation is 
offered. 
Because he wasnt happy with the valuation he complained. Admiral said it was unable to 
obtain a valuation from the industry recognised guides it usually used. And so it instructed an 
Independent Assessor to provide a valuation for the vehicle. Admiral didnt uphold the 
complaint. Mr M wasnt satisfied with the response from Admiral so referred his complaint to 
this service. 
One of our investigators looked into things for him. She said she hadnt seen any evidence 
to show Admirals valuation of the vehicle was fair. So she recommended the matter be 
resolved by Admiral paying the difference between its valuation and Mr Ms purchase price 
of £7,200. The investigator said there were no guide values for vehicles similar to Mr Ms 
car, he had purchased it only relatively recently, and given the cars age its unlikely there 
would be such deprecation in the cars value. 
Admiral didnt agree. It said it had relied on its experts opinion on the value of the vehicle, 
and the opinion was based on market research. Because Admiral didnt agree the complaint 
has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the matter carefully and reviewed the evidence provided by both sides, 
Im upholding the complaint. I think a fair valuation of the car on the date it was damaged is 
£7,200. Ill explain why.
This service doesnt value vehicles, we do check that the insurers valuation is fair and 
reasonable, and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
In circumstances like this where it has been decided it is not economical to repair the car, Mr 
Ms policy says Admiral will pay the market value of the car less the policys excess. The 
policy defines market value as, the cost of replacing your vehicle with one of a similar make, 
model, year, mileage, and condition based on market prices immediately before the loss 
happened. Use of the term market refers to where your vehicle was purchased. This value 
is based on research from industry recognised motor trade guides. 
Assessing the value of a car isnt an exact science. Like most insurers this service often 
finds motor trade guides persuasive. Thats because valuations are based on nationwide 
research and they show likely selling prices at the month of loss. 
In this case Admiral considered the trade guides but Mr Ms car wasnt listed due to its age. 
So, it relied on a report obtained from an independent assessor. In considering that report I 
can see the independent assessor conducted some market research, however any guides 
relied on or details of the research were not included in the report. And no further information 
or evidence was supplied by Admiral when our investigator requested this. 
The initial valuation was £4,500 and then it increased to £5,500 following further market 
research, but there is no evidence or information to explain as to what the revised valuation 
is based on. I note both reports are dated 5 January 2023.
Our investigator said a fair valuation of Mr Ms car would be what he paid for the car given 
the evidence hes provided of the condition of the car at the time of the incident. Which 
would mean a value of Mr Ms car of £5,500.
In this case Mr M has provided some adverts for cars of the same make, model and age of 
his. I can see some have a higher mileage than his car. The lowest priced car is £6,500 with 
135,000 miles and the highest priced car is £11,000 with 91,000 miles. 
I accept that an advertised price isnt necessarily the same as the selling price. But putting 
all the evidence together, it seems to me the adverts are more likely to represent a fair 
market value of Mr Ms car. 
In summary I dont think Admiral treated Mr M fairly in the settlement amount it offered him. It 
should now pay him £7,200 plus 8% simple interest on the difference between this amount 
and its settlement offer. It should calculate interest from the date the initial settlement was 
made until payment is provided. 
Putting things right
Admiral need to;
Settle Mr Ms claim based on the valuation of £7,200 
Pay simple interest, at a rate of 8% per year on the difference between the initial 
settlement of £5,500 and £7,200. This interest is to be paid from the date the initial 
settlement was paid until the date the claim is finally settled. My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold the complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited to put things right by doing what Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 December 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman