DRN-4329653
The complaint
Miss T has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) unfairly declined her claim.
What happened
Miss T had a travel insurance policy, underwritten by IPA. She went on holiday but when she 
was due to return, she didnt feel well enough to travel so she cancelled her flight and 
extended her stay. Miss T sent an email to IPA to inform it about her flight cancellation. She 
says she was unable to get through to IPA on the phone. 
Miss T made a claim and IPA initially declined it but later agreed to consider it and said it 
needed supportive medical evidence in line with the policy terms and conditions. It offered 
Miss T £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to her as a result of the 
initial decline. 
Miss T provided IPA with a letter from her GP but IPA said it wasnt sufficient to prove Miss 
Ts claim. Unhappy, Miss T complained to IPA and unhappy with its response, referred her 
complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think IPA needed to do anything further. 
Miss T disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
And so the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Under Section B  Emergency medical and other expenses, What is covered, it says:
Reasonable additional transport and/or accommodation expenses incurred, up to 
the standard of your original booking (for example full or half board, all inclusive, bed 
and breakfast, self-catering or room only), if it is medically necessary for you to stay 
beyond your scheduled return date.
So based on the above term, Miss Ts claim would be covered if she can show that it was 
medically necessary for her to stay beyond her scheduled return date. 
Miss T did not seek medical attention abroad so there is no contemporaneous medical 
evidence from the time to show it was medically necessary for her to stay beyond her 
scheduled return date. 
Miss T did provide a letter from her GP, which confirms her condition and medical history 
relating to it, after she returned from her trip. But there is nothing specific from the time Miss 
T actually cancelled her flight to show that it was medically necessary for her to do so  she 
did not speak to her GP or see a medical professional at the time. So I dont think IPA 
unfairly declined the claim. 
Miss T says she was asked to obtain medical evidence from her GP and did so, and so that 
should be enough. But IPA has said that this doesnt mean it guarantees the claim will be 
paid and it would always need to assess any medical evidence provided to it. I appreciate 
why Miss T finds this frustrating, but the onus is on her to prove her claim and I dont think 
IPAs request for more specific evidence from the time the flight was cancelled is 
unreasonable. 
Finally, IPA initially declined the claim for a different reason but agreed to review and assess 
it further if Miss T could provide medical evidence. I think its offer of £50 compensation for 
the stress and inconvenience as a result of the initial decline is reasonable and so I wont be 
asking it to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman