DRN-4280188
The complaint
Ms E complains about the way in which DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited 
(DAS) dealt with her legal expenses insurance claim and the deduction of a policy excess.
What happened
Ms E had legal expenses insurance (LEI) as part of her home insurance.
In around 2016 Ms E suffered damage to her property following works carried out by her 
neighbours roofing contractors. They failed to put things right and the problem continued. In 
early 2019 Ms E made a claim on her LEI policy to cover, broadly, the costs of taking legal 
action against her neighbours to pay for the damage the contractors had caused and sort out 
the ongoing problems.
DAS confirmed Ms Es claim was covered under the LEI policy and appointed their panel 
solicitors to advise on the prospects of making a successful legal claim. The solicitors said 
Ms Es claim would be based on nuisance and trespass. But there werent reasonable 
prospects of a successful claim given the evidence at the time.
Ms E got her own surveyors report. Based on that, the solicitors advised there were 
reasonable prospects of success. But they changed their minds in 2022 since the 
neighbours or contractors wouldnt be able to pay. Ms E was unhappy her property hadnt 
been repaired several years after the damage had started and more damage was 
happening. She felt the solicitors had failed to move the legal claim on. And she was 
unhappy DAS deducted a policy excess when they reimbursed her surveyors fee.
DAS said the excess was payable under the terms of the policy and theyd explained that to 
Ms E at the outset. But they acknowledged theyd provided some poor service. And to put 
things right they offered to reimburse the £250 theyd deducted from the surveyors fee, 
effectively waiving the policy excess.
Since Ms E was unhappy with DASs response she brought her complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. She wanted her property repaired and was worried accepting the offer 
of £250 would affect her complaint about that. Our investigator said the LEI policy didnt 
cover the costs of repairing the damage. DAS had acknowledged their service failings. And 
the offer theyd made to put things right was fair. Since Ms E didnt agree, her complaint was 
passed to me to decide. I recently issued a provisional decision, an extract of which follows:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the problems Ms E has had with her property over the past few years. I 
can understand its been a stressful situation given her personal circumstances. Ive come to 
an outcome thats similar to our investigators, as Ill explain. But since the redress Im 
proposing is different in some regards, Im issuing a provisional decision to give the parties 
the chance to comment before I issue a final decision.
We expect insurers to handle claims fairly and promptly, and not to decline claims 
unreasonably. Ill consider Ms Es complaint about DAS against that background. The 
starting point is the terms and conditions of her LEI policy.
Ms E had LEI cover as part of her home insurance policy. DAS only provided the LEI cover. 
Buildings and contents insurance were provided by a separate insurance company to DAS. 
Im not considering what that other company did. Im only looking at the actions of DAS. The 
LEI DAS provided didnt cover the costs of putting right any damage to Ms Es property. It 
only covered legal costs to pursue certain claims, subject to the terms and conditions of the 
policy.
DAS confirmed Ms E had cover under event 5. Property protection which was for:
A civil dispute relating to property you ownfollowing:
(a) an event which causes physical damage to such property but the amount in 
dispute must be more than £100
(b) a legal nuisance (meaning any unlawful interference with your use or enjoyment 
of your land, or some right over, or in connection with it)
(c) a trespass
It didnt cover The first £250 of any claim for legal nuisance or trespass. This is payable as 
soon as we accept the claim.
It was a term of the LEI that Ms Es claim must have reasonable prospects of success for the 
duration of the claim  that meant the prospects of recovering losses or damages or 
obtaining any other legal remedy DAS agreed to, including enforcing a judgment, always had 
to be at least 51%.
I think the terms of the policy Ive mentioned were set out in a way that was clear, fair and 
not mis-leading in line with Financial Conduct Authority requirements. They explained the 
types of property claims the policy would fund, that Ms E would have to pay an excess of 
£250 if the legal claims were for nuisance or trespass, and that DAS would only fund the 
claim for as long as it had reasonable prospects of success.
DAS wrote to Ms E in February 2019 to let her know theyd cover her claim subject to their 
panel solicitors confirming it had reasonable prospects of success. They said theyd require 
payment of the excess at that stage - rather than when they accepted the claim. And they 
set out the process her claim would follow. I think DAS explained things clearly and 
managed Ms Es expectations appropriately.
The panel solicitors DAS appointed had experience in the type of dispute Ms E had with her 
neighbours and their contractors. It was reasonable for DAS to appoint them. And the advice 
they initially gave about the nature of the legal claims Ms E could bring doesnt appear to 
contain any obvious mistakes. So, I think it was reasonable for DAS to rely on it in taking 
decisions about policy cover.At first the panel solicitors didnt think the legal claim had reasonable prospects of success 
based on the evidence available at the time. Ms E was given the option of getting her own 
surveyors advice, which she did. Id expect DAS to have been involved in the appointment 
of an expert. That doesnt seem to have happened. But I dont think it caused Ms E a 
problem. The panel solicitors felt the evidence her surveyor provided supported her claim; 
she was able to take the claim forward at that stage; and DAS agreed to refund the fee, less 
the excess.
Since the solicitors had advised Ms Es legal claim would be based on nuisance and 
trespass, she became responsible for the excess once theyd said it had reasonable 
prospects. As she didnt pay it at the time, it wasnt unreasonable for DAS to deduct it when 
they refunded the surveyors fee to Ms E later.
From what I understand, the panel solicitors advised the claim no longer had reasonable 
prospects of success in 2022 on the basis it wouldnt be possible to recover any money. I 
understand Ms E was disappointed when DAS withdrew cover. But the policy didnt promise 
any legal claim would be successful. I wouldnt expect DAS to have carried on funding the 
claim in those circumstances. A private individual is unlikely to pursue a legal claim where 
the prospects of winning or recovering any money are poor. Its not reasonable to expect a 
LEI insurer to do so either.
DAS have acknowledged they provided some poor service.
Following the solicitors initial assessment Ms E was unhappy and contacted DAS in around 
April or May 2019. They failed to get back to her once theyd seen the solicitors advice. And 
it wasnt until September DAS took action and her claim was re-opened. But Ms E had got 
the surveyors evidence in the meantime. And based on that advice the solicitors felt her 
claim had reasonable prospects. Im not aware DASs delay affected her claim, although I 
can understand it was frustrating and stressful given the difficult circumstances Ms E was in.
DAS failed to respond initially when Ms E asked them to pay the surveyors invoice in      
mid-November 2019. They said they were asking the panel solicitors about it at the end of 
that month. But they didnt confirm theyd pay it until the beginning of November 2022. And 
there was a delay of several weeks between the legal claim ending and payment being 
made. Im not aware the initial delay impacted Ms Es legal claim. But shed been out of 
pocket for some time. I can understand that will have been frustrating when shes told us she 
cant afford to repair her property.
The surveyors invoice was for £550. Their invoice suggests it had to be paid by mid-July 
2019. Ms E didnt ask DAS to pay it until mid-November 2019. Its reasonable to think they 
should have reimbursed it by the end of that month to allow for any checks they had to make 
and their payment processes. Ms E was responsible for the £250 excess at around the same 
time. So, its reasonable to think DAS would have made the net payment of £300 they made 
in the end. Broadly, Ms Es been out of pocket in the sum of £300 since the end of 
November 2019. So, based on what I currently understand about the timescales, I think its 
fair DAS pay her interest on that amount from 1 December 2019 until they paid it on             
1 November 2022.DAS have offered to refund Ms E the £250 excess. Since she was obliged to pay it, as Ive 
explained, Ive thought about whether that sum is fair to compensate Ms E for the poor 
service. I understand the situation Ms Es been in has been stressful. Shes unable to fund 
the cost of the repairs needed to her property. And I understand she has caring 
responsibilities. Whilst DASs mistakes will have added to her stress, the delays they were 
responsible for were relatively minor and affected Ms E for short periods. In the 
circumstances, and on balance, I think its fair for DAS to pay Ms E, as compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, the £250 theyve already offered.
I understand Ms E feels little progress was made with her legal claim or repairing the 
property even though the solicitors had the case for a few years. Im not aware of the work 
the solicitors carried out. But if Ms E has concerns about that shed need to complain to 
them direct as they were acting for her, even though DAS appointed them. If she was 
unhappy with their response, shed be able to take her complaint to the Legal Ombudsman.
Im not aware of the claim she made on her buildings/contents policy either or whether she 
complained to the insurer of that part of her policy. If she was unhappy with that insurers 
handling of her claim she could also complain to them. If she was unhappy with their 
response, she could then refer her complaint to us.
My provisional decision
DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited should pay Ms E
1. Simple interest on £300 from 1 December 2019 to 1 November 2022 at the 
rate of 8% a year; and 
2. Compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience.
If DAS consider they are required by HM Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from the 
interest, they should tell Ms E how much they are taking off. And they should give Ms E a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and 
Customs if appropriate.
Developments
DAS accepted my provisional decision.
Ms E was disappointed with the compensation I proposed. Shes explained the 
inconvenience caused by the damp and damage to her property and the impact of that on 
her and her child. Shes described the impact on her health of the overall circumstances and 
the delays DAS caused. Shes told us the damage to her property remains and continues; 
and she will have to finance the repairs herself and continue the difficult communications 
with her neighbours.
 
Ms E believes that but for DASs delays, the third party she alleges were responsible for 
causing the damage could have been taken to court successfully before they were 
dissolved. And shes said she has been out of pocket in relation to the surveyors report for 
three years and could have used the money for repairs or other expenses.
Ive considered what Ms Es told us and will go on to make my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont underestimate the effect Ms Es circumstances have had on her health and living 
situation. And I appreciate that will have meant that delays by DAS will have had a greater 
impact than they might otherwise have done. But I need to be fair to both parties and bear in 
mind that the mistakes DAS made were relatively minor and impacted Ms E for limited 
periods.
Its unfortunate the company that carried out the roofing works was dissolved. But theres no 
evidence any delays by DAS affected the progress of the legal claim, as I explained in my 
provisional decision. The solicitors said there were reasonable prospects in September 2019 
following the surveyors report. And they said in around September 2022 that the claim no 
longer had reasonable prospects. So, the case had been going on in the meantime. DASs 
failure to reimburse the surveyors fee didnt affect it. I appreciate Ms E has concerns about 
how the solicitors handled the claim. But DAS arent responsible for that. And Ive explained 
how Ms E could complain about the solicitors if she wanted to. 
I understand Ms E was out of pocket for some time regarding the surveyors fee. But Ive 
asked DAS to pay interest to compensate her for that. In all the circumstances, I still think 
the compensation of £250 Ive proposed is fair and reasonable. Bearing everything in mind, I 
uphold this complaint for the reasons and on the basis Ive explained.
Putting things right
DAS should pay Ms E the interest and compensation Ive set out below. 
My final decision
I uphold Ms Es complaint and direct DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited to 
pay her: 
1. Simple interest on £300 from 1 December 2019 to 1 November 2022 at the 
rate of 8% a year; and 
2. Compensation of £250 for distress and inconvenience.
If DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited consider they are required by HM 
Revenue and Customs to deduct tax from the interest, they should tell Ms E how much they 
are taking off. And they should give Ms E a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman