DRN-2724676
The complaint
Miss M complains Santander UK Plc (Santander) made mistakes when she asked to 
transfer money from her account, and this resulted in her being unable to access the 
account and that when they telephoned to speak to her they spoke to her ex-husband.
What happened
Miss M bought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response shed received 
from Santander. She told them about the restrictions the bank had placed on her account 
after shed asked to transfer money to her husband overseas. She was unhappy with the 
restrictions, the need to make four visits to the branch, the time it had taken in branch and 
the small amount of money shed been allowed to withdraw for essential items. She said the 
consequences were that shed missed out on making planned purchases on an online 
auction site and had been left with both insufficient time and money to celebrate a friends 
birthday as originally planned later that day. She was also unhappy that during this complaint 
the bank had contacted her by phone but had spoken with her ex-husband.
Santander told Mrs M they thought no bank error had been made in carrying out the security 
check and placing blocks on the account and in respect of the unsuccessful ATM withdrawal 
Santander said there were no restrictions on the account preventing this. They 
acknowledged the inconvenience caused and the time spent attending a branch to resolve 
the matter and felt a compensatory payment to Mrs M of £60 was fair and reasonable taking 
into account the events that took place.
Our investigator didnt think Santander had acted fairly. She understood Santander had their 
own procedures and policy which they must follow when they suspect scam transactions. 
But she thought they didnt really acknowledge what Mrs M told them about her husband and 
the previous payments made to him. She thought if Santander had considered this, they 
couldve verified the transaction as genuine much sooner, avoiding the need for the account 
restrictions. So, the investigator thought Santanders offer of £60 compensation was too low 
as it didnt cover the extent of stress and inconvenience Mrs M experienced throughout the 
complaint. She recommended Santander increased their offer to £100 to reflect that and the 
amount of time Miss M had spent revisiting the branch several times to try and resolve the 
matter. Santander agreed with the proposal.
Miss S didnt agree. She thought more compensation was warranted for what she been 
through and asked for a further £100 in addition to the investigators recommendation - so 
£200 compensation in total - to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator and for the same 
reasons.
Theres not a great deal I can add to what the investigators already told Miss S. I think shes 
covered most points quite clearly. Although Mrs Ms unhappy that Santander spoke to her 
ex-husband, as they used the phone number held on her records, I cant reasonably say 
theyve done anything wrong here. And Santander werent wrong to conduct the security 
checks. But their implementation and later removal of the measures taken on Miss Ms 
account could have been handled better. Particularly considering the information Mrs M 
volunteered to them and the information on their own records about previous travel and 
transactions which was readily available to them. So, like the investigator Im upholding that 
aspect of the complaint only.
I think Santander has tried to put things right by acknowledging the inconvenience those 
checks have caused, the time spent and by making an award of compensation. And 
following the investigators findings theyve now agreed to increase to £100 as she 
recommended. 
I know Mrs M thinks the compensation should be higher but Im looking at the impact the 
error actually had on Miss M and no-one else. I cant make an award for the inconvenience 
or upset of others. Theres no evidence to suggest Mrs M has suffered any loss as a result of 
the mistakes, although I do understand this has been a stressful time for her. So, looking at 
all the information available to me, I think the compensation now offered of £100 in total is 
reasonable and accurately reflects the distress and inconvenience Miss Ms suffered here. 
And its the sort of award Id have made had it not been suggested by our investigator. 
Given how strongly Mrs M feels about what happened she may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes. But my decision brings to an end what we  in trying to resolve 
her dispute with Santander informally  can do for her. Im sorry if this disappoints Miss M. 
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay £100 compensation to Miss M 
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint. Santander UK Plc should pay £100 
compensation to Miss M.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2021.
 
Annabel O'Sullivan
Ombudsman