DRN-4136326
The complaint
Miss M complains that TSB Bank Plc (TSB) didnt do enough to help her when she was the 
victim of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
an overview of some of the key events here:
Miss M was looking for an investment opportunity online when she came across a company 
she liked the look of. Miss M entered her details into the website and shortly after she was 
contacted by someone who purported to be a cryptocurrency trader. Unbeknown to Miss M 
at the time, she was actually speaking with a scammer. 
Miss M was persuaded to make an initial trade of £250 and she was given access to her 
own online trading platform  which we now know to be fake. The fake platform showed Miss 
M that she had made a good return on her initial deposit and so she agreed to invest more 
funds. Miss M made a further two transfers - £2,500 on 15 June 2022 and a further £5,000 
on 5 July 2022. 
Miss M firstly transferred the above amounts to an account she held with a third-party 
electronic money institution (EMI) before transferring the money on to the scammers. 
After having some trouble withdrawing any of her funds from the fake account, Miss M 
realised shed likely been the victim of a scam. So, she contacted TSB to tell it what had 
happened. TSB told Miss M her money couldnt be refunded and to contact the provider of 
her EMI account instead  as this was the account the money was lost from. TSB did 
compensate Miss M £40 due to the amount of time she had spent on hold when trying to 
report the scam. 
Unhappy with TSBs response, Miss M raised a complaint. TSB reviewed the complaint but 
reiterated that it would not look to refund Miss Ms money. It said that as Miss Ms money 
was initially sent to the EMI account held in her own name, the fraud didnt occur on her TSB 
account, so it wasnt covered by its fraud guarantee. 
Miss M remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to this service and one of our 
investigators looked into things. Our investigator thought Miss Ms complaint should be 
upheld. She said Miss M was the innocent victim of a scam which TSBs fraud guarantee 
says is covered. And that there wasnt anything in the guarantee that said scams, where the 
funds were initially transferred to a third-party account, wouldnt be covered. 
TSB didnt agree and asked for an Ombudsmans review. It said its guarantee is clear in that 
the customer would need to be an innocent victim of fraud on their TSB account to be 
covered under the fraud guarantee and in this particular case, Miss Ms loss stemmed from 
her EMI account. It said Miss M made a payment to a legitimate account and the funds were 
received by the intended beneficiary. So, there was no loss from the TSB account and its 
fraud guarantee doesnt apply.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is whether the money Miss M has lost should be covered under 
TSBs fraud guarantee and whether TSB has treated Miss M fairly and reasonably. 
Ive considered what both sides have said carefully. Having done so, I believe TSB should 
refund Miss M the amount she lost as a result of this scam. Ill explain why in more detail 
below:
Miss M says she was the innocent victim of fraud on her account which TSBs fraud 
guarantee says is covered. Shes explained the scammer persuaded her to transfer money 
out of her TSB account and then on to her EMI account, before it was transferred on to the 
scammers themselves.  
TSB disagrees. It says for its guarantee to apply, the fraud must happen on its customers 
account and there can be no intervening transfer between Miss Ms account and the 
scammers  especially where the EMI account had been in regular use prior to the scam. It 
says the loss didnt occur on Miss Ms TSB account, it occurred when she transferred the 
money on from her EMI account. 
TSBs website explains that its fraud guarantee, which was in place at the time of the scam, 
is a first in UK banking and it goes further to cover TSB customers against fraud than 
anything that has come before it. TSBs website explains that if a customer is clearly an 
innocent victim of fraud on their account, the money lost will be refunded  even if the 
customer makes an honest mistake. And Ive seen on the TSB website there is a reference 
to the range of cover the fraud guarantee provides when compared to what is offered by 
other banks:
How is the TSB Fraud Refund Guarantee different to what other banks offer?
At the moment, there are certain times where banks are legally obliged to refund customers, 
however even these have loopholes. Our guarantee covers customers who are clearly 
innocent victims of fraud on their TSB account.
After reading TSBs website, Im satisfied that what happened to Miss M should be fairly and 
reasonably covered under its guarantee. Thats because the wording of TSBs guarantee 
implies that you will be covered if youre an innocent victim of fraud on your account (which 
Im satisfied Miss M was) unless any of the exclusions apply.
So, after considering the wording of TSBs fraud guarantee, I believe its intention is to refund 
innocent victims of fraud  and Miss M is clearly an innocent victim here. A scammer 
contacted her to defraud her of the money that was held in her TSB account. So, its clear to 
me the scam took place on Miss Ms TSB account as the intention was to remove all the 
money the scammer could obtain from her TSB account by telling Miss M to send the money 
to her EMI account and then on to their account - likely in the knowledge that this was more 
likely to be successful. TSB hasnt raised any of the exclusions in its guarantee as a reason for declining Miss Ms 
claim here because it doesnt think the fraud happened on Miss Ms account. But Ive 
considered the exclusions or times where the guarantee doesnt apply section of the 
guarantee anyway. 
The exceptions explain that the guarantee doesnt apply where Miss M is involved in 
committing the fraud or if she has abused the guarantee by deliberately ignoring account 
safety information and/or making repeated claims. It also doesnt apply where Miss M has a 
dispute with a genuine merchant about goods or service. After considering these exclusions, 
Im satisfied that Miss Ms situation doesnt apply to any of them. 
I understand the point TSB is making here that the money wasnt sent directly to the 
scammer in this instance, but I dont consider the wording of its fraud guarantee to be clear 
enough to exclude such a common technique used by scammers. I believe that a 
reasonable person would consider Miss Ms loss to be covered under the fraud guarantee as 
it stands. And if TSB wants to exclude this common type of scam, then it should be more 
specific, within its fraud guarantee, about what is and isnt covered.
The service TSB provided
I understand Miss M is also unhappy with the way TSB dealt with this issue when she raised 
the scam complaint. Specifically, she is unhappy with the amount of time that she had to 
spend on hold whilst waiting to speak with someone about the scam. However, I understand 
that TSB has already offered Miss M £40 in recognition of the inconvenience caused to her. 
And this seems reasonable to me and is in line with what Id expect in similar cases.
Putting things right
Im satisfied Miss Ms loss should be fairly and reasonably covered under TSBs fraud 
guarantee. So, it should refund her £7,500 and pay her interest at the rate she was receiving 
on her ISA from the date her complaint was declined under the guarantee to the date of 
settlement.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
TSB Bank Plc must:
Refund Miss M the £2,500 and £5,000 payments she lost to the scammer. These 
sums must be paid to Miss M within 28 days of receiving notification of her 
acceptance of my decision;
Pay interest on the above sums at the rate Miss M was receiving on her ISA from the 
date her fraud claim was declined under TSBs fraud guarantee to the date of 
settlement.* 
*If TSB considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from the interest award, it 
should tell Miss M how much its taken off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs, if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2023.
 Emly Hanley
Ombudsman