DRN-3161852
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Ageas Insurance Limited handled her home insurance claim poorly, 
and some costs have yet to be settled.  
What happened
In May 2017, Mrs K made a claim following a leak. Mrs Ks family moved into alternative 
accommodation, and her dogs into kennels. 
Various delays and issues arose. Mrs Ks family didnt return home until September 2020. 
Her dogs returned in December 2020. Mrs K says, due to the time the dogs had lived in 
kennels, they were no longer able to live inside. So, the dogs couldnt return until their 
overgrown garden had been reinstated.
Mrs K complained to Ageas about various claim related issues. In July 2020, Ageas issued a 
final response, offering £300 for the delays it had caused during the claim. Unhappy with 
Ageas response, Mrs K referred her complaint to this service. 
Ageas remained in contact with Mrs K, resolving many of the issues. It also increased the 
compensation from £300 to £5,000; offered 50% towards the garden reinstatement costs; 
and £500 towards the final £2,500 kennel bill, for the period after Mrs K had moved back 
home.
Our investigator went on to consider the issues that he understood remained outstanding. 
He issued his initial findings in October 2021. Mrs K raised some further points, and our 
investigator issued follow-up findings in November 2021. In his findings, he set out the 
following:
- He accepted Mrs K hadnt been able to maintain her garden for the three-year period 
she was living in alternative accommodation. However, he thought Ageas 50% offer 
towards her £4,830 garden costs was fair. He noted Mrs K had replaced the grass 
area with paving, and this wasnt a cost Ageas is responsible for. Nonetheless, he 
thought Ageas should pay 8% simple interest on the £2,415 garden settlement.
- He also concluded Ageas should pay 50% of the final £2,500 kennel bill, given it was 
the garden works that prevented the dogs from returning. He also said 8% simple 
interest should be paid on the £1,250 kennel settlement.
- He accepted Mrs K had to pay a £100 to remove a rat infestation, which was a result 
of the property not being occupied. He said if Ageas hadnt settled this part of the 
claim it should do so, plus 8% simple interest.
- He accepted that, in late-April 2020, Mrs K paid £2,500 from her own funds towards a 
kennel bill that had been outstanding since August 2019. He noted Ageas had made 
a payment to Mrs K in June 2020, and part of this payment was for kennel costs up 
to November 2019. He said Ageas should pay 8% simple interest on the £2,500, 
from the dates Mrs K used her own funds in April 2020 to when Ageas made its 
payment in June 2020 (subject to her providing proof of payment to Ageas).
- He noted the final payment, of £5,006, was delayed. He set out that the payment was 
made up of: building repairs, kitchen storage, electricity costs, damaged contents, 
alternative accommodation and kennel costs.
- He thought Ageas should pay 8% simple interest on all but the damaged contents 
part of the delayed final payment (that was paid in November 2020), from the date 
Mrs K had paid for the items from her own funds (subject to her providing proof of 
payment to Ageas). He didnt think interest needed to be added to the settlement 
for the contents items that had been returned damaged, as discussions were 
ongoing for those items until late-October 2020.
- He concluded that Mrs K had contributed to some periods of delay. However, he 
thought Ageas was responsible for most of the avoidable delays. He set out the 
instances he thought the parties were responsible for.
- He accepted Ageas had caused Mrs K avoidable distress by various issues with her 
alternative accommodation arrangements; by delays with the kennel payments; and 
by unfairly forcing a cash settlement. In respect of those three issues, he set out in 
detail why he thought Ageas hadnt handled the claim well.
- He also acknowledged there were issues with contents items being damaged; a rat 
infestation; and delays in cash settlement payments. Furthermore, he noted Mrs K 
had re-homed her dogs after they didnt settle back into family life, which caused 
distress to her family.
- However, whilst he acknowledged that Mrs K was asking for £12,500 compensation, 
he thought £5,000 compensation was fair and reasonable.
Ageas accepted our investigators findings. But because Mrs K remained unhappy, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where evidence is inconclusive, incomplete or contradictory, Ive reached my decision on 
the balance of probabilities. This means Ive determined what I consider is more likely to 
have happened, based on all the evidence that is available and the wider surrounding 
circumstances.
Ive carefully considered Mrs Ks submissions. However, its not our role to comment on 
every point made. Its for me to determine the crux of the complaint, and to address the 
issues I consider relevant to its outcome. Where I havent directly commented on a point, 
this isnt intended as a discourtesy. As explained by our investigator, this is simply a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service, its remit and our roles in it. In terms of the garden, we have been provided with two quotes from November 2019, for the 
restoration of the existing patio and garden. Those quotes, before VAT, were for £1,040 and 
£2,843. Mrs K says there was a third quote, which was higher, but we havent been given a 
copy. The invoice for the eventual work was £4,830, and it was from a different company. 
The invoice didnt include VAT and simply said, Dig out, supply & block pave rear of 
property.
Its not disputed Ageas is responsible for returning the garden to its pre-overgrown condition. 
However, as I understand it, Mrs K chose to have the grass area and one of the two paved 
areas replaced with block paving. This is supported by Mrs Ks comments and photos. The
two previous quotes also refer to restoring existing paving/slabs, whereas the eventual 
invoice refers to block paving the rear of the property.
Mrs K says the works cost £5,770. However, shes only claiming for £4,830 (the amount on 
the main invoice), as the addition of sleepers and paving was her choice. Mrs K says most 
of the paving was a gift, so the further work didnt cost more than a like-for-like restoration 
would have done. However, whilst Ive seen she paid additionally for sleepers and some 
slabs, Im not persuaded the addition of block paving didnt increase costs given the two 
cheaper quotes, and the invoice includes the word supply. Im also persuaded from the 
before and after photos, that Mrs K chose to remodel the garden, rather than simply 
removing the vegetation to restore it to its previous condition.
In the circumstances, I consider Ageas 50% offer to be fair and reasonable. This amount 
(£2,415) is significantly higher than the cheapest quote (£1,040), which in my view, was 
clearly broken down. Im not minded to place any weight on the higher quote (£2,843), 
because it didnt provide a clear breakdown of the costs.
I appreciate there had been another years growth between the initial quotes and the works; 
but Im not persuaded costs would have risen from £1,040 to £4,830. Given theres no 
breakdown of costs on the invoice, I cant reasonably direct Ageas to contribute more.
Mrs K argues Ageas had offered £2,500 towards her garden costs, rather than 50% of her 
invoice (which only equates to £2,415). As noted by our investigator, Ageas told us it was 
prepared to offer 50% and it understood that amount to be £2,500. Whether or not Ageas 
ought to have been aware the invoice was £4,830, its clear its offer was for 50% of the 
costs, not simply £2,500. In any event, whats important here, is Im persuaded 50% 
represents a fair settlement for this part of the complaint.
Mrs K says the dogs couldnt return to living inside after so much time at the kennels, so they 
had to be kept at the kennels until the garden was finished. She says completion of the work 
was delayed by about 40 days due to the landscaper experiencing illness, problems with his 
van, staff issues and child care difficulties. 
Whilst I accept Mrs Ks landscaper experienced various difficulties during the pandemic, on 
balance, I consider it likely that had she simply chosen to restore the garden to its previous 
condition, the dogs could have returned much sooner. I consider it likely that the growth 
could have been cleared, and the dogs safely accommodated, relatively quickly; whilst 
remodelling the garden was always going to mean the dogs were away for longer.
So, on balance, Im persuaded that the main cause of the dogs remaining in kennels for a 
few months after Mrs K had returned home, was her decision to remodel the garden. As 
such, I consider a 50% contribution towards the remaining £2,500 kennel fees to be fair.Ive seen a £100 invoice from a company that placed rat bait. I accept this issue was caused 
by the property being unoccupied for so long. So, it follows that Ageas should reimburse 
Mrs K if it hasnt yet done so.
I agree with our investigator that 8% simple interest per annum should be added to various 
parts of the settlement that have been unfairly delayed, leading to Mrs K using her own 
funds or being without reimbursement for unreasonable periods. Like our investigator, 
I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude interest should be added to the 
damaged contents part of the final payment.
Ill turn now to the matter of compensation. Our investigator set out the events and delays in 
relative detail, so I wont repeat that same information here. Having carefully read Mrs Ks 
submissions, I acknowledge her family has suffered a fair amount of distress and 
inconvenience due to various issues that Ageas is responsible for. 
Mrs Ks family were out of their home for over three years, and as set out by our investigator, 
Ageas was responsible for several periods of delay. Mrs K had to continually chase Ageas 
for agreed payments, and she in turn was being chased by the parties that were owed the 
funds. Mrs K had uncertainty over her familys living arrangements, and on occasions she 
received eviction notices. Mrs Ks family were without their dogs for a long time, and she 
ultimately had to make the difficult decision to re-home them. Although I dont consider it 
reasonable to hold Ageas responsible for Mrs Ks decision to re-home the dogs, Ageas 
certainly contributed to the circumstances that led to her decision.
However, whilst I acknowledge that Mrs Ks family has suffered a fair amount of distress and 
inconvenience which could have been avoided, overall, I consider £5,000 compensation to 
be fair. Ive not seen anything that would have led me to award significantly more, had 
Ageas not made this offer.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is Ageas Insurance Limited should, if its not yet done so, pay Mrs K:
- £2,415 towards the garden works, plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date 
she paid the invoice, to the date of settlement;
- £1,250 towards the final kennel bill, plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date 
she paid the invoice, to the date of settlement;
- £100 for the rat bait invoice, plus 8% simple interest per annum from the date she 
paid the invoice, to the date of settlement;
- 8% simple interest per annum on the delayed £2,500 payment for the August 2019 
kennel bill, from when she paid the bill in April 2020, to when she received the 
payment in June 2020;
- 8% simple interest per annum on the following parts of the delayed final payment, 
from the dates she paid for these items, to the date the payment was made in 
November 2020: building repairs, kitchen storage, electricity costs, alternative 
accommodation and kennel costs; and
- £5,000 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.Apart from the £5,000 compensation, the above awards are subject to Mrs K providing 
Ageas with proof of her paying for the items.
If Ageas considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Mrs K how much its taken off. If requested, Ageas should 
also provide Mrs K with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so she can reclaim it 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman