DRN-3289550
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E complain that Curtis Banks Limiteds administration caused the purchase of a 
commercial property for their self-invested personal pensions (SIPPs) to be delayed. They 
explain that caused them a loss in rental income into both their SIPPs.
What happened
Mr and Mrs E wanted to purchase their commercial property to be held as part of 
their pensions.
Mr and Mrs E both set up SIPPs with Curtis Banks and transferred funds from their 
existing pensions into their SIPPs in order to purchase the property, with 50% to be 
held in each of their two SIPPs.
Curtis Banks were given instructions to appoint solicitors to act for the SIPPs in the 
purchase in November 2019.
The purchase of the property in the SIPPs wasnt completed until December 2020
Mr and Mrs E complained to Curtis Banks about the time that it took to complete the 
purchase.
After looking into what happened, our investigator concluded that the complaint 
shouldnt be upheld as Curtis Banks didnt do anything that caused delays.
Mr and Mrs E dont agree. They dont accept that it was reasonable to take that long 
to purchase the property. And dont think Curtis Banks kept them properly updated 
throughout the purchase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Curtis Banks werent providing Mr and Mrs E with advice in this transaction. They 
were only responsible for carrying out the instructions in line with the terms and 
conditions of the product it offered. It follows that Curtis Banks werent responsible for 
the decision about the amount of funds to transfer to the SIPPs. Or when to make 
those transfers.
Once the SIPPs were opened, charges applied. Those charges were set out in the 
terms for the SIPPs and were applied in line with that. I understand Mr and Mrs Es 
frustration that they were paying charges before the property was purchased. But 
they were paying platform fees which were clear in the terms and conditions. 
I understand why Mr and Mrs E would be frustrated at the time it took to purchase the 
property. Over 12 months does seem hard to accept. But it isnt enough for me to 
think that the purchase took too long to uphold this complaint. 
There were several parties involved in the purchase. Principally the solicitors acting 
for the SIPPs and for the seller. My role is not to comment on the promptness of the 
activities of the other parties in the purchase of the property as they fall outside of the 
scope of a complaint about Curtis Banks. But I cant ignore that there could be a 
number of reasons, that werent the fault of Curtis Banks, why this transfer took the 
time that it did. So I need to try to identify whether Curtis Banks caused the delays.
Ive looked at all of the evidence. And, like our investigator, I havent identified any 
delays that were caused by parties waiting for information or responses from Curtis 
Banks. So Im unable to conclude that anything that Curtis Banks did, or omitted to 
do, added to the time that the purchase took to complete.
Ive also looked at the service that Curtis Banks provided throughout the process. I 
understand that Mr and Mrs E are upset that Curtis Banks failed to keep them 
informed. But I dont think thats fair criticism. Curtis Banks have provided 
correspondence between it and Mr and Mrs Es IFA. It wasnt unreasonable for Curtis 
Banks to suppose that the IFA, representing Mr and Mrs E, passed on the updates. It 
was implied in the correspondence. I can see that Curtis Banks responded promptly 
to enquiries made by the IFA. Providing updates and checking for progress with the 
solicitor acting for the SIPPs.
For these reasons, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should not be upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman