DRN-4480442
The complaint
Mr G complained that Westerby Trustee Services Limited (Westerby) didnt do what it ought 
to have done when it accepted his Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) application. He 
says Westerby are liable in respect of the loss of pension funds that were then transferred 
into the SIPP and invested.
Westerby has been represented by solicitors for periods of our investigation of this 
complaint, and the solicitors representing Westerby have made submissions on behalf of 
Westerby at various times. For simplicity, Ive referred to Westerby throughout, whether the 
submissions came directly from Westerby or were made on its behalf.
What happened
Mr G was introduced to a financial advice firm called Abana Unipessoal Lda (Abana) and an 
advisor called Mr F by someone also connected to Abana called Ms B.
Abana is a financial advisor firm based in Portugal. In December 2013, Abana passported 
into the UK on an Insurance Mediation Directive (IMD) services passport from 12 March 
2013 to 29 December 2015 and an IMD branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 
2016. This means that during those dates, Abana was an EEA-authorised firm and permitted 
to carry out some regulated activities in the UK. 
Mr G received advice from Abana and in late 2013 a SIPP was started with Westerby. Mr 
Gs Westerby SIPP application form was signed on 4 December 2013. Section 9 of the 
application says, Do you have a financial advisor?. This was answered yes and the 
details of Mr F of Abana were added. It instructed that an initial fee of 5% of the switched 
value should be paid to Abana. It was noted in the application form that pension funds from 
three arrangements were to be transferred in from existing pension plans. 
An application form for an investment platform called ePortfolio Solutions, distributed in the 
UK by a business called Asset Management International (AMI), was completed. This 
recorded the financial advisor as being Abana and Mr F was identified. 
The form was signed by Mr F, as a financial advisor with Abana, and Mr G also on 4 
December 2013. It was also signed by Westerby, as trustees of Mr Gs SIPP, on 18 
December 2013. 
Ultimately just over £85,000 was transferred into Mr Gs new SIPP and then invested via the 
ePortfolio platform. The total sum invested was made up of £6,374.73 from a stakeholder 
plan held with Standard Life and £78,866.33, derived from two personal pension plans held 
with Wesleyan. These funds were received in early January 2014.
The majority of the funds in the ePortfolio platform were invested in early 2014 in the Kijani 
Commodity Fund (Kijani) and some were invested in the Swiss Asset Micro Assist Income 
Fund (SAMAIF), both of which were based in Mauritius at the time. 
Its understood that on the advice of Abana, Mr G made similar investments outside of his 
SIPP, after his SIPP was started. I have not considered a complaint about this, and 
understand a complaint about the loss arising from these investments is pursued elsewhere.
On 11 November 2014, Westerby says it wrote to Mr G about his investments in the Kijani 
and SAMAIF funds. However at the time Westerby did not have Mr Gs current address and 
this letter was returned. Westerby wrote again on 20 November 2014 to Mr Gs updated 
address.
The letter explained that the funds would, following a Policy Statement from the Financial 
Conduct Authority (FCA) in August 2014, be considered to be non-standard assets. It 
explained that the funds might be higher risk than Mr G originally considered. The letter also 
said the Mauritian Financial Services Commission (MFSC) had issued enforcement orders 
against companies under which both the Kijani and the SAMAIF funds were cells. 
It explained that non-standard assets are often speculative and high risk, and that it only 
permitted such assets where full investment advice had been provided by a regulated 
financial advisor or where the investor was a High Net Worth/ Sophisticated or Elective 
Professional Investor. It further explained the investments might be higher risk than Mr G 
originally considered, and it was therefore imperative that Mr G discuss this with his 
regulated financial advisor.
It provided the contact details for Mr F and a further representative (Mr GE) of Abana, and 
asked Mr G to confirm whether he wanted to continue to hold the investments or for 
Westerby to attempt to sell them. Westerby says it did not receive a response from Mr G. It 
is suggested that if Mr G had provided a redemption request it is likely he would have 
recovered his investment.
Westerby says it was notified in June 2015 that the Kijani and SAMAIF funds had been 
suspended; and that in July 2015 the ePortfolio platform had been suspended.
On 23 June 2015, Westerby wrote to Mr G providing an update on the Kijani Fund. The letter 
reminded Mr G that the Kijani and SAMAIF funds were now considered non-standard assets 
and explained:
The Kijani fund was being investigated by auditors. The fund managers had 
taken the decision to liquidate all assets and return client investments within 
30 to 60 days. This information had been given to Westerby by AMI, but it 
hadnt been able to ascertain who made the statement originally.
Some investors had made redemption requests over 90 days ago but not 
received any money. 
Westerby said it had recently been informed of proposed changes to Mr Gs advisors and 
that:
The advisor dealing with Abana clients (by this point a Ms B, not Mr F) had 
become directly authorised with the FCA under a new firm (Abana (FS) Ltd). 
Abana customers were in the process of being novated (moved over) to 
Abana (FS) Ltd.
Again it strongly urged Mr G to contact his regulated financial advisor, (referring, I 
assume, to Abana (FS) Ltd). It didnt ask Mr G to confirm whether he wanted to continue 
to hold the investments on this occasion. The contact details for Ms B and Mr GE were provided.
I am aware that Westerby wrote to some customers in July 2015 and explained that the 
licence of the administrator of the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been suspended. I 
have not seen anything suggesting such a letter was sent to Mr G from Westerby in July 
2015 (nor in September 2015 when I understand Westerby again contacted some 
customers in a similar position to Mr G). The letter sent to some customers in July 2015 
explained that other funds held within SIPPs had also been suspended, including the 
SAMAIF. It was explained towards the end of the version of the letter I have seen that:
we recommend that you seek financial advice from an independent financial 
adviser who is authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. Please be aware that 
as detailed in our accompanying letter Abana FS Limited are not deemed to be 
suitably independent.
In the version I have seen Westerby explained that Abana customers werent being novated 
to Abana (FS) Ltd. Westerby said it understood the reason for this was that Abana didnt 
consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably independent to provide advice. 
On 23 December 2015 Westerby wrote to Mr G. It informed Mr G the ePortfolio 
Solutions platform was no longer suspended and funds could be redeemed. It is 
suggested that had Mr G taken up the invitation to contact Westerby if he wanted to 
redeem the funds it was likely he would have been able to recover half of his 
investment. The letter said: 
we now have further information regarding the EPS platform, the Swiss Asset 
Micro Assist Income Fund (SAMAIF) and the Kijani Fund
We have been in correspondence with the new managers of the platform and with 
Asset Management International to confirm details of your redemption (sale) request. 
We understand that trades in the underlying funds have been placed. 
The illiquid funds within your portfolio cannot be sold at present and will remain within 
the SIPP EPS account for the time being.
Based on the information that we have been provided with, the current value of the 
liquid and illiquid elements of the investment are as follows:
Liquid Funds: £44,750.65 (SAMAIF expected to trade again in February)
Illiquid Funds: £45,189.84 (this is not a true value - please see below)
The letter also sets out the redemption timescale for what are described as underlying funds, 
including the TCA Global Credit Fund, the Lucent Strategic Land Fund and the Premier 
Socially Responsible Investment Fund. The letter says the following about SAMAIF:
We have been informed that the suspension on this fund has been lifted, however it 
is not yet active, pending final authority from the Mauritius Financial Services 
Commission. 
EPS have included the value of this fund in the Liquid Funds referred to above. We 
have been advised that this is because the underlying assets and the value of the 
fund have been verified, and that the fund is expected to begin trading again in 
February 2016.It set out that in respect of the Kijani fund (following a meeting of creditors and shareholders 
which Westerby had attended in November 2015) it remained unclear how much of the fund 
would be returned to investors and that it would take a number of years to complete the 
liquidation. It was indicated at the time that litigation was intended against third parties by 
those winding up the investment.
Mr G says he didnt reply to the letters he received from Westerby because he understood 
from Westerby and Mr F (from Abana) that SAMAIF was going to imminently start trading 
again.
An independent compliance review, carried out by Complete Compliance Support 
Limited (CCS) concluded that the advice Mr G received from Abana was unsuitable. On 
6 July 2016 it wrote to Mr G with the outcome of its redress calculation using the figures 
it had been given by Westerby. It noted that neither of the relevant funds were trading. 
Mr G completed the form responding to this loss assessment. However to date he has 
not received any compensation or loss payment from any party.
We issued a final decision on another complaint involving Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP 
application from Abana in February 2021 (the published decision). That final decision has 
been published on our website under DRN7770418. And Ive seen an email on that 
complaint dated 15 April 2016, in which Westerby emailed a consumer and explained that 
holdings in the Kijani and SAMAIF fund were illiquid and that:
Due to the liquidity issues with the funds within the portfolio, the Managed Portfolio 
was split into two - Managed Portfolio S representing the Suspended funds (mostly 
Kijani) and Managed Portfolio L representing the Liquid funds (initially approximately 
20% TCA Global and 80% SAMAIF). ePortfolio Solutions have advised us that 
SAMAIF was initially included in the Liquid portfolio as it was expected to begin 
trading again imminently, however this has not yet happened.
Ive also seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that 
the re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and 
suggests that work to begin trading is still ongoing. In its 6 June 2016 submissions to us on a 
separate complaint featuring SAMAIF Westerby said: 
The SAMAIF is also currently not trading. It is our understanding that they are 
currently in communication with the Mauritian regulators in order to enable 
redemptions from the fund, however there are no definitive timescales as yet.
Westerby has previously sought to clarify that the quoted wording above, which is taken from 
a letter Westerby sent to us on 6 June 2016, was given to it by Abana.
Mr G went on to complain about Westerby. Westerby didnt accept the complaint and 
responded in a letter dated 3 April 2018. It has gone on to provide further responses and 
submissions. These include:
All advice was provided by Abana and liability for unsuitable advice to make 
investments should rest with Abana.
Westerby acts as SIPP Trustee and Scheme Administrator, it doesnt and cant 
provide advice on SIPPs or underlying investments.
Westerby doesnt hold the relevant regulatory permissions to provide financial 
advice.
As SIPP Trustee and Scheme Administrator, Westerby has a responsibility to assess 
the acceptability of an investment for inclusion in a SIPP.
Whilst issued after the events complained about, it considers the due diligence it undertook on Mr Gs investment was in accordance with the standards detailed in the 
FCAs July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
Arrangements under the Westerby SIPP are strictly member-directed.
At the time Mr Gs SIPP investments were made, there was no reason to conclude 
that they didnt satisfy Westerbys requirements.
Under the terms of the Trust Deed it couldnt undertake any investment purchases or 
redemptions without Mr Gs authority to do so.
It carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. And verified 
that Abana was authorised to operate within the UK under an EEA passport.
Abana is authorised and regulated in Portugal by the Autoridade de Supervisao de 
Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes, formely the Instituto de Seguros de Portugal (ISP).
It verified on ISPs Register that Abana held passported authorisations into the UK for 
both life (insurance) and non-life activities. It also verified that Abana was authorised 
by the FSA/ FCA.
It established an Intermediary Terms of Business with Abana.
The Terms of Business included a warranty that the introducer holds, and undertakes 
to maintain, the necessary permissions to advise on SIPPs and the underlying 
investments.
Westerbys standard procedure was to check the Financial Services Register every 
time a SIPP was established and every time advisor remuneration was paid, to verify 
that the introducer remained authorised.
The current version of the Register shows additional information regarding Abanas 
permissions, but this version of the Register only came into effect in September 
2015.
Westerby was reliant on the publically-available Register as it stood at the time.
At that time, the Register didnt show what permissions were held; it simply stated 
that the firm was EEA Authorised and that consumers should contact the firm to 
confirm its complaints and compensation arrangements.
In the absence of any notification to the contrary on the Register, it was considered 
that Abana had full passporting permissions under its EEA Authorisation. 
In the absence of information on any registers to confirm permissions at the time, it 
was reasonable for Westerby to accept Abanas representation (via the signed Terms 
of Business) that it held the necessary regulatory authorisation/permissions to carry 
on its pensions activities.
Abana was an authorised and regulated entity. It was reasonable to expect that it 
would be aware of, and act within, its regulatory permissions. By representing to 
Westerby that it held the necessary permissions, Abana either deliberately misled it, 
or wasnt aware of its lack of permissions.
Its not fair or reasonable to hold Westerby liable for Abanas failures. 
It acted in good faith in accepting the introduction of Mr Gs SIPP by Abana.
The advice provided to Mr G by Abana has been subject to an independent 
compliance review, who concluded that the advice was unsuitable.
Abana has accepted that its liable for the losses suffered as a result of its advice and 
this led to the indpendent compliance redress calculations.
Abanas offer of redress should be enforced, rather than Mr G seeking redress from 
Westerby.
Despite clear warnings from Westerby that funds were likely to be high risk, Mr G did 
not act to redeem the investments.
Redemptions were being made at that time and had Mr G instructed Westerby to 
request a redemption, he would have been able to recover either his entire pension 
fund or half, depending on the date of the letter Westerby sent.
No amount of due diligence that Westerby undertook would have enabled it to 
establish that the Kijani Fund was subject to fraud.As a result of Mr Gs failure to contact it and complete a redemption form in a timely 
manner, the opportunity to recover all or any of his fund was lost.
Westerby cant be held liable for Mr Gs decision to invest in the funds, his 
subsequent decision to retain the funds or his failure to return a redemption form to it 
to arrange a redemption when the opportunity arose.
Investigators view
One of our investigators reviewed Mr Gs complaint and said that Westerby ought to have 
identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and make arrangements for 
personal pensions in the UK. In addition it ought to have taken all the steps available to it to 
independently verify that Abana had the required permissions. And that if Westerby had 
taken these steps, it would have either established Abana didnt have the permissions it 
required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK; or it would 
have been unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. In either 
outcome, it would not have been in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good 
industry practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. Our investigator 
concluded that as Westerby should not have accepted Mr Gs SIPP application from Abana, 
it was fair and reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr G for his financial loss. 
Following the view the investigator explained to Mr G that we were proceeding on the 
understanding that the pension funds transferred into his SIPP were derived from defined 
contribution plans without any guarantees attached. We have received nothing to suggest 
that the plans were anything other than defined contribution plans without any guarantees 
attached.  Information from Wesleyan confirms there were no guaranteed annuity rates 
attached to either of the plans transferred out from them. We understand the Standard Life 
plan to have been a stakeholder arrangement.
 
Westerby didnt agree with the investigators view, and provided further submissions, these 
included:
Section 20 of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA) provides that an 
authorised person acting without permission doesnt make the transaction void or 
unenforceable, and it doesnt give rise to any right of action for breach of statutory 
duty (save for in limited circumstances). This is the opposite approach to someone 
acting without authorisation (as per section 27 of FSMA).
That primary legislation allows for the voiding of contracts where a party is acting 
without authorisation (section 27), but explicitly removes this provision where an 
authorised party acts outside of their permissions (section 20). This demonstrates 
that Parliaments intention was that an authorised party shouldnt be held liable for 
losses flowing from another authorised partys breach of their own requirements. 
It was no part of Westerbys contractual obligations and/or legal obligations (as set 
out in section 20 FSMA) to Mr G, to investigate the permissions of third-party 
advisors.
It has previously requested, amongst other things, disclosure of the details of contact 
between the FCA and this service; records of such communications; file notes or 
attendance notes; details of the FCA contacts role at the FCA; whether the FCA 
contact was dealing with the Register in 2013; and what the FCA contacts 
understanding of the Register in 2013 is based upon. Westerby has highlighted in 
submissions to this service that it has only been provided with the FCAs response thats referred to in the published decision and it has not received further disclosure 
requested. 
Westerby repeated it undertook due diligence before accepting the introductions from 
Abana in accordance with the guidance. This included taking all reasonable steps to 
verify Abanas permissions. Before accepting applications, it checked the FCA 
Register and the permissions page, the latter was blank.
It disagrees that Abana not holding the relevant permissions would have been a 
matter of public record. The FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not 
what was missing from it. The FCA cannot provide any further information than that 
provided on the Register.
There have been various criticisms of the FCA Register over the years, and it may 
have contained errors at times.
Abana had confirmed orally and in writing that it had the necessary permissions, and 
it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on this.
It disagrees with thinking that the Written Agreement was vague and generic in 
nature. The term permissions encompasses top-up permissions, and its 
unrealistic to consider that any change of wording would have caused Abana to not 
provide the undertaking. 
During the changeover from the Financial Services Authority (FSA) to the FCA, the 
FSA allowed a further twelve months for firms to alter their paperwork, including 
agreements, letterheads, and business cards. The date of the Written Agreement 
falls under this time period. 
Its wrong to downplay the extent and thoroughness of the due diligence it performed. 
It met with Abanas representatives and obtained information from them. Abanas 
representatives had good technical knowledge and confirmed that Abana had the 
correct permissions.
It was reasonable to rely on the information provided by Abana in writing, together 
with Westerbys meetings with Abana and the due diligence performed. 
It checked the Portuguese Register, this explained that Abana was authorised to 
advise on life and non-life, the latter Westerby understood meant investments and 
pensions.
Much later, independent consultants appointed by the FCA also spoke to the 
Portuguese Regulator and were told that Abana was authorised to advise on pension 
products. If Westerby had contacted the Portuguese regulator, it would have been 
told the same.
If it was impossible to verify the permissions through the FCA Register, and also a 
regulatory requirement to reject the business on these grounds, it would make it 
impossible for an EEA-passported firm to do any business other than the default 
business allowed by their passport regardless of any top-up permissions held. This 
may be construed as favouring local firms through the backdoor and might be 
unlawful under EU law.Abana was adamant that it had the correct permissions, and since it presented itself 
as knowledgeable and professional, at no time did it present any reason for Westerby 
to doubt its credibility.
This service hasnt properly considered the application of COBS 2.4.6R (and COBS 
2.4.8 G).
Westerby provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the FSA and later the 
FCA. Those organisations were aware through the reports that Abana was 
introducing business to Westerby. In 2015 Westerby was in contact with the FCA 
about Abana. On these occasions the FCA didnt raise any issues or allegations to 
Westerby about a breach of Westerbys duties and obligations.
Abanas actions were more serious than any alleged failures by Westerby.
Its important this service doesnt overlook the gravity of Abanas wrongdoing, when 
considering this complaint against Westerby and the issue of apportionment. 
Abana has now ceased to trade and it seems that the insolvency of Abana (and 
possibly the lack of insurance cover) has influenced the conclusion that Westerby 
should compensate Mr G fully for his losses.
In a previous decision, a different ombudsman dealt with the apportionment issue 
where the complaint was against an EEA firm that had acted outside its permissions. 
The decision apportioned liability between the SIPP provider and the advisor on a 
50/50 basis. 
It has requested a copy of the details of the outcome of this services investigation of 
Mr Gs complaint against Abana.
Any complaint against Abana ought to be decided first, or at the same time, as the 
complaint against Westerby.
Abanas clients, including Mr G, were offered redress by Abana and Mr G isnt 
entitled to be compensated for his losses twice.
Had it uncovered that Abana didnt have the relevant permissions, it would have 
declined all business from Abana from the outset. Thus it would never have received 
Mr Gs application or have been in a position to highlight Abanas lack of 
permissions.
It wouldnt have been at liberty to contact investors directly to tell them why their 
application was refused.
If it had rejected Mr Gs application, Abana would have re-applied on behalf of Mr G 
to another SIPP provider that Abana was using, and that SIPP provider would have 
accepted the application.
This service needs to give the proper weight to the fact that Abanas clients trusted 
Abanas advice.
Having been ordered by the FCA to pay full redress to its client, Abana then refused 
to do so. Little or nothing was done to enforce awards made against Abana for 
redress to investors on similar complaints before Abana ceased to trade. Losses caused by the apparent failings of other authorities should not rest with Westerby.
Following its November 2014 letter, any investor would have sought independent 
financial advice or made some reasonable enquiries. 
There needs to be proper account of Mr Gs failure to mitigate his losses.
The fact the redemption forms sent to Mr G were never returned, shows Mr Gs 
failure to discharge his duty to mitigate his losses.
By concluding that it wasnt reasonable for Mr G to take some action after its letters, 
this service is effectively deciding that Westerby was always liable for any 
subsequent losses irrespective of the duty on Mr G to mitigate his losses. 
Westerby ought to be provided with a copy of the relevant information that the 
investigator has relied upon in reaching their view.
Originally, Abana put its clients into the Kijani and SAMAIF funds directly. Later on, 
Mr F of Abana made arrangements (without Westerbys authority) for the funds to be 
placed into the EPS Managed Fund  a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) which 
essentially acted as a fund of funds, comprised of the Kijani, SAMAIF and the TCA 
Global funds.
When ePortfolio Solutions started trading again, they split the funds into two 
portfolios (Managed Portfolio S containing the Kijani Fund, and Managed Portfolio L 
containing SAMAIF and TCA Global funds (S standing for Suspended, and L for 
Liquid)). 
SAMAIF was included in Portfolio L as it was expected to begin trading again. 
Redemptions from this fund were made by the managers selling TCA Global, hence 
they were able to make redemptions initially. Ultimately TCA Global was depleted (it 
had effectively been used to subsidise the early redemption requests in the 
expectation that SAMAIF would begin trading again, a decision that Westerby had no 
control over).
Previous final decision on a complaint against Westerby
As set out above, we issued a final decision in February 2021 on another complaint involving 
Westerbys acceptance of a SIPP application from Abana. That final decision has been 
published on our website under DRN7770418. 
That decision relates to Abana and features the same key issue, namely the permissions 
held and required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and 
Westerbys knowledge of this. Westerby has made the same, or very similar, submissions on 
that case and some of its recent submissions on this case are made with reference to the 
published decision. 
After the published decision was issued, Westerby was asked to take it into consideration, 
as an important representative decision, in accordance with the relevant FCA DISP Rules 
and Guidance (particularly DISP 1.4.1, 1.4.2 and 1.3.2A), which should be taken into 
account when assessing other similar complaints. 
On this basis, Westerby was asked to review (amongst others) outstanding complaints 
involving Abana (including Mr Gs) and if it wasnt prepared to change its position after taking account of the detailed reasons set out in the published decision, to explain why that was the 
case. Westerby didnt change its position.
Other submissions from Westerby
Ive carefully considered all the submissions Westerby has made over the course of this 
complaint. This includes further submissions its made following on from the published 
decision. Westerby didnt think wed addressed everything submitted. In addition and 
amongst other things, Westerby has said: 
The published decision confirms we contacted the FCA about whether top-up 
permissions appear on the FCA Register and that the FCA confirmed that top up 
permissions do appear on the Register under the Permission page and that the 
FCA understands the same information was available on the Register in 2013.
There has been no disclosure of the details of the contact at the FCA with whom this 
service communicated (including details set out above) and not to disclose this is 
procedurally unfair.
An understanding of what was on the Register in 2013 isnt proof of what was 
actually on the Register at the relevant time. 
It was reasonable for Westerby to assume from the Terms of Business agreement 
between itself and Abana, that Abana had the necessary permissions. Further, it 
doesnt accept that it ought to have been reasonably aware of cause to have 
questioned the accuracy of the statement in the Agreement. 
The published decision concedes that information which wasnt available on the 
Register wouldnt have been provided to Westerby by the FCA if it wasnt already on 
the Register. But the published decision also says that if Westerby had contacted the 
FCA directly the FCA would have been able to confirm Abanas permissions. No 
information has been provided about this and the FCAs position generally. 
Westerby made a Freedom of Information request to the FCA. And, in response, the 
FCA confirmed that in 2013, the Register would have indicated the broad 
permissions held under IMD by a firm which would have been either insurance 
mediation or reinsurance mediation and that there was no requirement under the IMD 
to display more detailed activities. Any further information not displayed on the 
Register would have been considered confidential information under Section 348 of 
the FSMA which prohibits disclosure of this information. 
In the published decision the ombudsman sought to distinguish the complaint from 
the situation in the Adams court case on the basis that Abana was offering an 
advisory service. Its unclear how Abanas contractually defined role impacts on the 
scope of duty owed by Westerby under COBS 2.1.1R. It was no part of Westerbys 
contractual obligations to investigate the permissions of third-party advisors. 
In the published decision the ombudsman failed to follow DISP 3.6.3G, which 
provides: Where a complainant makes a complaint against more than one 
respondent in respect of connected circumstances, the Ombudsman may determine 
that the respondents must contribute towards the overall award in the proportion that 
the Ombudsman considers appropriate.Despite there being a related complaint about the actions of Abana, in the published 
decision the ombudsman decided that Westerby should compensate the consumer 
for the full extent of his financial losses. This is not fair or reasonable. The 
ombudsman failed to assess apportionment and causation, and, by implication, ought 
to have done so.
Abana has ceased trading and closed, so any indemnity from Abana and/or 
assignment of any action against it would now be worthless.
Complaints made against Abana to this service ought to have been decided first, or 
at least at the same time as complaints against Westerby. This service dealing with 
the complaint against Westerby first has led to the failure to address the issue of 
apportionment. 
This service has found against Abana in a number of complaints involving a different 
SIPP operator and ordered Abana to pay redress, yet we havent pursued, or invited 
the complainants to pursue, that SIPP operator.
Westerby has made a number of submissions to us, in this complaint and in separate 
complaints featuring Abana and the same key issue, namely the permissions held and 
required by an incoming EEA firm dealing with personal pensions in the UK, and Westerbys 
knowledge of this. In addition to those summarised above, these submissions include that:
GEN 4 Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook states that an incoming (EEA) firm must make 
details of the extent of its permissions clear on request. This shows that the FCA 
directs that the firm should confirm its permissions. Its Terms of Business provided 
for such a request and here effectively formalised this disclosure through a signed 
agreement.
FSMA acknowledges theres a general principle that consumers should take 
responsibility for their decisions, a principle which the FCA should have regard to 
when considering consumer protection. This service is part of the consumer 
protection provisions under FSMA, and it follows that we must similarly have regard 
to this principle. Theres a clear intention in law that consumers have a level of 
responsibility, and this service has issued other decisions which take account of a 
consumers failure to take action to mitigate their losses.
Its due diligence didnt simply comprise of a check of the regulators Register. Its 
Chairman and Compliance Oversight was present at several face-to-face meetings 
with Abana's advisor and Compliance Director. There was a thorough "testing" of 
processes and due diligence. 
This culminated in Westerby establishing a legal document, the Terms of Business, 
between itself and Abana. In this Abana affirmed that it had the required permissions 
to introduce the SIPP. Abana therefore effectively "defrauded" Westerby.
Its able to accept applications from non-regulated introducers. This isnt something it 
has done, but this is acceptable to the FCA.
It doesnt hold a copy of the Registers "Permission" page for Abana.  
It has been able to retrieve archived copies of the page for other passported firms 
from the relevant time period. In every case the Permission page simply shows "No 
matches found".The "Basic Details" page of Abana's Register entry included a field labelled 
"Undertakes Insurance Mediation", but the field was left blank, for UK firms it was 
always completed. 
Westerbys argument isnt that there werent other sections of the Register, rather its 
that Abanas permissions couldnt be determined from the Register, due to the limited 
information available. In other words, Westerby doesnt accept that, at the relevant 
time (when the online Register was viewed in 2013), there was information regarding 
permissions available or accessible by an online user.
Provisional decision
On 23 October 2023 I issued a provisional decision in this matter. This was to let parties 
know what I considered relevant and what I intended to say, subject to anything new I might 
receive.
We have not received any response from Westerby to my provisional decision and the other 
communications we sent following my provisional decision being issued. Mr G accepts my 
provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have not changed my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision 
and I am upholding this complaint.
When considering whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances, I need to take account of 
relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time. I have done so here, whilst also carefully balancing all that has been provided and 
submitted.
The parties have provided detailed submissions and Im grateful to them for doing so. Ive 
considered these submissions carefully and in their entirety. However, I trust they will 
understand I mean no discourtesy in that my decision focuses on what I consider to be the 
relevant issues. To be clear, my role and the purpose of this decision isnt to comment on 
every individual point or question the parties have made, rather its to set out my findings 
and reasons for reaching them. I am not required to address every point and submission and 
it is for me to assess everything provided and attach weight where I consider it relevant. This 
service is an informal dispute resolution forum. A complaint made to us need not be and is 
rarely made with the formality or clarity of formal legal pleadings. This service is an 
alternative to the courts and is intended to be an informal and accessible service, and we 
deal with complaints, not causes of action. I am satisfied I have sufficient information to 
reach a fair and reasonable decision.
Mr G complained about Westerby and thinks it should have completed more checks. Had it 
done so, he does not believe he would be in the position he is now in. I agree and I uphold 
his complaint. I dont think Westerby did what it ought to have done.
Westerbys response letter to Mr Gs complaint demonstrates its understanding that his 
complaint encompassed the adequacy of checks it undertook as a SIPP provider when 
accepting his business and on the investments made after it had accepted his business. I say this because, in responding to Mr Gs complaint, Westerby sought to clarify to Mr G what 
it said about some of its duties as his SIPP provider and checks it had undertaken. Westerby 
also referenced some steps it had taken when it became aware of issues with the 
investments. It also told Mr G that it had carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting 
business from it, and included infomation about some of those checks. 
Given the general nature of Mr Gs complaint (hes unhappy with Westerby and says it 
should have completed more checks), in deciding whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, its appropriate to take an inquisitorial approach. Ultimately, what Ill be 
looking at here is whether Westerby took reasonable care, acted with due diligence, and 
treated Mr G fairly, in accordance with his best interests, and what I think is fair and 
reasonable in light of that. I think the key issue in Mr Gs complaint is whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Westerby to have accepted Mr Gs SIPP application in the first place. So, I 
need to consider whether Westerby carried out appropriate due diligence checks on Abana 
before deciding to accept Mr Gs SIPP application from Abana.
Relevant considerations
Ive carefully taken account of the relevant considerations to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
The FCAs Principles for Businesses are of particular relevance. The Principles for 
Businesses set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general statement of the fundamental 
obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 1.1.2G  at the relevant date). 
Principles 2, 3 and 6 provide: 
Principle 2  Skill, care and diligence  A firm must conduct its business with due 
skill, care and diligence.
Principle 3  Management and control  A firm must take reasonable care to 
organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with adequate risk 
management systems.
Principle 6  Customers interests  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Ive carefully considered the relevant law and what this says about the application of the 
FCAs Principles. In R (British Bankers Association) v Financial Services Authority [2011] 
EWHC 999 (Admin) (BBA) Ouseley J said at paragraph 162:
The Principles are best understood as the ever-present substrata to which the 
specific rules are added. The Principles always have to be complied with. The 
Specific rules do not supplant them and cannot be used to contradict them. They are 
but specific applications of them to the particular requirements they cover. The 
general notion that the specific rules can exhaust the application of the Principles is 
inappropriate. It cannot be an error of law for the Principles to augment specific 
rules. 
And at paragraph 77 of BBA Ouseley J said:
Indeed, it is my view that it would be a breach of statutory duty for the Ombudsman 
to reach a view on a case without taking the Principles into account in deciding what 
would be fair and reasonable and what redress to afford. Even if no Principles had 
been produced by the FSA, the FOS would find it hard to fulfil its particular statutory 
duty without having regard to the sort of high-level Principles which find expression in the Principles, whoever formulated them. They are of the essence of what is fair and 
reasonable, subject to the argument about their relationship to specific rules.
In R (Berkeley Burke SIPP Administration Ltd) v Financial Ombudsman Service [2018] 
EWHC 2878) (BBSAL), Berkeley Burke brought a judicial review claim challenging the 
decision of an ombudsman who had upheld a consumers complaint against it. The 
ombudsman considered the FCA Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time. 
He concluded that it was fair and reasonable for Berkeley Burke to have undertaken due 
diligence in respect of the investment before allowing it into the SIPP wrapper, and that if it 
had done so, it would have refused to accept the investment. The ombudsman found 
Berkeley Burke had therefore not complied with its regulatory obligations and hadnt treated 
its client fairly. 
Jacobs J, having set out some paragraphs of BBA including paragraph 162 set out above, 
said (at paragraph 104 of BBSAL): 
These passages explain the overarching nature of the Principles. As the FCA 
correctly submitted in their written argument, the role of the Principles is not merely to 
cater for new or unforeseen circumstances. The judgment in BBA shows that they 
are, and indeed were always intended to be, of general application. The aim of the 
Principles-based regulation described by Ouseley J. was precisely not to attempt to 
formulate a code covering all possible circumstances, but instead to impose general 
duties such as those set out in Principles 2 and 6. 
The BBSAL judgment also considers section 228 of the FSMA and the approach an 
ombudsman is to take when deciding a complaint. The judgment of Jacobs J in BBSAL 
upheld the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman in that complaint, which Ive 
described above, and included the Principles and good industry practice at the relevant time 
as relevant considerations that were required to be taken into account. 
As outlined above, Ouseley J in the BBA case held that it would be a breach of statutory 
duty if I were to reach a decision on a complaint without taking the Principles into account in 
deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a case. And Jacobs J 
adopted a similar approach to the application of the Principles in BBSAL. Im therefore 
satisfied that the Principles are a relevant consideration that I must take into account when 
deciding this complaint. 
On 18 May 2020, the High Court handed down its judgment in the case of Adams v Options 
SIPP [2020] EWHC 1229 (Ch). Mr Adams subsequently appealed the decision of the High 
Court, and on 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal handed down its judgment in Adams v 
Options UK Personal Pensions LLP [2021] EWCA Civ 474. Ive taken account of both these 
judgments when reaching my decision on Mr Gs case. 
I note that the Principles for Businesses didnt form part of Mr Adams pleadings in his initial 
case against Options SIPP. In addition, HHJ Dight didnt consider the application of the 
Principles to SIPP operators in his judgment. The Court of Appeal also gave no 
consideration to the application of the Principles to SIPP operators. So neither of the 
judgments say anything about how the Principles apply to an ombudsmans consideration of 
a complaint. But to be clear, I dont say this means Adams isnt a relevant consideration and 
I have taken account of both judgments. 
I acknowledge that COBS 2.1.1R (A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client) overlaps with certain of the Principles, and 
this rule was considered by HHJ Dight in the High Court case. Mr Adams submitted that 
Options SIPP owed him a duty to comply with COBS 2.1.1R. A breach of such duty, he argued, was actionable pursuant to section 138(D) of FSMA (the COBS claim). HHJ Dight 
rejected this claim and found that Options SIPP had complied with the best interests rule on 
the facts of Mr Adams case.  
The Court of Appeal rejected Mr Adams appeal against HHJ Dights dismissal of the COBS 
claim, on the basis that Mr Adams was seeking to advance a case that was radically 
different to that found in his initial pleadings. The Court found that this part of Mr Adams 
appeal didnt so much represent a challenge to the grounds on which HHJ Dight had 
dismissed the COBS claim, but rather was an attempt to put forward an entirely new case.  
I note that in Adams v Options SIPP, HHJ Dight concluded it was the factual context of a 
case that would inform the extent of the duty imposed by COBS 2.1.1R. HHJ Dight said at 
paragraph 148: 
In my judgment in order to identify the extent of the duty imposed by Rule 2.1.1 one 
has to identify the relevant factual context, because it is apparent from the 
submissions of each of the parties that the context has an impact on the 
ascertainment of the extent of the duty. The key fact, perhaps composite fact, in the 
context is the agreement into which the parties entered, which defined their roles and 
functions in the transaction. 
In my view there are significant differences between the breaches of COBS 2.1.1R alleged 
by Mr Adams (summarised in paragraph 120 of the Court of Appeal judgment) and the 
issues in Mr Gs complaint. In particular, as HHJ Dight noted, he wasnt asked to consider 
the question of due diligence before Options SIPP agreed to accept the store pods 
investment into its SIPP. 
The facts of Mr Adams and Mr Gs cases are different, and so it follows there are factual 
differences between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Gs case. My role here is to construe the 
duties Westerby owed to Mr G under COBS 2.1.1R in light of the specific facts of Mr Gs 
case. 
In the published decision it was noted that in Adams v Options SIPP HHJ Dight accepted 
that the transaction with Options SIPP proceeded on an execution-only basis, i.e. without 
any advice from the business introducing the SIPP application. The transaction between Mr 
G and Westerby in this case proceeded on the basis that Mr G was being advised by an 
authorised advisor. I make this point simply to highlight that there are factual differences 
between Adams v Options SIPP and Mr Gs case. Ive considered COBS 2.1.1R, alongside 
the remainder of the relevant considerations, and within the factual context of Mr Gs case, 
including Westerbys role.  
Its important to emphasise that I must determine this complaint by reference to what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case. And, in doing that, Im 
required to take into account relevant considerations which include the applicable law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time. This is 
a clear and relevant point of difference between this complaint and Adams v Options SIPP. 
That was a legal claim which was defined by the formal pleadings of Mr Adams case.  
I also want to emphasise that I dont say that Westerby was under any obligation to advise 
Mr G on the SIPP and/or the underlying investments. Refusing to accept an application 
because it came about as a result of advice given by a firm which didnt have the required 
permissions to be giving that advice, and had been introduced by that same firm, isnt the 
same thing as advising Mr G on the merits of investing and/or transferring to the SIPP. Im satisfied that COBS 2.1.1R is a relevant consideration, but that it needs to be considered 
alongside the other relevant considerations, and within the facts of Mr Gs case.   
The regulatory publications
The FCA (and its predecessor, the FSA) issued a number of publications which reminded 
SIPP operators of their obligations, and which set out how they might achieve the outcomes 
envisaged by the Principles, namely:
The 2009 and 2012 Thematic Review reports.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter.
The 2009 Thematic Review Report
The 2009 report included the following statement: 
We are very clear that SIPP operators, regardless of whether they provide advice, are 
bound by Principle 6 of the Principles for Businesses (a firm must pay due regard to the 
interests of its clients and treat them fairly) insofar as they are obliged to ensure the fair 
treatment of their customers. COBS 3.2.3(2) states that a member of a pension scheme is a 
client for COBS purposes, and Customer in terms of Principle 6 includes clients. 
It is the responsibility of SIPP operators to continuously analyse the individual risks to 
themselves and their clients, with reference to the six TCF [Treating Customers Fairly] 
consumer outcomes
We agree that firms acting purely as SIPP operators are not responsible for the SIPP advice 
given by third parties such as IFAs. However, we are also clear that SIPP operators cannot 
absolve themselves of any responsibility, and we would expect them to have procedures and 
controls, and to be gathering and analysing management information, enabling them to 
identify possible instances of financial crime and consumer detriment such as unsuitable 
SIPPs. Such instances could then be addressed in an appropriate way, for example by 
contacting the members to confirm the position, or by contacting the firm giving advice and 
asking for clarification. Moreover, while they are not responsible for the advice, there is a 
reputational risk to SIPP operators that facilitate SIPPs that are unsuitable or detrimental to 
clients.
Of particular concern were firms whose systems and controls were weak and inadequate to 
the extent that they had not identified obvious potential instances of poor advice and/or 
potential financial crime. Depending on the facts and circumstances of individual cases, we 
may take enforcement action against SIPP operators who do not safeguard their customers 
interests in this respect, with reference to Principle 3 of the Principles for Business (a firm 
must take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs responsibly and effectively, with 
adequate risk management systems).
The following are examples of measures that SIPP operators could consider, taken from 
examples of good practice that we observed and suggestions we have made to firms:
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.Having Terms of Business agreements governing relationships, and clarifying 
respective responsibilities, with intermediaries introducing SIPP business.
Routinely recording and reviewing the type (i.e. the nature of the SIPP investment) 
and size of investments recommended by intermediaries that give advice and 
introduce clients to the firm, so that potentially unsuitable SIPPs can be identified.
Being able to identify anomalous investments, e.g. unusually small or large 
transactions or more esoteric investments such as unquoted shares, together with 
the intermediary that introduced the business. This would enable the firm to seek 
appropriate clarification, e.g. from the client or their adviser, if it is concerned about 
the suitability of what was recommended.
Requesting copies of the suitability reports provided to clients by the intermediary 
giving advice. While SIPP operators are not responsible for advice, having this 
information would enhance the firms understanding of its clients, making the 
facilitation of unsuitable SIPPs less likely.
Routinely identifying instances of execution-only clients who have signed disclaimers 
taking responsibility for their investment decisions, and gathering and analysing data 
regarding the aggregate volume of such business.
Identifying instances of clients waiving their cancellation rights, and the reasons for 
this.
The later publications 
In the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance, the FCA stated: 
This guide, originally published in September 2009, has been updated to give firms further 
guidance to help meet the regulatory requirements. These are not new or amended 
requirements, but a reminder of regulatory responsibilities that became a requirement in 
April 2007.
All firms, regardless of whether they do or do not provide advice must meet Principle 6 and 
treat customers fairly. COBS 3.2.3(2) is clear that a member of a pension scheme is a client 
for SIPP operators and so is a customer under Principle 6. It is a SIPP operators 
responsibility to assess its business with reference to our six TCF consumer outcomes.
The October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance also set out the following:
Relationships between firms that advise and introduce prospective members and 
SIPP operators 
Examples of good practice we observed during our work with SIPP operators include the 
following: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that: introducers that advise clients 
are authorised and regulated by the FCA; that they have the appropriate permissions 
to give the advice they are providing; neither the firm, nor its approved persons are 
on the list of prohibited individuals or cancelled firms and have a clear disciplinary 
history; and that the firm does not appear on the FCA website listings for un-
authorised business warnings. Having terms of business agreements that govern relationships and clarify the 
responsibilities of those introducers providing SIPP business to a firm. 
Understanding the nature of the introducers work to establish the nature of the firm, 
what their business objectives are, the types of clients they deal with, the levels of 
business they conduct and expect to introduce, the types of investments they 
recommend and whether they use other SIPP operators. Being satisfied that they are 
appropriate to deal with. 
Being able to identify irregular investments, often indicated by unusually small or 
large transactions; or higher risk investments such as unquoted shares which may be 
illiquid. This would enable the firm to seek appropriate clarification, for example from 
the prospective member or their adviser, if it has any concerns. 
Identifying instances when prospective members waive their cancellation rights and 
the reasons for this. 
Although the members advisers are responsible for the SIPP investment advice given, as a 
SIPP operator the firm has a responsibility for the quality of the SIPP business it administers. 
Examples of good practice we have identified include: 
conducting independent verification checks on members to ensure the information 
they are being supplied with, or that they are providing the firm with, is authentic and 
meets the firms procedures and are not being used to launder money 
having clear terms of business agreements in place which govern relationships and 
clarify responsibilities for relationships with other professional bodies such as 
solicitors and accountants, and 
using non-regulated introducer checklists which demonstrate the SIPP operators 
have considered the additional risks involved in accepting business from non-
regulated introducers.
In relation to due diligence the October 2013 finalised SIPP operator guidance said:
Due diligence 
Principle 2 of the FCAs Principles for Businesses requires all firms to conduct their business 
with due skill, care and diligence. All firms should ensure that they conduct and retain 
appropriate and sufficient due diligence (for example, checking and monitoring introducers 
as well as assessing that investments are appropriate for personal pension schemes) to help 
them justify their business decisions. In doing this SIPP operators should consider: 
ensuring that all investments permitted by the scheme are permitted by HMRC, or 
where a tax charge is incurred, that charge is identifiable, HMRC is informed and the 
tax charge paid 
periodically reviewing the due diligence the firm undertakes in respect of the 
introducers that use their scheme and, where appropriate enhancing the processes 
that are in place in order to identify and mitigate any risks to the members and the 
scheme 
having checks which may include, but are not limited to: oensuring that introducers have the appropriate permissions, qualifications and 
skills to introduce different types of business to the firm, and 
oundertaking additional checks such as viewing Companies House records, 
identifying connected parties and visiting introducers 
ensuring all third-party due diligence that the firm uses or relies on has been 
independently produced and verified 
good practices we have identified in firms include having a set of benchmarks, or 
minimum standards, with the purpose of setting the minimum standard the firm is 
prepared to accept to either deal with introducers or accept investments, and 
ensuring these benchmarks clearly identify those instances that would lead a firm to 
decline the proposed business, or to undertake further investigations such as 
instances of potential pension liberation, investments that may breach HMRC tax-
relievable investments and non-standard investments that have not been approved 
by the firm.
The July 2014 Dear CEO letter provides a further reminder that the Principles apply, and 
an indication of the FCAs expectations about the kinds of practical steps a SIPP operator 
might reasonably take to achieve the outcomes envisaged by the Principles.
The Dear CEO letter also sets out how a SIPP operator might meet its obligations in 
relation to investment due diligence. It says those obligations could be met by:
correctly establishing and understanding the nature of an investment
ensuring that an investment is genuine and not a scam, or linked to fraudulent 
activity, money-laundering or pensions liberation
ensuring that an investment is safe/secure (meaning that custody of assets is 
through a reputable arrangement, and any contractual agreements are correctly 
drawn-up and legally enforceable)
ensuring that an investment can be independently valued, both at point of purchase 
and subsequently, and
ensuring that an investment is not impaired (for example that previous investors have 
received income if expected, or that any investment providers are credit worthy etc.)
Although Ive referred to selected parts of the publications to illustrate their relevance, Ive 
considered each in their entirety. 
I acknowledge the 2009 and 2012 reports and the Dear CEO letter arent formal guidance 
(whereas the 2013 finalised guidance is). However, the fact that the reports and Dear CEO 
letter didnt constitute formal guidance doesnt mean their importance should be 
underestimated. They provide a reminder that the Principles for Businesses apply and are 
an indication of the kinds of things a SIPP operator might do to ensure it is treating its 
customers fairly and producing the outcomes envisaged by the Principles. In that respect, 
the publications which set out the regulators expectations of what SIPP operators should be 
doing, also go some way to indicate what I consider amounts to good industry practice, and 
Im satisfied its appropriate to take them into account.Its relevant that when deciding what amounted to have been good industry practice in the 
BBSAL case, the ombudsman found that the regulators reports, guidance and letter go a 
long way to clarify what should be regarded as good practice and what should not. The 
court in BBSAL endorsed the lawfulness of the approach taken by the ombudsman. 
Im satisfied that Westerby, at the time of the events under consideration here, thought the 
2009 Thematic Review Report was relevant, and thought that it set out examples of good 
industry practice. Westerby did carry out work on due diligence on Abana. So, it clearly 
thought it was good practice to do so, at the very least. 
Like the ombudsman in the BBSAL case, I dont think the fact that a publication referred to 
above post-dates the events that took place in relation to Mr Gs complaint, means that the 
examples of good practice they provide werent good practice at the time of the relevant 
events. Although the Dear CEO letter was published later, the Principles that underpin the 
publications existed throughout, as did the obligation to act in accordance with the 
Principles. 
Its also clear from the text of the 2009 and 2012 reports (and the Dear CEO letter in 2014) 
that the regulator expected SIPP operators to have incorporated the recommended good 
practices into the conduct of their business already. So, whilst the regulators comments 
suggest some industry participants understanding of how the good practice standards 
shaped what was expected of SIPP operators changed over time, its clear the standards 
themselves hadnt changed.
That doesnt mean that in considering whats fair and reasonable, I only considered 
Westerbys actions with these documents in mind. The reports, Dear CEO letter and 
guidance gave non-exhaustive examples of good practice. They didnt say the suggestions 
given were the limit of what a SIPP operator should do. As the annex to the Dear CEO 
letter notes, what should be done to meet regulatory obligations will depend on the 
circumstances. 
Westerby have said to us that section 20 of FSMA provides that an authorised person acting 
without permissions, doesnt make the transaction void or unenforceable and it doesnt give 
rise to any right of action for breach of statutory duty (save in limited circumstances). And its 
said that this is the opposite approach to someone acting without authorisation, as per 
section 27 of FSMA. Westerby suggests Parliaments intention was that an authorised party 
shouldnt be held liable for losses flowing from another authorised partys breach of their own 
requirements and that this service shouldnt depart from statute. Westerby has also 
previously submitted that part of the regulatory publications referred to appear to directly 
contradict the intention of legislation.
Ive carefully considered Westerbys submissions, and the contents of sections 20 and 27 of 
FSMA. With regards to the contents of section 20, its not my role to determine whether an 
offence has occurred or if theres something that gives rise to a right to take legal action. Im 
not making a finding here on whether Mr Gs application is void or unenforceable. Rather, 
Im making a decision on whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case, and 
for all the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied that the Principles and the publications 
listed above are relevant considerations to that decision.
In determining this complaint, I need to consider whether, in accepting Mr Gs SIPP 
application from Abana, Westerby complied with its regulatory obligations. In summary, to 
act with due skill, care, and diligence; to take reasonable care to organise and control its 
affairs responsibly and effectively; to pay due regard to the interests of its customers and 
treat them fairly; and to act honestly, fairly, and professionally. I have looked to the Principles and the publications listed above, to provide an indication of what Westerby could have done 
to comply with its regulatory obligations and duties.
 
In this case, the business Westerby was conducting was its operation of SIPPs. Im satisfied 
that meeting its regulatory obligations when conducting this business would include deciding 
whether to accept or reject particular investments and/or referrals of business. The 
regulators reports and guidance provided some examples of good practice, observed by 
both the FSA and FCA during their work with SIPP operators. This included confirming, both 
initially and on an ongoing basis, that introducers who advise clients have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice provided. 
Taking account of the factual context of this case, its my view that in order for Westerby to 
meet its regulatory obligations, (under the Principles and COBS 2.1.1R), it should have 
undertaken sufficient due diligence checks to ensure Abana had the required permissions to 
give advice on and make arrangements in relation to personal pensions in the UK before 
accepting Mr Gs business from it. 
Westerby says it carried out due diligence on Abana before accepting business from it. 
Based on what I have seen, I accept that it undertook some checks. However I have also 
needed to consider what was done and whether Westerby ought to have, in compliance with 
its regulatory obligations, identified that Abana didnt in fact have the top-up permissions 
from the FCA it required to be giving advice on, and arranging, personal pensions in the UK. 
I have then considered whether, based on my thinking on these matters, Westerby should as 
a consequence have refused Mr Gs SIPP application from Abana. 
The regulatory position 
Abana was based in Portugal and was authorised and regulated in Portugal by Autoridade 
de Supervisao de Seguros e Fundos de Pensoes (ASF). As above, Abana held an IMD 
branch passport from 8 January 2014 to 7 January 2016 and an IMD services passport from 
12 March 2013 to 29 December 2015. 
Under Article 2 of IMD 2002/92/EC, insurance mediation and reinsurance mediation are 
defined as: 
3. insurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim.

4. reinsurance mediation means the activities of introducing, proposing or carrying 
out other work preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of reinsurance, or of 
concluding such contracts, or of assisting in the administration and performance of 
such contracts, in particular in the event of a claim. 
In the FSAs consultation paper 201, entitled Implementation of the Insurance Mediation 
Directive for Long-term insurance business its stated (on page 7): 
We are implementing the IMD for general insurance and pure protection business 
from January 2005 (when they will require authorisation).
Unlike general insurance and pure protection policies, the sale of life and pensions 
policies is already regulated. Life and pensions intermediaries must be authorised by 
us and are subject to our regulation.Chapter 12 of the FCAs Perimeter Guidance Manual (PERG) offers guidance to persons, 
such as Westerby, running personal pension schemes. The guidance in place at the time the 
application was made for Mr Gs SIPP confirms at PERG12.2 that a personal pension 
scheme, for the purpose of regulated activities: 
is defined in the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) Order 
2001 (the Regulated Activities Order) as any scheme other than an occupational pension 
scheme (OPS) or a stakeholder pension scheme that is to provide benefits for people:
on retirement; or
on reaching a particular age; or
on termination of service in an employment.
It goes on to say:
This will include self-invested personal pension schemes (SIPPs) as well as 
personal pensions provided to consumers by product companies such as insurers, 
unit trust managers, contractual scheme managers or deposit takers (including free-
standing voluntary contribution schemes).
Thus, the Regulated Activities Order explains that a SIPP is a personal pension scheme. 
Article 82 of the Regulated Activities Order (Part III Specified Investments) provides that 
rights under a personal pension scheme are a specified investment.
 
Westerby itself had regulatory permission to establish and operate personal pension 
schemes (a regulated activity under Article 52 of the Regulated Activities Order). It didnt 
have permission to carry on the separate activity under Article 10 of effecting and carrying 
out insurance.
At the time of Mr Gs application, SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook set out Guidance on 
passporting issues and SUP App 3.9.7G provided the following table of permissible 
activities under Article 2(3) of the Insurance Mediation Directive in terms of the attendant 
Regulated Activities Order Article number: 
Table 2B: Insurance Mediation Directive Activities Part II RAO 
Activities Part III RAO 
Investments 
1.Introducing, proposing or carrying out other work 
preparatory to the conclusion of contracts of insurance.Articles 25, 53 
and 64Articles 75, 89 (see 
Note 1)
2.Concluding contracts of insurance Articles 21, 25, 
53 and 64Articles 75, 89
3.Assisting in the administration and performance of 
contracts of insurance, in particular in the event of a 
claim.Articles 39A, 64 Articles 75, 89
I note this shows Article 82 investments arent covered by the Insurance Mediation Directive. 
The guidance in SUP 13A.1.2G of the FCA Handbook at the time of Mr Gs application for 
the SIPP explains that an EEA firm wishing to carry on activities in the UK which are outside 
the scope of its EEA rights (i.e. its passporting rights) will require a top-up permission 
under Part 4A of the Act (the Act being the FSMA). In other words, it needs top-up 
permissions from the regulator to carry on regulated activities which arent covered by its 
IMD passport rights.The relevant rules regarding top-up permissions could be found at SUP 13A.7. SUP 
13A.7.1G states (as at December 2013): 
If a person established in the EEA: 
(1) does not have an EEA right; 
(2) does not have permission as a UCITS qualifier; and
(3) does not have, or does not wish to exercise, a Treaty right (see SUP 13A.3.4 G 
to SUP 13A.3.11 G);
to carry on a particular regulated activity in the United Kingdom, it must seek Part 
4A permission from the appropriate UK regulator to do so (see the appropriate 
UK regulator's website: http://www.fca.org.uk/firms/about-authorisation/getting-
authorised for the FCA and www.bankofengland.co.uk/pra/Pages/authorisations 
/newfirm/default.aspx for the PRA). This might arise if the activity itself is outside 
the scope of the Single Market Directives, or where the activity is included in the 
scope of a Single Market Directive but is not covered by the EEA firm's Home 
State authorisation. If a person also qualifies for authorisation under Schedules 3, 
4 or 5 to the Act as a result of its other activities, the Part 4A permission is 
referred to in the Handbook as a top-up permission.
In the glossary section of the FCA Handbook EEA authorisation is defined (as at December 
2013) as: 
(in accordance with paragraph 6 of Schedule 3 to the Act (EEA Passport Rights)):
(a) in relation to an IMD insurance intermediary or an IMD reinsurance 
intermediary, registration with its Home State regulator under article 3 of the 
Insurance Mediation Directive;
(b) in relation to any other EEA firm, authorisation granted to an EEA firm by 
its Home State regulator for the purpose of the relevant Single Market 
Directive or the auction regulation
The guidance at SUP App 3 of the FCA Handbook (set out above) was readily available in 
2013 and clearly illustrated that EEA-authorised firms may only carry out specified regulated 
activities in the UK if they have the relevant EEA passport rights. 
In this case the regulated activities in question didnt fall under IMD passporting, and they 
required FCA permission for Abana to conduct them in the UK. Westerby, acting in 
accordance with its own regulatory obligations, was required to, and should have ensured it 
understood the relevant rules, guidance and legislation referred to above, (or sought advice 
on this, to ensure it had the proper understanding), when considering whether to accept 
business from Abana, an EEA firm passporting into the UK. It should have known or have 
checked and discovered that a business based in Portugal that was EEA-authorised, needed 
to have top-up permissions to give advice and make arrangements in relation to personal 
pensions in the UK. Such top-up permissions had to be granted by the UK regulator, the 
FCA.
Its fair and reasonable to conclude that in the circumstances of this case Westerby ought to 
have understood that Abana required the relevant top-up permissions from the FCA in 
order to carry on the regulated activities it was undertaking. Westerbys checks on Abanas permissions
Westerby says it took appropriate steps to conduct due diligence on Abana and it couldnt, 
and shouldnt, reasonably have concluded that Abana didnt have the required top-up 
permissions. Ive carefully considered all of Westerbys submissions on this point. 
The Register
Im satisfied that, in order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have 
independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. I 
think its fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the Register entry for 
Abana in the circumstances. These checks should have included a review of all the relevant 
information available.  
Indeed Westerby says it checked Abanas entry on the Register. So, I dont consider this to 
be in issue. Its clear Westerby thought it should check the Register, rather than simply 
asking Abana what permissions it had and then merely relying on what Abana said. 
Westerby says that, at the time of Mr Gs SIPP application, there wasnt information 
available or accessible on the FCA Register that would have shown the position on Abanas 
permissions. It says that screenshots show that the Register at that time didnt include a 
Passports section or make any mention of any restrictions on Abana's permissions. 
Westerby also believes that the FCA would have been unable to confirm Abanas 
permissions if asked, as this information wasnt available on the then Register. 
Ive carefully considered everything Westerbys said about the format of the Register in or 
around 2013, when Mr Gs application was submitted by Abana. Westerby has previously 
submitted that:
WTS [Westerby] searched Abana on the Financial Services register on 10 May 2013 
and established that they were EEA authorised. Please refer to the enclosed copy 
screenshot of the search dated 10 May 2013. This shows that the search results did 
not include a Passports section, or any mention in the notices or other 
information sections of any restrictions on Abanas permission, which would be 
usual if there had been any restriction. Whilst WTS accept that a present-day search 
includes a Passports section, they dispute that a search in May 2013 did, as 
illustrated by the enclosed screenshot. Acting reasonably, WTS could not have found 
details of the passport permission from a search of the Financial Services register at 
that time. 
The following print out from the Register was provided to us: The third-party report on the Register, provided by Westerby during the investigation of the 
complaint, which was the subject of the published decision, is helpful to discussions about 
the format of the Register at the time of Mr Gs SIPP application. The report included the 
following screenshot of the archived Register for Abana (dated 24 July 2013):
Each of the red titles at the top of the entry for Abana (Regulators, Basic details, Contact for 
complaints, Disciplinary History etc) is a hyperlink to another page of Abanas entry on the 
Register. This screenshot shows that Abanas 2013 entry on the Register would have 
included, amongst other things, both Permission and Passports pages. 
Its reasonable to conclude from the above screenshot that the format of the Register, in or 
around the time Mr Gs SIPP application was submitted to Westerby in 2013, included pages 
which provided information in relation to both a firms passport details and in relation to a 
firms permissions. 
Elsewhere in the third-party report it says theres no evidence that in 2013 the Register 
contained any Permissions data relating to Abana that could have been searched by 
Westerby. The report refers to paragraph 24 as forming the basis for this conclusion. 
Ive carefully reviewed the third-party report. Paragraph 24 only confirms that if the hyperlink 
to the Permission page is clicked, theres no archive of that specific Permission page. In 
my view, the fact this hyperlink yielded nothing when clicked just speaks to the limitations of 
the internet archive in question. I dont accept paragraph 24 shows that no Permission 
page for Abana existed in 2013. However, I do think that evidence provided elsewhere in the 
third-party report strongly suggests a Permission page did exist for Abana.   
Only the Regulators page has been archived for Abanas entry on the Register from 2013. 
But the third-party report provides examples of several Permission pages for other firms 
which were archived, dating from around the time of Mr Gs SIPP application or earlier. The 
below example, dating from 2012, and relating to a Cypriot firm which, like Abana, was an 
incoming EEA firm, is particularly helpful:
 
This shows that the Permission page for this incoming EEA firm did exist in 2012, and that 
it showed No matches found. This is strong evidence that the format of the Register for 
EEA firms did include a page with information on a firms permissions, even if all it recorded 
was that no matches are found, (i.e. it had no permissions from the FCA).  
The third-party report also includes a screenshot of a 2013 Permission page for a UK firm 
which ceased to be authorised in 2008 (which also shows No matches found), and a page 
for a UK firm which was authorised and held FCA permissions at the relevant time, which 
shows the firms permissions set out in detail. 
Im satisfied that all of this information taken together demonstrates that, when Mr Gs 
application was received by Westerby, the format of the FCA Register contained a page 
labelled Permission where a firms permissions would be set out on the Register. And, 
where a firm didnt have any FCA permissions at the time of the search, the Permission 
page on their Register entry would simply state No matches found (as there were no 
permissions to display).  
This is consistent with the information we received from the FCA when we asked it to 
confirm whether top-up permissions appear on the Register, and whether this has changed 
since 2013. In response, the FCA confirmed that top-up permissions do appear on the 
Register under the Permission page, and that it understands the same information was 
available on the Register in 2013. In other words, the FCAs response to our question 
accords with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence 
thats available in this case. 
Westerby has said, amongst other things, more information should be provided about the 
details of the contact with the FCA. But, Westerby has already been provided with the FCAs 
response to our question. Im satisfied that Westerby has had the opportunity to consider the 
response, and that its also had the opportunity to make further submissions to us on this 
point. Im satisfied that I can fairly determine this complaint and that Westerby doesnt need 
to be provided with further information on this point.
Further, and as Ive already mentioned above, the FCAs response to our question accords 
with what Ive already said Im satisfied has been demonstrated by the evidence thats 
available in this case. My decision on this complaint would still be the same without the 
FCAs response to our question. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that:
In order to meet its regulatory obligations, Westerby ought to have independently 
checked and verified Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And its 
fair and reasonable to expect Westerby to have checked the totality of Abanas 
Register entry in the circumstances. 
The format of the Register in 2013 included a Permission page. And it follows that 
the entry for Abana on the Register, at the time of Mr Gs application, would have 
included a Permission page which Westerby ought to have checked. 
In previous submissions to us, Westerby seemed to suggest that the Basic details page 
was the totality of the Register entry available for Abana at the relevant time. But as I 
understand it, Westerby now seems to accept that the Register did include other sections. 
However it says that, at the relevant time, these sections didnt contain any further 
information about Abanas passports or permissions.
Westerby has been unable to produce evidence to demonstrate that it did in fact check the 
Permission page for Abana before it accepted Mr Gs SIPP application from it. But even if it 
did check the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time, Westerby appears to have 
failed to have kept a record of this check and, unfortunately, the 2013 record of the 
Permission page for Abana hasnt been archived. So, weve no evidence of what specific 
information was available on the Permission page for Abana at the relevant time. 
However, in light of the evidence Ive set out above, Im satisfied that there would have been 
a Permission page available on Abanas Register entry. And, if this page had erroneously 
failed to contain any information on whether or not Abana held the relevant permissions, (for 
example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank), Westerby ought to have 
taken further steps to ascertain what the correct position was. As such, I dont agree with 
Westerbys submission that information about a firms permissions wasnt available for an 
online user in 2013. In my view, the third-party report submitted by Westerby demonstrates 
the contrary to be the correct position.
Westerby has previously referred to a Complaints Commissioners report that highlights 
some issues with the Register. I appreciate there have been criticisms of the Register and 
that it may, on occasion, have contained errors. However, Im satisfied that a regulated 
market participant such as Westerby, acting in accordance with its regulatory obligations, 
ought to have understood that Abana needed permission from the FCA to give advice on, 
and to make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. Therefore, before accepting 
business from Abana, Westerby needed to confirm that Abana held the required 
permissions. For the reasons detailed above, Im satisfied that Abanas entry on the Register 
at the relevant time would have included a Permission page. And, if this page hadnt set 
out any information (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank) Westerby, in accordance with its regulatory obligations, should not have accepted Mr Gs 
application from Abana before carrying out further enquiries to clarify the correct position on 
Abanas permissions.    
Westerby says that the FCA wont confirm details about a firm that arent available on its 
public register, and I accept that. However, and for all the reasons given above, Im satisfied 
that top-up permissions are something that are recorded on the FCAs public register, and 
this was also the case at the date Westerby accepted Mr Gs application from Abana.
Westerby says that Abana not holding the relevant permissions wouldnt have been a matter 
of public record. Further, that the FCA could only confirm what was on the Register, not what 
was missing from it and so the FCA would have been unable to provide any additional 
information to that provided on the Register.
As Ive set out above, we dont have evidence of exactly what did appear on Abanas 
Permission page in 2013. However, this was information that ought to have been publicly 
available on the Register, so Im satisfied that whether Abana had top-up permissions was 
a matter of public record. If the Permission page had erroneously been left blank, its both 
fair and reasonable to conclude that, if asked, the FCA would have been able to confirm the 
position that Abana didnt have the required permissions. 
I think contacting the FCA was a sensible, appropriate, and proper route open to Westerby 
to verify Abanas permissions before accepting business from it. And if Westerby had 
contacted the FCA directly to confirm Abanas permissions because the Register didnt 
contain the relevant details, I dont think the restriction Westerby has referred to (regarding 
what the FCA could confirm) would have prevented Westerby getting the information it 
needed. Abana didnt have any top-up permissions. That was a matter of public record, 
and the FCA would have been able to confirm this to Westerby. 
Even if there was an issue with Abanas Register entry, or if Im wrong in my finding that 
Abanas entry on the Register at the relevant time included a Permission page, (and the 
Basic details page was the totality of the Register entry for Abana in 2013), I dont think it 
would be fair or reasonable to conclude it was appropriate (or in accordance with its 
regulatory obligations) for Westerby to have proceeded with Mr Gs application from Abana 
in the circumstances. 
Westerby ought to have independently checked and verified Abanas permissions before 
accepting business from it. If there was no information available or accessible on the 
Register at the relevant time to reveal the permissions position of Abana, then Westerby 
ought to have either found another way to verify Abanas permissions, or it ought to have 
declined to accept any applications from Abana until it could verify the correct position on 
Abanas permissions. 
Had Westerby been unable to independently verify Abanas permissions (a position that I 
consider is unlikely given the available evidence), its fair and reasonable to say that in the 
circumstances Westerby ought to have then concluded that it was unsafe to proceed with 
accepting business from Abana. It wasnt reasonable, and it was not in-line with Westerbys 
regulatory obligations, for it to proceed with accepting business from Abana if the position 
wasnt clear. 
In summary, Im satisfied that:
It was neither fair nor reasonable for Westerby to proceed to accept business from 
Abana if, as Westerby says, it was unable to establish what permissions Abana held. In such circumstances, Westerby ought to have sought confirmation from the FCA as 
to whether Abana held any top-up permissions. Since Im satisfied this information 
would have been a matter of public record, I intend to conclude the FCA would have 
been able to confirm whether Abana held any permissions. 
Alternatively, and where Westerby was unable to independently verify Abanas 
permissions, it should have declined to accept business from Abana. 
Could Westerby have relied on what Abana told it? 
Westerby says that it agreed Terms of Business with Abana (the Agreement) and, in signing 
the Agreement, Abana confirmed it held the permissions it required. 
Westerby has referred to meetings that took place between it and Abana. It says Abana 
confirmed its permissions in these meetings. And that, as Abana was an authorised firm, 
Westerby was entitled to rely on what Abana had told it.
Westerby has also previously referred to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1, and to Gen 4 
Annex 1 of the FCA Handbook. These set out respectively that firms can rely on factual 
information provided by other EEA-regulated firms as part of their due diligence process 
(TR/16/1, Para 5), and the statutory status disclosure incoming EEA firms are required to 
make. 
COBS 2.4.6R (2) provides a general rule about reliance on others: 
(2) A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook that 
requires it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to 
rely on information provided to it in writing by another person. 
And COBS 2.4.8 G says: 
It will generally be reasonable (in accordance with COBS 2.4.6R (2)) for a firm to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by an unconnected authorised person or a professional 
firm, unless it is aware or ought reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give 
reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of that information.
So, generally it would be reasonable for Westerby to rely on information provided to it in 
writing by Abana, unless Westerby was aware or ought reasonably to have been aware of 
any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question the accuracy of the information. 
Westerby, in previous submissions, has confirmed that it kept no records of the discussions 
it had with Abana during the meetings its referred to, nor did Westerby record in writing 
specifically what Abana told it about the permissions it held. Westerby has said that SIPP 
operators arent required to meet with introducing advisors before accepting business from 
them and, as such, it didnt have formal records of the discussions it had with Abana.
However, Westerby did have meetings and now seeks to rely on these meetings to evidence 
that it did take steps to ascertain Abanas permissions and that Abana had confirmed to 
Westerby that it had the required top-up permissions. In my opinion, if these meetings were 
the way Westerby was intending to evidence Abanas permissions, in order to comply with 
its regulatory obligations, in particular Principle 2, (to conduct its business with due skill, care 
and diligence), and Principle 3, (to take reasonable care to organise and control its affairs 
responsibly and effectively), Westerby should have had processes in place to ensure that it 
was able to evidence the due diligence it had carried out on Abana, including the steps taken 
to confirm Abanas permissions. Further, I dont think any meetings Westerby had with Abana and what weve been told 
about these, amounts to Abana providing something in writing on which it may have been 
reasonable for Westerby to rely, as it was a verbal exchange only and there appears to be 
nothing in writing arising from these meetings. The corollary of this is that I dont think COBS 
2.4.6R (2) applies to the meetings. 
Westerby says that the meetings it had with Abana culminated with Westerby establishing a 
legal document, the Agreement, in which Abana warranted that it had the required 
permissions to introduce SIPP business. Ive noted what Westerbys said about the (Written) 
Agreement. 
Having carefully considered everything, I consider the Agreement appears to be a generic 
document and not specific to Abana. It doesnt refer to, nor require either party to confirm or 
warrant the accuracy of information supplied during a prior due diligence process (i.e. the 
meetings at which Westerby claims Abana gave verbal assurances as to its permissions). 
The Agreement provides as follows: 
The Intermediary warrants that he/she is suitably authorised by the Financial 
Services Authority in relation to the sale of the SIPP, and advice on underlying 
investments where appropriate, and will maintain all authorisations, permissions, 
authorities, licences and skills necessary for it to carry out its activities under this 
contract and will in all aspects comply with all Applicable Laws. 
In my view this doesnt amount to a clear statement that Abana had the required top-up 
permissions for it to advise on and arrange personal pensions in the UK that Westerby would 
be entitled to rely on. 
In addition, the activity of advising on rights under personal pension schemes isnt 
mentioned; rather, the authorisation is said to relate to the sale of the SIPP which is an 
ambiguous term. In addition, the warranty that he/she is suitably authorised is generic and 
doesnt refer specifically to top-up permissions being required and Abana warranting that it 
has top-up permissions to conduct personal pensions business in the UK.  
After carefully considering the terms of the Agreement, and all the submissions made by 
Westerby in relation to what it says Abana told it about the permissions held, Im not satisfied 
on the evidence provided that Westerby did establish what top-up permissions Abana 
required, to be arranging and giving advice on personal pensions in the UK; nor that it 
requested, and received, confirmation from Abana that it held those permissions. Im also 
not satisfied, for the reasons given above, that Westerby met its regulatory obligations in 
seeking to rely on the terms of the Agreement to conclude that Abana warranted it had the 
required top-up permissions. 
In any event, Westerby should have done more to independently verify that Abana had the 
required top-up permissions. If Westerby had carried out independent checks on Abanas 
permissions as required by its regulatory obligations, it ought to have been privy to 
information which didnt reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions. So, in 
failing to take this step, its both fair and reasonable to conclude that Westerby didnt do 
enough in order to establish whether or not Abana did have the permissions it required.   
So, for the reasons Ive set out above, not only do I reject any submission COBS 2.4.6R (2) 
applies to the meetings Westerby had with Abana, I also dont think it applies to the 
Agreement the parties entered into. However, Ive also given careful thought to whether it 
was reasonable for Westerby to rely on these things generally. Westerby has referred, in previous submissions, to the FCAs Thematic Review TR16/1 and to Gen 4 Annex 1 of the 
FCA Handbook, and Ive considered this question with those details in mind. However, Im 
not satisfied there was any other basis on which it was reasonable for Westerby to rely on 
the meetings and Agreement, and for much the same reasons as Ive given above in relation 
to COBS 2.4.6R (2). 
As the 2009 Thematic Review report makes clear, good practice, consistent with a SIPP 
operators regulatory obligations under the Principles, included: 
Confirming, both initially and on an ongoing basis, that intermediaries that advise 
clients are authorised and regulated by the FSA, that they have the appropriate 
permissions to give the advice they are providing to the firms clients, and that they 
do not appear on the FSA website listing warning notices.
The 2009 report also makes it clear that a SIPP operator should have systems and controls 
which adequately safeguarded their clients interests. So, it was good practice to confirm a 
firm had the appropriate permissions and to do so in a way which adequately safeguarded 
their clients interests. I dont think simply asking the firm if it had the permissions or requiring 
it to sign something providing this confirmation was sufficient to meet this standard of good 
practice. This is a view Westerby itself appears to have shared at the time. It told us it 
checked the Register at the point that it received Mr G's SIPP application. It also told us its 
procedure was to check the Register every time a SIPP application is received from an 
introducer, and every time advisor fees are paid from the SIPP. It says that, in its view, this 
demonstrates good practice, as per the FSAs 2009 Thematic Review Report, thats a view I 
share. 
So Westerby shouldnt have (and didnt) rely solely on the Agreement. For all the reasons 
Ive given, Westerbys check of the Register ought to have led to the conclusion that Abana 
didnt have the required top-up permissions (i.e. if the information on Abanas Permission 
page had been correctly recorded), or in the alternative, that the Register didnt record the 
information on Abanas Permission page in order for Westerby to confirm the position one 
way or the other (for example, if the Permission page had erroneously been left blank).
This means that either Westerby ought to have become aware of information which didnt 
reconcile with what Abana had told it about its permissions in the meetings and the 
Agreement, or that it was still under a regulatory obligation to undertake further enquiries to 
independently check Abanas permissions, and by failing to do so, it didnt meet the 
requirements it was under as a regulated SIPP operator.
Anomalous features that were present here 
Westerby ought to have identified a risk of consumer detriment here. Mr G was taking advice 
on his pension from a business based in Portugal. That advice was to transfer the monies 
from existing personal pension plans into a SIPP, and then to send the majority of the money 
transferred into the SIPP to investments based in Mauritius (with one later moving to the 
Cayman Islands). The investments involved were unusual, and specialised. The chances of 
them being suitable investments for a significant portion of a retail investors pension were 
very small. Given the relevant factors, Westerby ought to have viewed the application from 
Mr G as carrying a significant risk of consumer detriment. It should have been aware that the 
role of the advisor was likely to be a very important one in the circumstances, thus 
emphasising the need for adequate due diligence to be carried out on Abana to 
independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving advice on personal 
pensions in the UK.  I dont expect Westerby to have assessed the suitability of such a course of action for Mr G 
and I accept it couldnt do that. But, in order to meet the obligations set by the Principles 
(and COBS 2.1.1R), it ought to have recognised this as an unusual proposition, which 
carried a significant risk of consumer detriment. As such, it ought to have taken particular 
care in its due diligence, and it had to do so, to treat Mr G fairly and act in his best interests. 
In any event, regardless of the points Ive made above about the unusual features of the 
proposed business, Westerby ought to have properly checked Abanas permissions in order 
to comply with its regulatory obligations. I make this point to highlight the importance of 
carrying out this check. 
Further points
Westerby has previously said its contrary to European Union law to discriminate against a 
firm on the basis of the EEA country in which its been established. However, in my view, 
carrying out adequate checks on Abanas permissions doesnt equate to treating Abana 
differently by virtue of its location. Westerby should have carried out these checks on any 
firm introducing advised business to it. 
Westerby has said it provided quarterly Product Sales Data reports to the regulator, and that 
the regulator never expressed any concerns about it accepting business from Abana. Ive 
seen no evidence to suggest that at the time Westerby accepted Mr Gs application from 
Abana, a factor in its decision to do so was that it had been reporting previous business it 
had been doing with Abana to the regulator, and that the regulator hadnt raised any 
concerns with it about this business. In any event, I consider this is irrelevant, because if 
Westerby had acted in compliance with its regulatory obligations, it wouldnt have accepted 
business from Abana at all and Abana would not have featured in its reporting to the 
regulator. 
Westerby has previously said that its able to accept applications from non-regulated 
introducers. But there seems to be no basis on which Mr Gs application could, or would, 
have proceeded on the understanding Abana was an unregulated introducer. Westerby 
seems to have understood from the outset that Abana wasnt simply an introducer of 
investments to its customers. It was carrying on the regulated activities of advising and 
arranging. In any event, it seems Westerby had a policy not to accept introductions from 
unregulated businesses. So I dont think its fair or reasonable to make any findings based 
on the fact that Westerby was able to accept introductions from unregulated businesses, as 
those were not the circumstances involved in this case.
I appreciate theres an argument that if it had been identified that Abana didnt have the 
required top-up permissions, Abana might have applied for, and been granted, the relevant 
top-up permissions. However, I find no merit in this line of argument. Im required to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case. Here, Westerby 
accepted business from a firm which didnt have the required permissions to be carrying on 
the business that it did. Westerby failed to identify this fact prior to accepting Mr Gs 
application. Thats the position Ive considered, not a situation that merely could or might 
have happened.
Westerby has submitted that where complaints have been received by this service against 
both Abana and Westerby, that we should decide the complaint against Abana before, or at 
the same time as, the complaint against Westerby. Later in this decision, Ive addressed the 
question of whether its fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr G compensation in the circumstances 
of this complaint. But, before going on to address that issue in detail below, and just in case 
theres been a misunderstanding, I want to clarify that Mr G previously made a complaint about Abana to us, but that case was subsequently closed after Abana had ceased trading. 
We hadnt issued an opinion or view on the merits of that complaint before then. 
In conclusion 
Westerby ought to have identified that Abana needed top-up permissions to advise on and 
make arrangements for personal pensions in the UK. In doing so, it ought to have taken all 
the steps available to it, to independently verify that Abana had the required permissions. 
If Westerby had taken these steps, it would have established Abana didnt have the 
permissions it required to give advice or make arrangements for personal pensions in the 
UK, or that it was unable to confirm whether Abana had the required permissions. 
In either event, it wasnt in accordance with its regulatory obligations nor good industry 
practice for Westerby to proceed to accept business from Abana. 
Additionally, Westerby ought to have considered the anomalous features of this business 
outlined above. These were further factors relevant to Westerbys acceptance of Mr Gs 
application which, at the very least, emphasised the need for adequate due diligence to be 
carried out on Abana to independently ensure it had the correct permissions to be giving 
advice on personal pensions in the UK. 
Having approached my decision as I do, bearing in mind what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this case, I conclude that none of the points Westerby has raised are 
factors which mitigate its decision to accept Mr Gs application from Abana.
Im satisfied the fair and reasonable conclusion in this complaint is that Westerby shouldnt 
have accepted Mr Gs SIPP application from Abana. 
Due diligence on the underlying investments
In light of my conclusions about Westerbys regulatory obligations to carry out sufficient due 
diligence on introducers and given my finding that in the circumstances of this complaint, 
Westerby failed to comply with these obligations, Ive not considered Westerbys obligations 
under the Principles in respect of carrying out sufficient due diligence on the underlying 
investments. I think that had Westerby complied with its obligations under the Principles to 
carry out sufficient due diligence checks on Abana, then this arrangement wouldnt have 
come about in the first place.
Is it fair to ask Westerby to pay Mr G compensation in the circumstances? 
Would the business have still gone ahead if Westerby had refused the application? 
I think its more likely than not that if Westerby had refused to accept Mr Gs application from 
Abana and Mr G had received an explanation as to why his application hadnt been 
accepted (as Abana didnt have the necessary top-up permissions it needed to provide 
such advice, or alternatively as Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that 
Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice), Mr G wouldnt have 
continued to accept or act on pensions advice provided by Abana. Its very unlikely that 
advice from a business that did have the necessary permissions would have resulted in the 
same course of action being undertaken by Mr G. Its reasonable to conclude that a 
business that did have the necessary permissions would have given suitable advice. 
I appreciate that Westerby might say that its contract was with Abana not Mr G. So if Mr Gs 
application had been refused it wouldnt have been at liberty to, nor would it have had reason to contact Mr G. But this is not what happened. Here Westerby did receive Mr Gs 
application, so Ive considered what it ought to have done having received the application. 
For the reasons Ive explained at length above, Im satisfied that it shouldnt have accepted 
Mr Gs SIPP application.
Mr G went through a process with Abana that culminated in him completing paperwork to set 
up a new Westerby SIPP and with the expectation that funds from his existing pension plans 
would be transferred into the newly established SIPP. Having gone to the time and effort of 
doing this, I think its more likely than not that if the Westerby SIPP wasnt then established, 
and if his pension funds werent then transferred to Westerby, that Mr G would have wanted 
to find out why from Abana and Westerby. 
Its fair to conclude that one or more of the parties involved would have explained to Mr G 
that his application hadnt been accepted as Abana didnt have the necessary top-up 
permissions it needed to provide the advice, or alternatively Westerby hadnt been able to 
independently verify that Abana had the necessary top-up permissions to provide the 
advice. And that following this understanding, Mr G wouldnt then have continued to accept 
or act on pensions advice provided by Abana.
I dont consider it fair or reasonable to conclude Westerby shouldnt compensate Mr G for his 
loss, based on mere speculation that Abana and/or Westerby wouldnt have told Mr G the 
reason why the transfer hadnt proceeded if asked by him, if that had happened. 
As Ive already set out, I think its very unlikely that advice from a business that did have the 
necessary permissions would have resulted in Mr G taking the same course of action. I think 
its reasonable to conclude that such a business (with the necessary permissions) would 
have given suitable advice. Had Mr G sought advice from a different advisor, qualified to 
give pension switching advice, I think its more likely than not that the advice would have 
been to retain his existing pension plans. Alternatively, Mr G might have simply decided not 
to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different advisor and would still then have 
retained his existing pension plans.
In Adams v Options SIPP, the judge found that Mr Adams would have proceeded with the 
transaction regardless. HHJ Dight says (at paragraph 32):  
The Claimant knew that it was a high risk and speculative investment but 
nevertheless decided to proceed with it, because of the cash incentive.
But, in this case, Ive seen no evidence to show Mr G proceeded in the knowledge that the 
investments he was making were high risk and speculative, and that he was determined to 
move forward with the transaction in order to take advantage of a cash incentive offered by 
Abana. Ive not seen any evidence to show Mr G was paid a cash incentive. It therefore 
cannot be said he was incentivised to enter into the transaction. So, in my opinion, this 
case is very different from that of Mr Adams.
Westerby has contended that Mr G was likely to have proceeded with the transfer and 
subsequent investments regardless of the actions it took. Its highlighted that other SIPP 
providers were accepting such investments at the time and says the transactions, such as 
Mr Gs application would have been effected with another provider, had it declined it. But I 
dont find this persuasive. I dont think its fair or reasonable to say Westerby should not 
compensate Mr G for his loss based on a speculation that another SIPP provider would have 
made the same mistakes I have found Westerby did. Its fair to assume that its more likely another SIPP provider would have complied with its 
regulatory obligations and good industry practice and wouldnt have accepted Mr Gs 
application from Abana. 
Further, even if another SIPP provider had been willing to accept Mr Gs application from 
Abana, that process would still have needed Mr G to be willing to continue to do business 
with Abana after Westerby had rejected his application for another application to proceed. 
And, for the reasons Ive given above, Im not satisfied that Mr G would have continued to 
accept or act on pensions advice from Abana in such circumstances. 
In the circumstances, Im satisfied its fair and reasonable to conclude that if Westerby had 
refused to accept Mr Gs application from Abana, the transaction would not have gone 
ahead. 
The involvement of Abana
Westerby has said that a complaint against Abana, ought to have been decided first or, at 
the very least, complaints against it and Abana ought to have been decided together. 
Westerby has also said that we have upheld complaints against Abana where there was 
another SIPP operator involved and that we have not pursued or invited consumers to 
pursue complaints against that other SIPP operator. Ive carefully considered these points 
but, as I explain below, Im satisfied that its fair to require Westerby to compensate Mr G for 
the full measure of his loss here.
In this decision Im considering Mr Gs complaint about Westerby. Whilst it may be the case 
that Abana gave unsuitable advice to Mr G to transfer the monies from his existing pension 
plans into a SIPP and make unsuitable investments, and I might have sympathy with such a 
description of Abanas advice, Westerby had its own distinct set of obligations when 
considering whether to accept Mr Gs application for a SIPP. 
Abana had a responsibility not to conduct regulated business that went beyond the scope of 
its permissions. Westerby wasnt required to ensure Abana complied with that responsibility. 
But Westerby had its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. Ive already 
explained, this included checking that firms introducing advised business to it had the 
regulatory permissions to be doing so. Westerby failed to comply with these obligations here. 
Having taken into account all the circumstances of this case, its fair and reasonable to hold 
Westerby responsible for its failure to identify that Abana didnt have the required top-up 
permissions to be giving advice and making arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. 
Had Westerby carried out sufficient due diligence on Abana, and acted in accordance with 
good practice and its regulatory obligations by independently checking Abanas permissions 
before accepting business from it, Westerby wouldnt have done any SIPP business with 
Abana in the first place; and Mr G would not find himself in the position he is now in. 
Had Mr G been told that Abana was acting outside its permissions in giving pensions advice, 
or alternatively that Westerby hadnt been able to independently verify that Abana had the 
necessary top-up permissions to provide such advice, its more likely he wouldnt have 
continued to accept or act on advice from it; and Mr G would not find himself in the position 
he is now in.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation (DISP 
3.7.2R). As Ive previously indicated, I consider its fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
case to hold Westerby accountable for its own failure to comply with the relevant regulatory 
obligations and to treat Mr G fairly and accordingly what this means Westerby must do.
The starting point is the requirement for Westerby to pay Mr G compensation for the loss 
hes suffered as a result of Westerbys failings. Ive considered whether theres any reason 
why it wouldnt be fair to require Westerby to compensate Mr G for his loss, including if it 
would be fair to hold another party liable in full or in part. Im satisfied its appropriate and fair 
in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr G to the full extent of the financial 
losses hes suffered due to its failings. 
I accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr G to enter into a SIPP, is 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Gs loss. However, its also the 
case that if Westerby had complied with its own distinct regulatory obligations as a SIPP 
operator, the arrangement for Mr G wouldnt have come about in the first place, and the loss 
he suffered could have been avoided. 
Westerby could have the option to take an assignment of any rights of action Mr G has 
against Abana before compensation is paid. In addition, the compensation could be made 
contingent upon Mr Gs acceptance of this term of settlement. 
Westerby has previously said that as Abana has ceased to trade then any indemnity from 
Abana and/or assignment of any action against it is effectively worthless. I accept that may 
be true. However that doesnt change my thinking. The key point is that but for Westerbys 
failings, Mr G wouldnt have suffered the loss hes suffered. As a result, the trading/financial 
position of Abana, and the fact that Westerby may not be able to rely on an indemnity from 
Abana and/or the fact that any assignment of any action against Abana from Mr G might be 
worthless, doesnt persuade me to change my thinking on this point. As such its appropriate 
and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr G to the full extent of the 
financial losses hes suffered due to its failings, and notwithstanding any failings by Abana.
Westerby has also highlighted that in a previous decision involving an EEA firm that had 
acted outside its permissions, a different ombudsman made an apportionment between the 
SIPP provider and the advisor on a 50/50 basis. 
The circumstances and facts of the other complaint Westerby has mentioned appear to be 
very different to Mr Gs complaint. And it also looks like the SIPP provider in the other 
complaint had already compensated the consumer for half of their losses before the 
ombudsman was asked to decide the complaint against the EEA firm.
Importantly, we consider each complaint on its own merits, and the question I have to 
address in this case is whether, in all of the circumstances of this specific complaint, its fair 
to ask Westerby to compensate Mr G to the full extent of the financial losses hes suffered 
due to its failings and, for the reasons already given above, Im satisfied it is. 
I want to make clear that Ive taken everything Westerby has said into careful consideration. 
Here its appropriate and fair in the circumstances for Westerby to compensate Mr G to the 
full extent of the financial losses hes suffered due to Westerbys failings. Taking into account 
the combination of factors Ive set out above, Im not persuaded that it would be appropriate 
or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that Westerby is liable to 
pay to Mr G.    
Mr G taking responsibility for his own investment decisions Westerby says that consumers should take responsibility for their own investment decisions. 
Ive considered the actions of Mr G in relation to the mitigation of loss, in the section below. 
Beyond that, Im satisfied that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to say Mr Gs actions mean 
he should bear the loss arising as a result of Westerbys failings. 
Mr G took advice from a regulated advisor (albeit one acting outside the permissions it held, 
a fact unknown to Mr G). And he used the services of a regulated personal pension provider, 
Westerby. I dont think it would be fair in the circumstances to suggest Mr G should suffer 
the loss because he ultimately instructed the investments to be made. Im satisfied its fair to 
say Westerby should compensate Mr G for the loss suffered.
Opportunity to mitigate losses
Westerby says it wrote to Mr G to highlight issues with the funds his SIPP invested in and to 
inform him of an opportunity to realise some of his investment value. It says Mr G had a 
responsibility to take appropriate action to safeguard his funds and that he failed to do this, 
and so should be responsible for the losses he suffered. 
Ive carefully considered this point but dont think its fair for any reduction to be made to fair 
compensation on the basis of a failure by Mr G to mitigate his loss.
I dont think it would be fair to say Mr G should have made a redemption request when 
Westerby wrote to him in November 2014. The November 2014 letter required Mr G to seek 
advice, and urged him to contact his financial advisor, Abana. It seems Mr G did this, and it 
appears he was advised to keep the investments. Mr G wasnt alone in this, based on other 
cases weve seen, Abana generally seems to have advised its clients to retain the holdings 
in question. In any event, in these circumstances, I dont say Mr G ought to have acted 
differently. 
Westerby has told us that its process was to check an advisory firms permissions every time 
it received an application to open a SIPP, and every time an advisors remuneration was to 
be paid. Westerby had received a number of introductions from Abana before November 
2014. So, by the time Westerby wrote to Mr G in November 2014, it would have had many 
opportunities to discover that Abana didnt have the top-up permissions it needed to give 
advice or make arrangements on personal pensions in the UK. As such, its my view that for 
Westerby to have suggested that Mr G seek advice from Abana once problems with the 
funds hed invested in had come to light, is a further failing of Westerby in relation to its 
regulatory obligations and the requirement to treat Mr G fairly. I dont think theres enough to 
say Mr G ought to have been expected to make a redemption request in November 2014.
In its June 2015 letter to Mr G, Westerby referred to Abana clients being moved over to 
Abana (FS) Ltd, a UK based firm authorised by the FCA. In July 2015 Westerby explained to 
consumers that clients were no longer being moved over to Abana (FS) Ltd. And said it 
understood the reason for this was that Abana didnt consider Abana (FS) Ltd to be suitably 
independent.  In its submissions, Westerby has referred to the July 2015 letter being sent at 
the instruction of the FCA. As I understand it, the letter was sent by Westerby to all Abana-
introduced consumers. I think its more likely than not that such a letter would have been 
sent to Mr G.
Westerby also urged consumers to have their SIPPs reviewed by an advisor with the 
necessary permissions. That was a fair and reasonable step to take in the circumstances, 
which goes some way towards correcting Westerbys earlier failure to meet its regulatory 
obligations, however it does not appear on what has been provided thus far, that Mr G was 
written to in such terms. It isnt clear to me if Mr G was sent the letter of September 2015, that explained to some, 
that trading in the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been suspended pending the completion 
of a buy-out. He was however written to and told when it started trading again. In any event 
this doesnt change my thinking.
Mr G doesnt appear to have taken much action following receipt of letters from Westerby, 
albeit I understand he spoke to Abana. In the June 2015 letter Mr G was told of an 
investigation into the Kijani Fund, but I note he was told at the same time that hed be getting 
his money back. And as Ive set out, the letter of September 2015 explained that all trading 
on the ePortfolio Solutions platform had been suspended. Overall I dont think it fair to say 
Mr G could, or should, have done anything further at that time. Thats because I think 
following the June 2015 update it was reasonable for Mr G to think he didnt need to do 
anything. Following the September 2015 update it would have been reasonable for Mr G to 
conclude he couldnt do anything.
Ive also noted that in the complaint that was the subject of the published decision, Westerby 
confirmed (in a letter dated 21 December 2015) that it summarised the situation with the 
Kijani fund to the complainant in that case, in October 2015, as suspended, in liquidation. 
Likely to take a number of years. Unclear as to what will come back. This is similar to the 
information provided to Mr G.
So, in any eventuality, theres insufficient evidence to show any redemption request made in 
relation to the Kijani fund after Westerby wrote to consumers in July 2015 would have been 
successful. 
There was then the December 2015 letter in which it was explained that a suspension on the 
SAMAIF might lift, but I think its fair to consider that by that point there was a lot of 
uncertainty surrounding the status of the fund and it wasnt at all clear what level of loss 
Mr G might be crystallising if he were to sell his investment. So, even if the suspension was 
lifted as envisaged, I dont think its fair to say Mr G has contributed to his loss by not 
ordering its redemption. 
In the December 2015 letter, Westerby referred to there being liquid funds available, but I 
dont think this was accurate as the majority of this was the SAMAIF holding, which was 
suspended, and there was no independent verification of this value. And Westerby itself 
noted in its letter there was uncertainty around these funds. So, I dont think it fair to say 
there was just under £45,000 available to Mr G at this time, or that he ought to have 
concluded that was the case.
And I also think the December 2015 letter is somewhat contradictory as it says the 
suspension of SAMAIF has been lifted but then says that the lift of the suspension is not yet 
active (i.e. its still suspended).  
Ive noted that Mr G didnt request any redemption, including in response to the December 
2015 letter, but as Ive explained Ive not seen sufficient evidence to show a redemption 
request would have been successful even if Westerby had received a completed redemption 
request back from Mr G.
Ive seen a copy of a 24 April 2016 update from SAMAIF to investors, this explains that the 
re-structured SAMAIF has (since 22 April 2016) been licensed by the MFSC and suggests 
that work to begin trading is still ongoing. And I note that in June 2016 Westerby stated in a 
letter it sent to us in another complaint that SAMAIF still wasnt trading yet.
All of which suggests SAMAIF was still suspended for quite some time after the 23 
December 2015 letter and its not clear if that suspension was ever lifted. This appears to be consistent with what was said in the published decision, in which it was stated that the 
amount paid to the SIPP in that case likely came from another investment rather than the 
Kijani or SAMAIF funds, as both appeared to have been suspended over the relevant period 
in that case.
Taking into account the combination of factors set out above, Im not persuaded that it would 
be appropriate or fair in the circumstances to reduce the compensation amount that 
Westerby has to pay to Mr G.
Fair compensation
Westerby says that responsibility for Mr Gs loss should lie with Abana. As set out above, I 
accept that it may be the case that Abana, in advising Mr G to enter into a SIPP, could be 
responsible for initiating the course of action that led to Mr Gs loss.
However, the complaint against Westerby is the complaint Im considering here. And for the 
reasons Ive set out earlier in this decision, I consider that Westerby has failed to comply 
with its own distinct regulatory obligations under the Principles. Therefore its fair and 
reasonable for Westerby to compensate Mr G for the full extent of his losses, as if it had 
rejected Mr Gs application, then matters would not have followed for Mr G as they did. 
In addition to the financial loss that Mr G has suffered as a result of the problems with his 
pension, I think that the losses suffered have caused Mr G real distress and inconvenience 
and its fair for Westerby to compensate Mr G for this as well.
Putting things right
My aim is to return Mr G to the position he would now be in but for what I consider to be 
Westerbys failure to verify that Abana had the correct permissions to be providing advice on 
pensions in the UK and before accepting Mr Gs SIPP application from it.  
Had Mr G sought advice from a different advisor, who was qualified to give pension 
switching advice, its more likely than not that the advice would have been to retain his 
existing pension plans. I think its unlikely that another advisor, acting properly, would have 
advised Mr G to transfer away from his existing pension plans. Alternatively, Mr G might 
have simply decided not to seek pensions advice elsewhere from a different advisor and still 
then retained his existing pension plans.
In light of the above, Westerby should calculate fair compensation by comparing the current 
position to the position Mr G would be in if he hadnt transferred from his existing pension 
plans. In summary, Westerby should:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Gs 
previous pension plans, if they hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Gs SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Gs share in any investments that cannot 
currently be redeemed.5) Pay an amount into Mr Gs SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
6) Pay Mr G £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his 
pension have caused him.
Lastly, in order to be fair to Westerby, it should have the option of payment of the redress 
being contingent upon Mr G assigning any claim he may have against Abana to Westerby, 
but only in so far as Mr G is compensated here. The terms of the assignment should require 
Westerby to account to Mr G for any amount it subsequently recovers against Abana that 
exceeds the loss paid to Mr G. Westerby would need to meet any costs in drawing up the 
assignment.
Ive explained how Westerby should carry out the calculation, set out in steps 1 - 6 above, in 
further detail below:
1) Obtain the current notional value, as at the date of this decision, of Mr Gs previous 
pension plans, if they hadnt been transferred to the SIPP.
Westerby should ask the operators of Mr Gs previous pension plans to calculate the 
current notional value of Mr Gs plans, as at the date of this decision, had he not 
transferred into the SIPP. Westerby must also ask the same operators to make a 
notional allowance in the calculations, so as to allow for any additional sums Mr G 
has contributed to, or withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since outset. To be clear 
this doesnt include SIPP charges or fees paid to third parties like an advisor.
Any notional contributions or notional withdrawals to be allowed for in the calculations 
should be deemed to have occurred on the date on which monies were actually 
credited to, or withdrawn from, the Westerby SIPP by Mr G. 
If there are any difficulties in obtaining a notional valuation from the operators of Mr 
Gs previous pension plans, Westerby should instead calculate a notional valuation 
by ascertaining what the monies transferred away from the plans would now be 
worth, as at the date of this decision, had they achieved a return from the date of 
transfer equivalent to the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return Index 
(prior to 1 March 2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index).
Im satisfied thats a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been 
achieved over the period in question. And, again, there should be a notional 
allowance in this calculation for any additional sums Mr G has contributed to, or 
withdrawn from, his Westerby SIPP since outset.
2) Obtain the actual current value of Mr Gs SIPP, as at the date of this decision, less 
any outstanding charges. 
This should be the current value as at the date of this decision.
3) Deduct the sum arrived at in step 2) from the sum arrived at in step 1).
The total sum calculated in step 1) minus the sum arrived at in step 2), is the loss to 
Mr Gs pension provisions.4) Pay a commercial value to buy Mr Gs share in any investments that cannot 
currently be redeemed.
Im satisfied that Mr Gs Westerby SIPP only still exists because of the illiquid 
investments that are held within it. And that but for these investments Mr Gs monies 
could have been transferred away from Westerby. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, any remaining investments need to be 
removed from the SIPP. 
To do this Westerby should reach an amount its willing to accept as a commercial 
value for the investments and pay this sum into the SIPP and take ownership of the 
relevant investments.
If Westerby is unwilling or unable to purchase the investments, then the actual value 
of any investments it doesnt purchase should be assumed to be nil for the purposes 
of the redress calculation. To be clear, this would include their being given a nil value 
for the purposes of ascertaining the current value of Mr Gs SIPP in step 2.
If Westerby doesnt purchase the investments, it may ask Mr G to provide an 
undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any payment the SIPP may receive 
from these investments. That undertaking should allow for the effect of any tax and 
charges on the amount Mr G may receive from the investments, and any eventual 
sums he would be able to access from the SIPP. Westerby will need to meet any 
costs in drawing up the undertaking.
5) Pay an amount into Mr Gs SIPP, so that the transfer value of the SIPP is 
increased by an amount equal to the loss calculated in step 3). This payment 
should take account of any available tax relief and the effect of charges. The 
payment should also take account of interest as set out below.
The amount paid should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax 
relief. Compensation shouldnt be paid into a pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protections or allowances.
If Westerby is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Gs SIPP, or if doing so 
would give rise to protection or allowance issues, it should instead pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax in retirement at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr G 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be 
applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If there is any dispute this is a reasonable assumption the parties were told to let 
us know as soon as possible so the assumption can be clarified, and Mr G 
receives appropriate compensation. I explained it wont be possible for us to 
amend this assumption once a final decision has been issued on the complaint. 
No one has corrected me on this assumption.
6) Pay Mr G £500 for the distress and inconvenience the problems with his pension have caused him.
In addition to the financial loss suffered by Mr G as a result of the problem with his pension, 
this loss has caused him distress and inconvenience. Its fair for Westerby to compensate 
him for this as well.
SIPP fees
If the investments cant be removed from the SIPP, and it hence cannot be closed after 
compensation has been paid, then it wouldnt be fair for Mr G to have to continue to pay 
annual SIPP fees to keep the SIPP open. As such, Westerby should pay an amount into Mr 
Gs SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees that will be payable on the SIPP (based 
on the most recent years fees). Five years should allow enough time for the issues with the 
investments to be dealt with, and for them to be removed from the SIPP. As an alternative to 
this, Westerby can agree to waive any future fees which might be payable by Mr Gs SIPP.  
Interest
The compensation resulting from this loss assessment must be paid to Mr G or into his SIPP 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of Mr Gs acceptance of my final 
decision. Interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt 
paid within 28 days. 
Ive noted what Westerby has said about the time period. I acknowledge that the 28-day 
period means Westerby has to act promptly to avoid paying interest, but Im satisfied that 
there are steps available to it so as to reasonably undertake the calculation in the period 
provided. As such, I remain satisfied that its fair and reasonable in this complaint to direct 
that interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple 
from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement if the compensation isnt paid 
within 28 days of the date Westerby receives notification of Mr Gs acceptance of my final 
decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mr Gs complaint against Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited. 
Westerby Trustee Services Limited must calculate and pay fair compensation to Mr G, as set 
out above.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make an award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. 
If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Westerby 
Trustee Services Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: 
I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out 
above. My decision is that Westerby Trustee Services Limited must pay the amount 
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 (including distress and/or 
inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I 
recommend that Westerby Trustee Services Limited pay Mr G the balance plus any interest 
on the balance as set out above.
If the loss does not exceed £150,000, or if Westerby Trustee Services Limited accepts the 
recommendation to pay the full loss as calculated above, Westerby Trustee Services Limited 
should have the option of taking an assignment of Mr Gs rights in relation to any claim he 
may have against Abana, and an assignment of the right to any future payment Abana may 
make to Mr G as part of the settlement agreed following the third-party review.
If the loss exceeds £150,000 and Westerby Trustee Services Limited does not accept the 
recommendation to pay the full amount, any assignment of Mr Gs rights should allow him to 
retain all rights to the difference between £150,000 and the full loss as calculated above.
If Westerby Trustee Services Limited elects to take an assignment of rights before paying 
compensation, it must first provide a draft of the assignment to Mr G for his consideration 
and agreement. Any expenses incurred for the drafting of the assignment should be met by 
Westerby Trustee Services Limited.
The recommendation isnt part of my determination or award. Westerby Trustee Services 
Limited doesnt have to do what I recommend. Its unlikely that Mr G could accept a decision 
and go to court to ask for the balance and Mr G may want to get independent legal advice 
before deciding whether to accept a decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman