DRN-3463149
The complaint
Ms M and Mr S complain that BUPA Insurance Limited declined their private health 
insurance claim for the cost of Ms Ms treatment.
What happened
Ms M and Mr S have private medical insurance, insured by BUPA. On 30 December 2020 
Ms M was admitted to an NHS hospital due to Covid-19. Her condition worsened and in 
early January 2021 she was admitted into intensive care. She was transferred to a general 
ward at the end of February 2021. Ms Ms consultant advised she needed some further 
treatment following her prolonged stay in hospital and on 12 March 2021 she transferred to a 
private hospital for a few weeks.
On 15 January 2021 BUPA was told about Ms Ms condition and on 9 March 2021 BUPA 
was told about the plan to transfer her to a private hospital for medical management and 
assessment. Ms Ms consultant provided letters dated 11 and 19 March 2021 outlining the 
treatment planned.
On 11 March 2021 BUPA told Mr S it wouldnt cover the private treatment. It said the claim 
wasnt covered by the policy as several policy exclusions applied. It reassessed the claim 
after it received Ms Ms consultants letter dated 19 March 2021 but BUPA didnt change its 
decision to decline the claim.
Ms M and Mr S complained to us. They said BUPA couldnt fairly rely on the exclusions to 
decline the claim. And Ms Ms consultant thought BUPA should cover the cost as he had 
other private patients who were covered for similar treatment by their private health insurers.
Our investigator said BUPA had fairly declined the claim.
Ms M and Mr S disagree and want an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant rules and insurance industry guidance say that BUPA must handle claims 
promptly and fairly, and it mustnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M and Mr S, I know theyve paid significant costs for Ms Ms 
private treatment, but think BUPA fairly and reasonably declined the claim. Ill explain why.
Even if other patients have been covered by their private medical insurance for the 
same/similar circumstances as Ms M that doesnt mean BUPA has to cover this claim under 
this policy. The terms and conditions of the policy set out Ms M and Mr S contract of 
insurance with BUPA. Insurers can decide what risks they want to insure and I need to 
consider what Ms M and Mr S policy says about their cover. 
The exclusions section of the policy is detailed under the heading what is not covered. 
BUPA has relied on the policy exclusions below to decline the claim. Ive not set out the full 
details of the exclusions, just the policy terms that are relevant to these circumstances.
Exclusion 7 Complications from excluded conditions/treatment and experimental 
treatment
We do not pay any treatment costs, including any increased treatment costs, you 
incur because of complications caused by a disease, illness, injury or treatment for 
which cover has been excluded or restricted from your membership
Exclusion 9 Convalescence, rehabilitation and general nursing care
We do not pay for recognised facility accommodation if it is primarily used for any of 
the following purposes:
convalescence, rehabilitation, supervision or any purpose other than receiving 
eligible treatment
Exception: We pay for eligible treatment for rehabilitation in the following 
circumstances. By rehabilitation we mean treatment which is aimed at restoring 
health or mobility or to allow you to live an independent life, such as after a stroke or 
an accident. We will only pay in cases where the rehabilitation:
is an integral part of, and immediately follows, in-patient treatment, and
starts within 42 days from and including the date you first receive that in-
patient treatment, and

Before the rehabilitation starts you must have our confirmation that the above criteria 
have been met
Exclusion 18 Pandemic or epidemic disease
We do not pay for treatment for or arising from any pandemic disease and/or 
epidemic disease. By pandemic we mean the worldwide spread of a disease with 
epidemics occurring in many countries and most regions of the world. By epidemic 
we mean the occurrence in a community or region of cases of an illness, specific 
health-related behaviour, or other health related events materially in excess of 
normal expectancy, or as otherwise defined by the World Health Organisation 
(WHO).
Exclusion 25 Screening, monitoring and preventive treatment
We do not pay for
routine tests, or monitoring of medical conditions
BUPA says all the above policy exclusions apply to the claim. BUPA doesnt need to show 
that all those exclusions apply to be able to decline the claim - if any one of the above 
exclusions apply to Ms Ms claim there is no policy cover for the claim. Ive considered if 
BUPA has fairly applied the exclusions.
Under exclusion 7 theres no cover for complications from an excluded medical condition. 
Exclusion 18 specifically says theres no cover for claims arising from any pandemic disease. In March 2020 the World Health Organisation (WHO) declared Covid-19 to be a 
pandemic. Ms M and Mr S accept that Covid-19 is considered to be a pandemic and isnt 
covered by the policy. But they say Ms Ms private treatment wasnt related to Covid-19. 
They say the rehabilitation and treatment for neuropathy was needed because Ms M had 
such a long stay in intensive care, so they believe BUPA cant rely on those exclusions.
Ms Ms consultant says in his letter dated 19 March 2021 that Ms Ms active problem is the 
critical care neuropathy which is not directly caused by Covid-19. 
But in the same letter the consultant also says:
Following extensive inpatient stay (Ms M) had marked muscle wasting and evidence 
of critical neuropathy, and
Unfortunately due to her prolonged stay in ITU she has ongoing medical issues of 
weakness, wasting and neuropathy. Therefore she requires an assessment by 
physiotherapy and a plan to rehabilitate her, and 
Ms M had ongoing medical issues with weakness and wasting following prolonged 
illness.
The evidence is that Ms M was in hospital and intensive care due to having Covid-19 and 
that her weakness, muscle wasting and evidence of neuropathy were as a result of her 
prolonged stay in hospital and intensive care. So while the symptoms Ms M had when she 
was transferred to the private hospital may not have been directly related to Covid-19, I think 
BUPA reasonably considered that those symptoms, and the need for further treatment and 
assessment, resulted from Ms Ms treatment for Covid-19 and complications of Covid-19. As 
the claim arose from treatment and complications of Covid-19, I find it was reasonable for 
BUPA to apply exclusions 7 and 18 to decline the claim.
As Ive said BUPA only needed for one exclusion to apply for the claim not to be covered by 
the policy. But for completeness Ive also considered whether BUPA fairly applied the other 
exclusions it relied on.
Exclusion 9 outlines that cover isnt offered for convalescence or rehabilitation unless all the 
exception specified criteria are met and BUPA has confirmed the criteria has been met. 
Those criteria include that the convalescence or rehabilitation treatment follows in-patient 
treatment and begins within 42 days of the first in-patient treatment. Ms M was admitted to 
the NHS hospital as an inpatient on 30 December 2020. She was transferred to the private 
hospital on 12 March 2021, so well outside 42 days. Even if I took the date that Ms M left 
intensive care as the date of referral to the private hospital that was about 57 days after she 
first started treatment so still well outside the 42 days. And BUPA hadnt confirmed the 
criteria had been met. On 11 March 2021, before Ms M was transferred to the private 
hospital, it had told Mr S there was no cover under the policy. I find that BUPA acted 
reasonably in applying exclusion 9 to decline the claim.
Exclusion 25 says theres no cover for screening, monitoring or preventative treatments. 
Ms Ms consultant said in his letter of 19 March 2021 that Ms Ms treatment plan was:
An assessment by physiotherapy and a plan to rehabilitate her... assessment and 
nutritional status, physiotherapy to strengthen her and ongoing medical care for her 
need to adjust tracheostomy and respiratory assessment.
The consultants letter of 11 March 2021 said:
The plan is to transfer to (the private hospital) for ongoing medical care. To review current 
respiratory status and exclude on-going infection.On the evidence I think BUPA reasonably considered the purpose of the treatment at the 
private hospital as primarily rehabilitation, monitoring and assessing Ms Ms condition and 
preventing further infection, none of which are covered by the policy in these circumstances.
I find that BUPA fairly applied several policy exclusions to Ms Ms claim and Im satisfied 
there is no policy cover for the claim. Theres no basis on which I can reasonably require   
BUPA to disregard the terms and conditions of this policy and pay the claim.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 August 2022.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman