DRN-3039611
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the replacement phone he received following a claim made on his 
gadget insurance (Tech Pack) policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited. 
Any reference to Assurant includes the actions of its agents. 
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr S and Assurant. I wont repeat 
what is already known to both parties. 
In my decision Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have. 
Our investigator considered this complaint and she didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr S 
didnt accept the investigators recommendations so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The initial replacement 
Mr S made a successful claim on his gadget insurance policy in April 2019. He paid the 
relevant policy excess and was advised that a refurbished device would be issued to him. 
Under the policy terms here, in the event of a successful claim Assurant will either repair or 
replace the device. The relevant terms are:
If your device is damaged or breaks down we will either:
 repair the device, or
 replace it with a device of the same make and model. If we cannot do this
you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent specification.
Replacements
 Where we replace the device the replacement may be a remanufactured
(not brand new) device.
I find that Assurant settled the initial claim inline with the policy terms. Mr S has argued that 
the phone he received wasnt good as new. But this wasnt a guaranteed new for old 
replacement policy and Im also satisfied that the policy terms made this clear. It wouldnt be 
within my remit to direct Assurant to change their policy terms here. 
The quality of the replacement phone 
Mr S has told us that around August 2020 the replacement phone started to malfunction. He 
made Assurant aware shortly afterwards.
Mr S has referred to an Assurant adviser telling him that the replacement device was around 
three years old and wouldnt have the longevity expected of a new phone. I dont necessarily 
disagree with this statement. I say this because - generally with any electronic product, the 
older a device gets, the increased likelihood that a specific part or component can develop 
problems. But crucially in this complaint, Ive seen no other strong supporting evidence at all 
that the replacement phone was faulty either when Mr S received it or within the 12-month 
warranty period. Overall, it seems to have worked fine for around 15 months. 
The replacement phone was also covered under a 12-month warranty. But it first started 
experiencing issues around 15 months after Mr S received it. Whilst this was unfortunate, 
electronic devices like phones can and do experience problems. As our investigator has 
pointed out, the manufacturer of the phone Mr S also only provides a 12-month warranty on 
new phones. 
Overall, I find that:
Assurant havent treated Mr S unfairly by not considering the issues with the 
replacement phone under the 12-month warranty as it had expired around five 
months earlier; and
Assurant acted fairly, reasonably and inline with the policy terms when making Mr S 
aware that if he wanted to make another claim against his policy for the replacement 
phone, thered be another policy excess to pay for the new claim. 
Ive also noted that Mr S received an upgraded model of the phone when the second 
claim was made. 
Mr S will naturally be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision brings to an
end what we  in trying to informally resolve his dispute with Assurant   can do for him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2021.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman