DRN-4110399
The complaint
Ms C is unhappy Revolut Ltd wont reimburse her for the money she lost when she fell victim 
to a scam.
What happened
Ms C fell victim to a safe account scam. After her details were compromised via a phishing 
text, Ms C was contacted by individuals claiming to be from her main bank account provider 
(which Ill call H) as well as the FCA and other institutions she banked with, including 
Revolut.
Ms C says she was told that her accounts were at risk and that she needed to move her 
money into her Revolut account and then from there on to new safe accounts that were 
being set up in her name. Unfortunately, and unknown to her at the time, Ms C was actually 
speaking with fraudsters.
Believing that she was genuinely dealing with legitimate banking institutions, Ms C ended up 
moving significant funds from her account with H into her Revolut account. From there, Ms C 
made 29 payments in around five hours to the beneficiary account details provided by the 
scammer. In total, Ms C transferred over £64,000.
Ms C realised she had been the victim of a scam when she spoke to a friend later that day, 
and immediately reported the matter to Revolut to see if it could help stop the payments or 
recover her funds. Revolut logged the fraud and contacted the business the funds had been 
sent to, to see if any funds remained that could be recovered.
Ultimately though, Revolut told Ms C that it wouldnt be reimbursing her for the payments 
she had made from her account. Revolut explained it felt it had provided adequate warnings 
before allowing the payments to go through.
Unhappy, Ms C referred the matter to our service. One of our Investigators looked into the 
complaint. Overall, they considered that while Ms C had authorised the transfers (albeit as a 
result of a scam) Revolut should have done more to intervene on the second transfer  a 
payment of £9,800. They felt Revolut should have contacted Ms C directly, rather than 
relying on the written warnings it had provided. It was our Investigators view that, had 
Revolut done so, it was more likely than not the scam wouldve unravelled, and the loss 
wouldve been prevented. Our Investigator also considered that Ms C wasnt partly to blame 
and shouldnt bear any responsibility for the loss.
Our Investigator recommended Revolut refund Ms K her losses from (and including) the 
second transfer onwards. They also recommended Revolut pay 8% interest on that amount.
Ms C accepted the Investigators findings, but Revolut disagreed. It noted that, on reviewing 
what had happened, it had already agreed to refund to Ms C the payments that had been 
made where she had not been presented with a fraud or scam warning before they were 
authorised. This amounted to a refund of £26,418. Revolut also confirmed that it had been 
able to recover £4,888.32 from the recipient bank, and so would also be returning this 
amount to Ms C.
But Revolut maintained that the number  and nature  of the warnings it gave to Ms C 
meant that any intervention would be unlikely to have prevented the fraud. It noted that Ms C 
chose to disregard the warnings it gave, and did not answer some of the automated 
questions she was asked honestly. Revolut therefore believes Ms C would also have been 
dishonest if it had called her. So it considered it wouldnt have been able to prevent Ms C 
from making the payments. It also felt Ms C could have done more herself to help prevent 
the scam, so it maintained that the refunds already offered were appropriate, and did not 
agree to refund anything further.
As no agreement could be reached, the case has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same conclusions as our Investigator, and for the same 
reasons. 
Its not disputed that Ms C authorised the payments that are in dispute here. So as per the 
Payment Service Regulations 2017 (which are the relevant regulations in place here) that 
means Ms C is responsible for them. That remains the case even though Ms C was the 
unfortunate victim of a scam.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, I consider 
Revolut should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from 
the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Taking the above into consideration, I need to decide whether Revolut acted fairly and 
reasonably in its dealings with Ms C, or whether it should have done more than it did.
Revolut did identify the first transfer Ms C attempted to make as part of this scam as 
potentially high risk, this was a payment for £100 to a new payee. Revolut required Ms C to 
answer some questions about the payment before it could be authorised, but Ms C declined 
to answer the questions and instead the payment was cancelled. Ms C then attempted to 
make a payment again, for £95 this time, and was again asked some questions about the 
payment. Ms C chose the payment purpose as something else  even though payment to a safe account was an available option  and proceeded with the payment. At this stage, and 
given the relatively small value of the payment, I dont consider that Revolut had acted 
inappropriately. The payment wasnt that out of character with Ms Cs usual account usage, 
and her answers to the warning questions wouldnt have caused Revolut any concern.
But only three minutes later, Ms C made another payment of £9,800 to the same new payee, 
and I think this should have flagged as potentially suspicious to Revolut. This amount was 
far in excess of any payments Ms C had made before, and so was very out of character for 
her account. But it doesnt appear that any scam warning was given about this payment. I 
acknowledge that it was to a payee that Ms C had paid before  albeit only minutes earlier  
but I am also mindful that a common theme to safe account scams is that a scammer tries to 
gain as much money from their victims in as short a time as possible. So where there are 
multiple payments or transfers made in quick succession, it is a possible indication that the 
customer could be at risk of financial harm. 
Ive noted all that Revolut has said about the warnings Ms C received, both the specific 
scam warnings and the more general warnings that she was making payments to accounts 
where the name did not match what she had detailed on the payment. But Im mindful that 
Ms C was in a highly pressured situation, believed that she was talking to her genuine bank, 
and believed that the FCA, Revolut, and other institutions she banked with were aware of the 
risk to her. So I can understand why the mis-match of account names and the general 
warnings she received wouldnt have necessarily broken the spell for her. 
I also acknowledge that the answers Ms C gave to the automated scam questions she was 
asked were not accurate, but she was being guided through these payments by an individual 
that she trusted, and was under enormous pressure at the time. Shes told us that she was 
told by the scammers that it didnt matter that she was ignoring the warnings as they would 
nonetheless ensure her money was safe and that it would be returned to her. The kind of 
warnings that Revolut gave here were unlikely to have the required impact on Ms C given 
the level that she was being manipulated and guided by the scammers, and her very real 
fear that her money would be at risk if she didnt do what they said.
I think direct contact  by phone or via the chat function in app  with Ms C would likely have 
made the difference here. I appreciate that Revolut did attempt to make contact with Ms C 
via the app, but that wasnt until much later in the series of suspicious payments, and it 
doesnt appear that Ms Cs failure to engage with Revolut meant that her account was frozen 
(or other similar action taken to prevent further payments). 
Ive thought carefully about what wouldve happened had Revolut insisted on direct contact 
with Ms C before processing any further payments. Theres obviously a balance to strike, but 
Revolut ought fairly and reasonably to have satisfied itself that Ms C hadnt fallen victim to a 
scam, and Im persuaded it couldve done this by asking a few open-ended questions  
rather than the closed questions asked by the automated systems  of Ms C prior to 
processing any further payments.
Ms C doesnt appear to have been given a cover story to use by the scammer, and had only 
been guided through the payment journey and what payment purpose to select and why. 
She also doesnt appear to have been told that Revolut was in any way involved in the fraud 
she thought was being perpetrated on her accounts. So I disagree that she wouldnt have 
been truthful in any direct communication with Revolut. I think had Revolut contacted Ms C 
to ask for some information about what she was doing, she would likely have explained what 
was happening or otherwise have given some indication that all was not as it should be. 
Revolut could also have used that opportunity to explain the most common types of scams in 
more detail to Ms C. If that had happened, I consider it likely that the spell of the scam would have been broken 
and that Ms C wouldnt have proceeded with the payments. So I think Revolut could have 
prevented the losses Ms C incurred from the second payment onwards.
In reaching my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in this case, I have also 
considered whether Ms C should bear some responsibility for her loss. Ms C has provided 
evidence of the texts and calls she received that appeared to be from her bank, other 
financial institutions she banked with, and the FCA. Some of the texts appeared in the 
existing text chains shed had with the legitimate businesses, and it appears that H and 
Revoluts phone numbers had been spoofed by the scammers, so calls appeared to be 
coming from those legitimate firms. I think I must also bear in mind that Ms C is fairly new to 
the country, and so less familiar with our banking system than others might be, she was 
therefore particularly vulnerable to this kind of scam.
Given this background, and the enormous pressure Ms C was under to do what she was told 
by the scammers to keep her money safe, I can see why she took the actions she did. So I 
dont think she was partly to blame for what happened. It follows that I dont consider it fair to 
say Ms C should bear responsibility for some of the loss here.
So, in summary, I consider when Ms C made the second transfer, Revolut could have done 
more to protect her from the risk of financial harm. Had Revolut contacted Ms C directly and 
asked some open questions about what was happening, Im persuaded it is more likely than 
not the scam would have come to light, and Ms C wouldnt have lost out on the £64,171 she 
ended up transferring.
The money Ms C lost originated from her current account held at H. So as she has been 
deprived of the use of this money for day to day spending, I think it is fair that in addition to 
refunding the payments that have not yet been returned to her, Revolut pay interest on that 
amount at 8%.
 
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Revolut should:
- Refund the £64,171 (less any sums that have already been refunded, or that have 
been recovered and subsequently returned to Ms C).
- Pay 8% simple interest per annum on this amount, calculated from 16 August 2022 
until this complaint is settled.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. Revolut Ltd should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman