DRN-1968616
The complaint
Ms K has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a packaged 
bank account, called an Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA). She paid a monthly fee 
for the account and received several potential benefits in return. She thinks that Bank of 
Scotland should refund her all the fees she paid, plus interest. 
What happened
Ms K opened the URCA during 2017 and closed it in 2019, when she switched to one of 
Bank of Scotlands fee-free accounts. 
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Ms Ks complaint and didnt think that Bank 
of Scotland had mis-sold the URCA to her. The adjudicator didnt recommend that Bank of 
Scotland should give her any money back.
Ms K didnt agree with the adjudicators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review her 
case. So, it has come to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website, 
and Ive used this approach to help me to decide what to do about this case. Ive looked into 
everything that Ms K and Bank of Scotland have told us or sent us about the complaint, and 
Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
When Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Ms K, the potential benefits included travel 
insurance, mobile phone insurance and use of a car breakdown service. Bank of Scotland 
also usually applied lower interest charges for overdrafts to customers with URCAs than to 
customers with fee-free accounts. 
Ms K has given us a succinct description of how she recalls buying the URCA. Shes told us 
that she previously held a credit or debit card with Bank of Scotland and for personal 
reasons wanted another. So, she has said that she rang Bank of Scotland to ask for another 
card like (her) other one, but Bank of Scotland sold her the URCA. 
Shes said that Bank of Scotland didnt tell her about the monthly fees and that she did not 
travel, drive a car or own a mobile phone, so didnt need any of the URCAs benefits.
Bank of Scotland has checked its records for Ms K, and has told us that they show that it 
sold the URCA to her online through its website and not over phone. However, it has said 
that its records also show that when Ms K went back to a fee-free account in 2019, she did 
so as the result of a phone conversation. 
With this direct and total disagreement, I cant tell for certain what happened. Neither party 
has given us definitive evidence to prove that which version is correct. But while I accept that 
Bank of Scotlands records may not be 100% accurate about the way it sold accounts to its 
customers, in this case they are the most persuasive evidence I have. So, I think its more 
likely that Bank of Scotland sold the URCA to Ms K online than over the phone. I accept that 
Ms K may remember things differently, and its possible she is recalling the phone call where 
she switched to the fee-free account, but I have considered her complaint as an online sale. 
With an online sale, its unlikely that Bank of Scotland would have given Ms K any personal 
advice, but I would have expected its website to tell her about the fees for the URCA and 
explain the benefits she could get in return, so she could decide if she wanted to buy it, and 
then allow her a fair choice. I cant tell for sure what screens or information Ms K saw when 
she bought the account, but from what I have seen, I think Bank of Scotland probably met 
these requirements. 
Given what Ms K has said about not needing any of the benefits that came with the URCA, I 
dont know why she decided to take it. I understand that she overdrew her account quite 
frequently and she may have found the lower cost of overdrafts attractive, but I will not 
speculate any further. 
So, in summary, I cant tell for sure what happened, but I think that Bank of Scotland 
probably sold the URCA to Ms K online and met its obligations to her.
I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold the URCA to Ms K.
My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I am not upholding Ms Ks complaint that Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold the URCA to her. I am not going to tell it to give her 
any money back.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020. 
Steve Townsley
Ombudsman