DRN-2329698
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) did not 
contact him about his arrears, which eventually led to his account being defaulted. 
What happened
Mr K took out one instalment loan of £600 on 2 February 2017. The loan was to be repaid in 
12 monthly instalments of £99.60. It appears that Mr K had difficulties repaying his loan. The 
loan was later passed on to a third party with an outstanding balance.
One of our adjudicators looked at Mr Ks complaint. The adjudicator thought that Satsuma 
had attempted to make contact with Mr K on a number of occasions. And that the default 
applied to Mr Ks credit file was applied correctly.
It appears that Satsuma agreed with our adjudicators opinion. Mr K disagreed saying he still 
hadnt been contacted by Satsuma and he didnt receive any emails or call. 
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry practice 
whilst Mr K has held his loan. 
When Mr K took this loan, he made his first two contractual repayments as agreed. His last 
full payment was on 1 May 2017. Subsequently, it seems that Mr K ran into difficulties 
meeting his full repayments.
Provident agreed an arrangement with Mr K on 27 June 2017 for him to pay a reduced 
amount of £20. The first payment of £20 was received in July 2017. But then it appears that 
Mr K ran into further difficulties meeting his arrangement as no further payments were made 
until October 2017. Mr K continued to pay £20 a month until December 2017. But then no 
further payments were received until it looks like payments restarted in May 2018. 
Provident has provided this service with evidence to show us it sent Mr K an arrears notice 
and a statement of account on 2 September 2017, and 28 January 2018 respectively. And 
when Mr K didnt reply, it sent a default notice on 6 February 2018. At the time of the default, 
Mr K had not made his agreed repayments for two months.
Mr K has told us he has received no emails, phone calls or letters from Provident explaining 
his arrears. And that Provident defaulted his account without his knowledge. Mr K would like 
Provident to remove the default and to write off or discount his outstanding balance.
Provident has a duty to fairly and accurately report information about its customers to credit
reference agencies. While Mr K says he wasnt aware of his arrears and that he forgot about 
the debt, this doesnt change the fact he wasnt meeting his contractual monthly repayments 
in-line with his loan agreement. 
So, I think he should have been on notice that he owed Provident money based on the 
amount he borrowed and what he had repaid to them so far. Therefore, I dont think 
Provident was wrong to apply the default in the circumstances of this complaint  as it 
reflected how Mr K ran his account.
Mr Ks account was clearly in arrears. Hed not made the contractual repayment for a 
number of months, and hed had problems making the reduced repayments via the 
repayment plan. Before an account is defaulted, I have to be satisfied that the account was 
sufficiently in arrears for Provident to start this process. And, bearing in mind the statement 
of account, Im satisfied that Mr Ks account was at least six months in arrears. So, I dont 
think it was unreasonable that Provident took steps to default the account. After all, it hadnt 
heard from Mr K, so it wasnt unreasonable for it to think the relationship between itself and 
Mr K had broken down. 
Provident has shown us that it sent out correspondence to Mr Ks address informing him of 
the default and arrears. Although Mr K has said he didnt receive them, Providents 
obligation is to show these letters were sent. On balance, given what Ive seen in its system 
notes, Im satisfied Provident sent these letters and, based on what Ive seen, that it had the 
correct address for Mr K at the time. 
Based on Providents records, it also seems it held the same email address that Mr K 
provided this service as part of his complaint and based on what Mr K has told us, it seems it 
also held the correct mobile number for him. I can see Provident sent Mr K numerous texts 
and at least a couple of emails which would have likely informed him of the arrears on his 
account. 
An outstanding balance remains for this loan that Mr K will need to arrange with the current 
owner of the debt. 
Finally, Im satisfied Provident has recorded credit file information correctly and Im not 
asking it to do anything further. I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr K. 
But I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2021.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman