DRN-2194173
The complaint
Miss Zs complaint is about the settlement offer in relation to a claim under her mobile 
phone insurance policy with Assurant General Insurance Limited.
What happened
Miss Z made a claim under her policy with Assurant in September 2019 for a damaged set 
of white headphones. Assurant couldnt repair the headphones, so Miss Z was entitled to a 
replacement.
Assurant didnt have the same make and model headphones in its own stock and so 
offered a cash settlement instead. Assurant offered the sum of £139.95, based on the cost 
of the same make and model headphones from a high street store. However, this was the 
price of the headset in colours other than white.
Miss Zs wanted enough to buy a replacement white set of headphones. The same 
supplier had the headphones in white at a higher price of £152.99.
Assurant says it is entitled to offer the lower amount, as while it will endeavour to replace 
a device with the same colour, this is not guaranteed and the colour does not affect the 
functionality of the headset. It says it has settled the claim in line with the policy terms.
One of our investigators looked into the matter. He recommended that it be upheld and that 
Assurant pay Miss Z the additional sum of £13.04, being the difference in cost of the 
amount already offered and the cost of the white set.
Assurant doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to 
me. Assurant has said the same headphones can now be purchased from the same 
supplier for £119.95 (but not the white ones) and from an auction site for £138.99, less than 
the amount it paid Miss Z. Assurant also says it could have offered the cost of a refurbished 
(second-hand set) rather than brand new headphones and so it has been more than 
reasonable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss Zs policy provides the following cover:
We will
1) repair the gadget (where possible), or
2) replace it with a gadget of the same make, model and memory size. If we 
cannot do this you will be given a choice of models with an equivalent 
specification.
It also says:
1) Where we replace the mobile device the replacement may be a remanufactured 
(not brand new) device
2) We will attempt to replace your device with one of the same colour but we 
cant guarantee to do this or replace any limited or special edition mobile 
devices
The policy is one of indemnity and provides that the insured item will be repaired or 
replaced, if it cannot be repaired (following an insured event). The policy cannot 
guarantee that a replacement will always be exactly the same make, model and colour as 
it is not always possible to do so. This is not inherently unreasonable, as sometimes 
items are simply no longer available to buy. However, in this case exactly the same 
headphones as those Miss Z had insured and in the same colour are available from the 
same supplier that Assurant based its cash settlement on.
I dont agree that the fact the policy says it cant guarantee a replacement of the same 
colour can reasonably be interpreted as meaning that Assurant does not insure the colour 
of a device. It only says it cannot always guarantee replacement of a particular colour (or 
limited/ special edition devices). It does not say that any cash settlement will be based on 
the cost of cheapest colour option.
Assurant also says it could have offered the cost of a refurbished pair of headphones 
instead of a brand new set. Again the policy says it may provide a refurbished replacement 
device. But it was not replacing the headphones and it has based its settlement so I do not 
consider this relevant to a cash settlement.
The link Assurant provided to the auction site went to a page for a gold set of the same 
headphones for sale at £160. I assume it wanted to demonstrate a pair for a lower price. 
But in any case, the correct settlement is the cost of replacement at the date of the claim, 
given this is an indemnity policy. So it is not relevant if the price has gone down since then.
Having considered everything, I see no justification in Assurant only offering enough to 
buy different colour headphones. While it might not affect the functionality of the 
headphones, Miss Z had insured a white set and a replacement white set is available.
I therefore expect Assurant to pay the difference in the cost of £13.04. I also consider 
that Assurants refusal to offer the proper amount in settlement of this claim has caused 
Miss Z unnecessary inconvenience. I therefore consider that it should also pay the sum 
of £50 compensation for this.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint against Assurant Insurance Limited and require it to:
pay £152.99 in settlement of this claim (so if Assurant has already paid the 
£139.95 already offered, it only now needs to pay the additional £13.04); and
pay the sum of £50 compensation for the inconvenience caused to Miss Z 
by its handling of the matter.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2020.
 
Harriet McCarthy
Ombudsman