DRN-3449106
The complaint
Mr B complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited handled his claim for damage caused 
by an escape of water. He says the repairs carried out under his home insurance policy 
failed and caused further damage. 
What happened
Mr B had a home insurance policy which was underwritten by Ageas. 
In 2015 he made a claim for escape of water in the shower. Ageas approved the claim and 
works were undertaken to repair the damage. Mr B says it took a year for the repairs to be 
completed but the workmanship was unsatisfactory and there were a number of delays. 
Mr B says in 2018 he had issues with escaping water damaging the ceiling to the room 
below the shower and so he replaced the silicon around the tray as advised by his plumber. 
Mr B no longer had his home insurance with Ageas but in 2021 Mr B contacted Ageas again. 
He said as a result of the poor workmanship from Ageas contractors the whole shower 
needed to be replaced, as well as the parts affected by a leak. Ageas told Mr B to send 
photographs of the damage so it could consider Mr Bs claim. Mr B also obtained a report 
from his own builder which appeared to confirm his version of events.  
Mr B complained to Ageas and asked that it cover the cost of the repairs. 
Ageas said the photographs provided by Mr B were sent to its contractor for comment. The 
contractor confirmed the works were over two years out of warranty and it was entirely 
possible that other unrelated leaks could have occurred in the meantime. But it didnt agree it 
was due to poor workmanship. The contractor explained the damage to the shower tray 
appeared to be due to something being dropped onto it, excessive weight in the shower, or 
excessive use of the shower. The contractor said the damage appeared to be a stress 
fracture. The contractor confirmed the repair to the shower tray looked to have been carried 
out recently due to the colour of the seal still being white. So the complaint wasnt upheld. 
Mr B wasnt satisfied with the response from Ageas and so brought the complaint to our 
service. The investigator looked into things for him. He said although he could see some 
delays when the initial repairs were being carried out he didnt think they were unreasonable 
or as a result of any error made by Ageas. The investigator said he didnt think Ageas were 
responsible for the damage and wasnt persuaded the initial repair was done incorrectly. Mr 
B didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr B has strong views about what has happened and I can empathise with the 
situation. I have read and considered everything I have received carefully. My role is to 
decide whether Ageas has acted fairly towards Mr B. 
Where information is unclear or incomplete, as is the case here, I reach my conclusions on 
the balance of probabilities. So what I consider is more likely than not to have happened in 
light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances. 
The key issue in Mr Bs complaint is whether the damage to the shower area in 2021 was as 
a result of a faulty repair carried out in 2016 as Mr B maintains. Mr B, via his builder, also 
raises issues about the method of repair in 2016. 
Given the shower was a necessity for Mr B and his family, Ageas agreed for Mr B to allow 
his own plumber to carry out the repair work. I can see from the notes Ageas asked Mr B to 
take photographs of the area so it could consider the damage with its contractor. 
Unfortunately the photographs taken only showed the extent of the damage after the shower 
tray and other parts had been removed. And so when Ageas sent the photographs to its 
contractor, they said they were unable to fully assess the circumstances. 
I have seen the reports provided by Mr Bs plumber. And whilst he does raise a number of 
issues with the shower I dont think the reports demonstrate a causal link between the initial 
repairs and the current damage. I can see Mr Bs plumber has suggested the initial repairs 
werent carried out to meet industry standards. However the insurer explained the repairs 
met the regulations at the time of the repair; and so Im satisfied Ageas hasnt acted 
unreasonably here. 
There is no dispute that there has been a leak and damage as a consequence of that leak. 
However I havent seen anything which persuades me the damage in 2021 was caused by a 
failure of repairs in 2016. I say this because its clear there have been issues with the 
shower prior to the original repair in 2016, and then again in 2018 when Mr B replaced the 
seal. And any evidence which may have existed has since been destroyed when the shower 
was removed. 
My role isnt to decide the cause of the damage. My role is to look at whether Ageas acted 
fairly and reasonably.
Mr B hasnt provided sufficient evidence to support his view that the method and quality of 
the repair was faulty so Im not persuaded that its the case. Therefore on the balance of 
probabilities I dont think Ageas were responsible for the damage.  And as such I wont be 
asking it to do anything further to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons detailed above Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman