DRN-4319700
The complaint
Miss S complains about a car she acquired from Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
What happened
In March 2022 Miss S entered into a regulated conditional sale agreement with Moneybarn 
to acquire a used car. The car was eight and a half years old and had been driven over 
100,000 miles. Its cash price was £6,495.
Miss S says she experienced some problems with the car, and it was repaired in May 2022 
and again in March 2023. She has stopped driving it. In February 2023 she complained to 
Moneybarn, saying that the car had not been fit for purpose when it was sold to her.
Moneybarn did not uphold her complaint. It said the car had passed its MOT on the day 
before it was sold. It pointed out the cars age and mileage, and the fact that Miss S had not 
complained to Moneybarn about it for 11 months. It concluded that the issues with the car 
were down to wear and tear, not a fault present at the point of sale. Being dissatisfied with 
that answer, Miss S brought this complaint to our service.
One of our investigators considered this complaint, but she decided not to uphold it. She 
considered what repairs had been carried out  replacing an air filter pipe and fixing a 
knocking sound in the steering in 2022, and replacing a misfiring cylinder and some spark 
plugs in 2023  and said that these were most likely problems that had been caused by wear 
and tear. She said that at the last repair the garage had advised that she have a 
compression test carried out to see if the gasket head had failed, and that Miss S had driven 
the car around 7,000 miles since getting it, which would not have been possible if the gasket 
head had already failed at the point of sale. She thought that a coolant leak was also 
probably due to wear and tear of a pipe or suchlike. She concluded that the car had been of 
satisfactory condition when sold, considering its age and mileage, and so Moneybarn was 
not responsible for it.
Miss S did not accept that opinion. She said she had been sold a dud, and that she was still 
having to pay money each month towards her agreement for a car that is no longer 
driveable, in addition to having to pay for public transport to get around. She asked for an 
ombudsman to give her a second opinion.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I do not uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator gave.
The issue in this case is not whether the car is defective now  it clearly is  but whether it 
was defective on 11 March 2022, when it was sold. Moneybarn is not responsible for what 
happens after that. And by defective, I mean not of satisfactory quality, taking into 
account the fact that a used car cannot be expected to be of the same quality as one which 
is brand new. Ordinary wear and tear is inevitable over the years, and so Moneybarn is not 
responsible for that either.
The fact that Miss S did not complain to Moneybarn for eleven months is a red herring. She 
took the car to a garage after only two months. The issue is whether the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality when it was sold; when she complained to the finance provider is 
neither here nor there.
On 10 March 2022, the day before the sale, this car passed its MOT with no advisories. 
I think that is strong evidence in Moneybarns defence. At that time, the mileage was 
100,913 miles.
In May the air filter pipe was replaced, and a knocking noise which had been coming from 
the steering was fixed. I agree with the investigator that these problems are likely to have 
been the result of wear and tear, given the cars age and mileage, even if they had already 
begun (but were not yet apparent) at the time of the MOT. They dont mean that the car was 
of unsatisfactory quality.
In March 2023, as I've said, further repairs were carried out to some other components  the 
cylinder and spark plugs. At this time, the mileage was 108,076 miles, or nearly 7,000 miles 
since the car was sold to Miss S. I think this issue would likely have been picked up on the 
MOT if it had been present at the time, so I think it has developed since then. And while the 
garage recommended that a compression test be carried out (a test of the pistons, gasket 
head, valves and so on), if any of these parts had already failed at the point of sale then the 
car could not have been driven another 7,000 miles. So I dont think this is evidence of a 
mis-sale by Moneybarn.
My final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman