DRN-4360549
The complaint
Mrs D complains that UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege havent given her a fair 
settlement valuation for her car after it was deemed a total loss.  
 
What happened
In May 2023 Mrs D made a claim on her car insurance policy following an accident. 
UKI collected the car and inspected it and deemed it to be a total loss.  As a result, UKI 
offered a settlement of £7513. 
Mrs D wasnt happy with this as she says it will cost her at least £8500 to replace her car 
with one that is the same with the same mileage, and so she complained.
UKI asked a  second engineer to value the car, but they didnt uphold her complaint, and Mrs 
D remained unhappy so she brought her complaint to us.   
One of our investigators has looked into Mrs Ds complaint. He thought that the valuation 
figure offered by UKI was fair. Mrs D didnt agree and so the case has come to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint and I will explain why. 
Valuation
This services role isnt to work out exactly what the value of an individual vehicle is. We look
at whether the insurer has applied the terms of a policy correctly and taken reasonable steps
to ensure a fair valuation was reached. 
The terms of Mrs Ds policy outline how a valuation settlement will be calculated when there 
is a total loss. It says: 
Where damage to your car is covered under your policy, well pay the cost of 
repairing or replacing your car up to its UK market value. This is the current value of 
your car at the time of the claim. It may be different to the amount you paid or any 
amount you provided when you insured your car with us.
Market value is further defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing your car with another of the same make and model, and of a 
similar age and condition at the time of the accident or loss.
To value Mrs Ds car, UKI obtained the standard retail valuations for the model of car. These 
were Glasss  £7290, CAP   £7420, and Percayso  £7513. The average of these was 
£7408, but UKI decided to offer Mrs D the highest valuation of £7513. 
 
Mrs D says that she couldnt buy the same car in the same condition and with the same 
mileage for the settlement figure offered, and that it would cost her at least £1000 more. 
I can understand why Mrs D is disappointed with this valuation as she had looked after her 
car and considered it was worth more. 
The valuation of a used car isnt an exact science, and its standard practice for the industry 
to use valuation guides to work out the estimated market value of a car when offering 
settlements for total loss. We consider this approach to be reasonable as the valuations the 
guides give are based on national research on likely selling prices of similar cars with similar 
age and mileage for sale at the time of loss.  
The investigator has checked these valuations and they are correct, and he has also  
checked Autotraders valuation for the time of loss. This one is slightly higher, but as it is an 
outlier, we would normally discount it as the others are all much closer in range.  We also 
usually find the valuation guides more reliable than individual adverts which can vary vastly 
in price, and often advertised prices allow room for negotiations  so they are not as reliable 
as sold prices. 
In view of the above, I consider that the settlement offer made is reasonable.   
My final decision
Im not upholding Mrs Ds complaint about UK Insurance Limited trading as Privilege and so 
they need not do anything further 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman