DRN-4172213
The complaint
Mr Bs complaint arises out of his mortgage account with Santander UK Plc. Mr B says that, 
because Santander allowed his estranged wife (Mrs B) to take out a new five-year fixed 
interest rate product on their mortgage, he has been financially disadvantaged. Mr B says 
that if the mortgage had gone onto the follow-on rate (which is what he wanted), Mrs B could 
not have afforded the repayments and this would have put pressure on her to sell the 
property. But because Santander allowed her to take out a new rate without his consent, 
Mr B says the bank has taken sides in his divorce, to his detriment.
To settle the complaint, Mr B wants the five-year interest rate product cancelled. He would 
also like the Financial Ombudsman Service to undertaken an urgent review of Santanders 
policies, and for copies of all emails, phone recordings and any other correspondence 
Santander holds in relation to its decision to allow the new interest rate product. 
What happened
I do not need to set out the full background to the complaint. This is because the history of 
the matter is set out in the correspondence between the parties and our service, so there is 
no need for me to repeat the details here. In addition, Santander has acknowledged it made 
an error and has offered redress. So I dont need to analyse the events in detail in order to 
determine whether or not Santander has made a mistake; all I need to decide is whether the 
bank has done enough to put things right, or if there is anything further it needs to do.
Finally, our decisions are published, so its important I dont include any information that 
might lead to Mr B being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving 
the reasons for my decision. If I dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it; 
rather, itll be because I didnt think it was material to the outcome of the complaint.
Santander has acknowledged that when Mr B went into the branch to change his address, 
this was done only for his current account, and not the mortgage. Consequently, when Mrs B 
applied for a new five-year fixed rate product on the mortgage, Mr B only learned about this 
when he noticed his direct debit had gone down.
Mr B says that this has caused detriment to him. He wanted the mortgage to go onto the 
follow-on rate in order to cause Mrs B financial difficulties, which would (he hoped) result in 
her agreeing to sell the property. 
Santander accepted it made a mistake. The bank agreed, however, to waive any early 
repayment charge (ERC) if the property was sold within the five-year fixed rate period. 
Santander also paid Mr B compensation of £200.
Mr B wasnt satisfied with this and brought his complaint to our service. In addition to his 
dissatisfaction with the new interest rate product, Mr B was also unhappy with the way 
Santander had dealt with his complaint, and with the banks policy of taking instructions from 
one account holder only. 
An investigator looked at what had happened but didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything more than it had already offered. She was satisfied that, by agreeing to waive the 
ERC, Santander had ensured there would be no financial detriment to Mr B. She also 
thought the £200 paid was fair and reasonable. The investigator also explained that a 
complaint about complaint-handling didnt fall within the scope of our rules, and that we 
cannot tell Santander what policies it should have in place.
Mr B didnt agree with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. Hes made no new points but has reiterated all the points hes previously made 
about why he considers hes suffered detriment.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this situation has arisen from very unhappy circumstances  the breakdown of 
Mr and Mrs Bs marriage. Mrs B isnt a party to this complaint, so I dont know her side of the 
story, but its clear from what Mr B has told us that, from his side at least, matters are 
contentious. Mr Bs told us that his intention was to force Mrs B into a sale of the property by 
ensuring that the mortgage went onto the follow-on rate, which he hoped she would find 
unaffordable.
The mortgage terms and conditions allow changes to be made on the signature of one party. 
However, if a marital dispute marker is entered on the file, this shouldnt happen. It appears 
that there wasnt a marital dispute marker on the mortgage file, which allowed Mrs B to make 
the changes to the mortgage.
Although Mr B wants all correspondence, calls, etc. that led to the change to the mortgage, I 
cant order Santander to provide this information. This is because I dont have Mrs Bs 
consent to the release of her personal data. I also dont have any power to tell Santander 
how to run its business, or what policies it should implement in its day-to-day operations. 
But in any event, Santander has accepted it made a mistake; when Mr B changed his 
address in the branch, this should have included his address on the mortgage account as 
well. If this had been done, Mr B would have been sent the mortgage offer for the new 
five-year fixed rate product.
Mr B wants this unwound, but Im not going to tell Santander to do that. This is because 
Santander has offered to waive the ERC if the property is sold. Mr B says that the ERC is 
still showing on his online banking. It would, of course, still be showing as it is part of the 
mortgage contract. But Santander has confirmed in writing that it would be waived on any 
sale, so I am satisfied that this would be binding on the bank.
At the moment the monthly repayments on the fixed rate are lower than they would be on the 
follow-on rate, so there is no financial detriment to Mr B. Im also satisfied that this is not, as 
Mr B claims, sex discrimination. It was simply human error in not changing the address on 
the mortgage account, rather than any attempt on the part of the bank to benefit one account 
holder over the other.
Mr B has told us that his matrimonial dispute with Mrs B is subject to court proceedings, as 
he wants to force a sale of the property. That, of course, is up to the judge to determine, in 
the absence of agreement between the parties. It is not something with which either 
Santander or the Financial Ombudsman Service can become involved. However, I am 
satisfied that the agreement to waive the ERC is unlikely to prejudice a sale of the property.Mr B is also unhappy at the way Santander investigated his complaint. However, under our 
rules we can only consider a complaint about a regulated activity (in this case, the regulated 
activity is lending money secured on land) or matters ancillary to that (such as account 
administration or debt collection). The investigation of complaints, whilst it is something the 
regulator requires Santander to do, doesnt fall within the definition of either a regulated or 
ancillary activity. This means that I cant comment on the way Santander investigated the 
complaint, as its not something thats covered by our rules.
Im satisfied that Santanders offer to waive the ERC is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, and does enough to put right the error in relation to the five-year fixed rate 
product. Im also satisfied that the £200 compensation paid for distress and inconvenience is 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
Given this, Im not ordering Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
discussion about it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2024.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman