DRN-3189441
The complaint
Mrs and Mr R complain against The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (referred to as
Prudential), about the sale of a With-Profits endowment plan (the Plan).
In short, they say the plan didnt provide them with the benefit(s) they were told it would. So,
to make things right, theyd like Prudential to pay them the money they were promised.
What happened
In February 1985 Mrs and Mr R took out the plan with Business A, which has since been
taken over by Prudential. The plan proposal shows that the agent involved in the sale of the
plan was Business B, and the Inspector was recoded as a Mr X (name anonymised) from
Business A.
In response to the complaint Prudential said that Business B was responsible for the sale of
the plan, therefore, it wasnt responsible for looking into this complaint.
Unhappy with Prudentials response, Mrs and Mr R referred the complaint to our service.
Since then our service has informally explained that Prudential wasnt responsible for the
sale of the plan, but Mrs and Mr R maintain that Prudential is responsible because it took
over Business A. They remember being sold the plan in a Business A branch, at no point
where they told that a third-party  Business B  was involved/responsible for the sale of the
plan.
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld,
because he didnt think Prudential was responsible for the sale of the plan. In summary, he
said:
Theres no dispute that documents produced by Business A were provided to Mrs 
and Mr R.
The plan proposal, acceptance and confirmation letters, fund performance 
documents and the Inspectors business card all contained Business As name.
The plan proposal shows that the sale was arranged at a Business A branch and the 
Inspectors name was also recorded on it.
But, given that Business A was the plan provider and administrator this was to be 
expected. Despite appearances, none of the documents suggested that any financial 
advice was given by Business A.
At the time, it wasnt unusual for providers not to sell products direct to customers, 
instead relying on financial advisers to do so.
A third-party financial adviser, Business B, appears to be responsible for the sale of 
the plan. The plan proposal shows that it was acting as an agent for the sale of the 
plan and it was recorded as receiving commission for this.
In the circumstances, Business B sold the plan, not Business A, therefore Prudential 
isnt responsible for any financial advice.
The Inspector played a role in the arrangement of the plan, but this doesnt mean he 
offered any financial advice.
In similar cases dealt with by our service, the following has been said about 
Inspectors:
oThe Inspectors role was to provide support and information to agents, but 
theres no record the Inspectors provided advice.
oThere were administrative staff, as well as Branch Inspectors, whose role was 
to promote policies and provide support to IFAs and mortgage lenders that 
could potentially sell them. It wasnt the Inspectors role to sell direct to the 
public.
oAt the point of sale, it wasnt unusual for Inspectors from the local branch of 
the life/investment company to be invited into sales meetings to provide 
technical support.
So, the role of the Inspector wasnt to sell products, it was to provide support to 
financial advisers who sold the products.
Despite what Mrs and Mr R say about only meeting with an Inspector, in the absence 
of any record that this was the case, on balance hes unable to agree with this.
The records made at the time show that Business B was responsible for the sale of 
the plan and that it received a commission. Theres no reason to suggest that this 
was an inaccurate reflection of what happened at the time. So, the involvement of the 
Inspector doesnt mean that Business A was responsible for the sale.
Mrs and Mr R disagreed with the investigators view and asked for am ombudsmans
decision. In summary, they dont accept that a third-party business  Business B  was
responsible for the sale of their plan. No one told them that Business B was selling the plan
in Business As property and based on the paperwork they remain adamant that Prudential
is responsible.
The investigator having considered the additional points wasnt persuaded to change his
mind. He explained that the rules with regards to disclosure are much clearer now than they
were in 1985.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for substantially the same
reasons. The view covers all the pertinent points leaving little for me to comment upon. Im
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs and Mr R say, Im unable to
safely say that Prudential is responsible for the sale of the plan in 1985.
Before I explain further why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise the
strength of feeling Mrs and Mr R have about this matter. Theyve provided submissions to
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that they
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in
as much detail, as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider
the evidence presented by the Mr and Mrs R, and Prudential, and reach what I think is an
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation, and bestindustry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been
given, whats more likely than not to have happened.
Based on what Mrs and Mr R say, I appreciate that given the logistics there may be some
confusion about which business did what and who was responsible for the sale of the plan.
I appreciate that the sale of the plan took place in a branch of Business A, and that through
its Inspector it (probably) offered technical support (to Business B), but this doesnt of itself
mean that Business A is responsible for the sale of the plan and offering financial advice,
regardless of how confusing it may now be. Im aware that this sort of set up wasnt
uncommon in 1985.
Im also conscious that memories generally fade over time. I note this was a sale that took 
place over 35 years ago, so its likely that Mrs and Mr Rs recollection of what happened, 
even with the best will in the world, isnt as clear now as it was in 1985.
Despite what they say, I note that (contemporaneous) documents produced at the time show 
that Business B was responsible for the sale of the plan and that it also received a
commission. I agree with the investigator that theres nothing to suggest that this was an
inaccurate reflection/record of what happened at the time.
I think that Mrs and Mr Rs current recollection of events is unlikely to be helped by the fact
that they have documentation with Business As name on it. But this isnt unusual given that
Business A was the plan provider and administrator  this also explains the involvement of
an Inspector on hand to provide technical support to the financial adviser, who may not
know the product as well.
I appreciate whats been said by our service about Inspectors in similar cases in the past.
Whilst every case must be considered on its own merits, Ive seen nothing to suggest that
the Inspectors role or conduct in this case has been any different to whats traditionally been
their position and role. In this instance, Ive seen no persuasive evidence that the Inspector
provided financial advice.
Even if there was some confusion about the different roles of the businesses, it still doesnt
mean that Prudentials responsible for the sale of the plan. The documents provided dont
prove/suggest that Business A provided any financial advice for which Prudential is now
responsible.
I appreciate Mrs and Mr R will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion
as the investigator. Whilst I appreciate their frustration, Im not going to ask Prudential to do
anything.
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold this
complaint and give Mrs and Mr R what they want.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman