DRN-3506343
The complaint
Mr K complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc has failed to provide a solicitor to represent him 
on a claim made under his motor legal expenses insurance policy.
What happened
In mid-2020, Mr K was involved in a road traffic accident. He made a claim under his legal 
expenses insurance policy to pursue a claim for the personal injuries he suffered.
AXA accepted the claim and instructed one of its panel firms of solicitors  who Ill refer to as 
M. An assessment of the claim was undertaken, and M confirmed they were of the opinion 
that it enjoyed reasonable prospects of success. So they agreed to represent Mr K in the 
proceedings.
In early 2021, M contacted AXA to say there had been a breakdown in the relationship
between them and Mr K. They said Mr Ks continued use of aggressive and inappropriate
language had meant they were no longer willing to represent him in the claim and that 
alternative solicitors should be instructed. Following this, AXA appointed another panel firm  
who Ill refer to as L.
In late 2021, L also informed AXA that the relationship had broken down. They said Mr K 
was refusing to attend a medical appointment and provide proof of his loss of earnings until 
a further interim payment had been made. But L was clear that the other side would not be 
willing to make any further payments until Mr K had evidenced his losses. L said Mr K wasnt 
following their reasonable advice, so they could no longer represent him in his claim.
AXA has advised Mr K that it has no further panel firms to offer him. It has allowed Mr K the 
freedom to choose his own solicitor under the policy terms, but Mr K has said he cant locate 
anyone willing to take his claim on. He says this is because of the amount of work carried 
out by L. AXA has asked L whether theyre prepared to reconsider their position and 
continue acting for Mr K, but theyve said no.
Mr K complains that AXA has an obligation under the policy terms to provide him with a 
solicitor. And that as he cant locate one himself, it must offer him another panel firm. But 
AXA says it has no other panel solicitors. So Mr K brought his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She thought AXA should do more here to assist Mr K. 
Shes asked AXA to find three firms of solicitors that are willing to take on this claim and then 
Mr K can choose one.
Mr K accepted the view of our investigator. But AXA didnt. It said two panel firms had
already been provided but due to Mr Ks behaviour they were no longer willing to act for him.
So it didnt think it was fair that AXA should be responsible for locating another firm. 
As such, the complaint was passed to me to decide. And in May 2022, I issued a provisional 
decision which said:
The terms and conditions of Mr Ks legal expenses insurance policy says that it will pay the 
costs of recovering uninsured losses which arise directly from a road traffic accident in 
certain conditions.
The policy defines costs as being the standard professional fees reasonably and 
necessarily charged by the lawyer. And lawyer is defined as the legal representative or 
other appropriately qualified person acting for the policyholder.
The policy terms dont specifically state that the policy will provide the lawyer. But this is 
implied as the policy doesnt allow the policyholder freedom to choose their own lawyer 
unless its necessary to commence court proceedings, a conflict of interest arises or theres 
a dispute over settlement.
AXA provided Mr K with two lawyers from its panel, both of which accepted instructions and 
were willing to pursue the claim. But due to a relationship breakdown which the lawyers 
attribute specifically to Mr Ks behaviour, theyre no longer willing to act.
So I need to decide whether AXA has fulfilled its obligations under the policy terms, or 
whether its responsible in finding Mr K further representation. Based on what Ive seen so 
far, Im persuaded that AXA has done enough and I dont intend to ask it to do anything
more. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions set out what it expects of Mr K. It says:
You must:
Fully co-operate with the lawyer and us.
Not do anything which might damage the prospects of the claim succeeding.
Its clear from the information provided to AXA that both M and L were of the opinion that
Mr K was not co-operating with them. In addition, L says Mr K was withholding evidence to 
support his claim in the form of attendance to medical appointments and providing proof of 
his loss of earnings. This could damage the prospects of the claim succeeding as this 
evidence is required to process the case.
I understand Mr K is now willing to provide this evidence. But this comes too late as L are no 
longer willing to act for him.
As Mr K hasnt complied with his obligations under the policy and its these actions which 
has directly resulted in the panel firms withdrawal from the claim, Im not persuaded that its 
fair to expect AXA to locate further lawyers to take the claim on. I think its reasonable that it 
has allowed Mr K freedom of choice and its now for him to locate a solicitor.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr K didnt agree with my provisional decision. He says the comments made by M and L 
regarding his behaviour are untrue. AXA didnt respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr Ks strength of feeling regarding this complaint and Im sorry to hear that hes 
unhappy with the outcome Ive reached. To clarify, its not my role to decide whether or not 
Mr Ks behaviour was unreasonable during the course of his claim. What I must decide is whether AXA has acted in line with the policy terms and in a fair manner, based on the 
information it had available. 
Ive seen that AXA received a letter from M stating that they werent willing to act for Mr K 
any longer due to his behaviour. Ive provided a direct quote from Ms letter above in my 
provisional findings. 
After instructing another solicitor, AXA were then informed by L that they were no longer 
willing to act for Mr K due to his behaviour. L provided AXA with a copy of their letter to Mr K 
setting out their reasons why. AXA has asked whether L are willing to reconsider their 
position if Mr K co-operates, but theyve declined. 
AXA had provided Mr K with two firms of solicitors, thereby meeting its obligations under the 
policy terms. Based on the information it received, Im satisfied it was fair for AXA to 
conclude that Mr Ks behaviour was the reason why both solicitors wouldnt act for him. So I 
think its decision not to provide another firm was a fair one. 
AXA has said its willing to continue funding the claim if Mr K locates a solicitor to act for him, 
which I think is a reasonable stance to take in the circumstances. So I wont be asking AXA 
to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman