DRN-2843014
The complaint
Mrs G complains that she was coerced into obtaining a credit facility from Home Retail 
Group Card Services Limited (HRG). She says this has led to her incurring additional 
interest and charges and having a default recorded on her credit file. She wants the default 
removed.
What happened
Mrs G tells us that she felt coerced into taking out an Argos card at a store. Since then she 
says that shes had interest and charges added. And that the account has been placed in 
default. Mrs G states that she didnt receive the notices advising her of the default. And that 
shed be willing to pay off the remaining amount if HRG removes the default.
HRG told us that it had sent all correspondence to the correct address. And that this had 
included notices of arrears and a default notice. It said that it had accurately reported the 
account management and default to the credit reference agencies. And applied interest and 
charges in line with the agreement.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said there was 
insufficient information to say what had happened in the store. But he found that Mrs G had 
signed the agreement. And that the notices of arrears and default notice had been sent to 
her correct address. He felt that as only one payment had been made in seven months since 
the account was opened that it was fair for HRG to record the default.
Mrs G didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that its upsetting for Mrs G to have had a default recorded on her credit file.
And I can see why she feels so strongly that shes ended up in this situation.
Mrs Gs complaint is that she felt coerced into entering a credit agreement despite her being 
prepared to pay cash for the item she acquired. She feels this led to her account being 
defaulted.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues here. Our rules allow me to do this.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I accept that when a complaint is based on what took place in a store and what was said 
during a conversation it can be difficult to evidence all the details. But I can infer that Mrs G 
was asked if she wished to take out an Argos card. And she was no doubt given a sales 
pitch. 
I can understand in a busy store why she mightve felt under some pressure. But having 
signed the agreement and received the goods I think its reasonable to expect Mrs G to 
make the required repayments. Shes told us she had the cash available. And Id have 
thought it shouldve been possible to arrange payment fairly quickly.
Ive viewed the account statement and Ive seen that the original purchase in January 2018 
was for £37.98. In May 2018, Mrs G made a payment of £18.28 by debit card. From this I 
infer she knew of the debt and ought reasonably to have known that this payment still left an 
outstanding balance. Yet, as far as Im aware, that remains the only payment made. The 
additional interest and charges have been applied in line with the terms and conditions of the 
agreement.
HRG notes show that it sent a number of letters about the account to Mrs G. These were 
correctly addressed. And it included the notices of arrears as well as the notice of default. 
Whilst Mrs G has said that she didnt receive any of these letters I dont think this alters the 
situation. Ill explain why.
HRG isnt responsible for the alleged failure of a postal service to deliver the mail. But more 
importantly - and as Ive indicated previously  Mrs G knew that she hadnt repaid the debt in 
full. And its up to a consumer to make payments in accordance with the terms of an 
agreement. And to be aware of when those payments are required. 
Wed usually expect an account to be defaulted if payments are between three and six 
months in arrears. And as only one payment was received within the first seven months of 
the account being opened that seems to have happened here. I find that when HRG 
recorded the default in August 2018, it did so fairly and within the timescale wed expect.
Whilst Im not requiring HRG to remove the default, I can say that Mrs G is entitled to apply 
to have a notice of correction added to her credit file. This gives her the chance to explain 
the circumstances of the default. And it allows potential lenders the opportunity to view her 
explanation.
And if she settles the debt, the default  whilst remaining on the credit record for six years 
from the date it was first recorded - will be recorded as satisfied.
In summary, whilst I empathise with Mrs G, Im unable to say that HRG has done anything 
wrong. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman