DRN-3624955
The complaint
L, a limited company represented by Mr H, a director, complains about the administration of 
a group health insurance plan by Vitality Health Limited. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, L had a group health insurance plan with Vitality for several 
years. In May 2021, Mr H contacted Vitality about reducing the premium. During that call, 
Vitality told Mr H that the premium costs associated with R, his daughter, were 
£1,118.64. He asked Vitality to remove R from the plan in order to reduce the premium. 
Vitality removed R from the plan. 
In November 2021, Mr H noticed that the premium hadnt reduced as he expected. He 
complained to Vitality about that. He also complained that he didnt receive renewal 
documentation each year. 
In response to Mr Hs complaint, Vitality acknowledged that it had given him incorrect 
information in May 2021. It offered to reinstate R with effect from May 2021, with no 
break in cover. Mr H didnt think that was fair. I understand that L didnt renew the plan. 
Mr H says that Vitality misled him. He wants a full refund of the premium of £5,671.56 
and compensation in relation to Vitalitys handling of the matter. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. She said that it wasnt in dispute 
that Vitality made an error in that it told Mr H that the premium would reduce when R was 
removed from cover when that was not in fact the case. The investigator thought that 
Vitalitys offer to reinstate Rs cover was fair and reasonable. She didnt think it would be 
fair to ask Vitality to refund  premiums. The investigator said that Vitality sent renewal 
documents to the e-mail address it had from 2015 and that those documents were on 
Vitalitys employer zone. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said, in summary:
Vitalitys offer to reinstate R to the plan was meaningless as L didnt renew the 
plan; R wouldnt have been able to make a successful claim after shed been 
removed from the plan. 
L wouldnt have removed R from the plan if hed been given correct information. 
Vitality had the correct e-mail address, as it sent member information, notification 
of messages in the member zone, marketing, offers and appointment bookings 
to that address. It failed to share the correct e-mail address with all its 
departments, so L didnt receive renewal notifications. 
 
The investigator considered what Mr H said but didnt change her view. Mr H asked that 
an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide. 
Mr H has expressed concern about how Vitality handled the complaint. Our service can only 
consider complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the additional points that 
Mr H has raised about the handling of the complaint because it isnt a regulated activity.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not upholding the complaint and Ill explain why: 
Its common ground that Vitality made an error in that during the phone call in       
May 2021, it gave Mr H incorrect information about the part of the premium attached 
to R and led him to believe that the premium would reduce by that amount if R was 
removed from the plan. That was not in fact the case. When mistakes like this 
happen, we dont proceed on the basis that the incorrect information is true, we look 
to see the effect of the incorrect information on the consumer, which here is L. 
In this case, if Vitality had given Mr H the correct information in May 2021  that the 
removal of R from the plan wouldnt alter the premium  I accept that L wouldnt 
have removed R from the plan, as there was no financial benefit in doing so. 
Vitalitys offer to reinstate cover for R was fair and reasonable. It puts L in the 
position it would have been in if Vitality hadnt made the error. I appreciate that Mr H 
doesnt find that acceptable and note the reasons hes given. If R had wished to 
make an eligible claim during the period she wasnt a named individual on the plan 
and had incurred costs in doing so, we would have looked to Vitality to reimburse 
those costs. 
There are no grounds on which I can fairly direct Vitality to refund the premium in this 
case. L had the benefit of cover and Vitality is entitled to retain the premium. 
Vitality had Ls up to date e-mail address, as it sent marketing and other information 
to that address. Vitality says that its marketing and renewals systems are completely 
separate, so thats why it send renewal notifications to an old e-mail address. 
I dont think its for Mr H, on behalf of L, to ensure that each of Vitalitys systems 
holds his up to date e-mail address. But that doesnt change the outcome here. The 
renewal invitation was available on Vitalitys employer hub. I think that was sufficient. 
And the terms of the plan says that if L didnt receive the invitation to renew at least 
a month before the end of the plan year, it should notify Vitalitys customer services 
team. So, I think Vitality made the renewal information available to L and the onus 
was on Mr H, on Ls behalf, to take the matter up with Vitality if he couldnt access 
the documentation. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2022.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman