DRN-3394443
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK plc (AXA) declined their storm damage 
claim under their commercial property insurance without having full sight of all relevant 
information. 
Mr and Mrs P jointly held a Commercial and Residential Landlords Insurance policy with 
AXA for their freehold property. A third party, who Ill call Mr M, represented them in bringing 
their complaint. Ill refer to Mr M, but any reference to his actions may include those of Mr 
and Mrs P.
What happened
Mr M raised a claim for storm damage at Mr and Mrs Ps commercial premises. AXA 
engaged a loss adjuster (LA) to assess the damage. Ill refer to the LA where its necessary 
to differentiate, however, as AXA is responsible for the claim decision, any reference to it or 
its actions may include those of the LA.
The LA inspected the flat roof and reported that the main cause of damage was the natural 
breakdown of materials. AXA declined the claim because the policy didnt provide cover for 
damage caused over time, or wear and tear.
Four months later, Mr M challenged the claim outcome. AXA asked for a copy of the lease 
agreement and evidence of regular roof inspections. After looking at the additional evidence, 
AXA confirmed that there was no change to the claim outcome.
On behalf of Mr and Mrs P, Mr M complained to AXA that it had breached Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA) rules, unfairly declined the claim, and caused communication delays. AXA 
offered compensation of £25 for the delays, but it didnt agree that it had unfairly declined the 
claim.
Our investigator didnt think the evidence supported Mr and Mrs Ps complaint that AXA had 
declined the claim unfairly. He explained that this service doesnt decide whether FCA rules 
have been breached, nor does it decide on matters regarding compliance with complaint 
handling rules. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Mr M didnt agree. He made several comments in response to our investigators view, mainly 
emphasising the key points of the complaint.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise this is not the outcome Mr and Mrs P hoped for, Ive decided not to uphold 
their complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr M made 12 comments about the complaint outcome. I wont comment on each point 
individually, nor will I comment on every piece of information available to me. Instead, Ill 
consider the complaint as a whole and comment on the evidence which best helps me to 
explain the reasons for my decision.
Storm damage
Mr M claimed for damage to the flat roof of Mr and Mrs Ps commercial property following a 
named storm. Parts of the roof had lifted and there was internal damage from water ingress. 
AXAs LA concluded that the main cause of the damage was wear and tear, and that the 
water damage had happened over a long time.
I understand Mr M is aware that I consider three questions when deciding whether AXA fairly 
declined a claim for storm damage:
Was there a storm?
Was the damage consistent with that caused by a storm?
Was the damaged caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
Was there a storm?
Mr M made the claim after a well-publicised named storm. The policy doesnt define a storm, 
but weather data shows what can be reasonably classed as storm conditions at that time. 
AXA hasnt disputed that there was a storm, so Im satisfied this condition is met.
Was the damage consistent with that caused by a storm?
The flat roof has lifted, and water ingress damaged the internal walls of the property. Again, 
this isnt disputed, so I accept the damage is consistent with that caused by a storm.
Was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm?
AXA didnt think so. It declined Mr Ms claim because its LA reported that the roofs materials 
had broken down over time. Mr M didnt agree because he thought AXA had relied on 
incomplete and incorrect evidence.
The key point of dispute, here, is that AXA looked at online images of Mr and Mrs Ps 
property to determine the roof condition prior to the storm. While I understand that might be 
of concern, I cant agree that AXA relied on incorrect evidence. Thats because:
Although the online image was around three years old, AXA didnt rely only on that 
evidence.
Its LA had taken photos and recorded details of the roof after the storm and 
concluded that there was evidence of pre-existing damage.
Having looked at the online images and the LAs photos, the roof damage is similar, so I 
dont think it was unfair for AXA to decline the claim using both sets of evidence.
Mr M complains that AXA didnt ask for any further evidence to inform its decision. However, 
Ive noted that he didnt challenge AXAs decision until four months later. After chasing its 
response, AXA did ask for the lease agreement and evidence of any roof repairs carried out 
after the online image was taken. 
Having considered that information, AXA still declined the claim. As it wasnt aware that Mr 
M didnt agree with the original decision, I wouldnt have expected it to seek further 
information until Mr M disputed it. When he made it aware that there was further evidence, it 
reconsidered the claim. I dont think AXA did anything wrong by deciding the claim based on 
the information it had at the time.
Repair workMr M said, Repair work undertaken included new UPVC soffits which were fitted to the aged 
facia boards  a common practice to prevent further deterioration. He provided an invoice 
showing that roof repair work had been paid for. 
Ive thought carefully about this, but I dont think the evidence confirms that the roof was in 
good repair before the storm. Mr M himself says the facia boards were aged and 
deteriorated. It appears, then, that the repairs simply covered, rather than repaired, existing 
damage. As Ive said, when comparing the roof photos taken after the storm with those from 
before the storm and before repairs, the damage looks similar. So, I cant say it was unfair 
that AXA didnt accept the repair invoice as evidence of a well-maintained roof.
Mr M says the policy doesnt require Mr and Mrs P to provide photos or details of regular 
roof maintenance. The policy says:
Flat roof condition
Any flat portions of the roof of the building(s) are to be inspected once every 2 years by a 
competent roofing contractor and any recommendations implemented.
If you do not comply with this condition you will not be covered and we will not pay your 
claim.
The policy clearly requires inspections and necessary maintenance to be done every two 
years. While I agree that it doesnt specifically say evidence is required, its the 
policyholders responsibility to demonstrate that they have complied with the policy 
conditions. Therefore, Id expect Mr and Mrs P to be able to prove that regular inspections 
and necessary repair work has been done. Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AXA to 
ask for evidence.
Going back to the question of, was the damage caused wholly or mainly by the storm, the 
evidence suggests not. Therefore, Im satisfied that AXA declined the claim fairly for the 
reasons it gave and in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Delays
Mr M complains that AXA only issued its final repudiation 14 months after the claim was 
registered due to unnecessary delays and lack of communication. AXA offered £25 for the 
delays, which Mr M doesnt think is enough.
Ive looked at the timeline of events, but I dont think this simplistic view is a fair summary. 
AXA declined the claim the day after its LA inspected the damage. Mr M then challenged it 
four months later. I note AXA didnt respond promptly to each of Mr Ms contacts over the 
next two months, with delays of around four weeks between each contact with him. But, 
once AXA considered the evidence Mr M provided, it confirmed that the outcome hadnt 
changed. That was two months after Mr M first challenged the decision.
AXA issued a final repudiation letter six months later. That was in response to a formal 
complaint and after AXA completed its investigation. It sent update letters during that time. 
So, although what Mr M says about the gap between the claim and final repudiation may be 
factually correct, the evidence shows that AXA was clear about its decision each time it was 
challenged. I cant fairly say it delayed communicating the claim decision to Mr M.
Looking at the six-months delay issuing the final letter, I note AXA offered £25 compensation 
by way of apology. As our investigator explained, its not within this services remit to 
investigate complaints about complaint handling regulations. Therefore, I wont be requiring 
any action of AXA in respect of its compensation offer. I have thought about whether the 
more general delays warrant compensation, but I dont think the evidence indicates any 
significant delays which caused any material loss. There was no change to the initial claim outcome, which was communicated promptly, so the delay confirming it at each stage and 
the time taken to review additional information was not unreasonable. Therefore, I wont be 
asking AXA to pay compensation for delays.  
Mr M feels that AXA breached FCA rules. Its not within my remit to determine breach, so I 
wont address this part of his complaint.
Ive thought about Mr Ms complaint that AXA treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly. It assessed the 
roof damage and declined the claim in line with the conditions set out in the policy. While 
there were some relatively short delays in direct relation to claim handling, that was, in part, 
while AXA reconsidered the claim after Mr M provided new evidence. I know Mr M thinks 
that AXA shouldve asked for further evidence from the outset but, as Ive already said, I 
dont think AXA did anything wrong there. I havent seen any evidence to support what Mr M 
says, and AXAs decision to decline Mr and Mrs Ps claim is not, in itself, treating him 
unfairly.
Mr M doesnt think AXA used an appropriately qualified LA to inspect Mr and Mrs Ps 
property. Ive looked at the report and theres nothing to suggest that the LA wasn't 
appropriately qualified. And Mr M hasnt provided any expert reports of his own to contradict 
what AXAs expert concluded. Therefore, I cant reasonably say that AXA used an 
inappropriate LA.
In summary, Im satisfied that AXA communicated its decision to decline the claim promptly 
from the outset, relying on evidence available at the time. On receipt of further information, it 
investigated and repeated its claim decision. Following the complaint investigation, AXA 
repeated its decision for a final time. I can see that Mr M was dissatisfied with the outcome, 
but I havent seen any evidence to suggest that AXA reached the decision without giving 
proper consideration to the information available. Although Mr M doesnt like AXAs decision, 
that doesnt mean its treated Mr and Mrs P unfairly. Therefore, I see no reason to uphold the 
complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 June 2022. 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman