DRN-3663667
The complaint
Mr W is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, has dealt with his
request for a refund of credit card payments made to a retailer relating to a kitchen.
What happened
Mr W was getting a new kitchen fitted. In 2018, he ordered a number of high-end kitchen
appliances from a supplier Ill call IK. These were paid for using a number of credit cards that
Mr W and his wife had. Many parts of this complaint also involve Mrs W. For simplicity, Ive
referred to Mr W throughout.
One payment to IK was made using his Halifax credit card. This was for £1,000. Mr W said
delivery was agreed for when the kitchen was completed which, after planning, was May
2020. Mr W also said that the goods then werent delivered, and he struggled to contact IK
as the staff were all furloughed due to the Covid-19 pandemic. He went on to say that when
he did speak to IK, while delivery was promised, it never happened. Then, in March 2021, IK
went into administration. Mr W told us he never received the appliances and that IK told him
to raise a dispute with his credit card company.
So, Mr W asked Halifax for a refund. The bank refused. Briefly, the bank said it had looked
at a claim under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (S75) but, as the total
purchase price was over £30,000 it wasnt liable to give him a refund. When Mr W
complained, Halifax repeated its position.
Mr W wasnt happy with this. He brought his complaint to our service where it was looked at
by one of our investigators. Our investigator thought Halifax should give Mr W a refund for
the amount that had been paid for the appliances - around £29,500. Briefly, he said while
there was some confusion about the total cost, he thought the contract was for less than
£30,000, meaning it was within the limits for a S75 claim.
Mr W accepted our investigators view. But Halifax raised further questions, some of them
relating to information showing Mr W had paid a total amount over the £30,000 limit. None of 
these points changed our investigators view. But the bank still didnt agree with the outcome
he reached.
As the matter remains unresolved, its been passed to me for a decision. I would make it
clear that Im very aware Mr W and his wife have other complaints with our service relating
to the non-supply of these kitchen appliances. These are being looked at separately. My
decision here is solely looking at his S75 claim against Halifax.
I issued a provisional decision on 8 August 2022. In it I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached a different outcome to our investigator. Ill explain why. But
first, Im very aware that Ive summarised this complaint very briefly, in less detail than has
been provided, and largely in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive
focused on what I think is the heart of the matter here: did Halifax act fairly and reasonably
when it refused to give Mr W a refund?
If theres something Ive not mentioned, I havent ignored it. Ive not commented on every
individual detail. Ive focused on the details that are central to me reaching what I think is the
right outcome. This reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the
courts.
Ill now turn to the merits of this complaint. When looking at refund requests, I would expect
Halifax to look at both a chargeback and S75. Briefly, chargeback is a way for disputes
involving card payments to be resolved. The rules governing this process are set out by the
card scheme provider. Here, thats Mastercard. Its important to note that chargeback is a
voluntary scheme, not a legal consumer right. I would also point out that any chargeback
request raised by Halifax would be limited to the actual amount paid using the banks credit
card - £1,000.
There are certain time limits that affect whether a chargeback request can be made. Halifax
has said Mr Ws refund request was outside these time limits. As it was nearly three years
from when Mr W made the payment to IK using his Halifax credit card to when he asked the
bank for a refund, I agree that it was too late to raise a chargeback. So, Im satisfied Halifax
acted fairly and reasonably under the chargeback scheme when it didnt give him a refund of
his £1,000 payment. In any event, Mr W wants a refund of the total amount hes paid for the
non-delivered appliances.
So, Ive gone on to consider how Halifax has dealt with Mr Ws claim for a refund under S75.
This sets out that, in certain circumstances, as a provider of some of the finance used to pay
for the appliances, Mr W has a like claim against Halifax for a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier, IK. It seems that various credit cards, from a number of
different credit card providers were used to pay for the appliances. Mr W and his wife can
choose to ask any or all of these to look at a refund claim under S75. Thats their choice.
I can see Halifax has raised the potential for Mr W to get his money back more than once
from similar claims with the other card providers. If he has a possible S75 claim against
these other businesses, I dont think its unreasonable for him to pursue these. But, to be
clear, if Mr W was successful in a claim against a particular card provider, I dont think it
would be fair and reasonable for him to then expect to get anything from a similar claim from
any of the others for the same issue.
One of the required circumstances for S75 to apply is that there must be a valid debtor-
creditor-supplier relationship between the parties. Im satisfied this relationship is present for 
the £1,000 payment Mr W made to IK using his Halifax credit card.
Another of the circumstances for S75 to apply is that the cash price of the contract must be
more than £100 and not exceeding £30,000. Its this latter limit which has been at the centre
of this case. Ive looked at the information Mr W provided to Halifax. This includes a letter
from IK from March 2021. This clarifies that there were two distinct contracts  one for the
appliances, and a separate contract for design services for £1,000.
Im satisfied that the design service is a distinct and separate service to the supply of the
kitchen appliances. It would have been perfectly possible for Mr W to have his kitchen
designed by IK and then buy the appliances elsewhere if he wanted to. So, Im satisfied
these are two separate standalone contracts. But Im not satisfied that the £1,000 Mr W paid
to IK with his Halifax credit card was for the kitchen appliances.As Ive just said, Im satisfied there was a separate contract for design services. As such, I
would expect this contract to be paid for separately. Its also both logical and reasonable to
think that Mr Ws new kitchen would need to be designed first, before any appliances were
ordered. Otherwise how would it be known what appliances would be needed, where would
they be positioned, what size appliances would be needed etc.
The available evidence shows nine payments were made to IK for various amounts. One
payment is dated 29 May 2018. The other eight are dated 31 May 2018. The payment from
29 May 2018 was made using Mr Ws Halifax credit card and was for £1,000  the price of
the design services contract. Theres nothing in the evidence supplied showing the design
contract was paid by another means. So, on balance, Im satisfied this earlier payment was
for the design contract. As above, its reasonable that this contract would need to have been
performed first, before the appliances were ordered.
While there was one other payment to IK for £1,000 using a credit card from a different
provider, this was made on 31 May 2018 along with the other seven payments. Im satisfied,
again on balance, that this would have been for part payment for the appliances.
As Ive already said, where applicable, S75 gives Mr W a like claim against Halifax, as the
credit provider, for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, IK. But, as
above, Im satisfied the contract Halifax provided the credit for was for the design of the
kitchen, not the appliances. This means Mr W has no like claim against Halifax for the non-
supply of the appliances as it didnt provide the credit for these. That credit was from various
other providers. Im satisfied his like claim against Halifax is only for the design contract.
The available evidence doesnt show theres been a breach or misrepresentation of the
design contract. Mr W hasnt argued that IK didnt fulfil this or that he didnt get what he
expected under the design contract. Indeed, if it hadnt been fulfilled, he wouldnt have then
been in a position to decide which appliances to buy. So, theres no basis for me to direct
Halifax to refund the £1,000 to Mr W.
In summary, for the reasons Ive outlined above, I think Halifax has acted fairly and
reasonably by refusing to give Mr W a refund. So, Ive provisionally decided not to uphold
this complaint.
I gave both parties time to reply to my provisional decision. Mr W didnt accept it. Briefly, he 
said all the payments were made on the same day, at the same time. He said its a function 
of the banking system that they appear on different days. Mr W provided a bank statement 
showing a £1,000 payment to IK. He told us this was the payment for the design contract, 
not the £1,000 using his Halifax credit card.
 
Halifax didnt reply to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W has said all ten payments made to IK  the nine card payments I referred to in my 
provisional decision and the payment made from a bank account  were all made at the 
same time on the same day, 29 May 2018. I dont accept this as the evidence hes 
previously provided contradicts this.
 
Mr W says the payments may show on different days due to a function of the banking 
system. This can be the case. But many credit card statements list both the transaction date, that is the date of the actual payment, and a processing or posting date. Five of the 
statements show the transaction date for the respective payments to IK as being 31 May 
2018, not 29 May 2018. These five payments were all posted to the various accounts on 1 
June 2018.
Of the other credit card payments, three dont have a transaction date, only a processing or 
posting date of 31 May 2018. The remaining credit card statement shows a £1,000 payment 
with a transaction date of 29 May 2018 which was posted to the account the next day. This 
was the payment using Mr Ws Halifax credit card. So, Im not satisfied the payments were 
all made at the same time on the same day.
 
While Mr W has sent us a bank account statement showing a £1,000 payment to IK on 30 
May 2018, theres nothing to confirm what this payment is for, or exactly when it was made. 
What the available evidence does show is that the two credit card payments to IK for £1,000 
were made on separate days  one on 29 May 2018 and one on 31 May 2018. As above, 
the earlier payment was made using Mr Ws Halifax credit card and is at the centre of this 
complaint. So, the earliest record of a payment being made to IK is the £1,000 on 29 May 
2018 using Mr Ws Halifax credit card.
 
Having taking all this into account, theres nothing to persuade me to depart from the 
outcome I reached in my provisional decision. Im not satisfied that, on balance, the Halifax 
credit card payment was for the kitchen appliances. So, Im also not satisfied theres a like 
claim against the bank for the non-delivery of these. It follows that Im satisfied, Halifax 
hasnt acted unfairly or unreasonably by not giving Mr W a refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
 
This final decision marks the end of the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this 
complaint. This means we are unable to consider the merits of it any further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2022.
 
John Miles
Ombudsman