DRN-2192258
The complaint
Mr S says PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender lent to him irresponsibly. He says he 
couldnt afford to make the loan repayments. He thinks that Mr Lender shouldve seen this 
and not lent to him. 
What happened
This complaint is about one payday loan, and five instalment loans, Mr Lender provided to 
Mr S between January 2016 and October 2019.
loan 
numberdate 
startedamountnumber of 
instalmentsdate paid
1 23/01/2016 £120 2 31/03/2016
break in lending
2 14/01/2017 £250 6 28/07/2017
3 05/08/2017 £1,000 6 28/02/2018
4 28/02/2018 £1,000 9 09/08/2018
5 20/09/2018 £1,500 12 14/02/2019
break in lending
6 01/10/2019 £1,500 12 outstanding
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He didnt think that Mr Lender was wrong to 
have approved loans 1 to 3 and loan 6. But he thought it shouldnt have approved loans 4 
and 5. 
Mr Lender partly agreed with the adjudicators opinion. It make an offer on the same basis as 
the adjudicator recommended in respect of loan 5. 
But Mr Lender didnt think loan 4 should be upheld. It said there were some breaks in the 
lending before this loan. It also said that whilst Mr S confirmed he had other lending the 
information he provided showed the loan was still affordable for him and the other checks Mr 
Lender did confirmed this. So, it thought it was appropriate to approve this loan. 
Mr S didnt disagree with the adjudicators findings. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive decided to uphold Mr S complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr S didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 1 to 3 and loan 6. And 
Mr Lender agreed to make an offer on the same basis as the adjudicator recommended for 
loan 5. Because of this, I dont think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. 
So, I wont be making a decision about these loans. But I have included loan 5 in my putting 
things right section at the end of this decision for completeness. 
Loan 4 was Mr S third loan in a relatively short period of time. And he had to defer the 
repayments on loan 3 a number of times. So, there were signs that Mr M was struggling with 
his repayments. 
And Mr S said that he owed £500 in other short term lending. And this had been the case 
right from the start. I think this is a significant amount to owe over a longer period of time 
especially when added to the amounts he had borrowed from Mr Lender. It could mean that 
the repayments to this loan may not be affordable.  So, I think Mr Lender should have 
determined exactly what Mr S did owe, and what he was due to repay, in the near future. 
I dont think Mr Lender did this. It relied on what Mr S had told it about his debt. So I need to 
think about what Mr Lender wouldve seen if it had carried out proportionate checks. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate check for loan 4 would most likely have shown 
that Mr S had a further five short term loans outstanding. And he had been borrowing and 
repaying a significant amount of this type of lending in the recent past. So, it wasnt likely 
that Mr S could sustainably afford the loan repayments to this loan. 
I think that Mr Lender wouldve found out this information if it had made proportionate 
checks. So I think that Mr Lender shouldnt have given loan 4 to Mr S and I think hes lost out 
as a result of this. So Im upholding Mr S complaint about loan 4.Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent Mr S loans 4 and 5, as Im satisfied it shouldnt to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr S may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr S in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr S would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
Mr Lender shouldnt have given Mr S loans 4 and 5.
If Mr Lender has sold any outstanding debts Mr Lender should buy these back if it is able to 
do so and then take the following steps. If Mr Lender is not able to buy the debts back then 
Mr Lender should liaise with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
A) Mr Lender should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including 
anything it has already refunded.
B) Mr Lender should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) Mr Lender should remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld 
outstanding loans, and treat any repayments made by Mr S as though they had been 
repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr S having made 
overpayments then Mr Lender should refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the 
date the complaint is settled. Mr Lender should then refund the amounts calculated in A 
and B and move to step E.
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Mr S. However, if there is still an outstanding balance then 
Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr S. Mr Lender shouldnt 
pursue outstanding balances made up of principal Mr Lender has already written-off.E) Mr Lender should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr S credit file in relation 
to loan 4. The overall pattern of Mr S borrowing for loan 5 means any information recorded 
about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans entirely from Mr S credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to deduct tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
should give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax Mr Lender has deducted, if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr S complaint.
PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender should put things right by doing what Ive said 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 March 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman