DRN-2249059
The complaint
Mr K has complained about the amount Elderbridge Limited has told him he will have to pay 
to clear his secured loan.
What happened
In August 2006 Mr K took out a secured loan for £62,000 with Lender A. In June 2008 he got 
into financial difficulty and didnt pay the monthly instalments that he should have paid. 
Lender A then transferred the loan to Lender B.
In April 2011 Mr K started to pay monthly instalments of £90 to Lender B. He increased the 
monthly payments to £95 in May 2012 and to £120 in May 2014.
In August 2015 Lender B transferred the loan to Elderbridge and Mr K continued to pay £120 
per month. He contacted Elderbridge in January 2018 and asked it to stop charging interest 
on the loan. Elderbridge agreed to do this, backdated to August 2015 when it acquired the 
loan.
Elderbridge then incorrectly added £46,111.36 to the loan in respect of interest that had 
accrued to the loan between November 2008 and August 2015. It tried to rectify its mistake 
but this resulted in another £46,111.36 being added to the loan. Elderbridge didnt correct 
the error until June 2018 when it removed £61,364.69 from the loan.
Mr K complained to Elderbridge and it apologised for its errors. It said it had returned the 
loan to the same position it would have been in if the errors had not occurred. It sent Mr K a 
cheque for £50 in respect of the distress and inconvenience he had been caused.
Mr K wasnt happy with Elderbridges response to his complaint and he referred it to this 
service. Our investigator thought Elderbridge had corrected the errors it had made but they 
thought it should pay Mr K £150 compensation for the upset and confusion hed suffered.
Elderbridge agreed to increase its offer to £150 but Mr K didnt accept it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr K took out the loan he agreed to pay Lender A 300 monthly instalments. The 
interest rate payable on the loan was variable and the amount of the monthly instalments 
could change if the interest rate went up or down. When the loan started, the monthly 
instalments were £464.97. If the interest rate had remained the same throughout the term of 
the loan Mr K would have had to pay Lender A a total of £139,491 to clear the loan in full.
Lender A stopped adding interest to the outstanding balance of the loan in November 2008. 
If it hadnt done this, interest would have been charged on the unpaid interest and the 
balance of the loan would have increased considerably. But interest was still payable under 
the terms of the loan agreement.
I think it was reasonable for Elderbridge to add to the loan the interest that had been unpaid 
up to the point it agreed to stop charging interest. Its regrettable that it made errors when it 
tried to do this with the result that Mr K was told he would have to pay much more to clear 
the loan than he will actually have to pay. But Elderbridge has corrected the errors and the 
amount its now telling Mr K hell need to pay to clear the loan after deducting the payments 
hes made is a lot less than he agreed to pay when he took out the loan.
Putting things right
I think the errors made by Elderbridge caused Mr K unnecessary trouble and upset and I 
recognise that it would have been distressing for him to be told he owed a lot more than he 
thought. Elderbridge could have been a lot clearer about what it was doing. But the errors 
have now been corrected. And Mr K hasnt been financially disadvantaged by the errors 
because he isnt being asked to pay more than he would have had to pay if they hadnt 
happened.
I agree that £150 is a reasonable amount for Elderbridge to pay Mr K to compensate him for 
the trouble and upset it caused him. Im not sure if the cheque for £50 that Elderbridge sent 
Mr K has been cleared. If it has been cleared, Elderbridge only needs to pay him the balance 
of £100.
My final decision
l uphold this complaint and I require Elderbridge Limited to pay Mr K £150.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Charles Bacon
Ombudsman