DRN-3121453
Complaint
Mr H has complained about the overdraft charges HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) applied to 
his current account. Hes said HSBC applied these charges when he was in financial 
difficulty. And hes also unhappy with not being provided with an overdraft.
Background
Mr Hs complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that HSBC had 
done anything wrong as HSBC didnt have reason to suspect he may have been in financial 
difficulty before being notified of this. So he didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr H 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs
complaint. Ill explain why Ive done so in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts HSBC charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate in 
comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at HSBCS charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr H if it applied these interest, fees and charges to Mr Hs 
account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and reasonably to have been
aware Mr H was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive considered whether there were
instances where HSBC didnt treat Mr H fairly and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where HSBC continued charging 
Mr H even though it ought to have known he was in financial difficulty or it ought to have 
realised this was the case. Ive also looked through Mr Hs statements throughout the period 
concerned I cant see that HSBC ought to have been aware that Mr H might have been 
struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mr H did go into an unarranged overdraft. But while Im not seeking to 
make retrospective value judgements over Mr H expenditure, nonetheless there are 
significant amounts of non-committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions 
account going from the account. 
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr H wasnt 
experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in themselves 
which ought to have alerted HSBC to potential financial difficulty prior to Mr H notifying it of 
this. So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr H, I dont 
think that it was unreasonable for HSBC to have proceeded adding the charges that it did. 
And I dont think HSBC unfairly charged Mr H in circumstances where it ought to have 
realised that he may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
Ive seen what Mr H has said about his financial position. And Im sorry to hear about his 
difficulty. But I note that HSBC has refunded a significant portion of the fees since Mr H got 
in contact to explain this. It has also attempted to set up a repayment plan with Mr H to repay 
the outstanding balance. So Im satisfied that this was an appropriate response to Mr Hs 
contact. Equally, while I understand Mr H is unhappy at being declined for an arranged 
overdraft. A bank will have its own criteria for assessing whether it is prepared to lend. And 
its not for us to tell a bank that it should lend in circumstances where it determines any 
further borrowing isnt affordable for the customer. 
As this is the case and bearing in mind what Ive already said earlier, I dont think that HSBC 
has treated Mr H unfairly. So it doesnt need to refund any further interest, fees and charges 
and Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr H  especially as she has been waiting 
sometime for an answer from us. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision 
and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman