DRN-3402344
The complaint
Mr G complains that National House-Building Council (NHBC) hasnt put right various issues 
at his home, after he made claims on his building warranty policy.
What happened
In 2018, Mr G bought a new-build property. The property is covered by a ten-year building 
warranty policy. 
During the first two years of cover, section 2 of the policy applies. If damage is found during 
the first two years, which has been caused by a failure to follow the NHBC requirements 
during construction, the builder is, in the first instance, responsible for putting the issues 
right. However, NHBC will offer its resolution service if theres a dispute between the 
homeowner and the builder.
NHBC only becomes responsible for damage thats found during the first two years if certain 
conditions are met. The conditions relevant to this complaint, are: NHBC issued a resolution 
report requiring action by the builder, and the builder hasnt complied. 
Mr G made a claim within the first two years. In July 2018, NHBC issued a resolution report 
for 64 items. NHBC required the builder to take action on 21 items by 5 October 2018, to 
ensure compliance with NHBC requirements.
In December 2018, NHBC issued an updated resolution report. Because the required action 
hadnt been taken for 14 items, NHBC confirmed it would now take responsibility for those 
14 items.
On 18 August 2020, NHBC issued a final response, in response to a complaint by Mr G. 
NHBC offered £1,600 compensation for the delays in resolving the items it had taken 
responsibility for, and for poor service. 
In November 2020, Mr G raised a further complaint about further delays. He also noted that 
due to NHBCs repairs, the carpet in the hallway and lounge werent fitting correctly. He 
wanted the carpets in those areas to be replaced.
Mr G also noted two other claims had been made during the first two years of the policy, in 
addition to the claim for the 64 items. He explained, because of the builders intimidating 
behaviour, he didnt allow him to attempt to repair those other issues. Given those 
circumstances, Mr G asked if NHBC would now take over those two other claims.
On 10 January 2021, Mr G contacted our service about his complaints. We asked him to 
complete and return a complaint form.
On 22 January 2021, NHBC issued a second final response, in response to the complaint he 
had raised in November 2020. NHBC offered a further £300 compensation, for the further 
delays and poor service.
NHBC also accepted the hallway carpet had been damaged during its work in that area, and 
it said it would consider a contribution towards its replacement, taking into account the age 
and wear of the damaged carpet. However, it said damage hadnt been caused to the lounge 
carpet.
In respect of the other two claims, NHBC explained that because the builder hadnt been 
given an opportunity to rectify the issues during the first two years, it was unable to offer 
further assistance under its resolution service.
On 13 May 2021, NHBC issued a third final response, in response to a complaint about 
more delays and a cash settlement for some items. NHBC offered Mr G a further £250 
compensation, for the further delays and poor service. NHBC said its contractor would 
complete the remaining repairs, that werent being cash settled, as a priority.
NHBC said it had offered a cash settlement for the kitchen floor and tiles because it was only 
liable to repair the damaged areas, but it had included 50% towards the undamaged areas. 
Nonetheless, NHBC had since increased its cash settlement to cover all the kitchen floor 
and tiles. NHBC explained it was entitled to cash settle, rather than complete the works.
NHBC also said its position regarding the hallway carpet, in respect of a contribution only, 
remained the same. NHBC also noted the only issue with the lounge carpet related to a 
damaged gripper rod, which it would cover the cost of.
Mr G noted he had previously been offered £4,000 for the damaged kitchen floor areas and 
for the 50% contribution towards the non-damaged areas. However, NHBC was now only 
offering £2,211 for all the works. In any case, Mr G reiterated that he wanted NHBC to 
undertake the works.
Mr G also noted that the ground floor hallway carpet continues to the first and second floor 
landing areas. He asked whether NHBC would be covering those areas, or just the ground 
floor hallway. He also considered it unreasonable for him to have different carpets in the 
lounge and hallway.
NHBC explained it had previously quoted £4,000 in error, without a schedule of work having 
been completed. NHBC said its £2,211 offer had been accurately calculated. NHBC offered 
a 20% contribution towards the stairs and landing carpet. However, NHBC maintained its 
position on the lounge carpet.
In June 2021, Mr G returned a completed complaint form to our service. He explained that 
he remained unhappy with NHBCs position on the kitchen floor tiles and the carpets; the 
delays and service over the previous two and half years; and NHBCs unwillingness to 
consider the two other claims raised during the first two years.
Whilst the complaint was being considered by one of our investigators, NHBC confirmed it 
would pay Mr Gs £5,692 quote, in full, for the kitchen floor and tiles. The quote had been 
obtained from NHBCs approved contractor, on a private basis.
Our investigator didnt think we could consider events before January 2021, and she thought 
the £250 compensation offered in NHBCs latest final response was fair, for the events after 
January 2021. She also thought NHBCs offer to pay the kitchen floor quote in full was fair. 
However, she thought NHBC should pay 50% towards the stairs and landing carpet, in 
addition to paying for the lounge carpet gripper rod.
NHBC accepted our investigators findings. Because Mr G asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman, the complaint was passed to me to decide.Ive already issued a jurisdiction decision setting out what complaint points we can and cant 
consider. As explained in that decision, we cant consider NHBCs decision to not offer its 
resolution service for two claims, or the items relating to those claims. 
Ive also issued a provisional decision for the complaint points we can consider. In my 
provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Kitchen tiles and flooring
I can understand Mr Gs preference for NHBC to complete the repairs. However, under the 
policy terms, NHBC can complete repairs or cash settle. As such, I dont consider NHBC 
was operating outside the policy terms, by offering a cash settlement.
Whether or not the £2,211 cash settlement was fair is another matter. However, thats not 
something I need to decide here, given NHBC has now offered to meet Mr Gs quote. It 
follows that I consider NHBCs latest offer to be fair.
Lounge carpet  fitting
Mr G says the lounge carpet isnt fitting and it may need to be replaced. He says it may not 
be possible to fix it by changing the gripper rod.
I cant reasonably direct NHBC to cover the cost of replacing the lounge carpet, on the basis 
a new gripper rod might not resolve the issue. At this stage, I havent seen any evidence the 
lounge carpet needs to be replaced.
Even if a new gripper rod doesnt resolve the issue, I havent seen anything that leads me to 
believe NHBC would be liable. The carpet wasnt something NHBC became responsible for 
on 5 October 2018. The carpet wasnt subject to the resolution reports. I also havent seen 
anything that supports NHBC damaged the lounge carpet during its works, beyond the 
gripper rod.
Lounge carpet  match
Mr G has also argued the hallway and lounge carpet wont match, if only the hallway carpet 
is replaced.
As I understand it, the lounge is separated from the hallway by a door and door bar. If so, 
the carpets arent continuous, and the rooms are separate. In those circumstances, we 
wouldnt generally consider the two carpets to be part of a set, or there to be an 
unreasonable loss of match.
Ultimately, Ive not seen anything that persuades me NHBC ought reasonably to contribute 
to the cost of replacing the lounge carpet on the basis it wont match the hallway.
Hallway, stairs and landing carpet
NHBCs policy terms explain it wont pay for an undamaged item because it doesnt match a 
replacement item. Such terms arent uncommon in insurance policies, but where the items 
form part of a set, we generally consider it fair and reasonable for the insurer to contribute 
towards the undamaged item.However, as I understand it, the hallway carpet isnt being replaced due to an issue thats 
covered by the building warranty policy. But rather, the carpet is being replaced because 
NHBC damaged it during its repairs. Therefore, the carpet settlement isnt subject to the 
policy terms.
Furthermore, I understand the hallway, stairs, and first and second floor landing areas are 
continuous. Even if theres a natural break in the carpets, or one can be added, the areas 
arent separated by doors.
Its not reasonable for Mr G to suffer a loss of match in a continuous area of his home, or for 
him to have the cost of replacing the carpet in all those areas, because NHBC caused 
damage.
Mr G also wouldnt need to replace the carpets, but for NHBC damaging the hallway carpet 
during its work. So, I dont consider it fair for NHBC to make a deduction for wear and tear. 
Particularly given the carpet would have only been a few years old when the damage 
occurred.
Therefore, I intend to decide NHBC should cover the full cost of replacing the carpet 
throughout the hallway, stairs and landing areas.
NHBC hasnt yet been presented with any carpet quotes. So, Im unable to make a monetary 
award. Nonetheless, the settlement should be based on a like-for-like replacement, based 
on the existing carpet in those areas. Should there be a dispute about the settlement 
amount, Mr G would need to make a new complaint.
Delays, service and compensation
As explained in my jurisdiction decision, we can consider the delays and service since 
5 October 2018, in respect of the 14 items NHBC became responsible for.
Its evident from the final response letters that there have been a number of failings since 
October 2018. I dont doubt the delays to repairing the 14 items, and the service issues, 
have caused Mr G a fair amount of upset and inconvenience
However, NHBC has so far paid Mr G £2,150 compensation. Based on the information Ive 
seen, and the arguments presented so far, I consider that amount to be fair. Ive not seen 
anything that would have led me to award more, had NHBC not already awarded this 
amount.
Therefore, I dont intend to award further compensation. I understand the £2,150 has already 
been paid following the three final response letters. But if that isnt the case, Mr G should let 
me know when he responds to my provisional decision.
In response to my provisional decision, Mr G said the lounge carpet isnt fitting after the door 
was changed by NHBC. He said a carpet fitter has confirmed the issue cant be fixed with a 
new gripper rod. Ive since had a further exchange with NHBC about the lounge carpet, 
which Ill set out below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I wont revisit everything I said in my provisional findings. Instead, Ill focus on the further 
comments from Mr G, which were in relation to his lounge carpet.
In view of Mr Gs comments, I revisited NHBCs photos and report. I explained to NHBC that, 
as I understood it, NHBC has accepted the gripper rod was likely damaged during its work. 
I also noted it isnt clear from the photos and report commentary whether a new gripper 
would resolve the issues caused by its work. Equally, Mr G hasnt provided any expert 
opinion to support his assertions a new gripper wont resolve those issues.
I explained, despite my provisional findings under the heading Lounge carpet  fitting, if a) 
the carpet fitting has been compromised by the damaged gripper, and b) the carpet fitting 
cant be restored by a new gripper, then NHBC would be liable for a new lounge carpet. 
Therefore, I said should Mr G submit a credible report to NHBC from a carpet fitting firm, that 
supports a) and b), then NHBC should consider that evidence. If theres still a dispute about 
the lounge carpet after that evidence has been considered, a new complaint can be made. 
I noted no carpet quotes have been obtained yet. So, NHBC will need to consider those 
quotes anyway, before settling the hallway, stairs, and landing areas.
NHBC accepted my provisional findings, and my follow-up comments in relation to the 
lounge carpet.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision is National House-Building Council should:
- settle the kitchen floor and tiles as per Mr Gs £5,692 quote, on receipt of the invoice;
- cover the cost of replacing the damaged gripper rod in the lounge; 
- consider a report from a carpet fitting firm, should Mr G provide one, to determine if 
the lounge carpet needs to be replaced due to the damaged gripper rod  and if so, 
cover the cost of replacing the carpet (subject to a like-for-like quote from Mr G, 
based on the existing carpet); and
- cover the cost of replacing the carpet in the hallway, stairs, and first and second floor 
landing areas (subject to a like-for-like quote from Mr G, based on the existing 
carpet)
If theres a further dispute about the lounge carpet after a report has been provided by Mr G, 
or a dispute about the cost of the replacement carpets, a new complaint can be made about 
those matters.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Vince Martin
Ombudsman