DRN-2491589
The complaint
Miss W complains about the standard of service from her insurer, QIC Europe Ltd (QIC). Her 
complaint relates to the rejection of a claim for damage to her house from a leak through a 
window. 
What happened
In October 2020 after a period of heavy rain Miss W noticed damage to a ceiling and wall 
below a bedroom bay window caused by a leak. Miss W contacted the company providing a 
claims handling service for QIC (QICs agents) and maintains that she was told that she 
was covered for the damage under her home insurance policy (buildings) and that she 
should go ahead with repairs to the damage.
 
QICs agents instructed their field surveyor to inspect Miss Ws house. The report from the 
surveyor notes that the previous repairs to the roof above the window were of a poor 
quality and that there was no visible damage to the roof that would be attributable to 
damage from a storm. The report also stated that:
the internal water ingress is due to a gradual operating cause and poor repairs to the 
bedroom window felt roof that [had] been in our opinion ongoing for some time 
resulting in the ceiling damage and water ingress
.
QICs agents also stated that there were no storms in the four weeks preceding the incident, 
and that pictures of the window showed that there was no damage consistent with storm 
winds. Consequently, QICs agents said that the policy did not provide cover in these 
circumstances as the policy only covered storm damage.
QICs agents also referred to Miss Ws policy including an exclusion clause that stated 
(under a heading of Gradual physical loss or damage) that the policy did not provide for 
Any damage caused by: wear, tear or depreciation.
Based on these factors, QICs agents declined Miss Ws claim. Miss W complained to QICs 
agents, who rejected her complaint. But they made a settlement offer for the damage caused 
in the incident as a goodwill gesture to resolve her complaint.
 
Miss W was unhappy at the outcome of her complaint and complained to this service. The 
main issues of her complaint were, firstly, that she feels shouldnt have been told that her 
claim was covered when she initially made the claim and, secondly, that her claim should not 
have been declined. Miss W maintains that as her policy included accidental damage her 
claim should have been accepted. She also maintained that the damage was caused by 
heavy rains and that the claim should not have been assessed against storm damage. Miss 
W provided photographs of the damage caused by the leak. She also provided a copy of the 
repair bill for the damage, which noted repair to the storm damaged roof above the window. 
It also referred to damage to the felt roof above the bay window being caused by dislodged 
ridge tiles from the main roof above the house.
Our investigator considered the circumstances of the complaint, including both issues raised 
by Miss W. The investigator concluded that the insurer had acted fairly in the way that they 
had rejected Miss Ws complaint, as there was no insured peril, and consequently that it 
should not have to pay for the cost of damage arising from the leak through the bedroom 
window.
Miss W disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review 
the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Miss W.
The main part of Miss Ws complaint is that her claim should not have been rejected. Ive 
considered the evidence available concerning the incident, including the surveyors report, 
the evidence about the weather conditions at the time of the incident as well as the evidence 
provided by Miss W in the form of the repair bill and the photos of the damage.
 
It is clear there was damage caused by ingress of water through the roof above the window. 
But the key question is what caused the ingress of water, and whether that cause was 
covered under the terms of her insurance policy. While there was heavy rain at the time of 
the incident, this of itself is not an event that is covered under the terms of the policy. For it 
to be covered it would have to be part of a storm, and the evidence from weather reports is 
that there was not a storm at the time of the incident, or in the period leading up to it. Home 
insurance policies typically also contain exclusion clauses relating to gradual damage, 
deterioration or wear and tear as these policies are not designed or intended to be 
maintenance contracts.
Ive also considered whether, even if there had been a storm, Miss Ws claim would have 
been accepted. Here, the evidence from the surveyors report is that there was gradual 
damage over a period leading up to the incident. The report also indicates that there had 
been poor quality repairs to the felt roof over the window. I also note that the terms of the 
policy require the policyholder to maintain the roof, specifically that any areas of flat roof 
should be inspected at least every three years and any faults rectified as soon as possible. 
There is a further requirement to provide evidence of any such inspections and repairs for 
any subsequent claim to be valid. Ive not seen any such evidence.
From the evidence I have seen I think the heavy rain highlighted flaws with the window and 
roof that were pre-existing. As I havent seen any evidence of the necessary storm 
conditions I dont think it was unreasonable for QIC to reject Miss Ws claim under this 
section of her policy.
Miss W makes the point about her policy including accidental damage, and that this should 
have meant her claim was accepted. Ive looked at the terms of the policy and accidental 
damage is defined as:
The sudden and unintentional physical damage which has not been caused on 
purpose.
The key here is sudden, and the evidence from the surveyors report is that the damage 
was a result of ongoing, gradual deterioration over the time leading up to the incident rather 
than the incident itself. For that reason, I do not believe that the incident damage would be 
covered under the accidental damage clause of the policy.The second part of Miss Ws complaint is that that she feels she shouldnt have been told 
that her claim was covered when she initially made the claim. In considering this part of her 
complaint Ive listened to the recording of the conversation when she phoned to make her 
claim.
 
The question of whether QICs agents accepted Miss Ws claim during the call is not 
explicitly covered. She was told to proceed with the repairs using the contractor she had 
already contacted and who had inspected the damage, and that she should send the invoice 
to QICs agents. Mention is also made of the excess on the policy, which would be deducted 
from any cash settlement offered. I can understand Miss W believing that her claim was 
accepted. However, mention is also made that QICs agents would be instructing their own 
surveyor to inspect the damage to the property and report back. Miss W is also told that if 
she wants to proceed (my emphasis) with the claim it may affect her future premium when 
the policy is due for renewal. On balance, I dont think explicit approval of her claim was 
given during the call.
 
In any event, I dont think Miss W would have acted any differently had she been told 
explicitly in the call that her claim was not approved, or that it would need to be assessed - 
on the basis of the surveyors report - before a decision taken on whether to approve it. 
Because of the need to make repairs to stop the leak given further rain was forecast, I think 
it is likely that Miss W would have proceeded with the repairs.
Based on these considerations I dont believe that QIC should be held responsible for the 
cost of repairs as a result of the leak from the incident. I do note that QIC made a settlement 
offer as a goodwill gesture.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman