DRN-4014075
The complaint
Miss W and Mr W complain that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted them 
finance (under a conditional sale agreement) they couldnt afford to repay.
Miss W and Mr W are represented in this complaint by a third party. But for ease I will 
simply, in the main, refer to Miss W and Mr W rather than Miss W, Mr W and their appointed 
representative.
What happened
In May 2020 Miss W and Mr W entered into a conditional sale agreement for a used car 
costing £7,898.00.
Under the term of the agreement, everything else being equal, Miss W and Mr W undertook 
to make 59 monthly payments of £258.93 making a total repayable of £15,276.87 at an 
APR of 34.9%.
In August 2021 Miss W and Mr W took the decision to repay the agreement in full.
In January 2022 Miss W and Mr W complained to Moneybarn that it had acted irresponsibly 
when it granted them finance in May 2020.
In March 2022 Moneybarn issued Miss W and Mr W with a final response letter (FRL). 
Under cover of this FRL Moneybarn said it that it couldnt agree that it acted irresponsibly in 
granting the finance that it did.
In March 2022, and unhappy with Moneybarns FRL, Miss W and Mr W referred their 
complaint to our service.
Miss W and Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the 
view that Moneybarn should have carried out more checks to assess affordability of the 
finance it was looking to grant, but such checks wouldnt have caused it to conclude that 
finance was unaffordable. 
In other words, the investigator concluded that Moneybarn hadnt done anything wrong in 
approving the finance that it did. 
Miss W and Mr W didnt agree with the investigators view, so their complaint has been 
passed to me for review and decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn (and Miss W and Mr Ws appointed representative) will be familiar with all the 
rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when looking at a complaint 
concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont consider it necessary to set all 
of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to these complaints is set out on 
our website. 
I would also like to make it clear that we consider each case on its individual merits and my 
decision is based on the unique circumstances of this  complaint.
 
Before granting the finance, I think Moneybarn gathered a reasonable amount of evidence 
and information from Miss W and Mr W about their income. I say this because it verified their 
income by checking two monthly payslips for Miss W and eight weekly payslips for Mr W. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit checks it completed. Ive therefore relied on 
a copy of the credit files supplied by Miss W and Mr W. I think these give a good indication of 
what Moneybarn would likely have seen. And the content of these credit files lead me to 
conclude that prior to May 2020 Miss W and Mr W had experienced some financial issues 
(including but not restricted to a number of defaults being registered against them) and that 
they were likely to be struggling financially in May 2020. 
Although Im satisfied that the content of these credit files, in themselves, shouldnt have led 
Moneybarn to conclude it shouldnt grant the finance, especially given the market it operates 
in, I think it would have been proportionate for it to have verified Miss W and Mr Ws 
expenditure to ensure it had a thorough understanding of their financial circumstances 
before doing so.
One of the ways that Moneybarn could have verified Miss W and Mr Ws expenditure was by 
reviewing bank statements and/or by completing an income and expenditure form. While 
Moneybarn wasnt required to do either, Ive reviewed three months of Miss W and Mr Ws 
bank statements and what they say was their average monthly expenditure. I think this gives 
me a  good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have found out had it completed 
proportionate checks. 
This information shows that Miss W and Mr Ws regular committed monthly expenditure at 
the time was around £2,500. In calculating this figure, Ive included costs such as food, fuel, 
insurance and other credit commitments. 
Miss Ws (two) payslips show her net pay for April and May 2020 to be approximately 
£1,270. Mr Ws (eight) payslips show his net pay for April and May 2020 to be approximately 
£2,430, giving a combined net income of approximately £3,700  a figure that Ive been able 
to verify to the bank statements supplied by Miss W and Mr W.
As the repayments under the agreement were for around £260, I dont find that I can say that 
had further checks taken place then the agreement would have been found to be 
unaffordable. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn acted unfairly in approving 
the finance.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 Peter Cook
Ombudsman