DRN-4062378
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that a payment he made to Vanquis Bank Limited wasnt credited to his 
account.
What happened
Mr A made a payment of £85 to his Vanquis credit account. But Vanquis didnt credit the 
payment to his account, and two weeks later the amount was returned by Vanquis to the 
account that Mr A had made the payment from. Mr A wasnt happy about this, especially as 
Vanquis considered Mr A to have not made the minimum monthly payment due on his credit 
account that month. So, he raised a complaint.
Vanquis responded to Mr As complaint and explained that they didnt feel that theyd made 
any error or acted unfairly towards Mr A, and so didnt uphold his complaint. Mr A wasnt 
satisfied with Vanquis response, so he referred his complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They noted that Vanquis had received the 
£85 payment Mr A had made, but that because Mr A had used an incorrect reference 
number on the payment, Vanquis hadnt been able to identify that the payment was from    
Mr A. And because our investigator felt that what had happened was the result of an error by 
Mr A, rather than any error by Vanquis, they didnt uphold the complaint. Mr A remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I note that Mr A has provided several detailed submissions to this service 
regarding his complaint. Id like to thank Mr A for these submissions, and I hope he doesnt 
consider it a discourtesy that I wont be responding in similar detail here. Instead, Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key aspects of this complaint, in-line with this services 
role as an informal, impartial dispute resolution service. 
 
This means that if Mr A notes that I havent addressed a specific point hes raised, it 
shouldnt be taken from this that I havent considered that point  I can confirm that Ive read 
and considered all the submissions provided by both Mr A and Vanquis Rather, it should be 
taken that I have considered that point but that I dont feel it necessary to address it directly 
in this letter to arrive at what I consider to be a fair resolution to this complaint.
It's evident from the information provided to this service that when Mr A instructed the 
payment to Vanquis from his bank, he included an incorrect reference number for the 
payment. Specifically, Mr A appears to have inputted his debit card number for the third-
party bank account he made the payment to Vanquis from, rather than his Vanquis credit 
card number.
This is important because Vanquis, like many credit account providers, assign received 
payments to credit accounts on the basis of the Vanquis card number provided as a 
reference on the received payment. And because Mr A didnt input his Vanquis card number 
as the reference on the payment in question, this meant that Vanquis were unable to 
recognise to which account the received money should be allocated. 
In short, Vanquis received £85, but they had no idea who it was from or to which account it 
should be allocated.
As alluded to above, Vanquis process in this regard isnt unusual, and its notable that 
Vanquis provide information to their account holders, including on every issued account 
statement, that when making a telephone or internet payment  as Mr A was in this instance 
 the sixteen-digit Vanquis card number must be used as a reference. 
Accordingly, Im satisfied that the reason that the payment Mr A made to Vanquis wasnt 
credited to his Vanquis account was because of an error that he made by inputting an 
incorrect reference number, which unfortunately meant that Vanquis didnt receive the 
necessary information with the received payment to allow it to be identified as having been 
received from Mr A or to be allocated to his account.
Finally, because Vanquis had received a payment that they werent able to allocate to an 
account, they held the payment in a pending account for 14-days to allow the required 
information to be potentially provided to them. And, when Vanquis were still unable to 
allocate the payment to an account when that 14-day period ended, they returned it to the 
sending account  to Mr As third-party bank account. And again, this process isnt unusual, 
and it doesnt seem unreasonable or unfair to me.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr A was wanting here, but Im satisfied that Vanquis 
havent made an error or acted unfairly here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding 
this complaint or instructing Vanquis to take any action. I hope that Mr A will understand, 
given what Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman