DRN-3358539
The complaint
Mr C complains that he was a victim of identity theft and that accounts, including a credit 
card account, were taken out in his name with Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading 
as Cashplus (Cashplus). 
What happened
What Mr C says
Mr C says that in 2018 he received correspondence from a debt collection company in 
respect of an outstanding amount on a Cashplus credit card taken out in November 2013. Mr 
C says he didnt have a credit card with Cashplus and that at the time it was taken out he 
was in hospital. Mr C later found out that further accounts were opened in his name in June 
2014, August 2015 and February 2016. 
Cashplus provided a final response letter on 25 September 2018. In this response Cashplus 
accepted the credit card account had been opened fraudulently and said all negative 
reporting with credit reference agencies would be removed; the debt would be written off; 
recovery action would cease, and £100 compensation was paid to Mr C. Cashplus then sent 
a further final response letter in which it said that following a review it could no longer accept 
the account had been opened fraudulently and so the credit reporting would remain. 
Cashplus went on to say it wasnt unsympathetic to the circumstances of Mr Cs health and 
finances and so would not pursue him for the balance on the credit card account or ask him 
to return the compensation payment previously made. Finally, Cashplus said it would close 
all other accounts opened in Mr Cs name.  
Mr C maintains he did not take out a credit card with Cashplus. He also says that Cashplus 
should not be able to change its mind and that in doing so it has breached Financial Conduct 
Authority regulations. He would like any credit reporting by Cashplus to be removed and 
£1,000 compensation, given the impact of Cashplus amended outcome on his health. 
Mr C has provided evidence from his doctor and consultants, including a letter which states 
that he lacked mental capacity to deal with his financial affairs from 2008.  
What Cashplus say
Cashplus say that:
- Regular payments were made to the credit card account until November 2015 which 
isnt indicative of a fraudulent account.
- In an email after the first final response letter Mr C said he received multiple phone 
calls from Cashplus while he was in hospital. This isnt typical in cases of identity 
theft. 
- The fact that Mr C has provided medical evidence that he lacked capacity at the time 
may mean he simply forgot he had the credit card account. 
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered Mr Cs complaint said that on balance she felt Mr C took 
out the credit card so she could not reasonably ask Cashplus to remove the negative 
marker. In summary she said:
- Most of the details provided on the application for the credit card matched Mr Cs 
genuine details. Whilst the email address was slightly different to the one this service 
holds on file the investigator didnt think it made sense for a fraudster to make an 
email address so similar. 
- The phone number on the credit card application was Mr Cs genuine number and 
calls had been made to and from this number to Cashplus. This includes a call in 
which the caller said they were in hospital but were aware of the payment due date. 
Mr C has said he was in hospital at the time. 
- There was no explanation for why an unknown third party had access to Mr Cs card 
and PIN that were mailed to his home or registered business addresses.
- The main goal of a fraudster is to maximise financial gain, but the account was used 
sensibly for some years and balances were paid.  
-  Businesses Mr C was involved in were linked to some of the accounts.
Mr C didnt agree with the investigator. He maintained that he didnt open the credit card 
account or any other accounts with Cashplus. Mr C made the following points:
- Cashplus hasnt complied with DISP rules (1.4 and 1,5.2A) in respect of investigating 
a complaint competently and diligently and communicating in a way that is clear, fair 
and not misleading. Neither has it complied with its obligation to treat him fairly.  
- Identity theft began in 2012 and by 2013 he was admitted to hospital with a severe 
depressive illness and anxiety following attempted transactions of £20,000 on 
another card with a different financial business and finding out about ten current 
accounts with another bank on his credit file. There were also multiple mobile phone 
accounts, transactions made on cards including a wedding dress in Florida and bills 
from businesses Mr C had never heard of. 
- His Blue Badge, statements and cheque books went missing and items he expected 
to receive in the post didnt arrive. As a result, Mr C says he had to dismiss his 
cleaner.
- Others have had access to his mobile phone. 
- Cashplus has not treated him, as a vulnerable customer, fairly. 
I issued my provisional decision on 26 January 2022 in which I provisionally asked Cashplus 
to remove any negative markers in respect of the credit card account (or any of the other 
accounts taken out in Mr Cs name before 2018, if applicable) from his credit file and pay him 
£350 compensation. I have pasted below what I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont consider Cashplus has treated Mr C well by completing a review and accepting the 
credit card account was opened fraudulently and subsequently reversing this decision 
without demonstrating it had considered any new evidence. Cashplus say it is unable to say 
why the original decision that the account was opened fraudulently was made as the staff 
member who dealt with it has now left. 
Whilst I consider Cashplus should have completed a thorough investigation from the outset, 
Im not persuaded our rules say Cashplus cannot reconsider its position. Mr C has referred 
to DISP 1.5.2A in support of his belief that Cashplus cant do so, but the relevant rule 
clarifies when matters are considered to be resolved for the purpose of those complaints that 
are resolved in a short timeframe (summary resolution). It doesnt say a financial business is 
unable to change its mind. The impact this has had on Mr C though cant be underestimated 
and I will return to it later in my decision. This case is made more difficult because of the passage of time. Cashplus says that given 
the time that has elapsed certain information is no longer available (including call recordings, 
email communications with Mr C and statements issued). And Mr Cs health means hes 
found it more difficult to provide relevant information. Im grateful to Mr C for providing the 
information he has. 
From the evidence Mr C has provided Im satisfied he has repeatedly been the victim of 
identity theft from 2011 (or earlier) to 2021. Ill set out the evidence that leads me to this 
conclusion.  
-Mr C has provided this service with a letter written in July 2015 from a treating 
consultant psychiatrist who had seen Mr C regularly from 2010. This letter was 
written to support an insurance claim but contains information relevant to this case. It 
discusses Mr Cs condition and explains that he, has over the years been at the 
extreme end of severity of depressive illness.  The consultant also says in the letter 
that, 
In 2011 I was aware that [Mr C] had become a victim of identity theft, which 
provoked huge complications in his personal/financial life. Independently I had 
spoken to [Mr Cs] mother who confirmed that this was indeed the case.
The psychiatrist discussed Mr Cs admission to hospital from August 2014 and also 
mentions a previous admission but doesnt specify dates. 
-Mr C has provided a credit agency email dated February 2013 stating it has been 
contacted by four financial businesses requesting the deletion of searches completed 
in January and February 2013 that Mr C disputed and saying that one of them had 
deleted an account started in 2008 that Mr C disputed. 
-Mr C has provided a letter from Action Fraud that confirms he reported two incidents 
of identity theft in February 2013 and February 2014. The letter goes on to say that 
three different banks refunded Mr C. So its clear that around the time the credit card 
account was opened with Cashplus a number of other lenders made their own 
investigations and concluded that Mr Cs identity had been stolen. 
-Ive seen evidence of a Cifas protective marker in August 2018 and four victim of 
impersonation entries in respect of different financial businesses dated November 
2019.  
-Mr C has sent this service his current victim of impersonation loadings in respect of 
identity fraud in March and August 2021 relating to a credit card and mail order. 
-Ive also been provided with a letter from a bank dated May 2021. This letter states 
that Mr Cs personal information had been used for personal banking and credit 
facilities. The letter confirmed that the applications had been cancelled, outstanding 
balances removed, and credit reference agencies notified. 
-Mr C has provided an email from a credit reference agency (date not clear) which 
said, Your phone number is being illegally published and sold online.
So, it seems to me, that Mr C was in a vulnerable position at the time the Cashplus credit 
card was applied for and that one or more people were using his personal information 
without his consent both before and after the application. It may well be that there is more 
evidence, but I understand it is difficult for Mr C to provide it. I consider though that what he 
has provided is persuasive.
Turning to the evidence Cashplus has relied on, the address provided on the credit card 
application is not the address shown on the copy driving licence Mr C has provided. But I 
note that when he wrote to Action Fraud in 2016 Mr C quoted the same address as that on 
his driving licence but asked for correspondence to be addressed to the address on the credit card application. So it appears Mr C was using more than one address which may 
explain why he did not receive cards and PINS (as well as the fact he was admitted to 
hospital for a substantial period from August 2014). Ive also noted that three different 
addresses have been used across the five or six accounts Cashplus say Mr C held and four 
different email addresses. I consider this to be unusual. 
I appreciate that the mobile phone number provided on the credit card application matches 
the number provided by Mr C to this service and that Cashplus has evidenced that calls 
were made to and from this number. Whilst in many cases this evidence is quite persuasive, 
Im conscious of the fact no recordings of the calls are available to confirm that the calls 
were made by or to Mr C. Its also clear Mr C has experienced a lot of health problems and 
been hospitalised on several occasions meaning he may not have had full control of his 
mobile and that another person(s) could have made and received some of the calls. I note 
that in response to the investigators opinion Mr C said that others had access to his phone. 
I accept that payments were made to the Cashplus credit card account for a period of time 
and that the payments came from an account in Mr Cs name. But given the extent of the 
identity theft Mr C was a victim of Im not persuaded this means Mr C was controlling any 
account the payments were made from.    
On balance, Im persuaded that Cashplus initial assessment of Mr Cs complaint was more 
reasonable and that on the balance of probabilities he was the victim of identity theft when 
the Cashplus accounts were taken out. Given this finding, Im persuaded that Cashplus 
should remove any negative markers in respect of the credit card account (or any other 
account) from Mr Cs credit file. Cashplus has already written off the balance so I dont need 
to say anything more about it.  
Cashplus reversal of its decision and lack of explanation for it to Mr C has had a significant 
impact on him at an already very difficult time. I have been provided with medical evidence 
which discusses the stress the identity theft and dealing with it has caused Mr C. Taking 
everything into account I consider Cashplus should pay Mr C £350 to compensate him for 
the additional stress and inconvenience its actions caused him. This is in addition to the 
£100 previously paid. I appreciate Mr C believes Cashplus should pay a significantly greater 
sum but must bear in mind that the person or persons who stole Mr Cs identity are 
responsible for the majority of the stress and upset Mr C has experienced. 
Mr C said my findings were acceptable to him. He pointed out that he has a lot of documents 
but is mindful of the impact a protracted period of correspondence would have on his 
physical and mental health. 
Cashplus didnt accept my provisional findings. In summary, Cashplus said:
- My findings are based on the fact Mr C has raised identity theft with other financial 
businesses, and my dismissal of the evidence in respect of email addresses, 
telephone numbers and calls is speculative.
- Even if its accepted that accounts were taken out by another in Mr Cs name, the 
pattern of spending doesnt fit that of a fraudster. 
- It accepts Mr C has provided evidence of his state of health, but this doesnt mean 
his identity was stolen. Cashplus noted it approached a debt charity which advised 
him that even if a customer is in poor health, they still owe a debt - and credit 
reporting can prevent further vulnerability. Cashplus stresses it is concerned about 
the impact on Mr C and not the compensation.  
- Its evidence about calls was dismissed and, given the passage of time, recordings 
havent been retained. This service allowed the complaint to be considered out of 
time and so it is unfair to use the absence of evidence against Cashplus.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After carefully considering the responses to my provisional decision I have reached the 
same conclusion that I set out in it and for the same reasons. I have copied the findings of 
my provisional decision above so wont repeat them here. 
I accept that the investigation of this complaint has been made harder by the passage of 
time and understand why Cashplus no longer has call recordings. But our rules allow us to 
consider a complaint outside of our usual timescales in exceptional circumstances and 
another ombudsman has determined that they apply in this case. So I need to make a 
decision based on the limited evidence that is available. I also understand Cashplus point 
that my findings involve a degree of speculation  as do Cashplus arguments in this case. 
But in deciding what I consider to be more likely in this case Ive mainly relied on evidence. 
The evidence Mr C has provided doesnt just demonstrate that Mr C has raised identity theft 
with other financial businesses at the relevant time and beyond, it shows other financial 
businesses accepted that Mr C was a victim and took steps to put matters right. I think this is 
what Cashplus needs to do now.
I understand Cashplus concerns about removing credit markers and the potential impact on 
Mr C. But if Im satisfied on balance that Mr C is a victim of identity theft then this is the right 
and fair outcome. 
Overall, and for the reasons set out in my provisional decision and reproduced above, Im 
persuaded the evidence demonstrates its more likely than not that Mr C didnt apply for a 
credit card or any other account with Cashplus and instead was the victim of identity theft.  
My final decision
I require Advanced Payment Solutions Limited trading as Cashplus to:
- Remove any negative markers in respect of the credit card account (or any other 
account taken out in Mr Cs name before 2018, if applicable) from his credit file.
- Pay Mr C £350 compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman