DRN-3046088
The complaint
Miss M, through her representative, complains that Morses Club PLC lent to her without 
carrying out suitable checks to ensure she could afford the loans.  
What happened
Morses has sent to us information about the four loans approved for her. A brief table is 
here:
LoanDate Taken Date 
RepaidInstalments 
(weekly) AmountHighest Combined 
Repayment*
1 10/03/2017 14/09/2017 33 £300.00 £15.00
2 31/05/2017 14/09/2017 20 £200.00 £30.00
3 23/11/2017 07/06/2018 33 £800.00 £40.00
4 14/06/2018 31/01/2019 33 £600.00 £30.00
Miss Ms representative submitted a copy of her credit file with its letter of complaint to 
Morses and it covered several points with evidence from that credit file to substantiate its 
complaint on her behalf.
 
In its final response letter (FRL) to Miss M, Morses referred to having reviewed that detailed 
letter of complaint and the credit file sent to it. Morses had outlined its affordability 
assessment steps and had determined that Miss Ms repayments to it used between 4.75 
and 23.6% of her disposable income. 
Morses also noted that Miss M had no loans with it for about two months after paying off 
loans 1 and 2 in September 2017. So, it said that Miss M was not reliant on the credit, but 
also made the point that her previous repayment history had given it no cause for concern 
before loan 4. Morses did not uphold Miss Ms complaint. The complaint was referred to this 
Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked at the complaint and thought that Morses should not have 
lent to Miss M at loan 4. He felt that Miss Ms income had reduced over the months, that 
Morses knew this and the combination of that reduced income together with the repayments 
at £30 a week for loan 4 meant that Miss M was repaying too high a percentage of her 
income for her to be able to meet the loan 4 repayments without undue difficulty. 
And our adjudicator thought that there had been a large difference between the percentage 
of income used to repay loan 1 when her income was higher and her repayment figure was 
£15 (half the repayment amount for loan 4) compared with her situation at loan 4  smaller 
income and double the repayment sum of £30.
 
Morses disagreed and our adjudicator held his opinion in a second view. He said 
I cant agree that the repayment seemingly being affordable based on the 
information provided was sufficient to conclude the repayments could be made in a 
sustainable manner.
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We have set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Morses needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could include several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Morses should 
fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the 
consumer.
These factors include:
having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a level of income);
having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period of time (reflecting 
the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. 
Morses was required to establish whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. 
The customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments, and without having to borrow to meet the repayments.
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further in order to do 
that.I have carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided by both 
parties and what all this means for Miss Ms complaint. 
Neither Miss M nor her representative have responded to the adjudicators view or sent in 
anything in advance of the complaint being passed to me. From that it seems Miss M has no 
issue with the outcome for loans 1 to 3. So, I have not reviewed them. 
Loan 4
It does appear that Miss Ms repayment history included early repayments and a two month 
period where she had no debt with Morses and then having repaid loan 3 early she 
re-applied for a lesser sum a week later. So, I can understand why Morses may have 
thought that she gave the impression of being a customer able to afford her loans. 
But still Miss M came back for more credit and so she must have needed it. Considering the 
length of the lending relationship I think that by loan 4 Morses ought to have checked that 
her income was what Miss M had said it was. Morses has said to us that in November 2017 
it had verified her income with a wage slip and benefits letters. And for loan 4 it used a credit 
reference agency (CRA) to verify her income. I have not seen any documents or records to 
show this is what Morses had carried out, but as its asserting to us that this income was 
verified then I have proceeded on the basis that is correct. Miss M has not disputed that.
Using Morses records, Miss Ms income had reduced from around £450 a week for loan 1 to 
around £239 a week for loan 4, and Morses was aware of this. I consider that to be quite a 
large reduction  approaching 50%. 
For her expenditure, Miss M appears to have told Morses that it was £112. So Morses 
calculated her affordability on her having £127 disposable income meaning income left over 
with which to pay her loan 4 instalments. This expenditure figure, according to Morses 
records, was rent, utilities, media, council tax, groceries and credit card payments. She had 
not declared that she had other loans or any other home credit. 
So, I think, as a starting point, I agree that the loan repayments, were a high proportion of 
her income. And Morses should have been aware that loan repayments were likely not 
affordable for her. 
In addition to this, for a fourth loan and after a 15 month lending relationship, I would have 
expected Morses to have verified what her expenditure was, rather than rely on what Miss M 
had told it - especially with a reducing income about which Morses was aware. And although 
it is correct that Miss Ms loan 4 application was for less than loan 3, it was twice as much as 
her first loan taken 15 months earlier. And the expenditure ought to have included her 
regular loan commitments or certainly by loan 4, I would have expected Morses to have 
checked whether she had any other loan commitments.
Having said that, Morses has told us it had verified Miss Ms income with a CRA and so 
I think it may have carried out a credit search. I appreciate that it was not a requirement to 
carry out a credit search before lending but in light of Miss Ms income reduction and the fact 
twice it verified her income and had done that for loan 4, I think it would have been a logical 
extension to check her actual commitments were what she had told them they were.  
I have a copy of Miss Ms credit file and I reviewed it to see what her financial situation was 
around the time she applied for loan 4  May/June 2018. 
Miss M looks to have been in the middle of repaying a large unsecured loan (opening 
balance £8,961) at £191 a month. And she was in the middle of paying for some household items taken on three hire purchase agreements (opening balances £1,180, £937 and 
£1,958) at weekly rates of £33 and £26 and £84. 
In addition to this, Miss M was in the middle of paying off a high-cost short term loan of £850 
and the records suggest it was around £132 a month. But even if it had not discovered the 
high-cost loan I do think that by loan 4, Morses ought to have checked about her regular 
loan expenditure. And the figures in the list of hire purchase repayments, plus the unsecured 
loan above show that she was committed to additional weekly cost over an above the £112 
she had told Morses.
Morses says that £30 a week with £127 a week left as disposable income meant that this 
was less than a quarter of her disposable income and so the loan was affordable. But I think 
that Miss M had many other outgoings as well which by loan 4 I would have expected it to 
know about. And either it did know through the CRA it said it had approached to verify 
Miss Ms income in which case it would have realised Miss M had more outgoings in credit 
commitments than she had informed it about. Or Morses had not checked this aspect of her 
expenditure and I think it ought to have done.
Either way I have concluded that Miss M was likely not able to afford loan 4 and so I uphold 
her complaint about loan 4. 
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Morses should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what might 
have happened had it stopped lending to Miss M at loan 4, as Im satisfied it ought to have.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Miss M may have simply left matters there, 
not attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between her and this lender which they may not have had with others. If this wasnt a viable 
option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that 
was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Miss M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or reasonable 
to conclude that Miss M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. 
So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Morses liability in this case for what Im satisfied it has 
done wrong and should put right.
Morses shouldnt have given Miss M loan 4.
A) Morses should add together the total of the repayments made by Miss M towards interest, 
fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party where 
applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) Morses should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Miss M 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Miss M originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.C) Morses should pay Miss M the total of A plus B.
D) Morses should remove any adverse payment information about loan 4 from Miss Ms 
credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Morses to deduct tax from this interest. Morses should 
give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax Morses has deducted, if she asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Miss Ms complaint in part and I direct that Morses Club 
PLC does as I have outline above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2021.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman