DRN-4074409
The complaint
Mr H has complained that Sainsbury's Bank Plc (Sainsbury's) rejected his claim against it 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. A representative (the CMC) is assisting 
Mr H with his complaint. 
What happened
Mr H bought a solar panel system (the system) for his home in 2019. The purchase was 
funded in part with a Sainsbury's credit card, and that business is therefore liable for the 
misrepresentations and/or breach of contract of the supplier under the relevant legislation. In 
this case, the CMC alleges that the supplier misled Mr H into believing that the panels would 
be self-funding.
Mr Hs complaint was considered by one of our investigators. They thought there wasnt 
sufficient evidence the system had been misrepresented to him so didnt think the complaint 
should be upheld. 
The CMC disagreed for the following reasons: 
Our investigator hadnt given any consideration to the verbal representations made 
by the supplier. 
Mr H couldnt provide documents that were never given to him. 
There was also no evidence that, even if documents had been given to him, that it 
was referred to during the sale. 
It didnt matter whether the system had generated power as it was designed to, Mr 
Hs complaint was about the financial benefits not being sufficient to cover the cost of 
the system. 
That Mr H couldnt raise his complaint with the supplier sooner as it took a significant 
amount of time to get this system commissioned and therefore receiving any income. 
By the time Mr H sought to raise any concerns, the supplier had ceased trading. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our investigator, I have been asked to make a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56, section 75 and section 140 of the Act. 
Section 75 provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr H paid for the system partly with a credit card, Sainsburys agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr H could claim against Sainsburys, the 
creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he 
could have claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when 
deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr H and 
the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by the supplier as an agent of 
Sainsburys. And Section 140A is about unequal relationships between the parties to a credit 
agreement.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for broadly the same reasons as those 
explained by the investigator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Firstly, Id like to explain that neither Sainsbury's nor Mr H have been able to provide much 
paperwork from the time of sale. Where there is such limited evidence, I have to make a 
decision based on the available evidence  that includes Mr Hs testimony and any other 
documentation either party have been able to submit as well as the wider circumstances. 
Mr H (through his CMC) said, in his letter of claim, that he was led to believe that the system 
would pay for itself in a few years. This would be due to the income he would receive from 
the power generated by the system and savings made on his energy bills. 
When our investigator spoke to Mr H directly, he provided further testimony. He said he 
couldnt recall the conversation in detail as a long time had passed since the sale. He added 
that he doesnt believe the supplier actually specified the system would be self-funding, but 
he had a feeling the savings and benefit received would pay for the system in no time. He 
says he recalls being told that with a little bit of investment, he would reap the rewards of the 
system. Mr H also doesnt recall what (if any) paperwork he was given but doesnt think he 
would have paid a deposit without some paperwork.
So, Im afraid, Mr Hs testimony isnt very specific or detailed regarding what exactly he was 
promised  other than mentioning that he felt the system would pay for itself. For example, 
he doesnt specify whether the supplier actually made the verbal representation that the 
system was self-funding, whether it broke down the specific amounts he would likely get, 
hasnt provided any facts and figures mentioned during the sale, and hasnt provided the 
usual documentation we see from suppliers like the estimated returns document. Most 
notably, he accepts the supplier may not have actually told him the system would be self-
funding. 
In order for me to uphold this case, I would need to be satisfied that the salesperson did 
more than make generalist comments about how well these solar panels usually perform  
or that they promoted the system to him - thats the nature of selling items. Id need to be 
satisfied that the salesperson made a specific misrepresentation about Mr Hs system, and 
that he relied on this misrepresentation and bought the system on that basis. 
I have to bear in mind that, outside of Mr Hs very brief testimony, there is no other evidence 
from the time of sale that, the supplier was promoting the systems as being self-funding 
when Mr H bought his system. The only evidence available of the misrepresentations that 
the CMC has alleged is in the letter of claim  but Mr Hs own verbal testimony given directly 
to our investigator doesnt actually support the allegation that the supplier made a specific 
representation that the system was going to be self-funding. If this representation had been 
made, and Mr H had relied on it and bought the system on that basis, I would have expected 
him to recall this  people often remember the main reasons that drove them to agree to 
such a substantial purchase. Furthermore, Mr H says that his brother had a solar panel system installed in his home, and 
after a conversation with him, Mr H sought out his supplier (who was local to him) to have 
the system installed. He says his reasons for installing the system was due to him being 
conscious of energy costs, energy prices rising and energy sufficiency. So, it doesnt look 
like Mr H was contacted and convinced to buy the system like weve seen in other cases  
there was no need as Mr H seems to have already wanted them before he even got in touch 
with the supplier. 
Ive thought very carefully about this complaint, and the letter of claim the CMC submitted, 
bearing in mind this is the main evidence in support of the claim. But having done so, Im not 
satisfied that there is sufficient evidence here that the system was mis-represented to Mr H 
on the basis it would be self-funding or that Mr H relied on a statement like this, and this was 
the main reason he purchased the system. Each case is decided on the individual merits of 
that case, and on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under section 140A the Act. A sufficient inequality of knowledge and 
understanding is considered a classic source of unfairness in a relationship between a 
creditor and a consumer. But considering I havent found any misrepresentation; I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair relationship under section 140.
Summary 
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced Mr H 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint. So, I dont think Sainsbury's decision to not accept the claim was unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023. 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman