DRN-3850896
The complaint
Mrs S complains about the fees charged by Brewin Dolphin Limited and the management of 
her portfolio. 
Mrs S is being represented in this case by Mr S, for clarity I will refer to all actions and 
submissions being those of Mrs S.
What happened
Mrs S investments with Brewin Dolphin were managed on a discretionary basis and 
managed in their entirety as one portfolio. 
In 2010, when Mrs S became a client, her attitude to risk was agreed as being in risk 
category 3  diversified risk. It was agreed the portfolio should be made up of a mixture of 
different types of assets, including bonds, shares, collectives and property investments. This 
was to ensure it met with Mrs S longer term financial objectives  to receive a higher income 
from savings and to ensure monthly outgoings were met comfortably. 
In April 2018, Brewin Dolphin wrote to Mrs S advising her it was making a change to the 
portfolio, it decided to sell a multi strategy income fund and replace it with a different fund. 
But it confirmed in making this decision it had considered Mrs S attitude to risk and overall 
objective. 
Brewin Dolphin began disclosing the charges Mrs S investment was exposed to  such as 
buying and selling of underlying assets within her portfolio as well as other things like the 
service and management. In February 2019 when Mrs S looked at her annual statement, 
she was surprised to see how high the charges were, especially as she hadnt known about 
the charges before. 
Unhappy about this, Mrs S decided to transfer out and made a complaint in November 2020 
to Brewin Dolphin. Broadly she wanted to know whether shed been overcharged and what 
the charges had been in previous years. Later, Mrs S also queried the recommendation to 
switch one of her funds as she didnt think it matched her attitude to risk.
Brewin Dolphin didnt uphold the complaint, in short it said it had written to clients in 
November 2018 to highlight forthcoming enhancements to its client reporting. The annual 
cost and charges summary it sent Mrs S in February 2019 was in line with changes to client 
reporting regulations to add transparency and there was no previous requirement to report in 
this way. 
Mrs S made a further complaint in April 2021, Brewin Dolphin replied and in summary didnt 
think the changes made to the portfolio were unsuitable. 
Mrs S remained unhappy and so referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into what happened, but he didnt think Brewin Dolphin had done 
anything wrong. He understood why Brewin Dolphin hadnt provided historical information 
Mrs S wanted. He also thought the decision to invest in the derivative fund was suitable in so 
far as meeting Mrs S objectives and within her risk parameter.  
Mrs S disagreed and in summary asked why after not disclosing them for years, did Brewin 
Dolphin suddenly display the charges. 
As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive summarised this complaint in far less detail than Mrs S, and in my own 
words. I have carefully noted all the representations made by Mrs S, but I wont be 
addressing every single point shes raised. 
No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the key issues 
here - our rules allow me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as 
a free alternative to the courts. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it, I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be 
able to reach what I think is the right outcome.  
Based on everything Ive seen I will not be upholding this complaint; Ill explain why. 
Undisclosed fees and charges
In January 2018, the second EU Markets in Financial Instruments Directive, otherwise 
known as MiFID II, took effect in the UK. The legislation was far reaching but one of the 
requirements relevant here was that any costs or charges associated with investing needed 
to be clearly set out.
Whilst I understand Mrs S concerns its important to note the fees disclosed in 2019 were 
not new fees  these, or similar, were always associated with her portfolio. I agree, charges 
by fund managers of the underlying funds are not in my view particularly transparent as they 
are not disclosed separately but absorbed within the valuations of the funds. Having said 
that, Brewin Dolphin didnt have to report the charges before 2018. This doesnt mean it did 
anything wrong before, instead, it is adhering to MiFID II regulations which were introduced 
in 2018. 
Whilst I appreciate what Mrs S is saying about the level of fees, before the MiFID II 
regulations there was no requirement by Brewin Dolphin or any other provider to set out this 
information to investors. So, if Mrs S had been aware the underlying funds had their own 
fees from the start, I dont think its likely she would have been able to find other providers 
with lower fees as this information was not always available. 
Broadly, Mrs S makes the point that the charges of the underlying funds recommended by 
Brewin Dolphin were too high. She also has concerns about the impact of the charges on the 
growth of her investments. But the level of charges of the underlying funds, isnt something 
we would involve ourselves with. These types of charges will always vary from asset 
manager to asset manager. And whilst lower charges may sound more appealing, they dont 
necessarily mean a fund will perform better as a result. 
Mrs S wants Brewin Dolphin to provide a breakdown of historical costs for her account so 
she can see the impact of the charges going back to the start. She considers a major 
product provider such as Brewin Dolphin should be able to provide details of historical costs. But as there was no requirement to disclose a breakdown before 2018, this is not something 
Brewin Dolphin has readily available to share as doing so would require it to gather 
information from several third parties over several years. Im satisfied Brewin Dolphin do not 
need to do anything further here as the regulations are not retrospective. 
Mrs S thinks this information shouldve been disclosed to her earlier. But I cant see the 
requirement to disclose a breakdown of the charges did exist before the MiFID II regime 
came into force. The purpose of the regulations was to make something that wasnt 
previously required, mandatory. And by doing so, offering investors more transparency 
around their investments. All in all, I dont think Brewin Dolphin was under any obligation 
under law or otherwise, to disclose this information to Mrs S at the time of entering into a 
contract with her in 2010. 
Appropriateness of investment funds 
My role is to decide whether Brewin Dolphin acted fairly and reasonably. When making an 
assessment of someones wants and needs, theres a degree of subjective judgment when 
an adviser makes a recommendation. Different advisers can reasonably make different 
recommendations when considering a customers demands and needs. Its not my role to 
substitute the advisers recommendation for what I may consider to be a slightly more 
suitable recommendation. And so, with this in mind, Id have to be persuaded the advisers 
decision to invest in a derivative fund was wholly unsuitable for Mrs S. Having looked at 
everything Im not persuaded this is the case. Ill explain why. 
I have seen various financial review reports which were completed for Mrs S. Ill refer to the 
review carried out in September 2014 by way of example. I can see the adviser had 
undertaken a review of Mrs S attitude to risk, both the adviser and Mrs S discussed her 
original attitude to risk, and said: 
We discussed the result of the Risk Questionnaire which revealed that you have a medium 
tolerance for risk. The ups and downs of stock markets tend to make you nervous, and you 
are concerned about losing money in the stock market. Whilst you are therefore very aware 
of the risk involved when investing in the stock market you do accept that risk is necessary 
to achieve a return above that which you may receive on a risk-free asset such as cash 
savings.  
This confirmed Mrs Ss original attitude to risk was recorded as medium and from what Ive 
seen, didnt change. 
It is apparent from the reviews, Brewin Dolphin remained conscious of the need for the 
capital to support Mrs S in the future and a balance would need to be struck between the risk 
of the investments and the need for the money to provide an acceptable return. 
In April 2018 Brewin Dolphin wrote to Mrs S. It explained it had taken the decision to sell one 
of the funds within the portfolio which wasnt meeting Mrs S objectives. The letter explained 
what investment was replacing it and why, it also confirmed it had considered Mrs S 
objectives for the portfolio and the level of risk Mrs S was willing to take with the 
investments. 
I accept Mrs S did respond to this letter outlining her concerns about this investment. But Ive 
also considered Brewin Dolphin offered a discretionary service meaning it needed to assess 
Mrs S needs in respect of investment management and investment services. This meant 
Brewin Dolphin would make decisions it felt appropriate for Mrs S, taking account of her 
aims and objectives  this is what Mrs S agreed to. The switch in fund, whilst being more 
volatile made up about 3% of the overall portfolio which I dont think is unreasonable. So, from all I have seen, Mrs S investments have always incurred costs and charges but 
only since MiFID II have Brewin Dolphin had to disclose them in this way. Ive also not seen 
anything to suggest it invested in a fund outside of the parameters it had agreed with Mrs S. 
For all these reasons, whilst I understand this will be a disappointing outcome for Mrs S, Im 
not upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Rajvinder Pnaiser
Ombudsman