DRN-2976948
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) took too long to process the transfer 
of two ISAs from other providers.
Mr S would like appropriate compensation for the stress, time and loss of earnings in trying 
to resolve his complaint. Mr S also says that he has suffered a financial loss due to missed 
investment opportunities.
What happened
On 1 June 2020, Mr S started a request to transfer an ISA from another provider to his 
account at Barclays. Mr S sent the forms to Barclays which were received on 24 June 2020.
Barclays did not deal with the transfer form correctly and didnt send the form to the other 
provider until 6 July 2020. The transfer was completed on 21 July 2020.
On 9 July 2020, Mr S also asked Barclays to transfer another ISA from another provider to 
his account at Barclays. Barclays sent an unsigned form to the other provider on three 
occasions, but this wasnt accepted. 
A second signed form was sent by Mr S on 27 August 2020. The transfer was completed on 
2 September 2020.
Mr S complained to Barclays about the length of time that his transfers had taken. Mr S said 
that he might be charged fees by the other providers as a result of Barclays actions.
Barclays investigated the complaint and upheld it. Barclays offered Mr S £300 compensation 
for the inconvenience that he had faced. They said that if Mr S had incurred additional 
charges, they would refund these fees if they received evidence that he had been charged.
Unhappy with Barclays final decision, Mr S referred his complaint to the service and one of 
our investigators looked at his complaint. The investigator thought that Barclays had 
attempted to resolve the complaint and their compensation offer was fair and reasonable.
Unhappy with the investigators view, Mr S has asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr S but I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator and 
wont be upholding the complaint. I know that Mr S feels strongly about his complaint and I 
will explain why I have reached this decision.
In their submission to the service, Barclays have said that the two transfers were delayed but 
were processed at a time when the industry was experiencing issues with COVID-19 and 
subsequent lockdowns. They say that these issues and staffing shortages contributed to the 
delays that Mr S experienced. Barclays said that despite these issues, they contributed to 
the delays and admitted that he had an overall poor experience.
I think that there are three main issues in the complaint that Mr S had brought against 
Barclays:
Did they cause a delay in processing the transfer requests?
Did Mr S miss out on any investment opportunities as a result of the delays?
Was the compensation offered by Barclays fair and reasonable?
I will answer these points in turn.
Did they cause a delay in processing the transfer requests?
Barclays have said that during the time that the transfers were being processed, the industry 
was facing difficulties caused by the COVID-19 Pandemic. Barclays have said some 
contingency plans were put in place by the industry including sending unsigned transfer 
forms by email.
I can see from the documentation that the first transfer which started on 1 June 2020 was 
delayed as the other provider required a signed transfer form and werent accepting the 
unsigned forms. I cant hold Mr S responsible for this and when he was asked to send in a 
signed form, he did so immediately.
The signed transfer form wasnt forwarded to the other provider until 6 July 2020 and the 
transfer was completed on 22 July 2020. I think that Barclays were responsible for the delay 
in the transfer completing.
The second transfer was set up on 9 July 2020 and Barclays sent an unsigned transfer form 
to the other provider. Barclays did chase this transfer but made three requests using an 
unsigned transfer form. 
Mr S had sent in a signed transfer form and this should have been used. Barclays identified 
the error and the transfer was completed on 2 September using a signed transfer form.
From what I have seen, I think that Barclays were responsible for the delay in processing 
this transfer.
Did Mr S miss out on any investment opportunities as a result of the delays?
In his submission to the service, Mr S said that he lost a great number of opportunities to 
invest in the stock market and could have made more than £2,000. Mr S says that family 
members who invested at around the same time using Barclays had made good gains.
Mr S gave an example of his sister who made a profit of £800 on a trade with Barclays. Mr S 
said that she had recommended that he make the same trade.
Barclays did not agree that they were liable for any perceived losses and didnt uphold this 
part of Mr S complaint.
When looking at any missed investment opportunity, there needs to be clear evidence that 
Mr S wanted to trade but was prevented from doing so. I consider that not being able to access his transfer balances was preventing him from trading, but I also need to consider 
whether Mr S made any attempt to trade.
I note that Mr S says that he would have followed his sisters recommendation, but I have 
not seen any evidence from the documentation available to me that suggests Mr S contacted 
Barclays to say he was looking to trade but could not as the transfer balance was not 
available to him. I sympathise with Mr S but without evidence that shows he wanted to 
purchase investments, I cant see that Barclays have caused him to miss any investment 
opportunity.
Was the compensation offered by Barclays fair and reasonable?
In his submission to the service, Mr S has asked for loss of earnings. The service is not able 
to compensate consumers at their normal working rate but will look at what is fair and 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset that has been caused.
Barclays have upheld Mr S complaint and offered £300 compensation for the inconvenience 
that he suffered from the delays to his transfer.
Its not the role of the service to punish a business when they get things wrong but to look at 
the impact of the error on the consumer. I think that Mr S has been inconvenienced and has 
had to contact Barclays to get things moving. This will have caused Mr S frustration and 
annoyance, but I think the offer of compensation of £300 from Barclays is fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr S has said that if he had not escalated the issues to the complaints department, the 
transfers would not have completed. I understand Mr S frustration but the service can only 
look at what did happen and not any hypothetical situations. Barclays have admitted their 
role in the delay of the transfers and tried to resolve the complaint.
Mr S is free to contact Barclays separately to accept the offer of compensation if he has not 
already done so. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 November 2021.
 
Brian Gray
Ombudsman