DRN-3110452
The complaint
Mr W and Ms W complain that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Birmingham Midshires gave 
them incorrect information about their mortgage in 2018. As a result they werent able to 
extend the term of their mortgage as they wished.
What happened
Mr W and Ms W have an interest only mortgage with Birmingham Midshires. In 2018, the 
term ended. At that time Mr W and Ms W asked Birmingham Midshires if they could extend 
the term of their mortgage on a part-repayment and part-interest only basis. They said they 
were told that as Mr W was about to be declared bankrupt, it would be better to wait until he 
was discharged the following year  and the term was extended until then.
In 2019, Mr W and Ms W asked Birmingham Midshires again to extend the term of their 
mortgage on a part-repayment and part-interest only basis. Although a temporary extension 
was agreed until January 2020, they said that Birmingham Midshires told them that its 
lending policy had changed in 2018 and it was no longer able to accept Mr Ws income 
because of his age. As a result their application was declined. They consider that if they had 
not accepted the information Birmingham Midshires gave them in 2018, they would have 
been able to make the changes to the mortgage they wanted.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint in part. My provisional findings were:
It seems the most likely reason that Birmingham Midshires extended the term for a year 
was to wait until Mr W was discharged from his bankruptcy. At that point it could fully 
explore what options were available to Mr W and Ms W. I am satisfied therefore that Mr 
W and Ms W were not able to make the changes they wanted to the mortgage in 2018 
because of Mr Ws bankruptcy. Birmingham Midshires treated them fairly by extending 
the term so that it could consider whether there was anything it could offer them. to me 
I cant see they have been disadvantaged by that.
I couldnt see that Birmingham Midshires had assessed whether it should offer Mr W 
and Ms W a retirement interest only mortgage  and it was not clear why it had not 
done so. It should tell me whether it has enough information to offer them a retirement 
interest only mortgage or if they would need to complete an application.
I said that Birmingham Midshires should pay Mr W and Ms W £300 to reflect the 
distress and inconvenience caused to them by it not fairly considering all options for 
them.
There followed exchanges between me and Birmingham Midshires and Mr W and Ms W. In 
summary:
Mr W and Ms W did not qualify for a retirement interest only mortgage because the 
loan-to-value of their home was too high. 
It had considered whether to offer Mr W and Ms W a retirement interest only mortgage 
at its specialist forum but it wasnt affordable using the lower of their incomes and 
bearing in mind other outgoings.
I told Mr W and Ms W that based on what Birmingham Midshires had told me, on reflection, 
I didnt consider it had acted unfairly. I didnt think that a retirement interest only mortgage 
was in their best interests in view of the information Birmingham Midshires had given us 
about affordability.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
what information were Mr and Mrs W given in 2018?
Ive looked at Birmingham Midshires notes of its conversations with Mr W in 2018. They 
support that he was told to wait until he was discharged from his bankruptcy. But the notes 
also say that was because Birmingham Midshires couldnt restructure the mortgage while he 
was an undischarged bankrupt. It would be unusual in my experience for a lender to agree to 
this.
It seems the most likely reason that Birmingham Midshires extended the term for a year was 
to wait until Mr W was discharged from his bankruptcy. At that point it could fully explore 
what options were available to Mr W and Ms W.
I am satisfied therefore that Mr W and Mrs W were not able to make the changes they 
wanted to the mortgage in 2018 because of Mr Ws bankruptcy. Birmingham Midshires 
treated them fairly by extending the term so that it could consider whether there was 
anything it could offer them.
Id note that Birmingham Midshires said that even if it had considered an application it would 
have required a repayment vehicle to cover 
the 2019/2020 application
When Mr W and Ms W took out the mortgage they agreed to repay it in 2018. Lenders 
should understand that borrowers circumstances can change and that they may not have the 
means to repay a mortgage as planned. Since 2014 there are more stringent affordability 
rules in place, particularly for interest only mortgages. But lenders have the ability to waive 
those checks if a change was in the borrowers best interests.
Birmingham Midshires assessed Mr W and Ms Ws request in line with its normal policy. This 
is a reasonable starting point. I am satisfied that Mr W and Ms W did not qualify for an 
extension under its normal policy. It does not take income from employment past the age of 
70 as it is concerned about the sustainability of such income. I dont consider it has applied 
this policy unreasonably in this case.
Birmingham Midshires has explained that it then carried out a more holistic review of Mr W 
and Ms Ws circumstances. I can see that it explored a number of scenarios. But it had 
concerns about each of them. For example, the mortgage wasnt affordable in Mr Ws sole 
name. A part interest only mortgage wasnt viable because Mr W and Ms W had no means 
to repay the interest only element of the mortgage. It would not be in their best interests to 
push the problem further down the road.Birmingham Midshires has now told me that it did consider whether a retirement interest only 
was in Mr W and Ms Ws best interests. It said that the relevant rules require it to use the 
lower of any joint incomes to assess affordability for a retirement interest only mortgage  
and looking at Mr W and Ms Ws income and expenditure the retirement interest only 
mortgage wasnt affordable. In the circumstances, I consider that is a reasonable way for 
Birmingham Midshires to consider whether a retirement interest only mortgage was in their 
best interests. It follows that its decision not to offer them such a mortgage wasnt unfair.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April  2022.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman