DRN-4121383
The complaint
Mr P has complained that Covea Insurance Plc avoided (treated it as if it never existed) his 
motor insurance policy and refused to pay his claim.
What happened
Mr P took out a motor insurance policy with Covea through a broker. When the named driver 
on his policy was involved in an accident, he tried to claim on his policy. Covea declined his 
claim, avoided his policy and kept the premiums hed already paid, though it later agreed to 
return these. 
When Mr P complained, Covea said hed answered the question hed been asked about his 
and the named drivers previous motoring convictions incorrectly. And it considered this to 
be a careless qualifying misrepresentation, which entitled it to avoid his policy and refuse his 
claim. But it did pay the other drivers claim. 
our investigators view
Mr P brought his complaint to us, and our Investigator thought it shouldnt be upheld. She 
agreed there had been a qualifying misrepresentation. And she believed it was careless. So 
she thought Covea was entitled to avoid the policy and decline the claim. Mr P thought 
Covea should have made checks when the policy was taken out. But she explained that it 
isnt required to do this. 
Mr P didnt agree with the Investigator and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr P 
and to Covea on 17 April 2023. I summarise my findings:
I could understand that this has been a stressful and frustrating experience for Mr P. I was 
sorry to hear about the financial difficulties having his car repaired will cause him. I could 
also understand that he feels its unfair that Covea paid for the other drivers repairs, but not 
for his. 
Mr P had raised concerns about Coveas business practices, but its not my role to consider 
these as we are not the regulator. My role is to consider whether Covea has responded to 
Mr Ps complaint fairly and reasonably and acted in keeping with the policys terms and 
conditions and relevant regulations, laws and industry practices. 
I was satisfied that the relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes - as a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. One of these is how clear and specific the insurers questions were. And 
the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether the qualifying 
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless or careless. 
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate and an insurer can show it would have at 
least offered the policy on different terms, it is entitled to avoid the consumers policy. If the 
misrepresentation was careless, then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it would not 
have offered the policy at all if it wasnt for the misrepresentation. 
If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it means it will not have to deal with any claims 
under it. If the qualifying misrepresentation was careless and the insurer would have 
charged a higher premium if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation, it will have to 
consider the claim and settle it proportionately if it accepts it. 
Covea thought Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
stated in his application that neither he nor the named driver had previous motoring 
convictions within the past five years. And I agreed he failed to take reasonable care.
The question he was asked when he completed the application via the broker wasnt 
available. But Mr P had told us that the broker did ask him whether he had any previous 
convictions. And I saw what was recorded on the Statement of Fact which was:
Have you, or has any person who may drive the vehicle: been convicted of any motoring 
offences, or had a fixed penalty imposed within the past 5 years?
And I thought this was a clear question asked by Covea. Mr P answered No. But Covea 
later found that both Mr P and the named driver had points on their licences. Mr P said he 
wasnt aware of these. He thought the broker should have asked his partner the question 
directly. But I was satisfied that it was for Mr P to provide this information and to check it with 
his partner if he was unsure. 
So I thought this meant Mr P failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation 
when he said that neither driver had previous motoring convictions within the past five years. 
Mr P thought Covea, or his broker, should have checked their driving licences when he took 
out his policy. But theres no requirement for a business to do this. And I could see that the 
Welcome Letter sent with the policy documents clearly explains Mr Ps responsibility to 
provide accurate information:
All quotations are based on the information provided by you and as shown on the attached 
Statement of Fact, which should be checked carefully. Please take reasonable care to 
ensure all questions have been answered honestly and to the best of your knowledge. If you 
make a misrepresentation to your insurer (either deliberately or carelessly) this could result 
in your cover being invalidated, and potentially lead to a claim being unpaid. Please note that 
it is your responsibility to provide complete and accurate information to insurers when you 
take out your policy, throughout the life of your policy and when you renew your insurance.
Covea had provided us with evidence from its underwriting guide to show that if the question 
had been answered correctly, then cover wouldnt have been offered for both drivers. And so 
Covea said that it was entitled to avoid the policy from inception. 
But I didnt agree. This was because Covea told us it would still have offered cover for Mr P 
as the sole policyholder. Our approach then is that where the misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless, were unlikely to say its unfair for the insurer to avoid the policy. But 
where the misrepresentation was careless, we often dont think this is fair. 
Under CIDRA if the misrepresentation was careless, the insurer can only avoid the contract 
if it wouldnt have offered it on any terms. So we think if the insurer would have not insured 
the named driver, but would have still insured the policyholder, it cant avoid the policy. 
Instead, it should amend the terms by removing the named driver from cover.
Mr Ps misrepresentation was careless. So I thought Covea unfairly avoided the policy. I 
thought that, under CIDRA, it should have removed the named driver from the policy. And, to put things right, I thought it should now rewrite the policy from inception with Mr P as the sole 
policyholder. And it should remove records of the avoidance. 
Covea explained that this would result in an additional premium of £598.96 and Mr P would 
need to reimburse it the refund of premium it has already paid him. Mr P had already 
explained that he was in financial difficulties because of the cost of repairing his car. So I 
thought it would be fair to give him the option of paying this amount to have his policy 
reinstated for the remaining term (two months). 
As a claim had been made the insurer should assess the claim based on the new terms. So 
Covea may still decline the claim because the named driver was driving the car at the time of 
the accident. 
Therefore, I was satisfied Covea wasnt entitled to avoid Mr Ps policy in accordance with 
CIDRA. And  as CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to misrepresentation cases, 
I thought not allowing Covea to rely on it to avoid Mr Ps policy produces the fair and 
reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
Subject to any further representations from Mr P and Covea, my provisional decision was 
that I intended to uphold this complaint in part. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Covea replied asking me to correct one paragraph which was misleading, and I have done 
this. Covea also thought that the complaint should not be upheld as it had been brought 
before it had made a change in its processes. But I dont think that would be fair or 
reasonable as CIDRA has been in force for ten years and I cant penalise Mr P because 
Covea is late in adopting it. 
Mr P replied asking whether, if he accepted my decision, Covea would settle his claim. But, 
as Ive said above, because the named driver was driving the car at the time of the accident, 
Covea may still decline the claim. And it has confirmed that it will still decline the claim. And I 
can see that its seeking to recover its outlay for the other drivers claim from Mr P. 
So I think its for Mr P to decide whether to accept my decision, pay the additional premium 
and return his refunded premium, and have the avoidance removed from his record, or to 
reject my decision. In either case, Covea will still decline the claim.
Putting things right
I require Covea Insurance plc to do the following:
1. Re-write the policy from inception in Mr Ps name only, on payment of the additional 
premium and return of the refunded premium
2. Remove any policy avoidance information recorded by Covea regarding Mr P and the 
named driver from all internal and external databases.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Covea Insurance plc to carry out the redress set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman