DRN-1686283
The complaint
Mr J complains that Lex Autolease Ltd sent him another persons lease agreement and now 
wont let him end his agreement early due to his worries about the security of his personal 
details.
What happened
In August 2017 Mr J entered into a finance lease agreement for the acquisition of a vehicle. 
In late 2019 he called and asked for a settlement figure and he made a Data Subject Access 
Request (DSAR) for a copy of his agreement. It sent him the wrong agreement. He 
complained and Lex apologised and offered him £75 compensation for the inconvenience 
caused.
Mr J says that he was concerned that his personal data had been breached and he had 
settled his balance and this had cost him money and so he brought his complaint to this 
service.
The complaint was considered by one of our investigators who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He said there was no evidence that Mr Js agreement had been disclosed to anyone 
else and so he didnt consider there was any basis to allow Mr J to exit his agreement early. 
He had signed up for a period of five years and he was legally bound by that agreement.
Mr J didnt agree and said that he wouldnt have sold the vehicle but for the lack of trust he 
had as a result of the data breach.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has an agreement which required to make payments for a period of five years and he is 
legally obliged by that agreement. The only breach of data occurred to the person whose 
agreement was sent to Mr J. I appreciate he says he has suffered a loss of trust in Lex, but I 
dont consider that grounds to say he should be allowed to terminate the agreement early 
without paying the sums due.
I have seen no evidence to show that his data was breached and while the error made by 
Lex was unfortunate, I cannot say this indicates his data was at risk. I realise Mr J took a 
different view and he was entitled to do so, but it doesnt mean that I can direct Lex to do 
anymore than pay the £75 it has offered.
I consider Mr J bears responsibility for his actions in terminating the agreement and as such 
I cannot uphold his complaint.
My final decision
Lex Autolease Ltd has already made an offer to pay £75 to settle the complaint and I think 
this offer is fair in all the circumstances.  So my decision is that Lex Autolease Ltd should 
pay £75.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2020.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman