DRN-3676255
The complaint
Mr Q complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) didnt do enough to protect him 
when he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill explain whats happened since our Services involvement and focus on 
giving the reasons for my decision. 
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. But Mr Q didnt agree so the complaint was 
passed to me to decide.
While I was minded to agree with the overall outcome, I got in touch with Mr Qs 
representatives to explain that this was for slightly different reasons than those given by the 
investigator  I didnt think the payments should have triggered RBSs fraud alert systems. 
Mr Q, via his representatives, requested a formal decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure the parties that although Ive only set out the key points, I have read 
and considered whats been provided in full. Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint 
for the following reasons:
Its not in dispute that funds were ultimately lost to a scam. Its also not in dispute that 
Mr Q authorised the payments which were made using his RBS debit card. So, the 
starting position  in line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017  is that hes 
liable for the transactions.
However, taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes 
of practice and what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id 
expect RBS to have systems in place to monitor for indications of fraud. In some 
circumstances, when such a risk is identified, Id expect it to make additional checks 
before processing a payment. If it failed to do so, and that failure led to a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold RBS liable. 
Ive considered whether RBS ought to have made additional checks on the disputed 
payments. And I dont think it ought to have. Each of the payments were made to the 
same recipient  a legitimate cryptocurrency provider. I appreciate that overall, Mr Q 
lost over £11,000 which is a significant amount of money. But this amount wasnt 
paid in one large single payment or out of character transaction  there were eight 
separate transactions of amounts varying from around £200 (the first payment) up to 
just under £2,000 during a period of around five weeks. I recognise there were two 
days where multiple payments were made. These appear to have totalled around 
£4,995 on each of these two days. But, while not low amounts, I still dont think these 
ought to have triggered RBSs fraud alert systems.
I say this because, in the 12 months before the scam began, there were other large 
payments such as £5,000 and £3,000 payments in January 2020, £2,500 in March 
2020, and around £3,000 in September 2020. Then, just prior to the days in which 
payments totalling just under £5,000 were made, Mr Q made a payment of £8,000  
which hasnt been said to be linked to the scam so appears to have been genuine. 
So, in my judgement, the transactions in dispute wouldnt have appeared particularly 
unusual or out of character when compared with Mr Qs spending history.
So, having considered the payments, Im not persuaded there was anything that 
ought reasonably to have triggered RBS fraud monitoring systems, or that would 
have indicated he was in the process of being scammed. In summary, I dont think 
the payments were high enough to alert RBS when compared with previous spending 
on the account and factoring in that they were made to a legitimate cryptocurrency 
provider. 
Ive also thought about whether RBS could have done more to recover the funds 
after Mr Q reported the fraud, as in some circumstances money spent on a debit card 
can be recovered through a chargeback. However, Mr Q used his debit card to pay a 
legitimate cryptocurrency exchange provider before the funds were subsequently 
sent on to the scammer. So, its unlikely a chargeback would have been successful 
as the service  i.e. the purchase of cryptocurrency - looks to have been provided by 
the merchant. As a result, I dont think RBS could reasonably have done more to 
recover the funds. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint against The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2023.
 
Melanie Roberts
Ombudsman