DRN-1745368
 
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) gave her 
loans irresponsibly.
What happened
This complaint is about 24 loans Sunny provided to Mrs W between September 2018 and 
April 2019. The amounts borrowed ranged between £50 and £250  with most of Mrs Ws 
borrowing falling in-between. 
Heres a table showing details of the first 9 loans: 
 
Loan 
Date Taken 
Date Repaid 
Amount 
Weekly Instalments
1 24/09/2018 30/10/2018 £200.00 24 
2 24/09/2018 19/10/2018 £50.00 24 
3 12/10/2018 19/10/2018 £50.00 24
4 25/10/2018 02/11/2018 £100.00 24
5 26/10/2018 02/11/2018 £50.00 24
6 29/10/2018 03/11/2018 £50.00 24
7 30/10/2018 03/11/2018 £50.00 24
8 02/11/2018 03/11/2018 £50.00 24
9 09/11/2018 16/11/2018 £100.00 24
 
Mrs W said that once she started borrowing payday loans, shed had to take out new loans 
to repay other loans.
Our adjudicator investigated and came to the overall view that loans 1-5 hadnt been unfair. 
But she said Mrs Ws pattern of lending itself showed that from loan 6 onwards Mrs W had become persistently reliant on short-term loans so Sunny shouldnt have given Mrs W loan 6 
or any of the loans that followed. Our adjudicator set out the steps she said Sunny should 
take to put things right for Mrs W.
Sunny initially disagreed with our adjudicators view. After some further discussion with our 
adjudicator Sunny reconsidered its position and told us it now agreed that lending from loan 
12 onwards mightnt have been sustainable for Mrs W. Sunny made an offer to settle the 
complaint accordingly.  
Sunny sent details showing how it worked out the refund it was willing to pay to settle 
Mrs Ws complaint. We passed this information on to Mrs W but as it fell short of what our 
adjudicator recommended Mrs W wanted an ombudsman to review her complaint. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
What I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs W could 
repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mrs W could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ws complaint.
Looking at the first five loans Mrs W took out, I agree with our adjudicator about why we 
wouldn't uphold Mrs Ws complaint about these loans. And as it seems Mrs W hasnt 
objected to what our adjudicator has said about these, then I don't think I need say more 
about loans 1-5.
Like our adjudicator, Im planning to uphold Mrs Ws complaint about loan 6  but for 
different reasons. 
I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 6. At this point, I think Sunny 
shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mrs Ws borrowing history that she was 
likely having money problems. 
I say this because:
when she took out loan 6 Mrs W already had three other outstanding short term 
loans with Sunny (loans 1, 4 and 5)
she took out loans 1 and 2 on the same day, and loans 4, 5 and 6 over a four day 
period. Taking out multiple loans like this suggests to me that Mrs W was struggling 
to manage her debt in a well planned way
and borrowing and repaying this number of loans early makes me think that Mrs Ws 
finances werent in a stable position - likely because she was struggling to manage 
financially after paying loans.
 
So although the loan 6 mightve appeared affordable, and Sunnys lending policy allowed 
customers to apply for another loan in these circumstances, I think that Sunny shouldve 
realised that Mrs Ws borrowing record painted a picture of someone struggling with debt. 
Loan 6 was a relatively small amount - just £50 - like a number of the earlier loans were. But 
this was her sixth loan in just over a month and since loan 1 shed taken out further loans 
that kept on adding to her overall indebtedness. So despite what shed told Sunny about her 
finances, I think this showed that Mrs W was having serious problems managing her money. 
So Sunny shouldve seen that the signs were that loan 6, and any further lending, wasnt 
likely to be sustainably affordable for Mrs W. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided loan 6 or any further loans.
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mrs W, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mrs Ws case, I think by loan 9 Sunny should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely to be unsustainable and it shouldnt 
have provided any further loans. I say this because at this point Sunny ought to have 
realised:
 Mrs W was not managing to repay her loans sustainably. In a period of less than two 
months since her first Sunny loan in September 2018 she had taken out 9 loans 
 
all these loans were set up to be repaid over a period of around six months  
possibly to keep down the cost of the weekly repayments 
 
although she repaid her loans earlier than the agreed term, successfully repaying her 
loans doesnt mean Mrs W managed to do so in a sustainable way
 
Sunny could see by now that Mrs W had a track record of borrowing quickly after 
repaying previous loans. After paying loans 2 and 3 she then took out loan 4 less 
than a week later. Mrs W took out loan 7 the same day she paid loan 1. And after 
paying loans 4 and 5, she took out loan 8 the same day. This was now the third time 
in a row that shed repaid loans early only to quickly borrow again. And continuing 
this trend, she took out loan 9 just six days after paying loans 6, 7 and 8 
 
the loan amounts varied  but overall Mrs W wasnt making any real inroads into the 
debt she owed Sunny. Although loans 6, 7 and 8 were for relatively small amounts 
she was still also paying loans 6 and 7 when she took out loan 8 and shed paid 
loans 4 and 5 the same day she started loan 8. Loan 9 was for twice the amount of 
each of the four loans Mrs W took out before this one.
 
this would suggest that she couldnt afford to pay back what she had borrowed 
without borrowing again and she likely wasn't using these loans for their intended 
purpose. 
 
so it wasnt reasonable of Sunny to think her situation was improving and Mrs W was 
now asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan - rather this 
pattern of borrowing suggested she had ongoing money problems 
 
Sunny ought to have realised it was more likely that Mrs W was borrowing further to 
cover the hole repaying previous loans was leaving in her finances. 
 
Ive carefully considered everything Sunny has said, including its response to our 
adjudicators view  but for the reasons I've explained, this doesn't affect my overall view 
about this complaint. In particular, the fact that Sunny declined a number of Mrs Ws loan 
applications doesn't mean that it didnt do anything wrong when it provide the loans it did. 
I think that Mrs W lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 9 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ws indebtedness by allowing 
her to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of 
time. 
 the number of loans which Mrs W borrowed was likely to have negative implications 
on Mrs Ws ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for 
these high-cost loans. And any further borrowing was likely to be detrimental to her 
credit rating.
 
So overall, Im planning on upholding the complaint from (and including) loan 6 onwards.
What the parties said in response to my provisional decision 
Mrs W has confirmed shes happy with what I've said in my provisional decision.
Sunny has acknowledged receipt but sent me no further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that change what I think about this case, I still think its fair to uphold this 
complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
Putting things right  what Sunny should do
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mrs W towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 6 - 24, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mrs W which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mrs W originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mrs W the total of "A" plus "B".
 
D. Sunny should remove adverse information it has recorded on Mrs Ws credit file 
about loans 6  8. The overall pattern of Mrs Ws borrowing from the point of loan 9 
means any information recorded about this loan and the loans that followed is 
adverse. So all entries about loans 9  24 should be removed from Mrs Ws credit 
file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mrs W a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint about loans 6  24 and Elevate Credit International Limited 
(trading as Sunny) should take the steps to put things right set out above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman