The complaint
Mr S complained that MBNA Limited put a payment plan on his two credit card accounts, but 
didnt explain to him that this would result in defaults, which have affected his credit file. He 
said he wouldnt have agreed to the reduced payments if hed known that.
What happened
Mr S told us he contacted MBNA to tell it about his medical condition, and the resulting 
change in his circumstances. He said MBNA did an assessment of his personal 
circumstances, and decided he couldnt continue to pay the monthly amounts due. So it 
agreed to stop charging him interest and to set up a repayment plan. But Mr S later found 
out that the two debts were registered as defaults. 
Mr S said he had asked the necessary questions to make sure that he wouldnt be financially 
disadvantaged when he spoke to MBNA about this. He was assured there would be no 
negative consequences. He didnt think MBNA had been fair and reasonable. He said if hed 
been aware of the default, he wouldnt have accepted the offer, because until then hed 
never missed a payment. 
MBNA said that it had discussed Mr Ss income and expenditure in detail with him. And it 
didnt think Mr S could afford the monthly payments. It had set up a plan for him with 
payments he could afford. MBNA said it had explained on the call and in subsequent letters 
that the amounts he was paying werent enough to avoid a default. 
MBNA said its policy then was that it would default an account after it fell six months into 
arrears. It did this in November 2018. MBNA said it had written to Mr S a number of times 
about this, including letters detailing the sums in arrears and giving notice of default. 
 Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld, but not quite in the way Mr S 
suggested. Shed listened to the relevant call, and Mr S had been told by MBNA that his 
accounts would default. But she said that it was clear from the content of the conversation 
that Mr Ss circumstances wouldnt improve in the next six to seven months. So she thought 
it would have been better for MBNA to default Mr Ss accounts straight away, when it first 
spoke to him. She recommended that MBNA backdate Mr Ss default now to 9 March 2018, 
which was the date he discussed his circumstances with MBNA.
MBNA thought Mr Ss circumstances had changed within the following seven months. It said 
Mr S had spoken to it early in October 2018. He said then he had received treatment and 
was back to working full time. 
Our investigator listened to that call, but said it didnt show a clear change in his 
circumstances. Mr S said he wouldnt be able to clear the arrears on his account. He was 
DRN-1987143waiting to see if a consolidation loan was approved. He was told then that there were only a 
couple of months until his debts were defaulted. MBNA would wait to hear about the 
consolidation loan. Theres nothing to suggest that the loan was approved, and our 
investigator didnt think this call showed any change. 
MBNA said that with hindsight it knew that Mr S wasnt in a position to clear his debt, but that 
wasnt clear at the time. Mr S wanted to avoid a default, and MBNA was working with him, to 
try to prevent that. MBNA said that even if Mr Ss circumstances hadnt changed, guidelines 
still suggested his accounts shouldnt be defaulted until they were three to six months in 
arrears. It thought there was scope for his circumstances to change within the six months 
before the account defaulted, as indeed they did. And if his loan had been approved the 
default wouldve been avoided. 
Our investigator didnt change her mind, so this case was passed to me for a final decision. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt propose to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
Mr Ss initial complaint was that he wasnt told his accounts would be defaulted if he 
made smaller payments. Ive listened to the call where Mr S gave details of his income 
and expenditure, and MBNA worked out what he could afford. And I do think Mr S was 
told that the smaller payments MBNA had agreed to accept would result in his 
accounts defaulting in about six or seven months time. MBNA has also shown us 
correspondence that was sent to Mr S, that explained the accounts would eventually 
default.
I know Mr S said later that he couldve maintained his minimum payments, and 
wouldve done so if he had realised the impact this would have. But thats not 
consistent with the calls Ive listened to, and in particular the details of income and 
expenditure that he set out for MBNA. I dont think its likely that he couldve 
maintained the minimum payment on both these accounts. I dont think this part of Mr 
Ss complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator suggested that MBNA should change the date of Mr Ss default. She 
thought a default was inevitable for Mr S, so it would be fairer if this had been applied 
straight away. I can hear, on the 9 March call and later calls, that Mr S was very keen 
to avoid a default being registered on his credit file. On the 9 March call, Mr S said he 
didnt want a default. There didnt seem to be any prospect of him avoiding that in the 
next six or seven months by getting back to work. However, Mr S did refer to the 
possibility of getting help from family and friends. 
We now know that Mr S wasnt able to get these debts back on track before they 
defaulted. But I dont think that MBNA shouldve realised this at the time. I dont think 
that, when Mr S first told MBNA about his problems, the position was so dire that 
MBNA shouldve thought then it would be fairest to default Mr Ss account straight 
away. 
Mr S rang again in October. Hed had some treatment and been able to resume full 
time work. I think that indicates that there was some change in his circumstances. His 
accounts hadnt yet defaulted, and he was hoping to consolidate his existing debts 
when he remortgaged. He wasnt able to clear his existing arrears without a loan, but 
he was also looking into whether he could get a balance transfer too. So it seems clear on this call that Mr S was still hoping to be able to avoid a default, and was still 
working towards that. 
I know Mr S wasnt ultimately able to avoid defaulting, but I dont think that was clear 
when MBNA initially spoke to him. And I think that the change to Mr Ss 
circumstances, in that he was able to return to full-time work, does demonstrate that 
Mr S may have been in a position to clear his debts before the accounts were 
defaulted.   
For those reasons, I dont think that MBNA has to amend Mr Ss default date now. I 
dont think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
I then wrote again, to apologise for a typo in my provisional decision, and say I would correct 
this in the final version. MBNA said it had nothing further to add. Mr S replied to disagree. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed my mind.
Mr S said Id made a mistake about the dates in his decision. Id said hed spoken to MBNA 
in October 2019, when it was October 2018. I wrote to Mr S just after this decision was 
issued, to acknowledge and apologise for this typo. Mr S also said that our investigator had 
proposed the date of default be amended to March 2018, not March 2019. I acknowledge 
this typo too, and apologise to Mr S for that. Both are amended in the text above.
Mr S felt this meant that his decision hadnt been looked at seriously and professionally. He 
said that hed never disputed that not being able to maintain his monthly payments wouldve 
led to a default eventually. He said that was why he had always maintained his monthly 
payments, without failing a single one. And he said that although MBNA had produced 
documents to us, that didnt mean hed seen any of them. He said he had zero 
correspondence to notify him that at the end of this agreement his accounts would default 
automatically, which is what happened. 
Mr S said he suffered an illness, and told MBNA about his circumstances. It promised to 
help, but it didnt really help him. 
Mr S said MBNA set up a payment plan for him, and promised to stop interest. And it told 
him repeatedly that as long as he kept up the payments, he would see no harm to his 
finances. Mr S said he treated this cautiously and asked for more information. He wanted to 
know what interest he would pay on the balances during the agreement and after. How 
would it affect the balances, and would he have to pay those off at the end of the 
agreement? He said he was never given that information, but he did get a figure for balances 
which was higher than the balance prior to the agreement. MBNA never explained how it 
reached that figure. Mr S said he was told that an APR was used, but he didnt need to know 
what that was.  
Mr S said MBNA had told him it wouldnt charge interest, but instead it deferred it, and then 
charged higher interest than the contractual agreement allowed. Mr S said he was much 
worse off at the end of the six months of the special agreement. He said that meant defaults 
were registered automatically then, which wasnt fair. 
Mr S said if he hadnt declared the change in his circumstances to MBNA then he could just 
have paid the minimum payments, and wouldnt have had all these problems. Mr S asked me to reconsider my position on his complaint, based on the above. 
When someone cant make their contractual monthly payments, a business like MBNA may 
agree to accept smaller payments for a while, or to suspend interest, or both. But when it 
does that, its allowing a customer to stop making the payments that were required under the 
original contract. Its not at all unusual for a business that does this to record that the 
customer is no longer paying in line with the original agreement, on their credit file. 
Id expect that if a business is going to accept smaller payments, or waive interest, or both, 
that it will explain to the customer what effect this will have. And I said in my provisional 
decision that Id listened to the call where Mr S gave details of his income and expenditure, 
and MBNA worked out what he could afford. It said then it would accept token payments 
from him. And Mr S was told that these token payments would result in his accounts 
defaulting in about six or seven months time. 
MBNA has also shown us correspondence that was sent to Mr S, that explained the 
accounts would eventually default. I think that was sent, and it wouldnt be MBNAs fault if Mr 
S didnt receive it. I also note that this correspondence only confirmed what Mr S had 
already been told on the phone. I think that MBNA did explain the impact of making smaller 
payments to Mr S, as I would expect it to.
Mr S discussed his income and expenditure with MBNA on 9 March 2018. He said that 
MBNA didnt waive interest, it just deferred it, and it had never told him how much interest he 
was paying. 
Ive looked at Mr Ss statements on both cards from February 2018, until the accounts were 
closed in December 2018. I can see that Mr S hadnt missed his February payment onto 
card ending 5072. From March 2018, no interest was charged at all on that card, and the 
only adjustment to his balance was a reduction of the debt each month by the amount he 
was paying. I can also see that Mr S had missed his February payment onto card ending 
2262. He incurred late and overlimit fees on this card, which were refunded in March. From 
March 2018, no interest was charged at all, and the only adjustment to his balance was a 
reduction of the debt each month by the amount he was paying, and a modest credit from a 
refund paid onto his card in June. So I think MBNA did waive, rather than defer, interest on 
both his card accounts. I dont think it has misled him about this.
Mr S also said that he couldve paid the minimum payments to MBNA, and wouldnt have 
had all these problems. But hed already missed one minimum payment before he spoken to 
MBNA in March. And on the call he had with MBNA, he went through in some detail his 
income and expenditure. Ive no reason to think that Mr S wasnt honest about his financial 
position on that call. What he said then makes me think that it was appropriate for MBNA to 
offer to accept lower payments, and waive interest. However, I also think that it was Mr Ss 
choice to seek, and to accept, this help. MBNA was still telling him how much his actual 
minimum payment was, on each monthly statement. Ive explained that I dont think Mr S 
was misled about what MBNA was doing, and how this would affect him. 
For these reasons, I still dont think this complaint should be upheld.
 
 
 
 My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman