DRN-4019034
The complaint
Miss S complains about the quality of a van she has been financing through an agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (who Ill call Moneybarn).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss S, but I dont think Moneybarn need to take any further action 
here. Ill explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Miss S acquired her van under a regulated consumer credit agreement and as a result our 
service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The Consumer Rights Act (2015) is the relevant legislation. It says that the van should have 
been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Moneybarn, who are also the 
supplier of the van, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is 
satisfactory if they meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory 
taking into account any description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant 
circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a van the other relevant circumstances would include 
things like the age and mileage at the time the van was supplied to Miss S. The van here 
was about five years old and had already completed over 96,000 miles. Thats quite a high 
mileage so I think a reasonable person would expect quite a bit of wear and tear to be 
present and that the van wouldnt be in perfect condition, as might be the case for a brand 
new van.
Two independent inspections have been completed on this van by two different inspectors. 
The inspectors looked at a range of issues including the faulty turbo, a potential head gasket 
fault, and some concerns about the starter motor. It was both of their opinions that the faults 
present were the result of wear and tear and that they couldnt fairly be attributed to the 
business. Im persuaded by their expert opinion that is likely to be the case. The van had 
completed significant mileage when supplied and the experts concur that the faults are a 
result of wear and tear.
Miss S has also mentioned that the van was sold for export and is zero rated VAT. Section 
56 of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) explains that finance providers are liable for what they 
say and for what is said by a credit broker or a supplier before the consumer takes out the 
credit agreement. If Miss S was provided with a false statement of fact (or law) and that false 
statement was a significant reason why she entered into the agreement I may consider the 
van was misrepresented to her. In those circumstances I may ask Moneybarn to take some 
action. The fact the van was sold for export was listed on the invoice so I cant say Miss S 
was given a false statement of fact or that the agreement was therefore misrepresented to 
her. It does seem unusual that a van would be sold for export when it doesnt appear to have 
been Miss Ss intention to export it. That may be an issue Miss S needs to take up with the 
dealership who sold her the van, but I dont think its something Moneybarn as responsible 
for.
I can see notes on the file where Miss S has disputed whether the mileage reported by the 
dealership was correct. Theres a WhatsApp message on file suggesting she was told the 
mileage was 95,755 before she received the van, but the mileage on the finance 
documentation and on the MOT completed before sale suggest it was 96,043. It may be that 
the van completed some mileage in the period before Miss S collected it, but Im not 
persuaded there is enough evidence to suggest the mileage was misrepresented to her. 
And, even if it was, the difference seems very small, and I dont think it would have been 
likely to put Miss S off entering into the agreement. 
Ultimately, whilst I have sympathy with the situation Miss S has found herself in, I dont think 
Moneybarn need to take any action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman