DRN-3447226
The complaint
Mr H complains about the redress Lloyds Bank PLC proposed after he made a claim to them 
under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
What happened
Mr H paid £3,975 for a villa using a credit card supplied by Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds). 
When he returned from holiday he complained to Lloyds. He said the villa hadnt been as 
advertised and he explained that the villa supplier had rejected his claim. Mr Hs initial 
complaint to the villa provided an extensive list of the items he was unhappy with. Some of 
those are as follows:
Beds were old and mattresses were hard and uncomfortable.
Hairs and bloodstains were found on the bed in the master bedroom.
There was no soap, no washing up liquid or dishwasher tablets.
Some power sockets did not work.
Bed linen was dirty.
There were no mirrors in the twin bedrooms.
The sofa was stained and dirty.
There wasnt a lock on the bathroom door.
There was no shade and the photographs used to advertise the property were very 
different than what was provided.
He said section 75 held Lloyds jointly responsible for any breach of contract by the supplier.
Lloyds offered Mr H a 10% refund and our investigator thought that was a reasonable 
resolution to Mr Hs complaint.
But Mr H disagreed and asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr H, but I agree with the investigators view of this complaint. 
Please let me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When something goes wrong with goods or services and the payment was made, in part or 
whole, with a credit card, as is the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 
claim. This section of the Consumer Credit Act (1974) says that in certain circumstances, the 
borrower under a credit agreement has a like right to claim against the credit provider as 
against the supplier if there's either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
Im not determining the outcome of a claim that a party might have under section 75. I take 
section 75 into account when I think about whats a fair way to resolve the complaint, but I 
dont have to reach the same view as, for example, a court might reach when considering 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have 
been met.
There have clearly been some areas in which the quality of what was provided to Mr H didnt 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would expect. Its clear, for instance, that the 
bed linen needed changing and there was no lock on the bathroom door. 
There were other areas where I think it would be unreasonable to suggest the villa was 
unsatisfactory. I dont think, for instance, that its unreasonable for the supplier not to have 
supplied mirrors and I think the provision of drying cloths during Covid restrictions is 
understandable. 
There are other areas where I think the quality of what was provided was subjective. For 
instance, whilst an absence of shade may be seen as beneficial by some holiday makers it 
may not be for others, and where furnishings are seen as uncomfortable by some they may 
not be seen the same way by others. And its clear some concerns would have been 
overcome had Mr H opted for the welcome pack e.g. dishwasher tablets.
Mr H says the villa didnt look the same as it did on the website but having considered the 
photographs I dont agree theres much difference. There are some additional pictures on 
the wall and the lighting is different, but I dont think that amounts to a misrepresentation. In 
general, I think the photographs on the website adequately portray what Mr H found.
Whilst I understand Mr H says palm trees had been cut down and shade was therefore more 
limited, I dont think it would be fair to suggest that was a breach of contract or 
misrepresentation. Whilst the trees may have appeared in the sales literature I think its 
reasonable to expect vegetation to be subject to maintenance and that maintenance may 
conceivably include taking down or pruning trees when necessary.  
Overall, I think Lloyds offer of a 10% reduction is a fair reflection of the impact the quality 
concerns had on Mr Hs use of the property and Im not therefore asking Lloyds to take any 
further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahonOmbudsman