DRN-4310852
The complaint
Mr B complained that Clydesdale Financial Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance (BPF), unfairly turned down his claim under the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
Mr B, along with his wife, bought a timeshare from a timeshare supplier in August 2010. The 
total cost of membership was £4,032, which was paid for by way of a loan from BPF. That 
loan was taken out in Mr Bs sole name and paid off in February 2011.
In August 2018, Mr B (using a professional representative (PR)) made a claim against BPF 
for problems he said he had had with the timeshare.1 The letter of claim was titled Section 
140a Claim and, in particular, it was alleged that the loan had been brokered by an 
unauthorised credit broker, meaning the loan agreement was unenforceable. PR also said 
the broker breached parts of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook (the 
CONC Rules) by not explaining all of the key features of the loan and applying undue 
pressure to take it out.
BPF responded to the claim, but said it had been brought too late under the provisions set 
out in the Limitation Act 1980 (LA). BPF also said that the entity that brokered the loan was 
the trading name of a business that held the right permissions at the time the loan was 
arranged. BPF also thought there was no evidence the broker breached any of the CONC 
Rules. Finally, BPF said that if Mr B was unhappy with the outcome it reached he could refer 
a complaint to our service.
PR referred a complaint to our service on Mr Bs behalf. In addition to what had been said 
before, it was said that any commission being paid by BPF should also be considered under 
a s.140A CCA claim. It also said that BPF didnt properly assess Mr Bs ability to repay the 
loan before it was granted.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and concluded that BPF had acted fairly 
in turning down the claim. He thought that the claims under s.140A CCA were made too late. 
He thought that, as Mr B lived in Scotland, a shorter limitation period to that set out in the LA 
applied and Mr B had five years from the date the loan was repaid to make a claim (see the 
Prescription and Limitation (Scotland) Act 1973 (PLSA)). As that hadnt happened, the 
claim was made too late and BPF had a defence to it. He also thought the broker was a 
regulated credit broker at the time of sale.
PR responded to say it disagreed and it said the LA applied to the claim, giving a six year 
limitation period. It asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman for review, but 
before that happened it also supplied a 36 page document prepared by external counsel 
titled Generic submissions on behalf of complainants. PR also said that the timeshare 
suppliers conduct was unconscionable and limitation shouldnt start to run until a consumer 
1 Although the timeshare was in the names of Mr and Mrs B, as the loan was in Mr Bs name only, he 
was the only person eligible to make the claim
knew or could have known about what went wrong.
Having considered all of the available evidence and arguments, I explained that Id reached 
the same outcome as our investigator, but for different reasons. So I issued a provisional 
decision, setting out my thoughts, and invited both parties to provide anything further for me 
to consider before I issued a final decision. I said:
Under the rules that govern how I decide complaints, I must take account of law and 
regulations, regulators' rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice and 
good industry practice.
I must also focus on what I think is material and relevant to reach a fair and 
reasonable outcome. So although I have read everything that has been said and 
provided, I may not address every point that has been raised.
The claim under s.140A CCA
While only a court has the power to make a determination under s.140A CCA, as it is 
relevant law, I must consider it when deciding what is a fair and reasonable outcome. 
A claim made under s.140A CCA is one to which a limitation period applies  in other 
words, a claim has to be made within a certain period of time after someone is first 
able to bring a claim. Here, Mr B says that things done the timeshare supplier led to 
an unfair debtor- creditor relationship. The limitation period starts to run from when 
that relationship ended, i.e. when Mr B paid off the loan in February 2011.
The BPF loan agreement also says its governed by the law of the country where the 
borrower lived within the UK, so in Mr Bs case that was the law of Scotland. Further, 
the timeshare supplier was based on Ireland and its membership terms say that Mr 
Bs membership was governed by the laws of the Republic of Ireland. So I cant see 
that the law of England and Wales had any bearing on Mr Bs claim. It follows, I 
agree with our investigator that the limitation period is likely to be five years under the 
PLSA, rather than the six years under the LA. However, I dont think it makes a 
different here as a claim wasnt made to BPF until August 2018, which was more 
than six years in any event.
Could limitation be extended?
Both the PLSA and LA provide for extensions of the time limits in certain 
circumstances. Having considered the facts of this complaint, I dont think the lime 
limits I set out could be extended under any of the provisions of either act. But even if 
Im wrong about that, I dont think it makes a difference to this complaint for the 
reasons Ill explain.
PR provided a 36 page submission on the problems with the timeshare suppliers 
membership. It is, as its described, a generic submission and in so far as its relevant 
to the matters Mr B actually complained about, it doesnt deal with issues of 
limitation. So I dont think it assists me.
PR has also said that the timeshare suppliers conduct was unconscionable and 
limitation shouldnt start to run until a consumer knew or could have reasonably 
known about what they say went wrong. But it hasnt pointed to any specific sections 
of the relevant acts that they say extend time in the way required.
Ive not been told when Mr B found out about his concerns with the authorisation of the broker, the breach of the CONC Rules, that hed been lent to irresponsibly or that 
BPF might have paid a commission, nor why he says he couldnt have found about 
these earlier. So without more information and arguments, I cant say the time would 
be extended. But, even if the limitation period was extended, I think Mr Bs claim 
would fail.
Mr B says that he thinks BPF paid a commission to the timeshare supplier when the 
loan was granted and that could have created an unfair debtor-creditor relationship. 
From what I understand, if BPF paid any commission, it tended to be low and of less 
than 10%. Im satisfied BPF didnt breach any duty in making such a payment, nor 
was it under any regulatory duty to disclose the amount of commission paid in these 
circumstances. Further, I dont think the levels of commission that are sometimes 
paid in this situation were sufficiently high to mean that the relationship was unfair 
under section 140A CCA.
The other matters that Mr B thought could give rise to an unfair debtor-creditor 
relationship can also give rise to complaints in their own right and outside of the 
scope of a s.140A CCA claim, so Ive considered them individually.
Did the timeshare supplier and/or BPF breach CONC during the sale?
At the time the loan was granted, the FCA didnt regulate the granting of consumer 
credit loans, like the one Mr B took out. It follows, the FCA CONC Rules werent 
relevant to Mr Bs transaction, so I wont consider this further.
BPFs decision to lend
PR said BPF didnt properly assess Mr Bs ability to repay the loan before it was 
granted. Im able to consider a complaint about BPFs decision to lend to Mr B in 
August 2010. But in any complaint about lending there are a number of matters to 
consider. First, a lender had to undertake reasonable and proportionate checks to 
make sure a prospective borrower was able to repay any credit in a sustainable way. 
Secondly, if such checks were not carried out, it is necessary to determine what the 
right sort of checks would have shown. Finally, if the checks showed that the 
repayment of the borrowing was not sustainable, did the borrower lose out?
PR said that the right sort of checks didnt take place and that might have been the 
case. But Ive not been provided with anything to show that the lending was not 
affordable for Mr B. Ive seen nothing to suggest there were any affordability issues, 
such as missed payments or other financial difficulties at the time of the loan. 
Further, it looked like the loan was paid back in full within a few months of being 
taken out. So, as things stand, Im not persuaded that the complaint should be 
upheld on that basis.
Was the timeshare company authorised to broker loans?
PR argues that the loan was unenforceable as it was arranged by a business that 
didnt have the right authorisations in place.
However, both BPF and our investigator, explained to PR that at the relevant time the 
timeshare provider held an OFT licence  the OFT being the body that regulated 
consumer credit. The name of the timeshare provider is on the face of the loan 
agreement, so I think the loan was properly brokered. Further, PR has been provided 
with the details of that entity, but has not explained why it disagrees with our 
investigators conclusion on this point. So I think the evidence suggests that the loan was properly arranged.
It follows, I dont think BPF needs to do anything further to answer Mr Bs complaint.
BPF responded to my provisional decision to say it had nothing further to add. PR didnt 
respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided me anything further to consider, I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional findings.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against Clydesdale Financial 
Services Limited, trading as Barclays Partner Finance.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Mark Hutchings
Ombudsman