DRN-3501044
The complaint
Miss C complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc has held her liable for payments she says she 
didnt make or allow anyone else to make.
What happened
On 28 November 2020, Miss C reported unrecognised activity on her account. Miss C is 
disputing 13 payments from her account between 30 October and 27 November 2020  
these were made via Barclays mobile banking (BMB). The details are as follows:
Date of transaction Amount
£5 30 October 2020
£2
£800
£1,000
£200
£1,950
£102 November 2020
£10
£1,300 3 November 2020
£1,000
9 November 2020 £400
17 November 2020 £1,300
27 November 2020 £1,200
The payments were mostly to accounts held with trading platforms where cryptocurrency can 
be purchased. But some payments were also made directly to a third party who had also 
paid money to Miss Cs account during this period.
The payments were mostly funded through a mixture of Miss Cs own funds, four direct debit 
(DD) indemnity claims and four payments into Miss Cs account from a third party.
Miss C says:
She didnt make these DD indemnity claims and wasnt expecting this money into her 
account. The information shared with Barclays as part of making the DD indemnity 
claims is not accurate. 
She wasnt looking at her account and so didnt notice this activity. She became 
aware of this activity when one of the companies that had sent money back to her 
account (as part of the DD indemnity claim) contacted her.
Her phone was broken but she also had a BMB application on her iPad. She has a 
different brand of phone than what she was told the device used for these payments 
was.
Shes in a lot of debt with the companies who returned funds to her account as part 
of the DD indemnity claims and has incurred significant charges as a result.
Barclays declined Miss Cs claim on the basis that it thought Miss C was likely involved. 
Among other things, its said many of the payments originated from the same device Miss C 
has made genuine payments from.
When Miss C complained to our service, the investigator didnt uphold her complaint. They 
said they thought Barclays had fairly declined Miss Cs claim.
Miss C didnt agree, she said didnt authorise any of the payments, receive any funds or 
consent to the DD indemnities. She said a refund wont benefit her and she reiterated the 
impact and costs incurred as a result of owing money those companies that the DD 
indemnities were raised with.
The complaint was passed to me and I issued my provisional decision on 12 May 2022. I 
explained I wasnt intending to uphold the complaint and expanded on the reasons why. 
Miss C didnt accept my provisional decision  she said she didnt think the matter of who 
called and pretended to be her had been fully explored. Miss C also said it was unfair that 
she had incurred a significant amount in charges.
Barclays re-confirmed the DD indemnity claims were made by telephone and explained it 
didnt have call recordings because it was transitioning to a new phone system at the time 
and unfortunately some calls from that time were lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also considered the further points raised by both Miss C and Barclays  having done so 
Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision about the 
merits of this complaint on the balance of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is 
most likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider 
circumstances.
The disputed payments
The terms and conditions of Miss Cs account say:
When we wont refund you - If we have reasonable grounds to think youre not entitled to a 
refund, we may need to look into your claim first before we can refund you. In cases when 
we wont refund you and have reason to believe you have acted fraudulently, we may 
involve the police.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Miss C is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them 
herself or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments.
So, the key question here is whether Barclays has acted fairly in concluding that Miss C did 
authorise the disputed payments.For a payment to be authorised, Barclays must show that it was authenticated correctly and 
why it thinks Miss C consented to it. 
Here Barclays has provided audit information to show the payments were made through 
Miss Cs mobile banking. To make the payments Miss Cs secure information was used to 
access her mobile banking application. So, I think the payments were authenticated 
correctly.
The key issue is here whether Miss C consented to the payments or to someone else 
making these payments on her behalf.
Miss C told Barclays that no one knew her secure information. Shes also confirmed that she 
wasnt scammed into either sharing her secure information or making these payments 
herself. Miss C has referenced receiving contact on snapchat or WhatsApp in relation to 
helping her with her debts, but she says she didnt go through with it or share any secure 
information.
If Miss C had allowed someone else to use her account, then it would be fair for Barclays to 
treat any payments they made as authorised by her.
On balance, I think Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably in concluding Miss C consented 
to these payments for the following reasons:
Barclays has provided evidence that eight of the disputed payments originated from a 
device (device B) which was registered to Miss Cs account on 4 October 2020.
oThis is an iPhone and the first login with this device was made from an IP 
address that matches Miss Cs genuine activity on a previously registered 
device (device A). This means that whoever registered this device likely did 
so in the same location as Miss C often used her previous device.
oDevice B was registered using PINsentry  this means Miss Cs genuine 
card and PIN were used which Miss C hasnt reported losing possession of. 
Theres also no explanation as to how a third party would obtain this or know 
Miss Cs secure PIN. 
oThere have been genuine logins and payments from device B  i.e. for 
payments Miss C isnt disputing. So, on balance, I think its likely that Miss C 
was involved in registering device B to her account and that shes used it to 
access her BMB. I understand Miss C is under the impression that a different 
brand of phone is involved but the evidence Ive seen shows its the same 
brand shes told us she owns.
A further device (device C) was registered on 29 October 2020  this was also an 
iPhone. It was used for the remaining five disputed payments and was registered 
using mobile PINsentry from device B. Device C was also registered to Miss Cs 
genuine mobile number. This means that whoever set this device up would have had 
access to device B.
During this period of disputed activity, Miss C used her card and BMB for genuine 
payments  including using device B for non-disputed payments to regular payees. I 
find it unlikely that Miss C wouldnt have noticed such significant activity on her 
account. I also note that there has been some inconsistency in when Miss C first 
became aware of the activity.oIn a call with Barclays about the fraud, she said in reference to the £1,000 
received into her account on 26 November 2020 that she she noticed 
something was wrong and so asked her mother to send her money before 
she contacted Barclays. This is at least two days before she reported the 
fraud.
oMiss C also made a card payment to her car finance provider on 3 November 
2020 after her DD was returned unpaid and the DD indemnity had been 
raised for that business. Its not clear why she did this if she was unaware of 
the DD indemnity claims or activity on her account. So, on balance, I think its 
likely Miss C was aware of the activity taking place on her account.
The disputed activity took place over almost a month. This length of time and how 
spaced out the disputed transactions are is inconsistent with third party fraud  we 
might expect an unknown fraudster would act as quickly as they could to ensure they 
made any payments they wanted to before the genuine account holder identified the 
activity. This pattern of activity is more likely to indicate Miss C has allowed someone 
to use her account if she was not undertaking the activity herself.
It is possible Miss C didnt understand the full extent of what was happening on her account 
or intend for it to go this far. Indeed, she may well have genuinely lost out as a result. But for 
the reasons explained above, I dont think it was unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that 
Miss C was involved.
The DD indemnity claims
In relation to the DD indemnity claims, its more likely than not that these requests are linked 
to the disputed payments from Miss Cs account given the timing here. The way the funds 
were utilised suggests the incoming payments were expected. 
I appreciate there has been some inconsistency in how Barclays says these DD indemnities 
were requested, but it does appear now that the requests were made by telephone. Its 
unfortunate that the calls arent available, but I dont think this changes what a fair outcome 
is here.
If Miss C deliberately shared personal and secure information with a third party for the 
purpose of enabling them to appear to be her when interacting with Barclays, then I think it 
would be fair for Barclays to treat their instructions as her own. It isnt our role to fine or 
penalise businesses for any potential data protection breaches (if there were any)  this is 
the role of the Information Commissioners Office. Our service would consider the impact of 
any breaches on the customer. And as Ive said, given its more likely than not that Miss C 
was involved in this activity, I dont think its unfair of Barclays to have held Miss C 
responsible for the DD indemnity requests or the payments made using these funds.
Miss C has focused on the information provided to Barclays about her circumstances and 
says the reasons given for the DD indemnities being requested were not true. However, I 
dont think this is relevant to whether it was fair of Barclays to hold Miss C responsible for the 
activity on her account in the circumstances.
I understand Miss C now owes money to the companies that returned funds under the DD 
indemnity scheme, and that she may have incurred charges in relation to this. But I havent 
seen any evidence that Barclays made a mistake in raising these claims, and the loss to 
Miss C comes from the payments that have then been made from her account. So, I dont 
think it would be fair to make an award here.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
Stephanie Mitchell
Ombudsman