DRN-3247483
The complaint
Mrs O is unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) charged her for renewal of her 
Homecare boiler cover after the first year.
What happened
BG installed a new boiler for Mrs O when parts for her existing boiler became obsolete. Mrs 
O believed she also had a five-year warranty with the installation so she was unhappy when 
BG informed her after one year that she would be charged for her Homecare policy.
Our investigator explained that our service couldnt look at Mrs Os complaint about the 
warranty because it wasn't an insurance product. He explained that although our service 
could look at the Homecare policy, he didnt think BG had done anything wrong. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said BG told her there was a warranty with the boiler, so she 
thought it charged her for a Homecare policy which she didnt need after the first free year. 
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I understand Mrs O will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. 
Ill explain why.
Firstly, Ill clarify which issues Ive considered. Its not within my remit to decide a complaint 
about the manufacturers warranty on the boiler BG installed. However, I have looked at the 
warranty to inform my decision about the Homecare insurance product BG sold to Mrs O.
The issue is that Mrs O doesnt think she needed the Homecare policy BG charged her for a 
year after her boiler was installed. Thats because she thinks it duplicated the cover available 
to her under her warranty. Ive looked at what each of the warranty and the Homecare policy 
provides to determine whether there is any merit in what Mrs O says.
The product registration certificate confirms that the manufacturer warranty lasts for five 
years and provides for repair or replacement in the event of a manufacturing fault. It only 
covers the manufacturers branded products. 
The warranty document, branded as a BG product, specifically states that from year two, it 
doesnt cover annual servicing or cover for controls or any part of the central heating system.
The Homecare policy confirms cover is for the boiler, an annual service, controls and central 
heating system. In subsequent years, cover was also available to Mrs O for plumbing, drains 
and home electrics.
So, comparing the cover available to Mrs O under the warranty and Homecare policy, Im 
satisfied that they provide for different events. Its also notable that they complement each 
other  the warranty isnt valid without an annual service and the Homecare policy provides 
an annual service. Therefore, Im satisfied that the Homecare policy didnt provide duplicate 
cover to that available under the warranty.
Mrs O believed the Homecare cover was free for five years, so she was upset to be charged 
after the first year. Again, having looked at the documents, BG made it clear that Homecare 
cover was only free for the first year. I note that it sent renewal documents to Mrs O setting 
out the charges and when her first policy would end. I also note that BG explained in its 
warranty documents that Mrs O would need to have her boiler serviced annually, but cover 
was also available through other providers. So, I see no reason to think BG charged Mrs O 
for a policy which she didnt need.
Mrs O said BG didnt tell her she needed to register her boiler. BG sent Mrs O a £50 cheque 
as a gesture of goodwill in recognition of the possibility that it didnt tell her to register her 
boiler for the five-year manufacturers warranty. As Mrs O provided this service with a copy 
of the registration certificate, its clear that the boiler was registered. Her current boiler cover 
provider told her it shouldve registered automatically, so its likely thats what happened. I 
cant see that BG did anything wrong here. 
Overall, I havent seen any evidence that BG sold Mrs O a product that duplicated cover 
under her warranty, or that it sold her a policy which she didnt need from the second year 
onwards. As theres nothing for BG to put right, I wont be asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman