DRN-4061810
The complaint
Miss B complains that a car acquired with finance from Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of 
satisfactory quality.
What happened
In February 2022 Miss B was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage. At the point of supply the car was around 8 years old and had 
covered around 112,000 miles.
In December 2022 the car broke down. It was recovered to a specialist garage and was 
diagnosed with a timing chain failure, which had caused damage to the engine. The garage 
advised that a new engine was required.
Miss B reported the fault to Advantage. It arranged for an independent inspection of the car. 
the inspection was completed in January 2023. It confirmed that the timing chain had failed. 
The engineer who inspected the car stated that because the car had covered around 19,000 
miles since the point of supply, the fault would have been present or developing at the point 
of supply.
Based on the outcome of the inspection, Advantage didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Miss B remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. She said the car had 
been sold to her on the basis that it had a full service history, and that the lack of servicing 
(which she discovered after the point of supply) had caused the fault.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that although there was a fault with the 
car, there wasnt enough evidence to show that the fault was present at the point of supply. 
The investigator said there was no evidence to support what Miss B had said about the car 
being sold with a full service history, and no evidence to link the lack of servicing with the 
timing chain failure.
Miss B didnt agree. She said the car was sold to her on the condition that it had a full 
service history and that a full service would be carried out before she took the car, which she 
said didnt happen. Miss B said that if shed been made aware at the point of supply that the 
car hadnt been serviced since 2016, she wouldnt have purchased the car.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. This says that goods must be of 
satisfactory quality when supplied. Cars are of satisfactory quality if they are of a standard 
that a reasonable person would regard as acceptable, taking into account things such as the 
age and mileage of the car and the price paid. The legislation says that the quality of the 
goods includes their general state and condition, and other things like fitness for purpose, 
appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety and durability.
The car supplied to Miss B was second hand, so Id expect it to have a degree of wear and 
tear and to require more repairs and maintenance than, say, a brand new car. So, in order to 
uphold this complaint, I would need to be persuaded that there was an inherent fault with the 
car at the point of supply, as opposed to a fault which occurred due to general wear and 
tear.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that there was a fault with the car. I say this because 
both the garage and the independent inspector confirm that the timing chain has failed.
Ive gone on to consider whether the fault meant that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at 
the point of supply.
An independent inspection report can help to determine whether a car is of satisfactory 
quality. Ive looked at the independent report dated January 2023. The report states that the 
timing chain has failed causing consequential damage to the engine. The report states that 
the car had covered 19,000 miles since the point of supply, and that the failure of the timing 
chain could be attributed to age related wear and tear. The report states that the fault would 
not have been present at the point of supply.
Under the relevant legislation, where a fault occurs in the first 6 months after the point of 
supply, theres a presumption that the fault was present at the point of supply. After 6 
months  as in this case  the burden of proof is reversed and its up to the consumer to 
show that the fault was present at the point of supply. I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that the fault was present at the point of supply here. The independent report is 
clear that the fault wasnt present at the point of supply and Miss B hasnt provided any 
evidence to counter this.
Ive thought about whether the timing chain was sufficiently durable, because durability is 
something that I need to consider when deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality. The 
independent report is clear that the timing chain is a component part which is liable to 
deterioration. Ive taken the age and mileage of the car into account here. I think a 
reasonable person would expect to replace a timing chain at somewhere between 80,000  
120,000 miles depending on the manufactures recommendations. Im unable to say that the 
timing chain wasnt sufficiently durable in this case.
Ive taken into account what Miss B has said about the car being sold to her with a full 
service history. This service asked Miss B to provide evidence to support this, but she hasnt 
been able to provide anything. Without clear evidence that the car was advertised with a full 
service history, Im unable to say that the car was misrepresented to Miss B.
Miss B has also said that the car was sold to her on the condition that a full service would be 
carried out. She says this didnt happen and that the lack of servicing has caused or 
contributed to the fault with the timing chain.
The independent report states that the car is overdue a service, and that this can result in 
the timing chain tensioner becoming lazy in operation. I understand why Miss B has 
concerns about this. However, the independent report doesnt conclusively state that the 
lack of servicing because the timing chain to fail. It is speculative. This isnt enough for me to 
say that a lack of servicing caused the fault. And even if it did cause the fault, I havent seen 
enough evidence to persuade me that the car was advertised with a full service history (and 
therefore misrepresented) or that a full service was to be carried out before Miss B took 
possession of the car.For the reasons Ive explained, there isnt enough evidence for me to say that the car wasnt 
of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. I wont be asking Advantage to do anything 
further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 May 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman