DRN-2238760
The complaint
Ms R is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited hasnt refunded her the full premium for her 
mobile phone insurance policy. Ms R is also unhappy about the service received.
When I refer to Aviva throughout this decision, Im including any retailers and other 
organisations involved in the sale and service of this policy.
What happened
Ms R noted that her old mobile phone number was shown on her policy documents. She felt 
that this meant her policy was void. When she contacted Aviva, she was unhappy at the 
service she received and the lack of a premium refund.
Ms R explained that when the policy was set up, she was asked to provide an alternative 
phone number. And when she checked her policy this was the number linked to her 
insurance policy. But Ms R was clear that she wanted the policy to cover her new number 
and she felt that the policy wording meant the cover wasnt for her new phone. Ms R raised a 
number of complaint points. She said the policy wasnt valid, extra premiums had been 
charged, the service wasnt up to standard, there were problems cancelling the policy going 
forward and further premiums were taken from her bank account after the request to cancel. 
Ms R wanted Aviva to refund her premiums for the two years of the contract.
Aviva said the phone number wasnt a problem. It said the key thing was the IMEI number 
linked to the phone handset rather than the number. It said if Ms R had needed to claim this 
wouldve been dealt with and so the policy was valid. Ms R didnt accept this. Aviva said no 
extra premium had been paid only Ms R had paid the firstly monthly amount at the point of 
purchase and the rest came via the direct debit after 30 days. Ms R did accept this. Aviva 
agreed that it had taken premiums after Ms R had requested cancellation. So, it refunded 
her the premium, apologised, and paid £20 in compensation for poor service along with 
distress and inconvenience this had caused. As Aviva hadnt refunded Ms R the premiums 
paid, she brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He noted that Aviva had both mobile numbers 
on the account records and accepted Avivas point that the policy was based around the 
IMEI number. He said Ms R hadnt suffered any detriment as she hadnt needed to claim. 
So, he didnt think Aviva needed to refund the premiums for the two year contract. Regarding 
the service he said there wasnt any evidence of any impact on Ms R and as Aviva had paid 
back the later premium with compensation, he said this was fair.
Ms R remained unhappy and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the point Ms R made about her concern that the policy was effectively 
useless to her if she needed to claim. But I also accept Avivas explanation. It said it was 
clear that if there had been a need to claim it would base this on the IMEI number and this 
was for the phone Ms R had bought  the new one. This was the phone she wanted cover 
for. Ive no reason to doubt what Aviva said here. And as a claim wasnt made, I think the 
answer was fair. I understand that this didnt put Ms Rs concerns to rest but I cant say that 
Aviva is wrong because Ms R didnt accept what it said.
Based on this Aviva didnt think it needed to refund the premiums for the two years the 
contract had run for. I think thats fair. Aviva said a claim wouldve been paid if one had been 
made, so cover had run for the phone over the whole time and Ms R wouldve been covered 
by the policy if the need to use it had arisen. I think Aviva acted reasonably when it wouldnt 
refund the premiums.
In terms of the service provided Aviva said it listened to the call recordings and no issues 
were highlighted despite Ms R stating that the call handler had been rude. But what it did 
accept was Ms R had requested for the policy to be cancelled before a direct debit premium 
was taken from her account. So, for the service here Aviva refunded the incorrectly taken 
premium, added £20 compensation for the poor service and apologised. In the 
circumstances of Ms Rs case I think that was a fair and reasonable outcome. Aviva 
accepted that mistakes were made and acted to put right Ms Rs concerns.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Aviva Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 March 2021.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman