DRN-3189377
The complaint
Mr P and Mrs T complain that Insurance Company Euroins AD hasnt refunded the 
premiums they paid for a single trip travel insurance policy.
For ease, any reference to Euroins also includes its agents.
What happened
On 13 December 2020, Mr P and Mrs T took travel insurance policy to cover a European trip 
for eight days departing on 20 March 2021. The policy was provided by Euroins. They paid 
£32.40 for their insurance cover, including Insurance Premium Tax.
Because of the global pandemic, Mr P and Mrs Ts trip was cancelled. The tour operator 
they booked with provided a full refund of the travel and accommodation. Mr P and Mrs T 
contacted Euroins to request that the policy was cancelled and the premium refunded. 
Euroins said as it was more than 14 days since the purchase of the policy, Mr P and Mrs T 
were not entitled to a refund of the premium, but it did agree, as a gesture of goodwill, to 
provide a 50% refund.
Mr P and Mrs T were not happy with this response as they said they should be entitled to a 
full refund. So, they complained to Euroins and then brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but found that the 50% refund offer made was fair 
and reasonable. As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say:
We hope you are happy with the cover this policy provides. However, you have the 
right to cancel this policy, should it not meet your needs, within 14 days from either 
the date of purchase or receipt of your certificate of insurance, whichever is later, 
and provided that you have not already travelled.
[]
If you do decide to cancel the policy during the 14 day cooling off period then your 
premium will be refunded in full, provided no claims have been made or no incidents 
have occurred that may give rise to a claim. Should you decide to cancel after the 14 
day cooling off period no refund will be given.
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no requirement under 
the relevant industry rules and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. As Ive outlined 
above, the contract of insurance says that Euroins doesnt have to pay any refund of a 
policyholders premium after the cooling-off period has ended. In this case, Mr P and Mrs Ts 
cooling-off period ended on 27 December 2020. But the first contact about this issue wasnt 
until 16 January 2021. Im satisfied the cancellation was outside of the 14-day cooling-off 
period. 
So, based on the industry guidelines and the terms of the policy Mr P and Mrs T purchased, 
Im satisfied they arent entitled to a refund of their policy premiums.
Having said that, I do understand that Mr P and Mrs Ts need for this policy changed due to 
circumstances out of their control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and 
reasonable to ask Euroins to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of the 
policy because of the unanticipated, exceptional and unforeseen events surrounding Covid-
19. 
Mr P and Mrs T have said they should receive a full refund of the premiums as they havent 
used the insurance. As above, Covid-19 was unanticipated and unforeseen, and this was 
outside of the control of both parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt 
make it impossible for Mr P and Mrs Ts contract with Euroins to be performed  cover under 
the policy started on 13 December 2020  so the policy was already in use. This is because 
Mr P and Mrs T werent just insured for the dates of travel. The premium charged by Euroins 
also covered the risk of them having to cancel their holiday for any one of the listed reasons 
that the policy covered, such as illness or redundancy. And this was from the date they took 
out the cover. 
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr P and Mrs Ts cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Euroins to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after the date the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Euroins didnt bear any 
risk under Mr P and Mrs Ts insurance policy. And it hasnt paid a claim in relation to the 
cancelled trip as this has been refunded in full by their tour operator. Euroins was therefore 
no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other insured reason. And, 
as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Euroins was also no longer carrying the risk of 
any claim being made while Mr P and Mrs T were travelling abroad. So, I do think it is fair for 
Euroins to be offering a refund.
Euroins has told us that it doesnt break down the premium for the policy based on each 
individual section of cover. But Euroins has said that, based on its claims experience, it does 
receive a higher proportion of claims relating to cancellation  which is the cover provided 
from the date the policy was issued  than it does for claims relating to incidents that occur 
during travel. 
An insurer is entitled to decide how it calculates the premiums it charges taking into account 
factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood of claims 
arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly. And based 
on the explanations that Euroins has provided about its reasons for calculating the refund in 
the way it has, Im satisfied it has demonstrated theres a material unevenness in the way 
the risk is spread for this policy. And Im satisfied that Euroins hasnt treated Mr P and Mrs T 
unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances.  
Having taken into account the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the 
Covid-19 pandemic, I think the offer which Euroins has made to refund 50% of the premium is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, I wont be asking Euroins to do anything 
further.
My final decision
For the reasons stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 February 2022.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman