DRN-4251716
The complaint
Miss L complains that Modulr FS Limited (herein referred to as Algbra) wont refund 
payments taken from her account which she says she didnt authorise.  
What happened
Miss L holds an account with Algbra. She has explained she agreed to grant a third party (T) 
access to her Algbra account, by forwarding on a magic link, on the understanding she 
would make money in return. I understand she thought the arrangement involved some form 
of cryptocurrency investment.  
Between late September 2022 and early October 2022, over £5,000 was sent from Miss Ls 
Algbra account. Several credits were received that funded some of these payments, but 
others appear to have been funded by the money Miss L already held in the account. 
In late October 2022, Miss L reported to Algbra that money had been stolen. As she had 
granted someone else access to her account, it wouldnt refund her. She complained she 
had been scammed, but Algbra maintained it wasnt liable and closed her account.
Unhappy with this response, Miss L referred her complaint to our service  supported by a 
professional representative. Our investigator didnt uphold her complaint. In summary, they 
said Miss L was liable for payments made by T, as she had allowed them access to the 
account. While they accepted Miss L had been tricked, they werent persuaded Algbra would 
have been able to work this out if it had intervened. They also didnt think Algbra needed to 
take further action in relation to the account closure. 
Miss L has appealed the investigators outcome. In summary, she says intervention would 
have worked as, if she had been texted or emailed, she would then have realised what was 
happening and put a stop to things. She also says she thought the money was being sent on 
to her own cryptocurrency account, and that T had guided her to tell Algbra she was no 
longer disputing the payments after reporting them as fraudulent  on the understanding T 
would then pay her back. 
Miss Ls representative also says Algbra should have realised she was highly vulnerable to 
cryptocurrency scams; they disagree a warning would have been ineffective; and the 
payments were not authorised as defined by the Payment Services Regulations 2017 
(PSRs) as the scammer used deception to elicit them. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Ill start by addressing whether the payments were authorised. In broad terms, under the 
PSRs, Miss L is generally liable for authorised payments  but Algbra is generally liable for 
unauthorised payments. 
The PSRs make it clear that a payment is authorised if Miss L consented to the execution of 
it. And that consent must be given in the form, and in accordance with the procedure, agreed 
between her and Algbra. 
In practice, that means a payment is authorised if Miss L completes agreed steps to make a 
payment (such as accessing the app, setting up a payee, and selecting an amount to send 
to them). But its also authorised if she gave someone access to use that agreed form and 
procedure to make a payment. Miss L admits sharing a link with T to allow them access to 
her account. The context of what she has told us also suggests she understood T would be 
making payments from the account  as she says she thought the money would be sent on 
to cryptocurrency. 
It therefore appears to me that Miss L allowed T to act as her agent  as in she permitted 
them to use her account to make payments. While she may not have been aware of each 
and every payment made, they would still be treated as authorised under the PSRs due to 
the access/authority Miss L effectively granted T. Meaning she is presumed liable in the first 
instance.
Despite what has been suggested by Miss Ls representative, the PSRs dont treat a 
payment as unauthorised purely because the account holder has been deceived. As Id 
expect them to know, the concept of consent under the PSRs isnt a matter of informed 
consent. So this point doesnt have a bearing on whether the payments were authorised. 
However, I do accept that Miss L was tricked into granting access to her account. While I 
think the evidence suggests she knew they would be making payments, she also thought 
she would make money from the arrangement. Instead, she has lost out. So, Ive considered 
whether Algbra ought to have prevented her fraudulent losses.
Although the starting position is that Miss L is liable for the payments, due to them being 
authorised, there are some circumstances when it might be appropriate for Algbra to identify 
a fraud risk and to therefore take additional steps before processing a payment. That might 
occur as when the payment is significantly unusual or uncharacteristic compared to the 
normal use of the account. 
I am conscious this account doesnt appear to have been running for that long. So Algbra 
didnt have much knowledge of how Miss L normally transacted, to know what looked 
uncharacteristic for her. However, I understand why the investigator has concluded that, due 
to the number and value of payments made within a day, there is a point at which it would be 
reasonable to conclude that Algbra should have identified, and responded to, a fraud risk.
However, I agree with the investigator that displaying a warning would likely have been a 
proportionate response to the level of risk identified. As it was T, rather than Miss L, who 
would have seen this, I dont think this would have prevented her further fraudulent loss.
Miss L argues Algbra should have reached out in another way, such as by text or email. I 
dont think it necessarily had cause to think an in-app warning was insufficient. Regardless, 
Im not convinced that, if it had contacted Miss L directly, the further payments would have 
been prevented.Thats because its clear Miss L was being coached by T. To the extent that, after reporting 
her dispute, she told Algbra she was revoking the claim  as instructed by T. In those 
circumstances, its unclear to me that Miss L would have responded in a way that made the 
fraud risk apparent to Algbra. Or that contact from Algbra would have caused Miss L to end 
her involvement with T.
Weve also seen messages between Miss L and T, in the midst of these payments, showing 
she knew payments were being taken. Yet she didnt take steps to remove Ts access, or to 
dispute the payments, for a further month  during which time more payments were taken. 
This also wasnt the first time T gained access to an account Miss L held; the dispute 
occurred after T had already taken payments from another account. Our service is 
considering Miss Ls complaint about that separately. 
In that context, it seems clear Miss L knew T were/would be making payments. And that fits 
with the scam she has reported. She thought the funds would be moved to her 
cryptocurrency account, and/or that she would be paid for granting access to her account.  
So I dont think it seems likely that, if Algbra notified her of the payments, that would have 
caused her to put a stop to things.  
I note Miss Ls representative says Algbra should have known Miss L was vulnerable to 
cryptocurrency scams. However, Id point out that the payments being taken were transfers 
to an individual. So I dont think Algbra had cause to suspect Miss L was falling victim to this 
type of scam. Id also point out that the representatives submissions repeatedly refer to 
another firm who, so far as Im aware, arent involved in Miss Ls dealings with T. That has 
made it difficult to assess the accuracy of their submissions. 
Algbra did make enquiries to recover the funds after Miss L reported her dispute, but it 
wasnt successful in recovering them. I note it received a reply from the recipient bank 
saying their account holder reported their dispute with Miss L had been resolved  which 
matched her message to Algbra (which she says was sent on Ts instructions) that she was 
no longer disputing the payments. In that context, Im not persuaded there is more Algbra 
ought to have done which would have successfully recovered her loss. 
Overall, Im not persuaded its fair to hold Algbra at fault for the loss Miss L incurred as a 
result of granting T access to her account. 
I have also considered that Algbra went on to close the account. Im not persuaded it was 
unreasonable for them to do so. As the investigator has pointed out, the account terms make 
clear there are circumstances in which it may close an account. I dont think those have 
been unreasonably applied here. While the terms dont make clear what notice period ought 
to be given, I cant see the timeframe applied unduly affected Miss L. The account was 
cleared by the time it was closed  meaning she wasnt left without access to her funds 
(bearing in mind Ive not found Algbra is liable for her loss).
I do appreciate Miss L has clearly lost out here, and has been tricked and coerced by T. But 
what Im considering is whether its fair to hold Algbra, as the provider of her account, liable 
for her loss. Overall, Im not persuaded it would be reasonable to direct Algbra to refund 
Miss L, or to take other action to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2024.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman