DRN-3233970
The complaint
Miss M complains that Clearview Independent Financial Advisers Ltd gave unsuitable 
advice to transfer the benefits from her defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme 
to a personal pension. She says the advice was unsuitable for her and believes this has 
caused a financial loss.
Professional representatives have helped Miss M to bring this complaint. But, for ease of 
reading, Ill refer to the representatives comments as being Miss Ms.
What happened
Miss M approached Clearview in February 2019 to discuss her pension and retirement 
needs. 
Clearview completed a fact-find to gather information about Miss Ms circumstances, 
objectives and her attitude to risk. Having done so, it referred Miss M to another Firm, which 
Ill refer to as Firm T. 
On 22 March 2019 Firm T sent an email to Miss M; it said that having analysed the benefits 
from her DB scheme it was in a position to provide advice. It said it had presented its 
recommendation in a suitability report. It had uploaded that report, together with other 
information to an online portal for Miss M to review before deciding whether to proceed. The 
suitability report was prepared in the name of Clearviews adviser who had referred Miss M 
to Firm T.
Firm T sent Clearview a copy of its suitability report. Clearviews adviser replied three days 
later. He noted that the report had been signed off in his name. He said:
I didnt write the letter or provide advice. Please amend.
Firm T replied that it would amend the report. 
In July 2020 Miss M complained to Clearview about the suitability of the transfer advice. 
Clearview didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint. It said it had declined to provide advice. But, 
because Miss M was so determined to action the transfer it had referred her to Firm T. It 
said its role was limited to information gathering and providing that information to Firm T. It 
said it didnt provide any advice about a pension transfer. It said responsibility for the 
provision of advice and carrying out the transfer rested with Firm T. 
Miss M referred her complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold it. She said that 
she wasnt persuaded that Clearview advised Miss M to transfer out of her DB scheme. 
Miss M disagreed, so the complaint was referred to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has also complained about the advice provided by Firm T. I'm considering that 
complaint under a separate reference number; so I dont intend to provide any analysis of 
Firm Ts actions in this decision. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint for largely the same reasons given 
by the investigator. 
I understand that Miss M contacted Clearview after a friend had used its services in 
connection with a pension transfer. Clearview began the evidence gathering process to 
consider giving such advice. That is it carried out a fact-find to establish Miss Ms 
circumstances and asked her about her attitude to risk and her objectives. Having done so, it 
found out that Miss Ms objectives for considering a transfer included paying off debts. It told 
us that although it had authorisation from the regulator to provide pension transfer advice, 
that objective (paying off debts) didnt meet with its criteria for giving advice. So it didnt wish 
to proceed. But, as Miss M still wanted that advice, it referred her to Firm T. It did so on the 
basis that Clearview would remain as Miss Ms financial advisers for ongoing investment 
advice but it wasnt providing advice or making a recommendation in connection with her 
pension arrangements. 
I'm aware that the suitability report has been issued in the name of Clearviews adviser. But 
Clearview commented immediately to Firm T that Clearviews adviser hadn't provided 
advice. It asked Firm T to amend the report. I've noted the report is branded in the name of 
Firm T and Firm T has since confirmed that the inclusion of the name of Clearviews adviser 
was a system error. So I'm satisfied that the use of Clearviews advisers name on the 
suitability report was simply a mistake, not an admission that Clearview had in fact provided 
the advice, and that it should have had Firm Ts advisers name instead. 
Firm T used the evidence Clearview had gathered to prepare its advice and occasionally 
asked Clearview to collect more information from Miss M and other sources. Miss M didnt 
ever personally meet or speak with anyone from Firm T during the evidence gathering 
process. She only ever spoke with Clearviews adviser and it was him that asked her for 
further information. So I can understand why she might have felt he had an instrumental role 
to play in the advice process. But that doesn't mean that Clearview gave her advice or made 
a recommendation to transfer her benefits from the DB scheme.
Clearviews given us a copy of its introducer agreement with Firm T, which shows that, in 
return for a fee, the two firms have agreed that Clearview may introduce clients to Firm T for 
the purpose of Firm T giving advice to the client. The agreement says that Firm T may ask 
Clearview to gather evidence on its behalf. It also makes clear that  where Clearview has 
made an introduction  Clearview may not produce a suitability report, provide advice, 
comment on or attempt to influence Firm Ts advice or recommendations. I appreciate that 
Miss M is unlikely to have been aware of this agreement but I think it clearly spells out where 
the responsibility for advice lay when Clearview has introduced a client, in this case Miss M, 
to Firm T. So while Clearviews adviser continued to act as a go-between, I think he did so in 
line with the terms of the introducer agreement, an agreement that prevented him from 
taking any part in the pension transfer advice process. And I havent seen anything to 
persuade me that he went beyond this remit and gave Miss M advice.Miss Ms comments imply that Clearviews adviser made remarks in their meetings that led 
her to believe he was recommending the transfer. It certainly possible that Clearview might 
have made comments that Miss M understood were in support of a transfer. But I don't think 
that goes as far as giving advice or making a recommendation. Indeed its notable that 
Clearviews adviser held the necessary regulators permission to give pension transfer 
advice himself. But he chose not to give that advice and instead referred Miss M to Firm T. 
And the evidence shows it was Firm T that produced the suitability report and made a 
recommendation, not Clearview. So, regardless of any positive comments that Clearview 
might have made about the possibility of a transfer I dont think that makes Clearview 
responsible for the advice Firm T gave to Miss M to transfer out of her DB scheme.
Miss M added that Clearview received a fee from Firm T for its part in the transfer. But its 
quite common in the financial advice industry for an introducing firm to receive a fee for 
making that introduction. And, as I've said above, the introducer agreement between 
Clearview and Firm T sets out that a fee is payable. So I don't think the fact that Clearview 
might have received a fee means its responsible for the advice Firm T provided.
Similarly, I'm aware that Clearview continued to charge Miss M fees for ongoing financial 
advice. But those charges applied to advice provided after the transfer from the DB scheme 
had already happened. The fact that Clearview continued to provide advice after the transfer 
doesn't mean it was responsible for the earlier advice given by an entirely different firm. 
It follows that Im satisfied that Clearviews role was limited to making an introduction and 
gathering evidence on Firm Ts behalf. So it didnt carry out the regulated activity of providing 
advice in respect of a pension transfer. And as such, I find that it isn't in any way responsible 
for the advice Firm T provided. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Joe Scott
Ombudsman