DRN-1448584
 
The complaint
Mr K complains that Santander UK Plc failed to inform him that he had incurred charges on 
his credit card account, and that this has adversely affected his credit file. He has also 
complained about the bank's handling of his complaints.
What happened
Mr K phoned Santander and paid off his credit card account but decided to keep it open for 
future use should the need arise. He also cancelled the direct debit he'd set up to make his 
monthly repayments. Some two months later he was surprised to receive a letter from 
the bank stating that he was £21 in arrears. He rang Santander and was told there was a 
monthly fee for his type of account, and as he hadn't recently been paying it he'd also 
incurred late payment charges. Mr K wanted to complain but was unable to do so as the 
bank's systems were down. But he was assured that a complaint would be registered and 
he'd receive a callback. Neither of these things happened.
Mr K called Santander again. The bank apologised for not registering his complaint and for 
failing to phone him. In response to Mr K's question about why the bank hadn't alerted him 
earlier that he had failed to pay his account fee, the adviser said that Santander didn't send 
monthly statements for balances below £5. But in recognition of its failure to act on Mr K's 
initial phone call, the bank waived Mr K's charges and paid compensation for its poor 
service. It also reassured Mr K that his credit file wouldn't be affected by what had 
happened. But it was and Mr K subsequently found that his credit score had reduced 
significantly. He therefore complained again.
Santander said that it had acted correctly in reporting Mr K's missed payments to credit 
reference agencies as this was what it was required to do, and it apologised for indicating 
otherwise in responding to Mr Ks first complaint. It said that adviser had given him incorrect 
information about reporting to credit reference agencies and about not sending bank 
statements for balances less than £5. It confirmed that statements had been sent to Mr K's 
address for the two months concerned and that these would also have also been available 
online. But because of its errors in responding to Mr K's first complaint Santander offered 
him £150 in compensation, which he refused. Mr K then brought his complaint to us.
In summary, our investigator found that Santander hadn't done anything wrong. He said the 
bank had applied fees to Mr K's account in line with the account terms and conditions. He 
commented that evidence from Santander suggested that it had informed Mr K about his 
missed payments before the letter he received in mid- August, and that it had acted in line 
with industry standards in reporting those missed payments to credit reference agencies. 
Our investigator acknowledged that Santander had provided poor service in dealing with Mr 
K's complaint but considered the £150 it had offered to be fair compensation for this.
Mr K was unhappy with the investigator's view saying, in summary, that he wanted the bank 
to remove the adverse information from his credit file because that was now affecting his ability to secure further credit, and that the compensation offered was insufficient. Mr K 
asked for an ombudsman's decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K had signed up for a credit card that charged a monthly fee. This was clearly set out in 
the account terms and conditions and the amount was made explicit on Mr K's monthly 
statements. Consequently, when Mr K reduced his balance to zero, but kept the account 
open,Santander correctly continued to apply the fee. Mr K has implied that because his 
monthly repayments had been made automatically by direct debit he wouldn't necessarily 
have been aware of the fee being charged. But whilst I accept that this may be the case I'm 
afraid I cannot therefore reasonably conclude that Santander was wrong to charge it.
Mr K has said that Santander should have contacted him much sooner than it did about the 
missed payments rather than waiting for two months. But the bank has provided us with the 
monthly statements it said it sent Mr K that alerted him in fairly strong terms to his 
missed repayments and the possible impact of these on his credit rating. The bank said 
these statements would also have been available to Mr K online.
Mr K says he didn't receive these statements and hadn't accessed his online account. But 
here again, whilst I accept that Mr K didn't receive the posted statements or check his online 
account, I'm afraid I have insufficient evidence to conclude that the statements weren't sent 
and weren't available online. Account statements are sent automatically and it seems 
unlikely to me that Santander would have wanted to suppress this system in Mr K's case, 
particularly as he owed the bank money.
With regard to reporting the missed payments to credit reference agencies Santander acted 
in accordance with the relevant reporting standards. Credit files are expected accurately to 
reflect the way that borrowers manage their accounts. In this case Mr K missed two 
repayments and I cannot reasonably criticise Santander for recording this information on his 
credit file.
Mr K has also complained about the way that Santander handled his complaints in failing to 
record his first complaint, not making the promised return call and in providing 
incorrect information. I'm afraid that the rules governing complaints I can consider do not 
allow me to consider unregulated matters beyond my remit, such as the overall quality of 
Santander's complaint handling. As a result, I'm not able to tell Santander how it should deal 
with and handle complaints, nor can I make any order or award specifically for this, even if 
the bank's handling of the complaint fell short.
I can look at the substance of the complaint relating to the fees and charges applied to Mr 
K's account and the bank's reporting of account information to credit reference agencies. 
And having done so I have found that Santander didn't make a mistake or act unfairly.
Although Santander hasn't broken any rules or regulations it recognised that it hadn't 
handled Mr K's complaint as it should have done. It refunded account charges and offered 
him £150 compensation, which he refused. I understand that this offer still stands, and I 
leave it to Mr K to contact Santander if he now wishes to accept it.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
June Brown
Ombudsman