DRN-2856019
The complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy that Santander UK Plc didnt inform her that the payment plan she agreed 
with them would affect her credit file.
What happened
After not making payments toward her overdraft account and the account becoming 
dormant, Mrs Y received letters from Santander chasing repayment of the outstanding 
balance. Mrs Y contacted Santander and gave them details of her income and expenditure, 
after which a payment plan of £80 per month was agreed. A few months later, Mrs Y realised 
that her credit file was being negatively affected by the repayment plan. Mrs Y wasnt happy 
about this, so she made a complaint.
Santander looked at Mrs Ys complaint, but they felt that it had been explained to Mrs Y that 
the repayment plan would be reported on her credit file, so they didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs Y wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so she referred her complaint to this 
service. One of our investigators looked at Mrs Ys complaint. But they also felt that 
Santander had informed Mrs Y that the payment plan would have an affect on her credit file. 
So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs Y remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how disappointed Mrs Y must have been when she realised how the reports 
that Santander were making to the credit reference agencies regarding the payment plan 
might be being interpreted by other credit providers to whom she might have been intending 
to apply.
Santander have explained that they have an obligation to make accurate reports to the credit 
reference agencies. This is correct, but it would be expected by this service that Santander 
would have given Mrs Y reasonable notice that the payment plan would be reported to the 
credit reference agencies and that he credit file would be affected as a result.
Having reviewed all the information and evidence available to me, Im satisfied that 
Santander did provide such notice to Mrs Y here, and I say this because the fact that the 
payment plan would be reported to the credit reference agencies was referenced on the 
letters sent to Mrs Y by Santander about this matter and was explained verbally to Mrs Y 
during her telephone conversations with Santander representatives where the payment plan 
was agreed.
Im aware that Mrs Y doesnt feel that the information provided to her by Santander was 
detailed enough in this regard. But Im not convinced by Mrs Ys position here and I do feel 
that Santander did provide Mrs Y with sufficient information for her to have understood that 
her credit file would be affected. Additionally, if after receiving this information Mrs Y 
remained uncertain as to exactly how the payment plan would affect her credit file, then it 
was incumbent on Mrs Y to have requested clarification on this matter herself.
Mrs Y has also explained to this service that, had she been aware that accepting the 
payment plan would have affected her credit file in the manner that it has, she would have 
cleared the overdraft in full using a credit card account which had available credit balance.
I can see Mrs Ys point here  to a degree  but it remains my opinion that Mrs Y was 
informed by Santander that her credit file would be affected, and ultimately, Mrs Y didnt 
choose to pay off the overdraft using the credit card at that time.
Additionally, Mrs Y had conducted an affordability assessment with Santander which 
included confirming her monthly income and expenditure at that time. It was resultant from 
this affordability assessment that Santander offered Mrs Y a payment plan of £80 per month. 
And it wouldnt be expected by this service that Santander, having been made aware of Mrs 
Ys financial position such that she couldnt afford to pay the balance in full but could only 
afford a monthly repayment plan based on her income and expenditure, would then proceed 
to ask or suggest to Mrs Y that she should clear the balance using a credit account, which 
most likely would have resulted in Mrs Y incurring a higher rate of interest on the outstanding 
balance and thus falling further into debt.
So, its difficult for me to conclude that Santander have acted unfairly or unreasonably 
toward Mrs Y here, and Im satisfied that it was appropriate for Santander to have offered a 
payment plan to Mrs Y and also that Santander did confirm to Mrs Y, both verbally and in 
writing, that the payment plan would have an affect on her credit file.
It follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Santander to take any 
further action at this time. I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs Y was wanting 
here, but I hope that she can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman