DRN-2954367
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) wont provide a five-year extension 
to the mortgage term of their interest only mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S took out an interest only residential mortgage with Birmingham Midshires 
(BM) for a nine-year term in March 2006. The amount borrowed was £466,499. BM ceased 
lending on residential mortgages in 2010. Mr and Mrs S wanted to extend the mortgage 
term. Although BM no longer offered residential mortgages, BOS, a lender in the same 
group as BM, offered to consider the application.
Mr and Mrs S wanted a five-year extension to their mortgage term which they say that BOS 
agreed to subject to application. But it took until late 2017 to complete the transfer of the 
mortgage from BM to BOS when BOS offered a one-year mortgage as a temporary measure 
before coming to a decision on a further extension. So, BOS in October 2017 agreed a one-
year mortgage term but then wouldnt agree the five-year term. BOS says that in April 2016 
Mr S started a new business as self-employed and in order to assess affordability it wanted 
to wait until it was able to see the tax computations that Mr S would submit to HMRC and so 
agreed this one-year term as an interim measure. 
Mr and Mrs S complained about the delay in transferring the mortgage from BM to BOS but 
for reasons explained in another decision I wont be considering that here. 
Mr Ss tax computations werent received in 2017, 2018 or 2019. Then in May 2019, BOS 
said that its End of Term policy had changed and the only income it could consider was 
retirement income and so the application wouldnt meet its affordability requirements. As 
BOS had asked Mr and Mrs S to produce income information that was no longer relevant, it 
agreed to extend the mortgage term until April 2020 which was the five-year period that Mr 
and Mrs S wanted.
Our investigator didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She felt that it was 
fair for BOS to conduct an affordability assessment and that it wouldnt be in Mr and Mrs Ss 
best interests to extend the mortgage for a further period. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and 
asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S were in a difficult position in 2015 in that their mortgage term had ended and 
they had no other repayment vehicle other than the sale of their property to repay the 
balance of the mortgage. They wanted a five-year extension but had the added difficulty that 
BM had ceased providing residential mortgages. Another member of the Lloyds Banking 
Group - BOS - was willing to consider the application. There was a delay in the transfer 
which, as Ive explained in another decision, Im unable to consider as part of this complaint. 
But there was also an issue with affordability. Mr S had started in a new self-employed 
capacity in April 2016 and in order to assess affordability BOS wanted to see the tax 
computations that would be submitted to HMRC. So, a short-term mortgage was offered in 
the interim but for whatever reason, that information was never supplied by Mr S to HMRC.
 
Mr S did provide some profit projections in August 2019 for a business starting in April 2019. 
My assumption from that is that Mr Ss new business didnt actually start in 2016 and, so, for 
this period Mr S wasnt providing tax computations to HMRC as the business wasnt trading 
or generating an income. So, effectively during this period BOS was providing further 
extensions whist waiting to consider a more formal extension.
 
It then seems that when Mr S submitted his profit projections to BOS in August 2019, he was 
then told that BOSs lending criteria had changed in May 2019. Ive looked at a note of a 
conversation on 19 August 2019 when Mr S is told that BOS will now only consider Mr Ss 
retirement income as he was then aged 69. I also see in that conversation that Mr S referred 
to the five-year extension that was promised in 2015. I note that BOS accepts that it had 
asked Mr S to provide information that was no longer relevant and was prepared to extend 
the mortgage to April 2020 which was what Mr and Mrs S originally wanted. 
In their letter of complaint to us Mr and Mrs S say that they wanted a five-year extension in 
2015 which was their plan for retirement. But, in effect, this is what they got. I recognise that 
a firm five-year extension in 2015 might have been preferable for them but I also recognise 
that BOS in waiting for the tax computations was fulfilling its responsibilities to see if the loan 
was affordable. I would expect a lender to compile a full picture of the borrower before 
coming to a conclusion on affordability and I cant see that BOS did anything wrong by 
waiting for Mr S to produce those figures. It also seems to have assisted Mr and Mrs S by 
rolling over the extensions so that they effectively got the mortgage term that they wanted. 
So, on that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
Unfortunately, in the now six years that Mr and Mrs S have had since 2015, they have been 
unable to resolve the issue of dealing with the outstanding mortgage balance without a 
repayment vehicle and the mortgage extension doesnt appear to have assisted them. There 
is an outstanding balance of about £475,000 and Mr and Mrs S believe that the property is 
worth £650,000 - £670,000. The mortgage will need to be repaid and Ive looked at whether 
a further mortgage extension would be in Mr and Mrs Ss best interests. Given the size of the 
mortgage balance a repayment mortgage would likely be unaffordable. There may also be 
difficulties with equity release given the loan to value (LTV) and Mrs Ss age. I note that in 
their recent correspondence Mr and Mrs S are considering selling and downsizing but want 
some control over the sale. That does seem to be in their best interests. If Mr and Mrs S now 
wish to sell their property, I would ask BOS to give them a reasonable period to market and 
sell it. I would also expect Mr and Mrs S to provide BOS with all reasonable information it 
may require during the sales process. But as stated above, I dont uphold this complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 August 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman