DRN-4425730
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
declined their claim against their travel insurance policy. They also complain that they didnt 
receive the policy documentation at the relevant time.     
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, in April 2023, Mr and Mrs S added travel insurance to their 
home and lifestyle policy underwritten by NFU. Mr and Mrs S were delayed on their 
return to the UK at the end of April 2023. They had two connecting flights on their return 
to the UK. They say that they were prevented from disembarking from their first flight as 
there were no available gates, then there was delay in retrieving their bags which meant 
that they were too late to board their final return flight. The airline arranged overnight 
accommodation and rebooked Mr and Mrs S onto a flight the following day. 
In May 2023, Mr and Mrs S made a claim against their policy for travel delay. NFU 
declined Mr and Mrs S claim. It said that what happened here wasnt covered by the 
policy. Whilst discussing NFUs decision about their claim, Mrs S said that she hadnt 
received the policy document. NFU sent Mr and Mrs S the policy document and in    
June 2023, Mr and Mrs S resubmitted their claim. NFU didnt change its position, so     
Mr and Mrs S pursued their complaint. 
Mr and Mrs S say that NFU didnt send them the policy document in April 2023. They 
say that it acted unfairly in declining their claim and that they can now show that the 
delay was caused by bad weather. Mr and Mrs S want NFU to settle their claim for delay 
and pay them compensation.  
 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt recommend that the 
complaint be upheld. The investigator said that, on balance, the reason for the delay was 
non availability of a gate and delays in disembarkation and baggage handling and that 
those arent insured events under the policy. He said that its more likely than not that 
that NFU sent Mr and Mrs S the policy booklet at the relevant time.   
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with the investigator. Mrs S responded to say that she 
disputes that NFU sent the policy document when they took out the travel cover. She 
listed the various phone calls she made to NFU. Mrs S said that after NFUs refusal of 
their claim, they submitted it again and gave the reason for the delay as bad weather, 
which is covered by the policy. She said that she can provide a weather report as 
evidence of the bad weather. Mrs S said that the airline gave different reasons for 
declining to board them on their planned return flight.   
The investigator considered what Mrs S said but didnt change his view. Mrs S asked 
that an ombudsman consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to decide. 
As the investigator has explained, in this decision, we are considering the complaint     
Mr and Mrs S made on 1 June 2023 and to which NFU responded on 6 June 2023. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear and quite understandable that Mrs S in particular has very strong feelings about this 
matter. She has provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which I have read 
and considered. Im conscious that Ive condensed whats happened into a short narrative. 
That reflects our service that, wherever possible, aims to be informal. Im satisfied that Ive 
captured the essence of events. I trust that Mr and Mrs S wont  take as a discourtesy the 
fact that I focus on what I consider to be the central issues, that is whether NFU gave them 
appropriate information about the policy at the outset and acted fairly and reasonably in its 
decision about their claim. 
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that NFU should provide Mr and Mrs S with 
sufficient information to enable them to decide if the policy is right for them. NFU also has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim 
unreasonably. I dont intend to  uphold Mr and Mrs S complaint and Ill explain why:    
The relevant terms and conditions    
Subject to the policy terms, theres cover for reasonable additional expenses incurred as a 
result of a missed final connection if the trip is affected by any of the following:
actual or intended strike or industrial action;
bad weather;
the plane, boat or train breaking down;
natural geological events;
failure of air traffic control systems;
terrorism other than an ACT OF TERRORISM
Has NFU acted unfairly or unreasonably
Insurance policies arent designed to cover every eventuality or situation and no 
policy will cover every unexpected event. An insurer will decide what risks its 
willing to cover and set these out in the terms and conditions of the policy 
document. In general terms, insurers can decide what risks they wish to cover. The 
onus is on the consumer to show that the claim falls under one of the agreed areas 
of cover within the policy. 
Ive set out above the relevant part of the policy terms. I dont think that NFU was at 
fault in assessing the claim on the basis of Mrs S first description of events. Mrs S 
said that the reasons their return journey was delayed was because of delays in 
disembarking from their first return flight, delays in baggage handling and being too 
late to board their final return flight. Those are not insured events. So, I dont think 
that NFU acted unfairly or unreasonably in declining Mr and Mrs S claim. 
NFU is required to provide Mr and Mrs S with information about the policy to enable 
them to decide whether its right for them. Mr and Mrs S say that they didnt receive 
the policy document in April 2023. NFU says that it sent the policy document by 
second class post. It has provided an extract of its records to show that certain 
documents were printed and posted on 13 April 2023. It is, of course, impossible for me to know for sure whether NFU sent the policy 
document to Mr and Mrs S in April 2023. Where theres a dispute about what 
happened I base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened, taking 
into account the evidence thats available to me and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
On balance, I think that its more likely than not that NFU sent Mr and Mrs S the 
policy documents in April 2023. I dont think its unusual that NFU cant provide proof 
of posting. NFU isnt responsible for any failings in the postal service. Im satisfied 
that NFU provided Mr and Mrs S with sufficient information about the policy. 
Even if I reached a different conclusion about whether NFU sent Mr and Mrs S the 
policy document, I dont think it would change the outcome here. Thats because it 
remains the case that the policy doesnt cover what happened and Im not aware of 
any travel insurance policy that would do so. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but there are no grounds on which I can fairly 
direct NFU to settle their claim and pay them compensation.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman