DRN-2625225
The complaint
Mrs G complains that her building insurer, Allianz Insurance Plc, mismanaged her claim for 
malicious damage to her rental property and theft of items causing her loss and stress. 
References to Allianz include its agents.
What happened
Mrs G said that in January 2019 her tenants raised concerns about damp in the property. 
She said on inspection all windows and trickle vents were closed and the tenants were 
advised they need to open these to allow ventilation. Mrs G said the tenants disconnected a 
dehumidifier and refused to have any work done in the property whilst they were living there.
An environmental health officer reported in February 2019 and Mrs G said remedial work 
was required to tackle mould and dampness, lack of heating and damage to kitchen 
cupboard draws. A surveyor visited the property in April 2019 and reported on its condition.
Mrs G obtained a repossession order in July 2019 and the tenants left. Mrs G said she had 
to pay to remove their contents. In October 2019, Mrs Gs broker logged a malicious damage 
claim to the property insurer, Allianz. Allianz appointed loss adjusters who visited the 
property the same month. Mrs G said her agent told them the tenants had poured water 
down the walls to give the appearance of damp, so they could be rehoused by the council.
Mrs G said she sent nine emails about her claim in late 2019, without response. Allianz said 
Mrs G provided some documents and a quote to reinstate the property at over £23,000. But 
without photos and details of property inspections it couldnt confirm the propertys condition 
before the claim or say if the repairs recommended by the environmental health officer and 
surveyor had been carried out, or if the damage was caused maliciously. In response to its 
questions Mrs G told Allianz when work was last carried out on the property. 
In January 2020 Mrs G complained about Allianzs lack of response and said that its claims 
department became involved and the previous loss adjuster was reappointed and then 
removed from the claim. Allianz arranged an inspection of the damp at Mrs Gs property. 
In February 2020 Allianz told Mrs G she could start work on the property and offered £425 to 
replace the doors and three worktops. Allianz said the thefts by the tenants were within the 
policy excess. Mrs G said the offer didnt cover her losses or her loss of rent from October 
2019 to March 2020. Allianz wanted a second opinion, but Mrs G had started the repairs and 
told Allianz it had already agreed to her starting the work. In March Allianz increased its offer 
without a second opinion to £1,522.72 and requested a copy of the rental agreement. 
 
Allianz offered Mrs G £250 compensation for poor service and later offered 13 weeks loss of 
rent at £2,356.25. Mrs G declined the offer in April 2020 but said there was no reply. She 
emailed Allianz in May and June 2020 and Allianz made further enquiries but offered nothing 
more for her claim. Allianz increased its offer of compensation to £400 for its poor service 
but requested Mrs G provide a breakdown of her contractors costs.
Mrs G said the handling of her claim was a fiasco and after nine months very little had been 
achieved. She said she has been unfairly treated by Allianz and would like it to make a more 
realistic offer for her claim and for the compensation for failing to manage her claim properly. 
Allianzs loss adjusters further considered the expert reports about Mrs Gs property and 
concluded the damage was consistent with condensation and lack of ventilation and not by 
an insured event such as malicious damage, and so some of the damage wasnt covered.
 
Our investigator said Mrs G had since provided a breakdown of her contractors costs and 
Allianz increased its offer £4,251.97. She said this includes kitchen worktops, replacement of 
eight doors and glass as well as redecoration for one bedroom and loss of rent for 13 weeks, 
and removal costs for the tenants contents left in the property. Our investigator thought the 
Allianz has agreed fair cover for the claim and didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mrs G disagreed with the investigator. She thought Allianz should also replace kitchen 
cabinets, carpets, vinyl flooring, bathroom suite and damaged tiles. And pay for decoration 
for all the walls and replace window handles, the electrical consumer unit and sockets and 
switches. Mrs G requested an ombudsman review her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Gs policy entitles her to be put back in the position she would have occupied should her 
property not have suffered damage. This means that Allianz should make realistic offers in 
respect of her claim. However, Allianz is only liable the damage or loss caused by an 
unforeseen event, often referred to as an insured peril and specified in the policy. 
Allianz has accepted that Mrs Gs property was damaged, and I can understand the reasons 
why Mrs G carried out a full refurbishment. But what I have to do is determine if Allianz has 
reached fair and reasonable decisions about whether this damage was as a consequence of 
an insured peril.
Mrs G has said the damage is claimable under the malicious damage peril in her policy. Ive 
looked at both parties views about this and thought about evidence of the tenants ill will, 
required to show liability for this claim. 
Mrs G said her tenants deliberately caused damp so that they could be rehoused by the 
council. The surveyors report following the visit in April 2019 commented on the tenants 
attitude and felt they wouldnt allow contractors in to the property to carry out the repairs. 
The surveyor based these comments on what he was told before he attended the property 
and so this appears to be an opinion unsupported with facts. 
Ive seen photos of the damage provided by Mrs G and Allianz. Ive also reviewed the report 
from the environmental health officer in February 2019, and the surveyor that attended in 
April 2019. I considered the expert opinion of Allianzs loss adjusters. All experts seem to 
support the point that the damage not being covered by Allianz was more likely caused by 
poor maintenance, tenants lifestyle or general wear and tear.
Unfortunately for Mrs G there simply isnt the evidence in support of the damage having 
been caused maliciously by her tenants. The only reasonable conclusion to draw from this is 
that much of the damage she has claimed is unlikely to have resulted from an insured peril. 
Allianz explained the reasons why it wont agree to cover certain costs, and this is supported 
by the expert opinions it has obtained. Im satisfied that Allianz made reasonable decisions based on the evidence available on Mrs Gs claim. And I think Allianzs decisions about Mrs 
Gs claim are consistent with the terms of her policy and are fair in all the circumstances.
Ive considered whether the cover Allianz has offered for Mrs Gs claim is sufficient to meet 
the cost of repairs. Previously, Allianz hadnt received a breakdown of Mrs Gs costs and so 
it settled at what it thought the items it was prepared to cover would have cost her. Allianz 
has now used Mrs Gs information to update its settlement and not used the discounted 
rates available to it and allowed by the policy. Allianz has also covered Mrs Gs costs for the 
removal of her tenants contents. I have seen that Allianzs payment for Mrs Gs loss of rent 
appears to have been correctly calculated and is reasonable for the period of unoccupancy. 
I realise that Mrs G believes that Allianz should cover all the damage to the property as 
malicious damage, but I dont think shes met her responsibility to show the damage was 
caused maliciously or accidentally. The expert reports state that mould damage was due to 
poor or defective ventilation within the property and this is supported by the photos Ive seen.
Ive looked at the communications between the parties and I can understand Mrs Gs 
frustration at the lack of response to her messages. This lasted several months and meant 
she couldnt act on the work she wanted to do to her property. I dont think it was fair for 
Allianz to make Mrs G pursue her claim to the extent that she did. Allianz has apologised for 
some delays in progressing the claim and reaching a settlement and acknowledged that its 
communication was poor at times. 
Insurers seek information from policyholders in support of their claims, particularly where 
theres disagreement about whats covered and I think Allianz made reasonable requests to 
Mrs G in this regard. In March 2020 Allianz responded to Mrs Gs complaint and requested 
that she provide a breakdown of the costs in her quote. It took Mrs G many months to do so 
and Allianz wasnt responsible for this delay. But I still think Allianz could have reached a 
settlement much sooner than it did. On balance, I think Allianzs offer of £400 compensation 
is a fair recognition of the distress and inconvenience that Mrs G was caused by its poor 
service and I dont require it to pay any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have given it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2021.
 
Andrew Fraser
Ombudsman