DRN-3066709
The complaint
The estates of Mrs J and Mr J (the estates) is represented by Mr J2 (Mr and Mrs Js son). 
The complaint was originally submitted by Mr J on his and his late wifes behalf, then the 
executor of his late wifes estate expressly joined the complaint and authorised Mr J2 to be 
its representative. Thereafter, Mr J passed away and the complaint was updated, his 
appointed executor stood for his estate and authorised Mr J2 as his estates representative.
The estates say G&B Associates (G&B) did as follows:
Mismanaged Mrs Js and Mr Js investment portfolio  misadvising them, withholding 
explanations from them and unreasonably charging them in the process  and 
caused reductions in the portfolios value between 2000 and 2019. [issue 1]
Churned the portfolio (through transactions designed mainly to generate commission 
for itself). [issue 2]
Moved Mr Js pension, from Prudential to Aegon/Scottish Equitable (SE), in 2006 
without good reason. [issue 3]
Placed its principal as a joint named Bond Holder, next to Mrs J and Mr J, without 
cause to do so. [issue 4]
Liquidated a Clerical and Medical (CM) policy in 2006 and created a tax charge in 
relation to the proceeds. [issue 5]
Refused to disclose information about the portfolio required by Mr J2 from 2015, 
despite Mrs J and Mr J giving their express authority for that information to be sought 
by and given to Mr J2. [issue 6]
What happened
G&B initially said this service does not have jurisdiction to address the complaint because it 
is out of time and because it questioned whether (or not) the estates executor is authorised 
to deal with FOS complaints.
I issued a Jurisdiction Decision (JD) on 13 January 2021 and I found as follows:
In a nutshell, the regulators Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules say that we cannot consider a
complaint referred more than six years after the event or (if later) more than three years after 
the complainant knew or ought reasonably to have known there was cause to complain  
unless the complainant has written (or some other) record that shows a complaint was made 
in time. A late complaint can be considered if exceptional circumstances caused its delay. 
The investigators view provided direct quotes of these rules, so I do not consider it 
necessary to repeat that.
As the investigator said, no evidence of exceptional circumstances appears to have been
submitted so I do not consider that such circumstances existed in this case. The matters that
remain to be determined are the six years and three years time limits.
In terms of the six years time limit, I share the investigators reference to the period between 
21 March 2013 and 21 March 2019  based on Mr J2s letter to G&B of the latter date.
I disagree with G&Bs assertion that the complaint date is 10 February 2020. It is not. The 
regulator defines a complaint as an oral or written  expression of dissatisfaction  about 
the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service . It is true that Mr J2s letter to 
G&B of 21 March 2019 sought responses and information (from G&B) but, in addition to 
doing that, it also presented a definitive written expression of dissatisfaction on behalf of Mrs 
Js estate and on behalf of Mr J (who was alive at the time). So certain is the letter in doing 
this that it lists 18 areas/points of concerns and queries, all related to G&Bs financial service 
to Mrs J and Mr J (that is, its advice for and management of their investments).
 I am also satisfied that the 18 areas/points listed within it are reflected in
the six complaint issues summarised above.
I do not consider that G&B has highlighted a valid cause for concern about the executor of 
Mrs Js and Mr Js estates. This service has sought and obtained documentation related to 
probate in the estates, documentation confirming the executor, updated and valid complaint 
forms from the executor and documentation confirming Mr J2 as a legitimate representative 
in the complaint.
 my decision is that the complaint about issues 1 (events from 21 March 2013 onwards 
only), 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are in time and that we have jurisdiction to address its merits.
One of our investigators then proceeded to address the merits of the complaint, within the 
scope set by the JD. In the main, she found as follows:
With regards to the events from 21 March 2013 in issue 1, she considered Mr and 
Mrs Js Sterling Bonds (SBs), Mr Js Individual Savings Account (ISA) and the 
Zurich portfolio they were moved into in 2016. She did not uphold this issue.
She did not consider suitability of the SBs as they were recommended prior to 2013, 
but she considered the alleged reduction in values and found that this was not the 
case. 
Evidence shows that both bonds increased in value from when they were invested (in 
2010 and 2011 respectively) to when they were moved into the Zurich portfolio (in 
2016)  the first increased in value by over 26,000 GBP and the second by over 
20,000 GBP. The transfer of the ISA to the Zurich portfolio was in line with Mr Js 
wish to have all his ISAs with one provider, so this was not unreasonable. 
In terms of the suitability of the Zurich portfolio recommendation in 2016, fact find 
evidence shows that Mr and Mrs J had the financial circumstances, and the financial 
capacity (including their desired cash reserve of 15,000 GBP after the recommended 
investments), to match the recommended portfolio. Evidence of their risk profile 
assessments at the time also shows that they confirmed an adventurous risk profile, 
which matched their experience in numerous investments over a period of years. 
Despite this, the portfolio appears to have consisted of funds which were classed as 
either balanced or moderately adventurous. Overall, the portfolio was suitable for 
them. Fees/charges were clear in the documentation they were provided with, which 
they had time to consider before proceeding with the recommendation.
The investigator did not uphold issue 2. She set out the regulators definitions of 
churning and noted that the fact Mr and Mrs Js investments were reinvested over a 
period of many years is not disputed. She said the issue to determine is whether (or 
not) the reinvestments were reasoned and she concluded that they were. She noted 
G&Bs reference to an arrangement with Mr and Mrs J to regularly liquidate and reinvest their bonds upon their fifth anniversary, in order to release profit for the 
drawings that they sought as a priority. She compared this account to available 
spreadsheet evidence about how their bonds were treated over time and found the 
spreadsheets broadly supportive  showing many investments held for five years and 
showing high levels of income drawings from the bond investments. She noted that 
fact find evidence also showed that Mr and Mrs Js objective was to supplement their 
income. She acknowledged that the effect of the liquidation and reinvestment pattern 
was that G&B earned commission each time it happened, but such costs were 
transparent to Mr and Mrs J in the illustrations and recommendations presented to 
them, so they would have been aware of and been in agreement with that. Overall, 
she found that evidence does not establish churning.
The investigator also did not uphold issues 3, 4 and 5. She referred to Mr Js 
objective to receive a regular pension income and to protect the pension for his wifes 
benefit in the event of an early passing  as reflected in G&Bs communications with 
him (and Mrs J) in 2006. She noted that the Prudential policy required the purchase 
of an annuity at age 75 and that the annuity would have been on a single life basis, 
so there would have been no benefit to Mrs J in the event of Mr Js passing; that this 
did not meet his objective; that alternatives were considered but they stood to provide 
lower income; and that in this context the transfer to a policy that allowed him to 
continue drawing down income was not unreasonable. With regards to the G&B 
principal being a joint named bondholder she considered that he stood only as a 
trustee (alongside Mr J), the trust was created to aid tax efficiency, the bond was in 
Mrs Js name, the trusts beneficiaries were her (and Mr Js) children and the bond 
was surrendered in 2010 after being held for just over five years. She noted evidence 
that Mr and Mrs J were aware of these arrangements for the bond and, overall, she 
did not consider that G&Bs involvement as a trustee caused them a detriment. With 
regards to issue 5, the investigator summarised evidence that the 1999 CM 
investment made jointly by Mr and Mrs J was recommended by G&B with advice to 
them on its off-shore tax implications (with regards to withdrawals above 5% per 
year), that they agreed to the investments terms and that there is written evidence 
from Mr J2 in 2015 which suggests that the family were in agreement to surrender 
the investment.
The investigator upheld issue 6, based on her reference to written evidence that Mr 
and Mrs J gave explicit instructions to G&B to disclose information to Mr J2, on the 
familys behalf, but G&B did not do so; and based on insufficient evidence to support 
G&Bs claim that it was instructed to do the opposite. For this issue, G&B should pay 
the estates 350 GBP for the trouble and upset caused by its failure to act as 
instructed.
G&B initially accepted the investigators findings. It then reviewed its position on issue 6 and 
argued that no award should be made for that issue, as Mr J2 ought to have instructed a 
new adviser to obtain information from G&B on his behalf after G&B took the decision not to 
engage with him any further because of its objection to his behaviour, in person, towards its 
staff. Mr J2 did not accept the investigators findings. He made a number of very detailed 
submissions in his responses to the investigator. Overall and in the main:
He summarised the background of and rationale behind the family review of Mr and 
Mrs Js financial arrangements in 2015. He referred to foresight being given to their 
living and care needs in old age, to the obvious requirement that their financial 
arrangements had to cater for that, to G&B being aware of their wish to be cared for 
at home and to G&B giving the family what he considers to be a false impression that 
Mr and Mrs Js investments growth at the time was exceeding all withdrawals and 
inflation and that there would be at least 450,000 GBP left in the portfolio on second death, so there was nothing for them to worry about. He also summarised 
background to the complaint issues that have already been reflected in the JD and in 
the investigators views. Mr J2 also summarised events around the times of his 
parents passing, including financial matters that had to be addressed and that, in his 
view, were compounded (in difficulty) by the portfolio mismanagement alleged 
against G&B.
He highlighted that the family agreed to reduce their parents investments 
withdrawals to 5% in 2015 but G&B did not follow-up with information in this respect. 
He summarised the effect of the churning allegation as G&B earning 167,000 GBP in 
commission from his parents portfolio and the portfolio incurring 20,000 GBP in 
income tax and 800,000 GBP in losses  broadly over the period from 1999 to 2021. 
In this respect and, it appears, to also support the allegation in issue 1 he attached a 
performance calculation that showed his parents having value in their portfolio of 
almost 1.2 million GBP in 1999; showed depletion to a value of under 140,000 GBP 
in 2020; showed 167,000 GBP commission earned by G&B during this period; and 
showed his identification of churning, specifically between 2004 and 2007, in 2009, 
between 2011 and 2012 and between 2015 and 2016. The calculation also alleged 
that there was a 41% loss of value in the portfolio between 2004 and 2011 and 15% 
of the relevant loss amount was the commission deducted by G&B. He argued that a 
further indication of G&Bs churning was that reinvestments of liquidated funds were 
made with new providers each time, instead of being made with the pre-existing 
provider at no cost.
He disputed the suggestion that his parents were adventurous risk takers in 2016, he 
said there is evidence of their risk profiles in 1999, 2005, 2010 and 2011 being low to 
moderate and he argued that given their advanced ages (and Mr Js impaired mental 
capacity) in 2016 it is likely they did not understand G&Bs attempt to portray them as 
adventurous risk takers. He also argued that the idea of his parents agreeing to a 
high-risk adventurous approach to their portfolio in 2016 stands in conflict with the 
somewhat sombre and foresight led family review in 2015 in which financial 
sustainability of their ongoing and future living and care needs was the priority.
His initial submissions included a sub-section titled Other matters in which historical 
matters were presented  either to support issue 1 or, if presented as complaints in 
their own rights, to submit new matters beyond issues 1 to 6.
He responded to the investigators key findings as follows  her summaries of the 
SBs performances omit consideration of G&Bs assurance that they were 
outperforming withdrawals and commissions and consideration of commissions 
deducted; her consideration of the Zurich portfolio transfer in 2016 also omits 
commission deducted for G&B in the event; a key point in the complaint is that G&Bs 
advice to Mr and Mrs J was devoid of consideration of the cumulative effects of 
multiple commission deductions over time, and before the relevant investments had 
time to recover from such deductions; its mismanagement from 1999 onwards 
resulted in the portfolios loss of over 1 million GBP; another key point is that G&B 
ought reasonably to have included the family in their engagements with Mr and Mrs 
J; the investigator was wrong to say they had no outstanding liabilities, there is an 
Aviva Equity Debt of around 129,000 GBP that was incurred by their estates, after 
their passing, that remains outstanding and that is part of their estates claim; the 
cash reserve the investigator mentioned would have had no bearing on his parents 
ongoing and future living and care needs at the time; the liquidation and reinvestment 
pattern she referred to in issue 2 was a crazy strategy that Mr and Mrs J probably did not understand, that G&B should have independently advised against and that 
the family would have been against had they been properly informed; the 
investigators treatment of issue 3 lacks reference to evidence that Mr J was likely to 
pass away before Mrs J; her treatment of issue 4 omits consideration that as second 
bond holder (and with Mr J as third bond holder) there was a risk G&B could have 
been a beneficiary if Mr J passed away; with regards to issue 5, the family did agree 
with liquidation of the CM investment  for the personal purposes summarised by the 
investigator  but they were unaware of other options available and of the tax 
implications; and with regards to issue 6, the estates should be compensated for 
more than trouble and upset, they should be compensated for the value of around 
346,000 GBP the portfolio had at the relevant time (in 2015), for its subsequent 
complete loss, which would have been avoided had G&B disclosed information to 
him as it was instructed to do, and they should be compensated for the outstanding 
129,000 GBP Aviva Equity Debt that can also be attributed to G&Bs 
mismanagement of the portfolio.
He also submitted, with emphasis, that the estates case requires no less than 
treatment of all issues raised in the complaint and a full and comprehensive review of 
G&Bs role in and conduct of Mr and Mrs Js portfolio and investments, throughout 
the complete period of its service to them and their portfolio.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Scope
I repeat reference to the JDs conclusion on our jurisdiction as follows  
 my decision is that the complaint about issues 1 (events from 21 March 2013 onwards 
only), 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 are in time and that we have jurisdiction to address its merits.
I have returned to this quote because of the overall theme of Mr J2s submissions in 
response to the investigators view. His submissions have been competently presented and 
they have been helpful in clarifying his approach towards the case and the issues he, on 
behalf of the estates, seeks determination and resolution of. He has made it very clear that, 
essentially, in his view all issues raised in the complaint and all relevant aspects of G&Bs 
role in his parents portfolio (from around 1999 to date) should be determined and resolved.
I understand the strength of feeling Mr J2 holds behind his expectations, on behalf of the 
estates, of our treatment of the complaint. I note that he has described matters within or 
related to the complaint as having continuing effects to date. I also acknowledge and 
empathise with the undoubted personal impact, as Mr and Mrs Js son and as representative 
of their estates in this complaint, that pursuit of the complaint and its issues is likely to have 
had on Mr J2.
Having said the above, Mr J2 must be reminded of the JD and its contents.  It explained that 
the scope of what this service can address within the complaint is determined by the rules on 
our jurisdiction  in the present case, the rules on time limits for complaints. The 
investigators view on our jurisdiction, issued prior to the JD, did the same. The JD 
concluded, as quoted above, which complaint issues were raised in time and can be 
addressed. Anything beyond that is outside the scope of what we can address. The complete review of G&Bs management of Mr and Mrs Js portfolio relates mainly to the 
mismanagement allegation in issue 1. However, as both parties are aware, the only matters 
in issue 1 that we can address are those that occurred from 21 March 2013. This means the 
sought-after complete review, going back to around 1999 and in the context of issue 1, is 
beyond my remit in this decision. The scope of this decision is as quoted above (from the 
JD).
Issue 1 (events from 21 March 2013 onwards only)
G&Bs advisory service to Mr and Mrs Js portfolio(s) appears to have ended with the 2016 
recommendation to them to transfer the proceeds of the liquidated SBs into their individual 
Zurich portfolios. In terms of servicing of their portfolio(s), meaningful activities in this aspect 
also appear to have ended around 2016  though I note that G&B continued reporting on the 
portfolio up to 2020. Whilst issues mainly going back to 1999 have been cited, there is 
evidence that suggests a relationship between G&Bs principal and Mr and Mrs J going back 
further to around 1995/1996. Available evidence from investment schedules shared with us 
shows that Mr and Mrs Js portfolio (including their jointly held and individual 
investments/assets) began mainly between 1996 and 1997.
I have considered issue 1 under the main areas of investment (including reinvestment) 
recommendations by G&B to Mr and Mrs J from 21 March 2013 onwards and servicing 
(including any relevant ongoing advice) of their portfolio from the same date  with both 
considerations ending around 2016.
As the investigator identified, the only investment and/or surrender events in the above 
period were the surrenders of the SBs and the investments in the Zurich portfolios  all done 
in 2016. The SBs were invested prior to 2013 so it is beyond this decisions remit to address 
whether (or not) they were suitable for Mr and Mrs J. 
However, it is clear that Mr J2s submissions against G&B rest heavily on the loss of portfolio 
value that he says G&B is ultimately responsible for. In this context, I can understand why 
the investigator made a point of noting that both SBs made total gains of over 46,000 GBP in 
the space of the five to six years they were invested. To put this in another context, a total of 
300,000 GBP was invested in the SBs, so such gains represented around 15% in 
growth/returns. Mr J2 says the investigators views on the SBs omitted G&Bs assurance that 
they were outperforming withdrawals and commissions and omitted commission costs. 
Where both SBs performed to the extent of making overall gains as set out above, despite 
the withdrawals Mr and Mrs J made from them and despite commission payments, it can 
indeed be said that they outperformed withdrawals and commissions. The investigators 
consideration of their performance  like mine  was based on the net amounts liquidated 
from the SBs and transferred to the Zurich portfolios, so it is implicit that they were net of any 
surrender related commissions.
Overall, it cannot fairly be said that the SBs contributed to loss of the portfolios value. In 
terms of the decision to surrender them in 2016, this appears to have been linked with the 
new investment  at the time  in the Zurich portfolios, the suitability of which I address next.
G&Bs documentation for its fact-finding exercise with Mr and Mrs J at the time is dated 
March 2016 and is signed by both clients. It records Mr Js impaired mental capacity, as Mr 
J2 has described it, but both are referred to as being in fair health and, importantly, there is 
no question about Mrs Js mental capacity at the time. It explains the surrender of the SBs in 
the context of both clients having been withdrawing 22,500 GBP from them, acknowledging 
that such a level of withdrawals was unsustainable and agreeing to reduce their income 
drawings given that there had been a substantial reduction in their outgoings at the time. The document confirms that their objective nevertheless remained income to supplement their 
pension and the retention of 15,000 GBP emergency cash. Their risk profile is recorded as 
Aggressive.
The Financial Planning Report (FPR) that followed in April 2016 provides some more 
information. Mr and Mrs J were invited to correct any of its contents they considered to be 
wrong, and I have not seen evidence that they did so. Overall and on balance, I consider 
that the FPR met with their agreement and that it is reliable.
The FPRs basis was mainly the reinvestment of most of the total proceeds from the 
liquidation of the SBs (which was around 238,000 GBP). Out of those proceeds it 
recommended the reinvestment of 230,000 GBP, split equally into each of the two Zurich 
portfolios for each client. The FPR reflected broadly the same facts as the fact find document 
 with the aggressive risk profile in the latter being substituted by adventurous in the 
former, but retaining a similar meaning. The FPR extended the profile to apply to Mr and Mrs 
Js capacity for loss. As is common (and commonly suitable from a tax efficiency standpoint) 
the FPR made ISA allowance usage recommendations as part of the overall financial 
planning  with additional advice to Mr J to transfer and consolidate an external ISA into the 
Zurich portfolio. The Zurich portfolios General Investment Account (GIA), for each client, 
was then recommended for the remainder, and majority, of their capital (around 100,000 
GBP each).
The FPR was reasonably clear and transparent on information about Zurich, about the 
portfolios and about associated costs. The same applied to recommended investment funds. 
As the investigator noted, they were a mix of moderately adventurous and balanced funds  
13 of the former and five of the latter. The FPR described them as the contents of Zurichs 
balanced model portfolio. 
Mr J2 has stressed his dispute over the risk profile attached to his parents. He says they had 
a low to moderate profile in the period prior to 2016 so G&Bs assessment of them as 
adventurous in 2016 is unreliable. There is evidence of Mr and Mrs J having a lower risk 
profile in some of the previous years assessments, but this is not consistent. It is noteworthy 
that the fact-finding documentation, signed by both clients, for 2010/2011 (two of the years 
cited by Mr J2 in his argument) shows that the same adventurous risk profile was selected 
and agreed by them. The document also records that they both declared themselves to be in 
Good health and it does not appear that Mr Js impaired mental capacity was a feature at 
the time. 
I understand Mr J2s point that this impairment must be considered relevant for the 
assessment in 2016, but as I said above it did not extend to Mrs J, so she would have 
understood the assessed profile  especially as the adventurous risk profile was not new to 
her  and the signed fact find and undisputed FPR in 2016 suggest that she agreed with it. 
On balance, I am also persuaded that it is likely Mr J also understood the assessment 
despite his impaired mental capacity. There is evidence that suggests he continued to be 
meaningfully engaged in the oversight of and enquiries about the portfolio in 2016  
including his co-signing of a renewed client agreement with G&B in March 2016  so he 
appears to have had sufficient mental capacity for that, and perhaps sufficient mental 
capacity to have understood the risk profile.
Overall and on balance, I accept that Mr and Mrs J held the adventurous/aggressive risk 
profile in 2016 as the aforementioned documents record. There is evidence that they had 
some history with the same profile and given that in 2016 they sought a viable and 
sustainable way to make their capital work harder, achieve growth and, at the same time, 
provide supplemental income it is not inconceivable that they could have viewed a high risk 
strategy  with the attractive prospect of high returns and accepting the higher risk of loss  as something they were prepared to adopt. 
Like the investigator, I too regard this particular issue tempered by the fact that the Zurich 
portfolios turned out not to be as aggressive as the risk profiles could have prompted. As 
summarised above, I consider that the portfolio could reasonably and broadly be viewed as 
being at the high end of balanced, so it appears that despite their agreed risk profile Mr and 
Mrs J were not unduly exposed to excessively high risks. Available evidence is that the state 
of affairs they had with the SBs was unsustainable, that they liquidated the SBs with 
relatively good overall gains and that they reinvested most of the proceeds in Zurich 
portfolios that do not appear to have been unsuitable  I have focused on risk exposure 
above because that is the main area of contention, however I am also satisfied with 
evidence that the portfolios could serve the growth and income objective they had and that 
they had the financial capacity (as referred to by the investigator) for the portfolios. Overall 
and on balance, I do not consider that G&B mismanaged these events. 
Mr J2 feels strongly about his claim that G&B misled the family by giving an assurance that 
450,000 would be in the portfolio on second death. I have not seen evidence that investment 
performance guarantees were given by G&B, so this appears to nullify Mr J2s claim, and I 
have already addressed the matter of investment suitability. Beyond that, this service would 
not normally determine a matter of investment performance in isolation. I have not seen 
reason in this case to depart from this approach.
I also do not consider that G&B mismanaged any servicing matters during the relevant 
period in issue 1. Other than liquidation of the SBs and investment in the Zurich portfolios, 
there were two individual Personal Equity Plans (PEPs) for Mr and Mrs J which, under 
different providers, dated back to 1996. Mrs Js PEP appears to have been liquidated on 7 
March 2013, just before the start of the period in issue 1 that I have jurisdiction to address so 
I make no finding on this. Mr Js PEP was transferred to his Zurich portfolio in April 2016 as, 
it appears, part of the ISA consolidation in the portfolio  and I have already found that this 
portfolio was not unsuitable for him.
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I do not uphold issue 1.
Issue 2
Mr J2 has specified that the allegation of churning applies to events between 2004 and 
2007, in 2009, between 2011 and 2012 and between 2015 and 2016. I have noted and 
understood his arguments for this issue.
The regulatory definitions of churning that the investigator referred to are: 
A series of transactions that are each suitable when viewed in isolation may be unsuitable if 
the recommendation or the decisions to trade are made with a frequency that is not in the 
best interests of the client.
Principle 6 (Customers interests) requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its
customers, and treat them fairly. A firm should therefore not churn a customers
account, that is, enter into transactions with unnecessary frequency having regard to the
customers agreed investment strategy. A firm should also not switch a private customer
within or between packaged products unnecessarily, having regard to what is suitable for
that customer. Firms are reminded that a customers interests are paramount.The focus in the above quotes is on the frequency with which a firm carries out transactions 
for its client, on the rationale behind such transactions and on its clients best interests. All 
elements are important. The idea is that frequent transactions in a clients portfolio should be 
reasoned and ought not to be carried out only or mainly for the purpose of generating 
commission for the firm. Instead, they should be carried out in the clients best interests. It is 
important to note that simply referring to commission earned by a firm does not establish 
churning. A firm is entitled to agreed remuneration for its work, and tis applied to G&B. 
Instead consideration of the elements above is what is important.
An advisory relationship is one in which there could arguably be limited scope for churning, 
because the firms role is to give advice, the client retains the final decision on the matter 
and no transaction happens unless the client agrees/approves. However, the potential for 
churning can nevertheless still exist in such relationships, for example where the client is 
unduly influenced by the firm and follows unreasoned or poorly reasoned frequent 
transaction recommendations without questioning them.  I have not seen evidence that Mr 
and Mrs J were under such undue influence from G&B, but  like the investigator  I too 
have taken a view on the overall nature of activities in their portfolio and I have done so for 
the years cited by Mr J2.
The main transaction activities in the cited years were:
2004 to 2007
The two PEPs I previously mentioned were subjected to a change of provider in 
2004. Two CMI Premier Bonds (both invested in 1999) were, in 2005 and 2006, 
liquidated and most of the proceeds were reinvested, in 2005 and 2006, in two 
Aegon Portfolio Bonds (APBs)  a total of around 495,000 GBP was liquidated, a 
total of 470,000 GBP was reinvested and Mr and Mrs J retained the balance of 
around 25,000 GBP. In 2006 the Prudential pension policy that the investigator 
addressed was moved to an Aegon Drawdown policy. A Scottish Widows (SW) With 
Profits Bond (invested in 2000) was, in 2007, liquidated and the full proceeds (around 
39,000 GBP) were reinvested in an earlier Sterling Bond (SB1) (other than the SBs 
previously mentioned). 
I echo and endorse the investigators findings on the Prudential pension policy to 
Aegon Drawdown policy switch in 2006. For the reasons she gave  which I 
incorporate into this decision  I consider that there was a rationale in the switch, 
which sought to strike a balance between Mr Js desires to continue drawing down 
from the pension and to have scope for Mrs J to benefit from the policy upon his 
passing. I do not consider this to be evidence of churning. The same applies to the 
change of provider for the PEPs in 2004, which appears to have been prompted by 
little or nothing more than an intent to change providers.
I consider the same with regards to the investigators overall finding that Mr and Mrs 
J appear to have been inclined to retain some gains/proceeds where investments 
were liquidated and where the proceeds were reinvested. Some of the history I have 
mentioned above supports this and this appears to have been the case in the CMI 
Bonds to APBs transactions in 2005 and 2006, and in the SW to SB1 transaction in 
2007. Overall, the balance of evidence suggests that they had a tendency and an 
incentive to tap into and retain some of their built-up gains in these transactions, so I 
am not persuaded that the transactions lacked good reasons or that they stand as 
evidence of churning. There is also evidence in G&Bs submissions and in the 
documents for the recommendation and execution of the clients reinvestments  
relevant to the overall allegation of churning  to suggest that whilst G&B earned 
commission for each reinvestment it did not charge/earn renewal or ongoing commission, and to suggest that it sought to offset the initial commission with the 
recommendation of funds that had additional allocations at the outset. A reduction of 
scope for G&B to earn from the aforementioned pattern takes it even further away 
from the notion of churning.
2009
According to available evidence, the only initial transaction made in this year was a Sun Life 
Annuity that was not switched or reinvested thereafter. The money for it appears to have 
been liquidated from the Aegon Drawdown policy that began in 2006, but evidence suggests 
that this was done in continuation of Mr Js exploration of a pension solution for his mixed 
objectives, and not that it was an unwarranted transaction. The only other transaction in this 
year was liquidation of SB1, which appears to have been liquidated over 2009 and 2010 for 
personal purposes and for which there does not appear to have been a reinvestment. 
2011 and 2012
One of the APBs (the one that began in 2006) was liquidated in 2011 and reinvested in one 
of the two SBs very shortly thereafter. On balance, I consider that this appears to have been 
a continuation of Mr and Mrs Js pattern of switching funds after around five years and 
tapping into some of the gains in the process. On this occasion, around 12,000 GBP of the 
liquidation proceeds were retained by them whilst the remainder (100,000 GBP) was 
reinvested in one of the SBs. There does not appear to have been a notable transaction in 
2012 and Mr J2 does not appear to have specified the transaction that he alleges to have 
been churned in this year.
2015 and 2016
As stated above, in 2016 the SBs and Mr Js ISA arrangement (under one of the two PEPs) 
were liquidated and their proceeds were part of the reinvestment in the Zurich portfolios; 
and, as I have also addressed above, I do not consider this transaction to have been 
unsuitable; so it follows that, for the same reasons given in my earlier treatment of the 
transaction, I do not find that it amounted to churning. There does not appear to have been a 
notable transaction in 2015 and Mr J2 does not appear to have specified the transaction that 
he alleges to have been churned in this year. 
Overall, on balance and for the above reasons I do not uphold issue 2.
Issues 3, 4 and 5
In straightforward terms, I agree with the investigators findings, reasonings and conclusions 
for these issues, I endorse them, I incorporate them into this decision and I do not consider 
that  other than responding to Mr J2s comments on them  I can add meaningfully to them.
For issue 3, Mr J2s reference to a lack of evidence that Mr J was likely to pass before Mrs J 
is somewhat irrelevant. The investigator did not use or suggest this in her reasoning and I 
have not seen G&B refer to such a consideration as part of its own reasoning at the time of 
the pension switch. The relevant consideration was to have provisions for Mrs J in the 
pension arrangement if Mr J passed away. 
With regards to issue 4 Mr J2 argues that there was a risk that G&B, standing as second 
trustee (and with Mr J standing as third trustee), could have become a beneficiary of the 
trust if Mr J passed away. The beneficiary(ies) of a trust are defined by the settlor(s) of a 
trust  and the trustee(s) are responsible for executing what the trust has been mandated to 
do, for the benefit of the trust (and, ultimately, its beneficiary(ies)). G&B and/or its official was not the settlor of the relevant trust, so it did not define who was or war not the trusts 
beneficiary. Mr J2 has not set out the legal basis upon which G&B could have transformed 
from trustee to beneficiary, and for the reasons given in this paragraph I do not consider that 
such a transformation was a risk. 
Mr J2 says the family agreed with the liquidation in issue 5 but were uninformed about 
potential alternatives and tax implications. It is possible that there were alternative steps that 
could have been taken at the time to raise the money required and it is possible that any 
such alternative might have been better than liquidation of the CM investment, but that does 
not automatically mean the liquidation was unsuitable. Available evidence is that Mr and Mrs 
J (and/or the family) had a clear and somewhat urgent purpose/objective at the time and the 
liquidation appears to have been a reasonable way to meet that objective. By 2006, when 
this event happened, Mr and Mrs J had experience of a number of different investment 
liquidations (and some reinvestments) so, on balance, I do not consider it plausible that they 
would have been unaware of the potential tax implications of liquidating an investment and, 
as the investigator said, evidence suggests that they had advice in this respect at the time of 
the investment.
Issue 6
I adopt a similar approach for this issue. I agree with the investigators findings, reasoning 
and conclusion for this issue, I endorse them, I incorporate them into this decision and  
other than responding to G&Bs reconsidered comments on the trouble and upset award and 
responding to Mr J2s comments  I do not add to them. 
G&Bs argument about Mr J2 using a new adviser as an intermediary to receive the 
instructed disclosures is irrelevant. The issue is about G&B failing to act as instructed, not 
about a separate matter of its relations with Mr J2. Disclosures could simply have been sent 
to him  as, it appears, was eventually the case, around when the complaint arose  without 
either side having to engage in any form of personal contact.
Mr J2 wants the estates to be compensated for more than trouble and upset, to be 
compensated for what he has described , with details, as complete loss of the estates 
portfolio and to be compensated for the outstanding Equity Debt (which began in 2019) that 
the estate also holds G&B responsible for.
As I previously said, this service does not usually determine (or award compensation for) 
matters of investment performance, in isolation, and I have not seen cause to do any 
different in this case. As I have also said, in reasonable detail, above I do not consider that 
G&B unsuitably advised or mismanaged Mr and Mrs Js portfolio(s), and I have not found 
that it churned their investments. This means there is no basis for compensation related to 
those investments/portfolio(s). An investments performance is broadly subject to the 
relevant sector(s) and market(s) it is exposed to and in the absence of performance 
guarantees, unsuitable advice and/or mismanagement  none of which have been found in 
this case  we would not normally consider holding a firm responsible for performance.
Putting things right
I order G&B to pay the estates 350 GBP for its failure to act as instructed in issue 6.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold only issue 6 in the complaint from the estates of Mrs J 
and Mr J, and I do not uphold the other issues. I order G&B Associates to pay the estates of 
Mrs and Mr J 350 GBP for the reason given above.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estates of Mrs 
J and Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman