DRN-3335155
The complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that American Express Services Europe Limited held him liable for a 
disputed transaction. Hed like the transaction refunded and compensation for the impact 
caused. 
What happened
Mr B has a credit card with American Express. 
On 14 March 2021 a payment for £39.99 was made to an online retailer, Ill call A, using 
Mr Bs American Express credit card. 
In April 2021 Mr B queried the payment  he explained the payment was made using an old 
credit card, which hed cancelled in late 2020.
American Express raised a chargeback and in doing so contacted the merchant, A. A 
provided more details about the payment, including showing it was made from Mr Bs 
account with A, using an IP address hed used before and was shipped to Mr Bs home 
address. American Express initially removed the charge from Mr Bs statement but following 
their investigation and the evidence provided by A they held Mr B liable. 
Mr B wasnt happy with American Expresss response so complained to our service.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Bs complaint, but they didnt uphold it. Looking at 
the evidence he was satisfied, on balance, that Mr B authorised the transaction. And in doing 
so American Express were entitled to hold him liable.  
Mr B didnt accept our investigators conclusion. In summary he explained that he didnt 
consent to the transaction. 
As Mr B didnt agree, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, American Express can hold Mr B liable for the disputed transaction if the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that he made or authorised it himself.
Im satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mr Bs genuine card details were used 
to make the disputed transaction. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on 
its own, enough to enable American Express to hold him liable.
Having reviewed the evidence provided by both parties, Im satisfied on balance that Mr B 
authorised the disputed transaction. I say this because:
Ive seen evidence from American Express that Mr B has several previous 
transactions to A. Therefore, this payment isnt outside of his usual account activity. 
The payment was also made from Mr Bs account with A.
American Express contacted A, who advised that eleven of Mr Bs previous genuine 
orders were made using the same IP address.
The order was shipped to Mr Bs home address and signed for by a neighbour. 
I understand that Mr B raised that the disputed payment was authenticated using his old 
card details. American Express have explained that trusted merchants are able to charge 
transactions to customers using old card details. However, the question I need to consider is 
whether or not I think on balance Mr B consented to the payment. If Mr B did, then even 
though the payment was taken using Mr Bs old card details American Express would be 
entitled to hold him liable for the transaction. 
I appreciate this will likely be disappointing for Mr B, however for the reasons Ive outlined 
above I think its more likely than not Mr B authorised the disputed transaction. And 
therefore, American Express can hold him liable. 
My final decision
My final decision is I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2022.
 
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman