DRN-4511398
The complaint
Mr C complains that Moneybarn No 1 Limited trading as Moneybarn didnt carry out 
sufficient affordability checks before they lent to him.
What happened
In January 2018 Mr C entered into a Conditional Sale agreement with Moneybarn when he 
acquired a car. The cash price being £4,495, no deposit was paid, and with added interest 
and charges the total amount repayable was £8,790.41. Payable in monthly instalments over 
48 months at £187.03. Mr C settled the agreement in December 2019.  Mr C complained to 
Moneybarn as he said hed been financially disadvantaged as they hadnt properly checked 
the affordability of the loan.
Moneybarn said theyd carried out proportionate and reasonable checks. Theyd verified    
Mr Cs income by his payslips and checked his credit file with a credit reference agency 
(CRA) which showed the lending was affordable.
Mr C wasnt happy with Moneybarns response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said as Moneybarn couldnt show us the credit file report theyd seen at the 
time of the lending she couldnt conclude whether the checks had been proportionate and 
reasonable. But after checking Mr Cs financial situation at the time, she said that hed 
sufficient disposable income to sustain the repayments.
Mr C didnt agree, he said the amount hed left each month wasnt sufficient to cover for any 
unexpected financial situations. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr C will be disappointed by my decision but having done so Im not upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why.
Moneybarn has shown that before deciding to lend to Mr C they sought information about his 
income by way of checking two of his payslips and his bank statement for the period October 
2017 to December 2017.  They assessed Mr Cs income to be £1,377.28. 
Moneybarn also say they did a credit check  which they cant provide a copy of  that they 
said showed Mr Cs current borrowing levels; his repayment history, including whether there 
were any arrears; and whether hed any past defaulted accounts. Moneybarn said these 
didnt show any concerns about the affordability of the lending. Moneybarn has shown their 
income and expenditure assessment, but this doesnt take account of Mr Cs day to day 
living costs, and only shows a monthly credit commitment of £12. 
I can see that Moneybarn verified two months payslips, which is a limited  assessment of  
Mr Cs income, wed usually expect an assessment to consider the three months prior to 
lending. But Moneybarn also had bank statements covering October 2017 to December 
2017 that showed the payslip amounts being paid in. But I cant see that these bank 
statements showed Mr Cs day to day living costs. They did show he made regular transfers 
to another bank account. And I think this should have prompted Moneybarn to check further 
into this account. 
Moneybarn hasnt been able to show to us the credit file report they saw. So, I agree with 
our investigator that its not possible to say that Moneybarns checks would have shown that 
the lending could be sustained. 
Taking this into account, I think Moneybarn ought to have done further checks into Mr Cs 
financial position and personal circumstances to establish whether the lending they 
subsequently provided was affordable for him or not.  
Mr C has provided us with his other bank account details from October 2017 to January 
2018.  And from these I can see that hed non-discretionary spend for rent, mobile phone, 
union fees, food and gym membership. I can also see that Mr C at this time had an overdraft 
facility of £250 which fluctuated over the three months, which meant he incurred regular 
overdraft and account fees. Ive included these transactions into the assessment of Mr Cs 
non- discretionary spending which Ive calculated on average to be around £924 a month.
I can see a single payment across the three months towards Mr Cs credit card. Mr C has 
shown that at the time of lending hed a credit card with a £300 limit. So, Ive considered he 
would have had, if the credit limit was fully utilised a monthly repayment of around £15 
(allowing for a minimum repayment of 5%). This meant Mr Cs non-discretionary spend 
would be around £939 a month. 
I didnt see the utilities I would have expected to see present on Mr Cs bank statements, 
water, electricity and gas bills arent present. Mr C has said he was renting and had no 
dependents, and the bills would have been included in his rental payment, an amount that 
Ive included in the above assessment.
But I cant see any transactions for car insurance, petrol and car tax which Mr C would have 
to pay on acquiring the car. From later statements I can see Mr C had car insurance of 
around £65 a month, petrol around £30 and car tax around £12. So, I think it would be fair to 
use these amounts when considering Mr Cs monthly commitments. Taking this into account 
I think Mr Cs outgoings each month would be around £1,046. 
I can see that Mr Cs income fluctuated but on average hed an  income of £1377, this would 
leave him with an available income of £331. And after the new loan amount of £187 is taken 
account of hed a disposable income of £144 for incidental, discretionary spending. 
Mr C hadnt any dependents, so overall, I think that if Moneybarn had completed further 
checks into whether or not this agreement was affordable for Mr C its more likely than not 
they would have reached the same lending decision. As Mr C had a disposable income and 
should have been able to sustain the repayments. So, I dont think Moneybarn acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in agreeing to lend to him.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2024.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman