DRN-4179852
The complaint
Miss B complains about the address format used on her Equifax Limited credit file. 
What happened
Miss B has told us she lives at a property that is made up of a number of flats. Miss B has 
confirmed that her address is recorded differently with various organisations including the 
council and her bank. Some organisations refer to the house number but dont record a flat 
name or number. Some organisations use Miss Bs flats location within the property for her 
address. And others use the house number and a letter. 
Last year, after being the victim of fraud, Miss B asked Equifax to send her a copy of her 
credit file. There were some delays in providing a copy of Miss Bs credit file as Equifax 
needed to obtain verification documents from her. 
In October 2022 Equifax sent Miss B a copy of her statutory credit report and she went on to 
raise a complaint about address variations. Miss B explained shed been refused credit by a 
business as a result of the information recorded on her credit file. Equifax sent Miss B a final 
response and said its statutory credit report had been sent after Miss B provided the relevant 
documents. 
Equifaxs final response explained Miss B had different addresses registered for her. Equifax 
said Miss Bs local authority recorded her flat at a specific location within the property but 
that information wasnt reflected on The Royal Mails records, which is where it obtains 
address details. Equifax confirmed the specific addresses listed for Miss Bs building with 
The Royal Mail which didnt match the details recorded by the local authority. Equifax said it 
had taken a step to move data on Miss Bs credit file to the flats location but said that 
variations in the address used by other businesses could lead to the details being removed 
again. Equifax advised Miss B to contact the local authority with a view to amending her 
address format. Equifax also said Miss B should contact businesses that only use the 
building number when reporting information on her credit file and update her details. Equifax 
offered Miss B £100 for the inconvenience caused. 
Miss B referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They 
thought Equifax had dealt with Miss Bs complaint fairly and didnt ask it to take further 
action. The investigator said for Miss Bs credit file to record one single address she would 
need to update it so its recorded consistently by the various businesses that record 
information on her credit file. The investigator also explained that the word flat had been 
removed from Equifaxs system due to the way it sources address information from The 
Royal Mail. 
Miss B asked to appeal and said Equifax had upheld her complaint. Miss B also said shed 
provided proof of her address by way of a polling card and other documents. Miss B said 
accounts were either reported as being registered to her flat (including the location within the 
building) or by the building number itself. Miss B added that she found the process of dealing 
with Equifax to be chaotic and the service provided was poor. As Miss B asked to appeal, 
her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
I understand it took a reasonable amount of time before Equifax sent Miss B a copy of her 
statutory report. But Ive looked at the available information and Im satisfied Equifax was 
seeking to ensure it had verified Miss Bs identity before releasing the credit report. I havent 
seen evidence of unreasonable delays and the information Ive seen shows Equifax released 
the credit report shortly after it was satisfied it was dealing with the right person. Id also like 
to confirm that a statutory credit report doesnt include the credit score Equifax gives 
customers who have an account registered. As a result, the statutory credit report didnt 
include a score for Miss B. 
I can understand why Miss B is concerned that her address details arent always recorded 
consistently and that information is missing or wrong on her credit file as a result. But I have 
to be fair to both parties. And I havent seen any evidence that shows errors by Equifax have 
led to a lack of consistency in terms of the addresses used on Miss Bs credit file. 
Equifax has explained it uses the address details for a property as confirmed by The Royal 
Mail. Ive completed a postcode check to look at all the properties recorded by The Royal 
Mail under Miss Bs address. As this decision will be published and we seek to ensure 
theyre anonymous, I wont repeat the full details of all the addresses noted. But the 
information can be easily checked on The Royal Mails website by entering Miss Bs 
postcode. The Royal Mail holds an address that relates to the property number, an address 
that uses the property number and a letter for a flat and other addresses that recognise the 
position of flats within the building. Miss Bs told us she uses a specific location for her flat. 
But a flat using that location isnt recorded by The Royal Mail. And thats the source of data 
Equifax uses when obtaining address formats. 
I would add that administering a credit file is a largely automated process. That means any 
inconsistencies in details, like a consumers address, can lead to discrepancies in the 
information reported on a credit file. For instance, Miss B has provided a copy of her polling 
card which lists her flat including the location shes told us she uses. But other organisations 
just use the building number when recording information on Miss Bs credit file. Im satisfied 
Equifax has reasonably explained that discrepancies between The Royal Mails records and 
the way other organisations report Miss Bs address is the key reason there are 
inconsistencies within her credit file.
To resolve the issue, Equifax has provided guidance that says Miss B should approach The 
Royal Mail and other organisations to make arrangements for her address to be consistently 
recorded across all platforms. I agree with Equifax that by recording one address with all 
parties that report information on Miss Bs credit file and ensuring The Royal Mail holds 
matching records the issues shes experiencing will likely be resolved. Im satisfied Equifax 
has provided reasonable guidance setting out steps Miss B can take to help ensure her 
address is recorded accurately and consistently. Im sorry to disappoint Miss B as I realise there is an ongoing issue with the addresses 
recorded on her credit file. But, for the reasons Ive given above, Im satisfied Equifax has 
dealt with Miss Bs complaint fairly so Im not telling it to do anything else. I note Equifaxs 
final response offered Miss B £100 for the inconvenience caused. Im satisfied Equifax has 
made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
My final decision
My decision is that Equifax Limited has already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman