DRN-2441350
The complaint
Mr L complains he was mis-sold life cover by Pearl Assurance, now owned by Phoenix Life 
Limited, referred to as the business. 
He says he wasnt informed that his premiums could rise or that the cover wasnt for life. 
What happened
In June 1997, Mr L was advised to take out a Yearly Reviewable Term policy (the policy) 
with a £53,067 sum assured, initial costing £10 a month, for a term of 29 years. The policy 
was designed to pay out a lump sum in the event of Mr Ls death, within the term of the 
policy.  
On 28 May 2019 Mr L was sent an annual statement advising him that his premiums would 
increase to £35.71. Shortly after Mr L complained about the premium increase and his policy 
ending at the age of 70. He said he trusted the adviser and signed documents without 
checking and didnt receive any policy documentation setting out the terms of the policy. 
Phoenix Life didnt uphold the complaint. In a Final Response Letter (FRL) dated 3 July 2019 
it said the recommendation was suitable for Mr Ls needs and that it had sent him the 
relevant policy documentation. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, she said:
The recommendation for life cover was suitable for Mr L. It was recorded that he was 
40 years of age, married with one dependent who was his stepson. It wasnt 
unreasonable for the adviser to take this information into account, and Mr L signed 
the declaration accepting the recommendation. 
In July 1997, Mr L was sent a financial appraisal but chose not to go through it 
because he trusted the adviser. However, it wouldve been reasonable for Mr L to go 
through the document before signing the declaration. 
Mr L wouldve also been sent the Illustration and Key Features Document (KFD). 
Its not clear why Mr L wouldnt have been sent some documents. Nevertheless, Mr L 
wouldve been aware that he was taking out life cover  hes previously held 
mortgage protection policies  so it wouldve been reasonable for him to enquire 
about policy documents if he didnt receive any. 
It was identified that Mr L had a life cover shortfall  in the sum of £170,000  but he 
had a limited budget. So, the recommendation was based on what Mr L could afford. 
In the circumstances, the recommendation for life cover wasnt unreasonable. 
The policy details, including the term of the policy, is made clear in the advisers 
recommendation. Despite what Mr L says, it was more likely (than not) made clear to 
him that the policy was for a set term only. 
Between 2014 and 2019, Mr L wouldve also been sent annual statements which 
included details of his plan. It wouldve been clear that the policy would end at a 
certain point. 
The policy documentation made reasonably clear the reviewable nature of the policy 
as well as the fixed term. Theres no evidence to suggest that the policy wasnt 
reviewed correctly in line with its terms and conditions. 
Phoenix agreed to lower the premium in 2009 and 2012, but it didnt agree to fix the 
premiums moving forward.
Despite Mr Ls concerns about the policy ending when he turns 70, he has the option 
to convert the policy to a whole life policy if he wishes to continue with it. 
Mr L disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, he said:
He and his wife (who was present during the meeting) never had a chance to read 
the fact find. They didnt receive the July 1997 letter, or the financial appraisal. They 
didnt receive any of the policy documentation until they complained.   
It was never explained to him that the premium would increase by nearly four times 
the original amount. 
The £170,00 shortfall is news to them. They had a similar review  after their review 
with the business  and were told that they were over insured.
With regards to their endowment mortgage they took out another policy to cover the 
shortfall. 
He wanted a whole of life policy and wishes he hadnt trusted the adviser. 
Despite receiving the annual statements, they werent advised about the increase in 
premium at the point of sale. 
In August 2012, he wrote to the business and asked for the premium to be fixed at 
£25 a month, its not his fault if the business didnt do this. 
Its not fair that the investigator believes the business rather than him and his wife. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been referred to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr L says, Im unable to safely 
say that the recommendation was unsuitable. 
But before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to recognise Mr Ls 
strength of feeling about this matter. Hes provided detailed submissions to support this 
complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope he wont take the fact 
my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail, as a 
discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mr L and the business, and reach what I think is an independent, 
fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry practice, but Im not bound by this. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more likely than not to have happened. On the face of the evidence, and on balance, Im satisfied that the recommendation for life 
cover was suitable in the circumstances. I note it was recorded that Mr L was 40 years of 
age, married with a stepson. It was also recorded that he had a joint mortgage and no life 
cover in place at the time. I note it was recorded that protecting his home and family were 
priorities. So, in the circumstances Im unable to say that the life cover policy was of no 
benefit, even if Mr L had arranged mortgage cover, and this particular policy took him into 
retirement. 
Despite what Mr L now says, I note it was recorded in the application form that he had no life 
cover in place at the time. In other words, apart from what Mr L says, Ive seen no evidence 
that he had existing life cover. 
But even if he did, in the event of his death this policy wouldve ensured that he left a little 
more money to his wife. I note that Mr L was the main earner and his wife only worked part-
time. Besides, I note that no issues were raised with the adviser when the application was 
filled out or when Mr L wouldve been asked to check the form and sign the declaration. 
I note Mr L says he signed the form without checking, but the onus was on him to make sure 
that the business had his correct details. A business can only advise on the basis of 
information provided. I cant blame the business for Mr L not double-checking the details of 
his application. 
I appreciate what Mr L says with regards to his stepson, but if the needs of his stepson (who 
was about to leave school) werent relevant to him, he shouldve made this clear to the 
adviser. I note his wife was present at the meeting and this may explain why this wasnt 
done.     
In the circumstances, Im unable to say that Mr L was incorrectly identified as having a 
shortfall in life cover  including loss of income and capital needed for child-minding. Despite 
what Mr L says, I dont think the business wouldve made this up without it being given a 
reason by Mr L.  
I note Mr L says that he had another financial review with a building society  shortly after 
his review with the business  and was informed that he was over-insured, but its not clear 
how that decision was reached.
But despite this alleged alternate finding, Mr L still went ahead with the business 
recommendation, albeit going for a reduced sum assured principally based on what he could 
afford at the time. 
In my opinion, this suggests that Mr L wanted life cover and that there was a need, despite 
the findings of a subsequent review. Therefore, Im unable to safely say that he wasnt able 
to make an informed choice about whether or not he should get life cover. 
I appreciate Mr L says he thought he was buying a whole of life policy, but Ive seen nothing 
to suggest that this was the case. I note the very name of the policy makes clear that it was 
a yearly reviewable term policy  going to the fundamentals of what the policy was about  
so I cant see why Mr L thought he had a whole of life policy with a fixed premium and fixed 
sum assured. 
I appreciate what he says about not receiving any policy documentation (including the 
Illustration and KFD) and the July 1997 proposal letter. But despite what he says Im not 
persuaded that he wouldnt have received not even a single documentation detailing the 
basic nature and operation of the policy. In other words, I think its more likely than not Mr L received documentation that made clear 
the nature and operation of the policy, namely that it was a reviewable life policy with a term 
of 29 years. So, on balance Im unable to say that Mr L wouldnt have known what type of 
policy he was getting. 
Like the investigator, I think that if Mr L didnt receive any documentation, he wouldve raised 
this issue with the business, but theres no evidence that he did.  On balance this suggests 
that perhaps he did receive documentation setting out the basic nature and operation of the 
policy. 
This may also explain why he sought to negotiate a lower premium in 2009 and 2012 rather 
than seek to cancel his policy if he didnt know what he had, and it served no purpose. I think 
its unlikely that Mr L wouldve wanted to keep a policy that he didnt need or want. 
I note Mr L accepts that he received the annual statements  between 2014 and 2019  but 
is unhappy that he wasnt told at the point of sale, that the premiums could increase. But the 
evidence would suggest that he knew, or ought reasonably to have known  from at least 
2009  when he first sought to reduce the premiums that the policy was subject to reviews 
and that he was still happy to continue with the policy. 
I note Mr L says that it isnt his fault if the business didnt fix his premium at £25, despite him 
requesting it to do so in 2014. But this isnt how a reviewable policy works, and its unlikely 
the business will be able to do so in face of mounting costs, without dramatically reducing 
the level of cover or losing out financially. In other words, in the circumstances Mr L cant just 
choose the premium hed like to pay moving forward with out there being any consequences.   
Whilst I appreciate Mr Ls frustration, Im unable to ask the business to do anything because 
I dont think it has done anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman