DRN-2312016
The complaint
Miss O complains about the quality of a second-hand car that was supplied to her through a 
hire purchase agreement with Mobile Money Limited (MML).
 
What happened
The circumstances surrounding this complaint and my initial findings were set out in my 
provisional decision of 11 May 2021, which said:
On 20 August 2019 Miss O acquired a second-hand car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MML. The car was registered on 22 June 2016, which means it was about three years 
old at the time of supply. The purchase price of the car was £17,997 and had travelled 
36,123 miles. Miss O put down a deposit of £1,399.13 which meant that the credit 
agreement was for £16,657.87 payable over 60 months.
Around ten months after acquiring the car, Miss O noticed the engine management light 
(EML) appeared on her dashboard. Within that time her car had also cut out on two 
occasions. On 21 June 2020 she contacted MML to let them know about the issues. 
Through a number of email exchanges Miss O was advised by MML that shed have to bring 
the car into the dealer to be inspected. MML also explained that as it had been more than six 
months since shed acquired the car, according to the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA), 
they believed that shed need to prove that any issues were present when it was supplied to 
her. 
Miss O explained that she didnt want to incur any costs, so she decided against bringing the 
car in to the dealer and expected MML to resolve this issue for her. 
On 22 June 2020 Miss O complained to MML about the problems with her car. MML 
provided a final response to her complaint in July 2020. Within their response MML 
explained that shed need to have her car inspected to provide them with a report, before 
they could determine whether it was something they could fix for her.
Unhappy with their response, Miss O brought the complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into her concerns and didnt uphold her complaint. The investigator concluded that 
Miss O would need to have her car inspected so any faults could be confirmed.
Miss O felt the investigator didnt fully investigate her complaint and requested that her 
concerns be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
Miss O added that she is still driving the car because she doesnt feel she has any other 
alternative for getting around. Miss O explained that although the EML was at times 
intermittent, she still wanted the problem looked into.
Since the investigator issued his view, Miss O has provided two professional reports 
detailing various issues with her car. 
On 18 March 2021 Miss O called out a roadside recovery company to attend to her car. After 
inspecting her vehicle, they provided a report which noted the following issues:
P2201, Nitrogen oxide (NOx) Sensor Circuit Range/Performance (Bank 1 Sensor 1)
P2204, NOx-sensor 1 - bank 1
P2200, NOx-sensor 1 bank 1, electrical fault
P06DA, Oil pump valve, electrical fault or open circuit
Besides the issues identified with the NOx sensor, the report commented that there was also 
the smell of petrol from the engine which they suspected may be a slight combustion leak. 
The report concluded that further investigation would be required.
Following this, on 22 March 2021 Miss O brought her car to an independent garage for a 
further inspection of the issues. The garage report had similar findings to the previous one. It 
had the following comments:
Investigated fuel smell from engine bay. Found NOx sensor faulty causing EML light 
to come on and require replacement - due to the faulty NOx sensor the vehicle might 
be over-fuelling the engine which might be causing drop in MPGs and fuel smell in 
engine bay and inside the car. Found possible petrol leak from underneath high-
pressure fuel pump  require further investigation 
In May 2021 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, Ive thought about all the evidence and 
information provided afresh and the relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance 
and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate) what I consider to have been good 
industry practice at the relevant time. 
The agreement in this case is a regulated consumer credit agreement. As such, this service 
is able to consider complaints relating to it. MML is also the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about their quality.
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) applies to contracts which supply goods to a 
consumer and is relevant in this case. It says that under a contract to supply goods, there is 
an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory, fit for purpose and as 
described. To be considered as satisfactory, the CRA says the goods would need to meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory, considering any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. So, it seems 
likely that in a case involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would consider 
might include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history. 
My starting point is MML supplied Miss O with a three-year-old car at a cost of £17,997, 
which isnt insignificant. With this in mind I think its fair to say that a reasonable person 
would expect the level of quality to be higher than a less expensive and more road worn car; 
and that it could be used, free from any major issues, for a reasonable period of time.
From the information provided its clear to me that there was a fault with the car. This is 
apparent from Miss Os description of events, the roadside recovery report and a mechanics 
report following a further investigation by an independent garage. Having considered the car was faulty, Ive had to consider whether the problems were likely present at the time of 
supply. 
In June 2020 when Miss O complained to MML about the issues she was experiencing with 
her car, MML asked her to contact the dealer to arrange an inspection and repair. Miss O 
decided against doing so, which meant that MML were unable to confirm that a fault existed 
with the car. I think it was reasonable for MML to ask Miss O to have her car brought into the 
dealer for an inspection and I think it was reasonable for MML to expect Miss O to have 
done so. I say this because, in the circumstances of this complaint, before any remedial 
works could begin, its reasonable for the dealer to want to investigate any claims of a fault 
made by Miss O about the car that they supplied to her. Following the investigation of the 
issues is usually when both parties can agree on the next steps.
Miss O explained the main reasons she hadnt arranged to have the car inspected was 
because MML had carried out investigations on a previous car she acquired through them, 
and felt it was their responsibility to do so for this car. In addition to this she wasnt prepared 
to take on the costs of an inspection or diagnostic.
I recognise that Miss O has explained that she had a similar experience with MML, involving 
a previous car supplied by them. However, Im unable, nor would it be appropriate for me to 
make comparisons with previous events that are not considered as part of this complaint. 
I also recognise that Miss O had concerns over the costs involved in having the car 
inspected by the dealer. In the circumstances of this complaint, I dont think it would have 
been unreasonable if Miss O had been asked to pay for an initial inspection of her car. As a 
minimum to demonstrate that a problem exists, and by doing so the issues can be identified, 
fully investigated and remedied if necessary. And in the circumstances of this complaint, had 
an investigation demonstrated that the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Miss O, I think it would have also been reasonable for Miss O to expect MML to 
reimburse or refund any related investigative costs shed paid for.  
Miss O has only recently had her car inspected. So, our investigators view and MMLs final 
response letter were not completed in consideration of the reports, noted above, that were 
provided by Miss O.  
Having shared the two reports with MML, MML confirmed on 25 March 2021 that they wont 
be investigating the issues now found with Miss Os car. MML explained this is because they 
dont believe theres any evidence showing that the car was faulty at the point of supply. And 
they say its expected that the car would now require maintenance due to its age and 
mileage. In addition to this MMLs final response gave Miss O the opportunity to have her car 
inspected by the dealer at the time. So, Im satisfied that Miss O was given a fair opportunity 
to do so.
Both reports concluded that a further investigation of the issues would be required. However, 
there seems to be three main issues with Miss Os car that requires further attention:
a faulty NOx sensor, 
a potential fuel leak under the HPFP; and 
a problem with the oil pump. 
Having determined that a number of faults are now present with Miss Os car, Ill address 
each one separately to determine whether I think its likely they render the car not to be of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss O.the faulty NOx sensor
Ive looked into what I think the life expectancy of NOx sensors are, and although their 
performance can be affected by different things, like excessive heat or contaminants, from 
what Ive seen it seems their life expectancy can be around 60,000 miles. So, I think its fair 
to say it wouldnt be unreasonable that they may be replaced throughout the life of a car. 
The roadside recovery report stated the cars mileage was 61,147 at the time of their 
inspection. In respect of the age and mileage of the car I dont think its unreasonable that 
the sensor would need replacing at that point.  So, its not beyond reason to consider that 
the NOx sensor may have failed through natural usage.
The report also advised that further investigation was required. So, in the absence of any 
conclusive diagnostics in relation to the root cause of the sensors failure, Im satisfied that 
the failure of the sensor is more likely to be a result of reasonable wear and tear through 
usage, rather than there being an inherent issue or a problem that would have been present 
when MML supplied the car to Miss O. 
the potential fuel leak
The possible fuel leak under the High-Pressure Fuel Pump (HPFP) also requires further 
investigation. This was confirmed on both reports. There were no fault codes directly relating 
to an issue with the HPFP and neither report confirmed that the HPFP itself was faulty. So, 
without further investigation Im unable to determine the root cause of the fuel smell and 
whether any related issue was likely to have been present at the point the car was supplied 
to Miss O. So, from the evidence provided Im not persuaded that the possible fuel leak 
means the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss O.
the oil pump issue
The fault code P06DA relates to the engine oil pressure control circuit. Without further 
investigation (as recommended by both reports), Im unable to determine the root cause of 
any issue that may have caused this error code to display. So, Im not persuaded that this 
issue was present when Miss O acquired the car, and dont think this means the car was not 
of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Miss O.
Both reports were produced in March 2021, which is around 20 months after Miss O had 
been supplied the car. Each report concludes that further investigation is required. And this 
is necessary to fully diagnose the cause of the issues. Taking into account what the expert 
evidence shows, the fact the car is second hand, the mileage travelled, and time elapsed 
before any issues came to light it doesnt seem fair to direct MML to do more here. I have to 
take into account that Miss O has now driven her car a further 12,000 miles since raising her 
complaint with MML, and 25,000 miles in total since acquiring the car. I think this is relevant 
here, because the distance Miss O has travelled in the car amounts to an average of about 
15,700 miles per year, which isnt insignificant, and persuades me that its likely any 
mechanical issues identified earlier on wouldnt have been reasonably mitigated.  
I recognise that Miss O felt she had no other option to continue using the car, due to work 
and other commitments; however, without having the car inspected soon after noticing that 
something was wrong, Im unable to determine with certainty whether Miss Os continuous 
driving has exacerbated a problem that existed earlier on or whether the current issues are a 
result of normal wear and tear. 
Having considered all the information and evidence provided, I dont think the problems 
identified by the two reports are conclusive enough to say that the car was not of satisfactory 
quality when it was supplied to Miss O, and so I wont be asking MML to do any more.MML didnt respond to my provisional decision. However, Miss O has responded to say that 
she didnt accept it. Miss O made some further comments which Ill address below. 
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment, I can go ahead with my final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within her response Miss O gave the following reasons (mainly) why she disagreed with my 
provisional decision:
there was no mention of an additional £1,200 she paid towards the agreement
wed already asked MML to carry out an inspection of the car; and
Miss O says the cars mileage is in range for its age and has been looked after
The points above are not exhaustive but a summary of what I considered to be the main 
issues raised in Miss Os response to my provisional decision. To be clear, Ive considered 
all the information provided in relation to this complaint, however to maintain the informal 
approach of this service Ive focussed on what Ive considered to be the main issues here.
there was no mention of an additional £1,200 Miss O paid towards the agreement
Miss Os complaint was in relation to the quality of the car that had been supplied to her by 
MML. The amounts Miss O paid towards the agreement hadnt been in dispute and hadnt 
been complained about; nor had it affected the quality of the car. So, in the circumstances of 
this complaint, Im satisfied that it isnt necessary for me to consider any lump sum payments 
that Miss O may have paid towards her agreement with MML. 
wed already asked MML to carry out an inspection of the car 
In March 2021 after receiving the diagnostic reports from Miss O, in relation to her car, we 
asked MML if theyd be willing to carry out further investigations as advised on each report. 
MML declined to do so based on the lack of evidence showing that the problems with the car 
were present at the point of supply. 
For the reasons explained in my provisional decision, I dont think MML were obliged, at that 
point, to inspect the car further. At the time of her complaint to MML, Miss O had already 
been given an opportunity by MML to have her car inspected by the dealer, this was later 
followed up in MMLs FRL. 
As mentioned in my provisional decision, Ive also considered the additional driving that Miss 
O had carried out since her complaint to MML. Although I understand why Miss O felt it was 
necessary to do so, Im unable to determine if that had caused or exacerbated any issues 
that are now present with the car. In addition to this the reports Miss O had provided were 
both inconclusive as to the root cause of the issues, and both commented that further 
investigation was required to understand the problem. So, in the circumstances Im still of 
the opinion that MML arent obliged to further investigate the issues found with the car.
the cars mileage is in range for its age and has been looked after
in their response to us MML explained that they felt its reasonable to suggest a car of a similar age and mileage may suffer a fault or require maintenance. I dont dispute what Miss 
O says about her car being looked after or the mileage being in range for its age, however, 
on the latest diagnostic report provided by Miss O, the car was reported as having travelled 
61,307 miles; and it was around five years old at the time. So even with regular servicing, I 
think its reasonable to expect that it may require some maintenance or repairs to certain 
parts. I dont think that any current faults with the car necessarily means they were present 
when it was supplied to Miss O.
I recognise that my decision is likely to be disappointing for Miss O, however I can assure 
her that Ive considered all the evidence provided and believe on balance that MML have 
acted fairly in the circumstances.
I still consider my provisional findings to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Neither 
party has added anything which gives me cause to change these. Therefore, for the reasons 
as set out above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is the same.
My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold Miss Os complaint about Mobile Money Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 July 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman