DRN-3882657
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the claim 
they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar 
panel system they say was misrepresented to them by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs W are represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In February 2018, Mr and Mrs W purchased a solar panel system (the system) from a 
company which Ill call P. they financed it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with 
Shawbrook. 
In October 2021, The CMC made a claim under section 75 of the Act to Shawbrook. they 
said that P had made the following misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs W to 
enter into the contract:
The system would be self-funding in that it would pay for itself through the income 
and savings generated. 
Shawbrook explained that it didnt agree the system had been misrepresented to Mr and 
Mrs W but offered £200 compensation for the time it took to respond. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened. They didnt think that P had 
misrepresented the system to Mr and Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. As an agreement couldnt be 
reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr and Mrs W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs W could claim 
against Shawbrook, the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr and 
Mrs W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision, Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or its agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
What happened?
If there is a dispute about what happened, I must decide what happened on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider to have been most likely to have happened, given the 
evidence that is available and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr and Mrs W say that during a sales meeting they were told that the system would be 
entirely self-financing.
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and solar quote, titled Your Personal Solar Quotation. 
Ive considered these, along with Mr and Mrs Ws testimony and recollection of the sales 
meeting, to decide on balance what is most likely to have happened. 
The quote is a detailed document that sets out key information about the system, the 
expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. P, via Shawbrook, has 
told this service that this formed a central part of the sales process, and the representative of 
P would have discussed this in detail with the consumer, explaining any benefits of the 
system, prior to the consumer agreeing to enter into the contract. 
Having thought carefully about the available evidence, Im satisfied that on balance the 
quote did form a central part of the sales process and therefore accept that the salesperson 
went through it during the meeting. So, Ive taken this into account, along with the Mr and 
Mrs Ws version of events when considering if there have been any untrue statements of 
fact. 
The credit agreement sets out the cash price, the amount being borrowed, the interest to be 
charged, total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly repayments.
On balance Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were told that the cost of the system was 
£12,633.60, the monthly payment was £132.96, the total amount of credit was £12,533.60 
and the total amount payable would be £24,032.80.
Overall, Im satisfied that P made it clear that although the cost of the system was 
£12,633.60, it would cost Mr and Mrs W more than this as they had decided to pay for it with 
an interest-bearing loan. 
Feed-In Tariff (FIT) payments
The quote shows the estimated FIT payments in year one and on average over 20 years as 
follows:I think it is clear from this that Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive a total FIT income in 
year one of £179.67. This would be an average monthly income of £14.97. This is less than 
the monthly loan repayment of £132.96. I think these figures wouldve been discussed with 
Mr and Mrs W, so Im not able to conclude that the Mr and Mrs W were told that the monthly 
loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payment.
The quote goes on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs W could expect from the 
system. The expected year one electricity savings is £295.19 and the combined income and 
savings in year one is shown as £732.08. This is shown in a table titled Putting it all 
together, and is still less than the annual loan repayments, which were £1,595.52.
The quote contains the following graph. This clearly shows that the monthly loan repayments 
exceed the average monthly benefits over 25 years.
Theres a section headed System Performance and Returns with three tables showing 
repayments over 60 months, 120 months, and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 
months because this is the length of the loan that Mr and Mrs W entered into with 
Shawbrook. This table shows the loan as repayable in 180 monthly payments of £133.92. 
For each year of the 15-year loan it shows the expected grand total return from the system. 
It then averages that figure over 12 months and subtracts the indicative monthly loan 
repayment of £133.92, to gives an average difference between the monthly return from the 
system and the monthly loan repayment in each year. 
I think this clearly shows that average monthly returns would be less than the loan 
repayment through most of the loan term. 
In summary, I think that the quote did form a central part of the sales process which the 
salesperson went through at the meeting. And it clearly shows the system would not be self-
funding within the term of the loan. So, I dont think I can reasonably find that Mr and Mrs W 
were told that the monthly loan repayments would be covered by the FIT payments and 
electricity savings during the loan term.
Self-funding
I have found that Mr and Mrs W were not told the system would be immediately self-funding. 
However, I do accept that Mr and Mrs W were told by P that the system would be self-
funding over a certain duration of time. 
The system performance and returns page of the quote has a table detailing the 
performance over 25 years. This shows that by the end of year 19 the overall benefits that 
Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive would have exceeded the total amount payable under 
the loan agreement. 
Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs W that the system would pay for itself by the end of year 
19, and this is supported by the table above included in the quote. If that were an untrue 
statement of fact, and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, 
and they subsequently suffered a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation. 
However, if Ps assumptions were reasonable at the time and the system does not pay for 
itself within 19 years due to differences between Ps assumptions and actual energy and FIT 
rates, I would not say that was a misrepresentation, given it is difficult to predict future 
inflation rates over such a long period.
I have looked at the assumptions used by P, including the self-consumption rate, expected 
annual increase in utility prices (EPR) and expected annual RPI inflation increase. I am 
satisfied that Ps method for calculating these are fair and reasonable.
P used Office of National Statistics (ONS) data between 2006 and 2017 to calculate the 
utility price and RPI inflation. I have looked at the actual yearly increases between the sale 
and 2020 and the increases have been lower than predicted by P at the point of sale and I 
think this explains why Mr and Mrs W havent been receiving the financial returns they may 
have been expecting from the solar panels. Since actual energy prices have been lower than 
the modelling predicted, the savings achieved through the energy generated by the system 
has been correspondingly lower.
As I have explained, the assumptions used by P were based on the information available 
from the ONS covering 2006 to 2017. And based on this, I dont consider it unreasonable for 
P to have used them as the basis for calculating the potential financial income Mr and Mrs W 
couldve expected to receive from the system. So, whilst I can appreciate that the returns 
may not have been as high as estimated at the point of sale, Im not persuaded that this was 
due to unreasonable assumptions being used by P at the time Mr and Mrs W entered into 
the contract.
Ive gone on to consider the performance of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs W. I have looked at Mr and Mrs Ws FIT statements and 
Im satisfied that the system is performing as expected based on the statements provided.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs W 
to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold this 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman