DRN-2278677
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the cancellation fee Somerset Bridge Insurance Services 
Limited charged him when he cancelled his car insurance policy.
What happened
Mr B bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Somerset on 27 May 2020 and asked 
to pay for it by way of monthly instalments through a credit agreement. 
Mr Bs application for finance was declined and so Somerset agreed a separate repayment 
plan with Mr B. However, in June 2020 Mr B cancelled his policy. Somerset said Mr B owed 
a balance which included its cancellation fee of £75. 
Mr B doesnt think he should pay he cancellation fee. He said at the point when finance was 
declined, Somerset should have allowed Mr B to cancel the policy without penalty. He wants 
Somerset to provide evidence to justify its fee as he feels its an excessive charge and 
unlawful.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Bs complaint should be upheld as he thought 
Somerset had clearly set out what would it would do in the event of finance being declined, 
and it followed this. And under its terms of business Somerset said it would charge a £75 
cancellation fee. So the investigator didnt think Somerset had done anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree. He says Somerset hasnt justified the cancellation fee. So the case has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its usual for a business to charge fees for arranging and cancelling a policy. Businesses 
have overheads in the issuing of documents and arranging a policy which they factor into the 
charges they make. We dont interfere with a business charges if we think they are 
reasonable and clearly set out, so that a customer can make an informed decision before 
buying a policy. And it isnt our role to ask a business to provide a breakdown for individual 
cases to justify its charge. 
Ive found Somersets charge of £75 is within the range of reasonable for cancelling a motor 
insurance policy.
Somerset contacted Mr B the day after he bought the policy to tell him his application for 
finance had been declined. Somerset asked Mr B to contact it within seven days to discuss 
alternative ways to pay. This is in line with what Somerset said it would do in its letter to Mr B 
dated 27 May 2020. It said: 
If your application (for finance) is declined we will contact you within 7 days to 
discuss your payment options.
I understand that Mr B says he should have been given the option to cancel the policy free of 
charge when his application for finance was declined - and Mr B complained about the 
rejection of his application. However, Somerset provided an alternative repayment plan 
which Mr B agreed to on 29 May 2020. If Mr B decided to instead cancel his policy at this 
stage (within 14 days), he would have correctly owed a cancellation fee of £35. 
Ive looked at the Terms of Business which Somerset made available to Mr B before he 
bought the policy. They say that if he cancels the policy outside of the 14 day cooling off 
period, it will charge a cancellation fee of £75. I think this was clear. So if Mr B was unhappy 
with Somersets charges, he was able to decide not to proceed and look for a policy 
elsewhere. 
On 14 June 2020 Mr B requested his policy be cancelled. This was outside of the cooling off 
period. And so the cancellation fee of £75 applied. 
I understand Mr B feels Somersets cancellation fee is excessive. And I realise he will be 
disappointed with my decision. But I dont think Somerset unreasonably applied its fee as it 
was clearly set out in its Terms before Mr B bought the policy. And so I think its treated Mr B 
fairly and as it would any other customer in the same circumstances. 
So Im not asking it to waive the amount its asking Mr B to pay.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman