DRN-1571306
The complaint
Mr M complains that Home Retail Group Card Services Limited didnt adjust his account to 
reflect it as settled. Hes also unhappy that his request for evidence that hed settled the 
account wasnt fulfilled. 
What happened
In September 2019, Mr M made a partial payment to Home Retail as part of an agreement to 
settle his account. A few weeks later, Mr M received a request for payment from a third-party 
debt recovery agent, so he made a complaint and asked Home Retail for evidence that the 
debt had been settled.
Home Retail explained that it didnt adjust Mr Ms account straight away and this is the 
reason he received a letter requesting payment. Home Retail accepted this was an error and 
paid Mr M £50 compensation for the inconvenience hed experienced. Home Retail 
confirmed that Mr Ms account was now adjusted to reflect its status correctly.
Mr M wasnt happy, so he asked this service to step in. Although hes satisfied with the £50, 
he doesnt think it accounts for the inconvenience and stress he suffered. Mr M was also 
unhappy that Home Retail didnt give him the evidence he asked for.
Our investigator felt that the compensation amount Home Retail had already paid was fair in 
the circumstances. He explained that the business reply to the complaint provides 
confirmation of the account being settled but acknowledged that it couldve provided 
something sooner. He also concluded that the problem occurred because Home Retail didnt 
adjust Mr Ms account  so written confirmation wouldnt have made a difference. 
Mr M disagreed and said hed sent several hours on the phone about this issue. But our 
investigator noted that these calls were made by Mr M because he was chasing proof the 
account was settled and wanted a response to his complaint. The investigator concluded 
that Home Retail dealt with the complaint within eight weeks, so he didnt think it needed to 
do more because Mr M telephoned more than he needed to.
As Mr M didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms initial concerns began when he received correspondence from a third-party debt 
collector after hed already settled his account. Home Retail explained this happened 
because Mr Ms account wasnt adjusted to show it had been settled. Home Retail accepted 
it made an error, adjusted the account and paid Mr M £50 compensation. Ive seen a copy of 
its records showing the account was adjusted on 27 September. So I wont be asking Home 
Retail to do anything more.I note Mr M recently received further correspondence, this time from a different third-party 
debt collector. Mr M has raised this as a separate complaint, so I wont be commenting on 
this further. 
Mr M asked Home Retail for evidence that his account had been settled. Mr Ms request 
wasnt unreasonable, so Home Retail couldve acted on this more swiftly. But Home Retail 
doesnt appear to have provided the evidence Mr M asked for. I can see that the final 
response letter it sent to Mr M does confirm that his account is now showing as settled. But 
this was sent to him around six weeks after he complained. Home Retail couldve sent 
something to him sooner. 
But by this point, the evidence wouldnt have made much difference to the circumstances. 
Mr M had already been contacted by the debt collector and he had in turn got in touch with 
Home Retail - prompting it to rectify its error. The evidence wouldve served as something to 
put Mr Ms mind at rest. But it wouldnt have changed the fact that Home Retail had already 
acted to put right what had gone wrong. And Mr M has now received this confirmation. So I 
wont be asking Home Retail to do anything further in relation to this. 
Mr M says he spent around four hours on the phone dealing with this issue, so he feels the 
compensation Home Retail has paid doesnt fairly reflect the inconvenience he experienced. 
Mr M told our investigator that he made these calls to chase a response to his complaint and 
to request evidence his account was settled. 
Under Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) complaint-handing rules, Home Retail had up to 
eight weeks to investigate Mr Ms complaint. Home Retail appears to have provided its 
response before the eight weeks had expired. It seems Mr M called Home Retail during this 
eight-week period - while it was still within the permitted period of investigating the 
complaint. 
So I cant conclude that Home Retail acted unfairly because of this. It was Mr Ms choice to 
carry out the additional telephone calls during this time, but Home Retail responded to his 
complaint within a reasonable period, so it hasnt acted unfairly. I accept that Mr M was also 
chasing evidence the account was settled. But for the same reasons as Ive explained 
above, having this evidence wouldnt have made a difference at this stage. 
In summary, Home Retail made an error when it didnt adjust Mr Ms account. But Im 
satisfied it has done enough to put this right and compensated Mr M fairly for the 
inconvenience he experienced.
My final decision
Im not instructing Home Retail Group Card Services Limited to do anything more in regard 
to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 15 May 2020.
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman