DRN-4479581
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt remind them that their fixed 
interest product offer was about to expire and that the terms hadnt been accepted by both of 
them.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr and Mrs M went online to get a new fixed interest rate product for their 
mortage as their existing fixed interest rate product was coming to an end.
HSBC offered them a new fixed interest rate product on 5 June 2022. The interest rate was 
2.49%. However, the offer needed to be accepted by both Mr and Mrs M by 18 June 2022. 
The offer wasnt agreed by both of them in time so Mr and Mrs M missed out on the 2.49% 
interest rate. They were around one day late to accept the offer. Mr and Mrs M went on to 
secure a higher interest rate of 2.94% over a five year period.
Mr and Mrs M says HSBC should have done more to remind them that the offer was coming 
to an end, and that it hadnt been accepted by both of them. They say that a few months 
before theyd applied for the new fixed interest rate product theyd applied for a home owner 
loan. As part of the application for that product Mrs M was sent (she thinks by text message) 
a code that directed her to page to accept the application. Mrs M had assumed the process 
would be the same in this application so shed waited to receive such a code. Eventually she 
asked Mr M if hed received anything. At that point he logged on to HSBC online banking 
and saw that the offer had expired. 
Mr and Mrs M are very unhappy that HSBC didnt honour the interest rate set out in the 5 
June offer when they accepted it  around a day after the offer had expired. Mrs M has said 
she doesnt think its reasonable to expect a customer to know that there are different 
processes in place for applications of the same nature.
HSBC said it didnt do anything wrong. Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy so they complained 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into the matter. She understood why Mr and Mrs M were frustrated 
by what had happened. But she didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. She thought 
the offer Mr and Mrs M was sent was clear about the deadlines involved. She could also see 
that HSBC had sent Mr M a secure message through its online banking system on 5 June 
2022 that said that the offer would need to be accepted by both parties by 18 June 2022. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy, so this complaint has been passed on to me for a 
decision. Mrs M has reiterated that she thinks its confusing that HSBC has different 
processes in place to cover different mortgage products. She told me about another HSBC 
process she and Mr M have come across in relation to another HSBC mortgage transaction. 
She accepts that HSBC sent Mr M a secure message but said she should have been 
contacted directly. As she doesnt bank with HSBC she thinks it should have done that by 
phone. She says she was busy around the time the offer was made and a message would 
have prompted her to do what she needed to do to accept the 5 June offer.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill begin by saying that the offer produced by HSBC on 5 June 2022 was clear that it expired 
on 18 June 2022. It said:
To accept the offer, follow the instructions that have been provided to you separately. 
HSBC has said that it knew that Mrs M wasnt registered for online banking as she wasnt a 
customer. So it wrote to her on 5 June 2022 to say that she needed to accept the mortgage 
offer. The letter said she could do that by logging into online banking or using its Manage 
My Mortgage Hub. It went on to say how she could access those things. Mrs M said she 
didnt receive such a letter but Ive seen a copy of it and have no reason to think it wasnt 
sent as HSBC says it was. The letter might have been lost in the post, but it wouldnt be fair 
and reasonable for me to hold HSBC responsible for that.
HSBC has also provided us with screenshots of the information that was made available to 
Mr M after he applied online for the new interest rate product. Those screenshots made it 
clear that both parties would need to accept the offer online.
Mrs M told our investigator that she didnt read the terms and conditions of the 5 June 2022 
mortgage offer. I appreciate her honesty and that she was busy around the time the offer 
was made. But I think HSBC could reasonably expect her and Mr M to look at the 
documentation and communications its sent in connection with the offer. Mrs M has said 
HSBC should have contacted her directly instead of sending her husband a message 
through online banking. She thinks it didnt because it had an incorrect phone number on its 
file for her. However, HSBC says it wouldnt contact her by phone in connection with this 
offer. I appreciate Mrs Ms point of view about HSBC contacting her husband, but it was a 
joint mortgage application, so I cant say that it was wrong to message Mr M, or that it should 
have contacted her another way. 
Mrs M has made it clear that she thinks HSBCs different processes for different mortgage 
transactions are confusing and unhelpful. I dont underestimate her strength of feeling about 
that and her frustration that she and Mr M missed out on the offer they wanted. But I cant 
say that HSBC was required to have a single process in place. Nor is it for me to comment 
on HSBCs systems and processes.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs M are likely to be very disappointed by this decision, but I dont 
think it should be upheld for the reasons set out above.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 January 2024.
 
Laura Forster
Ombudsman