DRN-4008618
The complaint
Ms M is unhappy Wise Payments Limited (Wise) have charged her a fee when she made a 
transfer from her Wise bank account to her other bank account.
What happened
Ms M complains Wise were responsible for deducting around £150 worth of charges when 
she transferred £5,000 from her Wise bank account to her other account in March 2022. Ms 
M says other banks may deduct up to £10 or £20 for such transfers, so she considers the 
amount Wise deducted to be down to their system error. As a result, Ms M wants Wise to 
refund her the amount she was charged.
Wise say while it seemed Ms Ms intention was to make a GBP to GBP currency transfer 
from what she told them, she in fact, set up the transfer to go from GBP currency to EUR 
currency. In this process, Wise clarified they charged Ms M a fee of £17.67 to convert the 
transfer currency from GBP to EUR. And on top of that, Wise say Ms M was charged 
£128.33 by the receiving bank to convert the money from EUR back to GBP as the receiving 
account couldnt accept Euro payments. Wise said this was why only £4,854 was received 
into the receiving bank account. 
Ms M said she wouldnt have made the transfer from GBP to EUR as Wise suggested 
because she lives in the UK and has no need to make a GBP to EUR transfer. So, Ms M 
remains of the opinion that Wise should refund both fees she was charged. Wise said when 
Ms M made them aware of the situation, they agreed to refund their fee of £17.67 as a 
gesture of goodwill. But said Ms M told them shed only consider the complaint to be 
resolved if Wise also reimbursed her with the fees charged by the receiving bank. Wise 
didnt agree to do this as they said they cant be responsible for the receiving banks fee.
Our Investigator looked into Ms Ms concerns. In summary, he didnt think Wise had acted 
unfairly as he said it appears the international transfer option was selected by Ms M when 
she was making the transfer. And that Wise didnt do anything wrong when processing the 
payment as instructed via the payment screen by Ms M. Our Investigator said Wises offer to 
refund the fee they charged was fair. But he didnt recommend Wise refund Ms M the fee 
charged by the receiving bank. 
Ms M disagreed. In summary, she said shes made transfers using Wise before and in doing 
so, when shes put in the account number of the receiving bank account, the currency 
automatically appears as its able to identify which country the bank account is in, from its 
account number. Ms M says this is what she did in this instance  she put in the bank 
account number of the account she was transferring money to, so Wises system should 
have identified the country and bank name to which the money was going to, based on the 
bank account number. Ms M said she doesnt understand why Wise switched her payment 
from GBP to EUR. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Wise have provided us with screenshots of the process Ms M would have likely gone 
through at the time of this transfer. I can see Wises system first required Ms M to select the 
payment type, either international or same currency, before putting in details of the payment 
Ms M was making. In order to find that Wise have done something wrong here, Id have to 
be persuaded, on balance, the payment was made in the incorrect currency as a result of a 
glitch in Wises system of some description which then changed the currency from GBP to 
EUR. However, I havent seen anything to persuade me this happened as a result of a 
system error. Instead, having reviewed the steps likely taken by Ms M, I think on balance, its 
more likely Ms M chose the international option rather than the same currency option which 
meant the transfer incurred fees.
Ms M says Wises system should have identified the country and bank name to which the 
money was going to, after inputting the bank account number. Therefore, it ought to have 
noticed the currency of the receiving bank. Wise have provided a screenshot to show that 
once the account number is entered, their system only generates the receiving banks name.
Wises terms and conditions set out that Ms M must make sure the information she provided 
when setting up a payment order was correct. And that Wise will process the order in 
accordance with the information Ms M provided  which is what theyve done here. I note 
Wise offered to refund their fee, which Ms M didnt accept. And I note Ms M has asked for 
Wise to also refund the fee charged by the receiving bank. But I wont be asking them to do 
this. I cant fairly hold Wise responsible for the fee charged by the receiving bank as a result 
of the receiving bank having to convert the payment from EUR to GBP. I say this because 
Wises terms and conditions dont have a provision to say theyre responsible for any fees 
charged by a receiving bank. Wise would only be responsible for foreseeable loss or 
damage, but I dont consider the fee charged by the receiving bank to be a foreseeable loss. 
I could also tell Wise to refund this fee if I thought theyd made an error leading to it  but as 
Ive explained above, Im not persuaded they did make an error.
As explained, Wise have already made an offer to refund their fee of £17.67 to settle the 
complaint and theyve confirmed this offer is still available to Ms M. In their final response 
letter, Wise offered to either add the fee as credit to Ms Ms account or if she preferred, they 
offered to transfer the same amount directly to Ms Ms Wise account balance. Ms M should 
contact Wise directly if she now wishes to accept this.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont think Wise Payments Limited need to do anything to 
settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman