DRN-1699886
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about Liverpool Victoria Friendly Society Limiteds (LV) decision 
to decline their critical illness claim. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B have a critical illness policy with LV. In 2019 Mr B sadly suffered from a 
cardiac arrest, so they made a critical illness claim. LV declined the claim because it said 
cardiac arrest isnt a listed condition in the policy terms and conditions. Mr and Mrs B 
complained to LV, but it didnt change its decision. So, the complaint was referred to our 
service.  
Our investigator considered the complaint but didnt uphold it. She was satisfied LVs 
decision to decline Mr and Mrs Bs claim was taken in line with the terms and conditions of 
their policy.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our investigator and so their complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision. They said cardiologists confirmed Mr B had suffered a heart attack 
before his cardiac arrest, and so this should be covered by the policy. The couple also 
questioned how it was fair for LV to decline their claim given cardiac arrest was a listed 
condition in policies taken out after 2014. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it for largely the same reasons as the investigator. I know 
this will be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs B as this has been a difficult time for them. But 
Id like to take some time to explain how Ive reached my decision.  
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
In reaching my outcome Ive only looked at whether LVs decision not to pay Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim was fair, and in line with the policy terms and conditions, based on the information 
available to it at the time. LV might have changed those terms and conditions since Mr and 
Mrs B took the policy out. But I have to look at whether LV has correctly applied the terms 
and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy when assessing their claim. 
It might help if I first explain more about LVs consideration of Mr and Mrs Bs claim, and the 
evidence it needed to see before the relevant policy definitions could be met. The medical 
evidence Ive seen consistently supports the opinion that Mr B suffered a cardiac arrest. 
Whilst other heart conditions, such as heart attack and cardiomyopathy, are covered under the policy terms and conditions, albeit with required levels of severity, cardiac arrest is not a 
listed condition.  
Mr and Mrs B said theyd been told it was likely Mr B had suffered a heart attack prior to his 
cardiac arrest, and that he had been diagnosed with cardiomyopathy. So, LV looked at 
whether a claim could be paid under the policy for those conditions. LV also considered 
whether the claim met the terms and conditions for total and permanent disability (TPD). But 
theres insufficient medical evidence to support a claim for a heart attack (acute myocardial 
infarction) and Mr Bs ejection fraction percentage level (51%) didnt meet the policy terms 
and conditions for cardiomyopathy (35% or less for at least 6 months). In terms of a TPD 
claim, theres no evidence to show Mr B was unable to do the required number of work 
tasks.   
I dont underestimate how serious and upsetting Mr Bs cardiac arrest was. And I can 
completely understand how the terms cardiac arrest and heart attack are difficult to 
differentiate between. But critical illness policies arent designed to cover every serious 
medical condition the policy holder might suffer. And as Ive already explained, the 
conditions which are covered often require a level of severity to be met before a claim can 
be paid, as in the case of a heart attack and cardiomyopathy. Cardiac arrest is a specific 
medical condition that isnt covered under Mr and Mrs Bs policy. For this reason, I think LVs 
decision to decline the claim based on the medical evidence available at the time was fair, 
and in line with the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Bs policy. So, I wont be asking LV 
to pay the claim. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs B were hoping for. LV has said it will consider 
the claim again if Mr and Mrs B are able to provide further evidence to support a heart 
attack, cardiomyopathy or TPD claim. Mr and Mrs B are also able to make a new claim to 
LV, any time before the policy ends.  
Mr and Mrs T also told us theyre not happy with the outcome of a waiver of premiums claim 
they made to LV. If they remain unhappy once LV has fully considered the matter, then they 
could refer that to us as a new complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 April 2020.
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman