DRN-3728256
The complaint
Mr C complains that Currys Group Limited trading as Currys failed to properly cancel an 
order he placed with it.
What happened
Mr C ordered a television from Currys on a buy now pay later basis. Something went wrong 
with that order, so it was cancelled. Mr C ordered an alternative, again using buy now pay 
later. When the payments began, Mr C noticed they were higher than expected and 
contacted Currys. He discovered the first order had been cancelled, but the finance hadnt. 
Mr C says this had a detrimental effect on his credit rating as it appeared he had more 
outstanding finance on his credit file than he did in reality. He says this caused him problems 
with a balance transfer he wished to carry out for a credit card, and with an application for a 
mortgage. He says the problems also caused his mental health to suffer. 
Currys looked into Mr Cs complaint. It agreed the finance should have been cancelled at the 
same time as the order. It arranged for his credit file to be updated, and a refund of the three 
months payments hed made. It also offered him £150 in recognition of the problems it 
caused him.
Mr C didnt accept what Currys had said and referred his complaint to our service. One of 
our investigators looked into it. She said it was clear a mistake had been made and 
acknowledged Currys had put that right. She asked Mr C for evidence regarding the 
problems with his credit card, mortgage and mental health. Mr C said he couldnt provide 
any firm evidence showing the problems with the card and mortgage were solely caused by 
the extra finance on his credit file. He also explained he had a lot going on at the time so he 
couldnt say that his mental health issues were solely caused by the issue with Currys, but 
he felt they were a contributing factor.
Overall, after considering the evidence and what Mr C had told her, our investigator felt the 
£150 offered by Currys in compensation for the problems was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr C didnt accept that, so as there was no agreement, the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is inevitable that when dealing with any business, mistakes will happen from time to time. 
But its important that when mistakes are brought to the attention of the business involved, 
theyre put right quickly and with the minimum of fuss. I would expect a business which has 
made a mistake to act quickly and put its customer in the position theyd have been in had 
the mistake not happened, including any direct financial loss. Where distress and/or 
inconvenience has been suffered by the customer, Id expect a business to compensate 
them for that.
In this case, it is not in dispute that Currys made a mistake when cancelling Mr Cs order. 
The finance part of that agreement ought to have been cancelled too. Mr C noticed the 
mistake and complained to Currys on 22 June 2022. Currys looked into his complaint and 
responded on 30 June 2022, confirming it was in the process of having his credit file updated 
and his payments would be returned to him within a week.
So having been made aware of its mistake, Currys corrected it quickly and let Mr C know. 
He has also said he suffered a financial loss as a result of the mistake, because he was 
unable to make a balance transfer which would have meant he didnt pay any interest on the 
outstanding balance on his credit card, and that he may have received a worse deal on his 
mortgage than he might have done. It offered him £150 for the distress and inconvenience 
its mistake caused. What I need to decide is whether the financial loss claimed by Mr C is 
something Currys should be responsible for and if the compensation offered is fair or not.  
Where a financial loss is alleged by a consumer, we ask for evidence of that and look to see 
if its directly related to the mistake made by the business. Well also consider if theres 
anything the consumer could have done to mitigate their losses  that means whether they 
could have taken action to prevent the losses or at least to prevent them from growing. This 
is sometimes not straightforward as there is often little direct evidence, so we have to assess 
the complaint put forward on the balance of probabilities  that is what we think is most likely 
to be the case considering all the circumstances. 
In this instance, Mr C says he received a less preferential deal on his mortgage than he 
might have done had his credit file been correct. Given what Mr C has told us about himself, 
I think it more likely than not that hed have had a good awareness of the mortgage deals 
available at the time and will have had a clear idea of what he expected in terms of a deal. 
When that deal wasnt as good as hed have expected, Id have thought it reasonable for him 
to check his credit file as hed have been aware that would be a major factor in any lending 
decision. Had he done so, I think it most likely hed have been able to identify the error at the 
time and have it corrected. Given Currys was able to correct the mistake quickly, I dont think 
it would have significantly delayed any application Mr C was making.
I accept Mr C may have had less knowledge of the credit card market than the mortgage 
one. But I think if he was concerned that he was prevented from making a balance transfer 
as he wished, he could have taken similar actions  checking his credit file or speaking with 
the provider refusing his request  to find out why. Again, on balance, I think this may have 
enabled him to identify the mistake sooner and prevented any financial loss. I dont think it 
would be fair and reasonable to hold Currys liable for the losses Mr C feels hes suffered.  
Turning now to the compensation offered to Mr C by Currys. Its clear that once he 
discovered Currys mistake, Mr C will have been concerned by what he found and had to go 
to the inconvenience of raising that with the business. Hes told us that his mental health 
suffered and he sought medical help in March 2022 due to anxiety caused in part by 
financial worries. 
I have every sympathy for the position Mr C found himself in and have thought carefully 
about whether I can reasonably attribute some of the problems he was facing to Currys. 
Having done so, I dont think I can  let me explain why. 
Mr C says he was prescribed medication from March 2022 to help with his mental health. At 
that stage however, he was unaware of the mistake made by Currys as he didnt discover 
that until June 2022. His payments didnt start until April 2022  after hed sought help. It 
follows that I dont think I can attribute Mr Cs issues to the mistake made by Currys. 
That said, when Mr C discovered the mistake, it will no doubt have heightened his anxiety and caused him more worry than it otherwise might. But Currys put things right for him 
quickly and offered him £150 compensation for the distress caused. I think that is a fair and 
reasonable way to resolve matters.
It's not clear whether Currys has already paid this money to Mr C. If it hasnt, it should do so 
if Mr C accepts this decision. If it has already paid it, theres nothing further I require it to do.
My final decision
For the reasons set out, my final decision is that Currys Group Limited trading as Currys 
should pay Mr C £150 if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 April 2023.
 
Richard Hale
Ombudsman