DRN-2961210
The complaint
Mr M complains that PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender was irresponsible in its 
lending to him.
What happened
Mr M was provided with three loans by Mr Lender between December 2017 and February 
2019. The details are set out below.
Loan Amount Instalments Date Repaid
1 £500 6 26/12/2017 29/06/2018
2 £300 3 04/10/2018 31/01/2019
3 £600 6 01/02/2019 30/08/2019
Mr M says had adequate checks on his income and expenses taken place before the loans 
were provided Mr Lender would have realised the loans were unaffordable. He says that he 
was taking out new loans to repay existing debt.
Mr Lender says that affordability and credit checks were carried out before the loans were 
provided and that its checks were proportionate. It says based on its checks the loans were 
affordable and noted that Mr M settled loans 1 and 2 without requiring any help or support. 
When Mr M was unable to make his agreed repayments Mr Lender says he set up a 
repayment plan through his online account.
Mr Lender didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint but offered as a gesture of goodwill a £25 voucher 
and to remove any adverse information form Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M didnt agree with Mr Lenders response and referred his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought the checks carried out before the 
loans were provided were proportionate and that it was reasonable Mr Lender relied on the 
information it received. She said based on these checks the loans appeared affordable.
Mr M didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said that before the first loan was provided 
he had taken out several other payday loans as well as having outstanding balances on 
multiple credit cards. He says his bank statements showed he was gambling excessively 
and that regular direct debits were being returned. Mr M said that a similar complaint he had 
raised had been upheld.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision upholding Mr Ms complaint. I concluded in summary:
Before the first loan was provided in December 2017, information about Mr Ms 
income and expenses was gathered and a credit check carried out. The information 
provided by Mr Lender said that Mr M was making monthly payments of £1,600 
towards other short term loans. I thought this should have raised concerns.
I noted that the table of information suggested the £1,600 monthly payment was for 
loans (including short term loans) and that the other information provided suggested 
Mr M only had one other short term loan at the time. But I thought payments of 
£1,600 for credit commitments was still a high amount compared to Mr Ms income of 
£2,550 and it should have raised concerns. 
I thought that the high amount recorded for credit commitments didnt necessarily 
mean that the loan shouldnt have been provided but I thought it should have raised 
questions that meant further checks should have taken place to ensure the lending 
was sustainable.
The information Mr M provided from the time of loan 1 showed he had several loans 
outstanding with other short term loan providers and was making frequent payments 
towards gambling sites. Therefore, while I appreciated this was Mr Ms first loan with 
Mr Lender and in certain circumstances the checks could have been proportionate, I 
thought the information Mr Lender received in this case raised sufficient concerns 
that further verification was needed. And had this happened, Mr Lender would have 
realised Mr M was struggling to manage his money.
Mr M repaid loan 1 and took out a second loan for £300 around three months later. 
By this time, the amount recorded for Mr Ms payments towards other loans 
(including short term loans) had reduced to £540 and Mr Lenders checks suggested 
there were no other short term loans outstanding. However, as I thought further 
checks should have taken place before loan 1 was provided and noting the issues 
these checks would have shown, I thought it reasonable that this loan would only be 
provided if it was clear that Mr Ms financial situation had materially improved.
I looked at the information Mr M provided for the time loan 2 was provided and this 
showed that he was still struggling to manage his money. He had several short term 
loans outstanding and several direct debit payments returned. Therefore, I didnt find 
I could say that it was reasonable that this loan was provided.
Mr M repaid loan 2 and took out a much larger loan straight away. Again, had further 
checks been carried out before loan 3 was provided these would have shown that 
Mr Ms financial situation hadnt significantly improved and that he was still making 
use of short term loan providers and struggling to manage his money.
Overall, I thought that the checks carried out before the first loan was provided 
should have raised concerns that meant further verification was carried out. Had this 
happened I thought that Mr Lender would have realised that lending to Mr M wasnt 
sustainably affordable. 
Mr Lender didnt accept my provisional decision. It said a mistake had been made in the 
information it sent to us about the amount Mr M was paying towards his other credit 
commitments. It said that instead of paying £1,600 a month at the time of loan 1, he was 
paying £850. It provided a call recording from the time of loan 1 to support this.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I note Mr Ms comments about another complaint but 
every complaint is dealt with individually and the outcome is based on what is fair and 
reasonable given the unique circumstances of the specific complaint.
We've set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. I have considered 
these in my assessment of this complaint. 
In my provisional decision, I set out my reasons for upholding Mr Ms complaint. Mr Lender 
responded to my decision with new information which I have considered. I have listened to 
the call on which the information about Mr Ms income and expenses was gathered as part 
of the checks before loan 1. He confirms that his monthly income is £2,550 and that he is 
paying £850 each month for other loans. He provides information about his other expenses 
and says he has around £700 to £800 left over at the end of each month. I accept that based 
on these figures loan 1 appears affordable. 
However, while the amount Mr M was spending on his credit commitments is lower than was 
first suggested, I still think the information raises concerns that mean it would have been 
reasonable to ask further questions. I say this because Mr M is asking to borrow £500 
repayable over six monthly instalments, however he also states he has £700 to £800 spare 
at the end of each month. I do not think this means the loan shouldnt have been provided 
(as while it suggests it isnt needed that is Mr Ms choice) but I think it suggests that a full 
picture of Mr Ms expenses hasnt been gathered.
Also, while the payments to other loans was £850, not £1,600 as initially stated, I still think 
this raises concerns that meant further checks should have taken place. I say this because 
the payment to other loans were for around a third of Mr Ms income which I think is 
significant and indicative of more needing to be done to ascertain whether the remainder of 
his income was enough to repay any additional credit. Given this I think further checks 
should have taken place. Had further checks taken place I think Mr Lender would have 
realised that Mr M was struggling to manage his money and that this situation didnt change 
significantly over his time borrowing from Mr Lender. Therefore, while I have considered the 
new information provided by Mr Lender I do not find that it changes my conclusion that the 
loans werent sustainably affordable.
Putting things right
In deciding what redress Mr Lender should fairly pay in this case Ive thought about what 
might have happened had it not lent to Mr M.
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question.
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere. If this wasnt a viable option, he may have 
looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  assuming that was even possible.
Or, he may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if he had done that, 
the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these 
options. So, it wouldnt be fair to now reduce Mr Lenders liability in this case for what Im 
satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
My final decision is that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) should:
refund all interest and charges that Mr M paid on his loans;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
remove any adverse information from about these loans from Mr M's credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender 
should take the actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 February 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman