DRN-3608732
The complaint
Mrs C complains about One Insurance Limiteds (One Insurance) decision to decline her
claim following a car fire and avoid (treat as if it never existed) her motor insurance policy.
Mrs C is represented by Mr I in this complaint. I will refer to Mrs C as the policy holder for
ease of reading in my decision.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs Cs car was severely damaged by a fire. She made a claim to One
Insurance. It inspected her car and determined it was a total loss. It subsequently wrote to
Mrs C to decline her claim and avoid the policy. It says she had replaced the wheels, which
constituted a modification to the vehicle. One Insurance says it doesnt provide cover for any
modifications that alter the look or performance of the vehicle.
One Insurance offered Mrs C £170 compensation for delays and poor customer service
when handling her claim.
Mrs C thought this was unfair. She says the wheels are the same size as the original
manufacturers. They were only changed because the manufacturers wheels kept on
cracking. She says they take the same size tyres and were changed for reasons of safety
not to improve the look or performance of the car. One Insurance maintained its decision, so
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He didnt think Mrs C should reasonably have known
the replacement wheels were a modification, as they were the same size and took the same
tyres. He thought a fair outcome is that One Insurance should reconsider the claim and pays
8% interest on any settlement amount. He thought its offer of £170 compensation was fair
for the claim handling issues.
One Insurance says any change from the way the vehicle was originally supplied is
considered a modification. It says the wheels Mrs C has on her car arent supplied by the
manufacturer and so this is a modification. Our investigator didnt change his view. So One
Insurance asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint.
It has been passed to me to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in explaining that I was intending to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. 
Heres what I said:
provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Insurance has supplied underwriting information showing its acceptance criteria. This
says no modifications to a vehicle are acceptable. One Insurance says it wouldnt have
offered cover for any car that had these replacement wheels if it had known this when the
policy was agreed.
I acknowledge One Insurances position, but Mrs C didnt have the new wheels fitted until
around two months prior to the fire claim. I have seen emails from the supplier that support
this, and I note One Insurance doesnt dispute this point. So, when Mrs C agreed the policy
in October 2019 the car had its original wheels. This was also the case at the renewal in
October 2020. So, Mrs C didnt misrepresent the information she provided to One Insurance
at these times.
If Mrs C had made a misrepresentation about modifications when she took out the policy, it
wouldve been a qualifying misrepresentation under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure
and Representations) Act 2012. But that doesnt apply here because the replacement
wheels hadnt been fitted at either inception or renewal of the policy.
One Insurance has provided a screen shot of the information Mrs C will have seen when she
applied for her policy through a comparison website. However, I dont think its reasonable to
expect her to remember what this said, well over a year later, when she had the wheels on
her car replaced.
I have read Mrs Cs policy renewal documents to understand what information she was
given. The documents say:
Fair Representation of Data
If your circumstances, or any other material information, have changed during the last year
you must advise us before you renew your policy. If you do not this may result in your
insurance being invalidated or any claims rejected. If you are in doubt about whether
something is relevant, you should ask us. You must give us the new information by phone or
in writing.
Examples of material information which should be disclosed to us include:
Modifications to any component of your vehicle (especially wheels, engine or bodywork).
The policys terms and conditions booklet says:
Alterations to Your Policy
You must tell us about any of the following changes to your circumstances straight away. If
you do not tell us about these changes, then your policy may no longer be valid or a claim
may not be paid.
The vehicle is changed from the manufacturers original specification.
Your provider has the right not to accept your policy due to your new details not meeting
their criteria. If this does happen, we will try to find another provider to cover you. Please
refer to your Policy Schedule/Certificate of Motor Insurance for details of your policy and
contact us if you are unsure whether you should tell us certain information.
The terms require Mrs C to notify One Insurance of any mid-term modifications to her car. It
also confirms the possible consequences if she doesnt. But I dont think its fair or
reasonable for One Insurance to rely on this term unless the change substantially impacted
on the risk it was insuring.
I have thought carefully about whether the modification did substantially change the risk
being insured. But I dont accept the replacement wheels did this. Im not persuaded themodification to replace the wheels with those of the same size, was a breach that made it
fair and reasonable to decline the claim and cancel the policy back to the date the vehicle
was altered.
In these circumstances Im minded to direct that One Insurance reconsiders Mrs Cs claim
without reliance on the modification term.
One Insurance has sent an engineers report that confirms the vehicle was a total loss,
because of the extent of the fire damage. In offering any settlement payment, I think its fair
that One Insurance adds 8% simple interest from the date of the loss until a payment is
made.
Im mindful of the impact the policy cancellation may have on Mrs Cs current and future
insurance. So, my intention is to direct One Insurance to write a letter to Mrs C (which she
may show to current or future insurers) saying that it cancelled the policy in error and it has
taken all reasonable steps to remove any adverse entry from its internal databases and any
external databases to which it has reported the cancellation.
Mrs C says she had to arrange financing a replacement car using a lump sum obtained via a
pension. Im glad she was in a position to be able to buy a replacement car, but I accept her
comment that this isnt something she planned to do.
I think the interest on the delayed settlement payment is fair to acknowledge the alternative
funding that was required. But I accept this has also caused additional hassle and
inconvenience. I will refer to this later on in my decision.
Mrs C says she incurred costs in hiring a car whilst she was waiting for One Insurance to
respond to her claim. The policy terms do provide for a courtesy car in the event that a repair
is undertaken, but not where the car is a total loss.
I have thought about the time taken to inform Mrs C that her car was written off, and the
impact this had. I can see the business refers to a cyber issue that caused delays in it
processing the claim and in providing updates and responses. From the notes Mrs C called
One Insurance 11 days after making her claim  at which time she was told her car was
considered a write-off. It took a while longer to deal with the claim in full, due to the system
problems the business experienced around this time. But she was made aware her car was
a total loss within 11 days of her claim.
The policy doesnt provide for a courtesy car or hire car in the event of a total loss claim. Mrs
C was made aware the car was considered a total loss. Although I acknowledge she paid for
a hire car herself  I dont think its fair to ask One Insurance to pay for this. Mrs Cs car
needed replacing regardless of the claim outcome. So, although I dont think it was
reasonable for One Insurance to decline the claim for the reasons it gave, I also dont think it
is responsible for costs relating to a hire car in these circumstances.
I have thought about the £170 compensation One Insurance offered. But I dont think this
adequately reflects the issues Mrs C experienced. I can understand her frustration that she
thought she had acted responsibly when replacing the defective car wheels. It must have
been worrying to be told her loss wasnt covered by her policy because of this. I also
acknowledge the hassle and inconvenience involved in sourcing funds and to buy a
replacement car. In addition, to the delays she experienced due to the cyber issue, including
a lack of information when she called and a lack of updates from the business.
When considering all of this I dont think One Insurance treated Mrs C fairly when declining
her claim and avoiding her policy. It should now reconsider the claim without reliance on themodification exclusion, pay Mrs C £350 compensation for the worry and inconvenience 
caused, and provide a letter confirming the policy was cancelled in error.
I said I was intending to uphold this complaint and that One Insurance Limited should:
meet Mrs Cs claim without reliance on any term relating to vehicle modification but
otherwise in line with the policy terms; and
insofar as it makes a payment in settlement of Mrs Cs claim, add interest at the
simple rate of 8% from the date of the claim to the date of its settlement. If One
Insurance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mrs C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate;
pay Mrs C £350 compensation for the worry and inconvenience it caused her: and
write a letter to Mrs C (which she may show to current or future insurers) saying that
it cancelled the policy in error, and it has taken all reasonable steps to remove any
adverse entry from its internal databases and any external databases to which it has 
reported the cancellation.
I asked both parties to send me any further comments and information they might want me 
to consider before I reached a final decision.
One Insurance didnt respond with further comment or information for me to consider. 
Mrs C responded to reiterate the circumstances of her complaint and express her frustration 
with One Insurances lack of meaningful response to her correspondence. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
One Insurance hasnt provided any comments or information for me to consider. The further 
comments Mrs C has provided dont add anything new to the circumstances I considered in 
my provisional decision. 
As neither party has made any further submissions or evidence that necessitate a change 
my provisional findings, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and for the 
same reasons.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint 
and One Insurance Limited should:
meet Mrs Cs claim without reliance on any term relating to vehicle modification but
otherwise in line with the policy terms; and
insofar as it makes a payment in settlement of Mrs Cs claim, add interest at the
simple rate of 8% from the date of the claim to the date of its settlement. If One
Insurance considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate;
pay Mrs C £350 compensation for the worry and inconvenience it caused her: and
write a letter to Mrs C (which she may show to current or future insurers) saying that
it cancelled the policy in error, and it has taken all reasonable steps to remove any
adverse entry from its internal databases and any external databases to which it has 
reported the cancellation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman