DRN-2013143
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the valuation Acromas Insurance Company Limited gave for her car.
What happened
After Mrs Os car was stolen, she made a claim under her motor insurance policy provided 
by Acromas. Acromas accepted Mrs Os claim and valued her car at £19,000. 
Mrs O said shed need around £2,000 more to be able to buy the same car so she felt the 
valuation was too low. Mrs O submitted listings from a range of the manufactures 
dealerships as evidence to show how much it would cost to purchase the same car. Mrs O 
was also unhappy with the lack of updates or contact shed had from Acromas, that there 
was a delay in processing the payment for her car and that she wasnt provided a courtesy 
car.
Acromas looked at two industry trade guides to determine the value of Mrs Os car. To bring 
their offer in line with the average of those guides they increased their valuation to £19,150. 
They also offered Mrs O £150 compensation by way of an apology for the delay in making 
her payment and for the failings in their communication. But Acromas didnt agree Mrs O 
should have benefited from the use of a courtesy car. They said this benefit wasnt included 
in Mrs Os policy.
Mrs O referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator thought Acromas had acted 
within the terms and conditions of her policy when they didnt provide Mrs O a courtesy car. 
And he felt their offer of compensation was fair to recognise the delays and service issues 
Mrs O had experienced. Mrs O accepted our investigators view regarding these points.
But our investigator also thought the valuation Acromas had placed on Mrs Os car was fair. 
He explained that our service expects insurers to check trade guides to determine the value 
of a car just prior to the insured incident. The investigator also checked the same trade 
guides and one other and could see that £19,150 was a reasonable valuation based on 
these guides. As such, he said Acromas hadnt done anything wrong.
Mrs O didnt agree. She said it wasnt possible to replace her car with one of the same 
make, model, specification, age, mileage and condition with the valuation provided. Our 
investigator checked a fourth trade guide which took into consideration the optional extras 
added to Mrs Os car, but they didnt impact the valuation. Mrs O remained unhappy and 
asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Whilst there have been several points raised throughout this complaint, there is one key 
point that remains in dispute. That is whether Acromas offered a fair valuation for Mrs Os 
car. So, it is this what Ive considered when reaching my decision.
I can understand how distressing it must be for Mrs O to have had her car stolen. And I 
acknowledge it brings with it a lot of inconvenience. But having considered what Acromas 
has done, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs Os policy says the most Acromas will pay following loss or damage to her car is the 
market value. Assessing the value of a used vehicle isnt an exact science. Id expect 
Acromas to use industry trade guides as this is the industry standard. The guides determine 
the market value by looking at many factors including actual selling prices of cars. I can see 
that Acromas has looked at two trade guides. And it paid the average of the two values it 
found.
Ive also looked at the same trade guides, and two others. Im satisfied that the £19,150 
Acromas paid represents a fair market value, when looking across the guides, for Mrs Os 
car. Ive seen the listings that Mrs O has provided from a range of the manufactures 
dealerships. Often advertised prices are inflated to allow for negotiation. So its unlikely a 
cars advertised price is the actual price it was sold for. Thats why the insurance industry and 
our service think the trade guides can give a better indication of what the market value is.
In addition, the advertised prices provided include the cost of adding optional extras the cars. 
But the manufactures cost of adding optional extras onto a used car simply isnt reflected in 
the valuation of a used car already of that specification.
In summary, Acromas has used trade guides to determine the market value of the car. The 
payment it made is in line with the trade guides Ive looked at, so I dont think its acted 
unreasonably.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Acromas for the reasons Ive 
explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman