DRN-2135166
The complaint
Mr P complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited didnt apply the no claims bonus
protection to his motor insurance policy that hed requested through a price comparison
website when taking out the policy. This led to him losing most of his no claims bonus
following a claim.
What happened
I sent the parties my initial thoughts on why I intended to uphold the complaint on 5 August 
2020. The deadline for replies has passed and I havent seen a response from either party. 
This is disappointing in so far as Admiral was asked to provide specific information. But the 
parties havent replied and so Ill take that into account.
I set out the background as follows;
Mr P took out a motor insurance policy via a price comparison website (C) in August 2017.
Admiral was the cheapest quote, so he called directly to set up the policy. On that phone
call, he was asked if he was happy with the information hed inputted on C  and he
confirmed he was. So, Admiral sent through the policy documentation and the policy went
live.
The policy renewed in August 2018 and Mr P contacted Admiral in June 2019 to make a
claim which he was at fault for. It was at this point that it became apparent the policy didnt
have any No Claims Bonus (NCB) protection.
Mr P complained, but Admiral initially thought the NCB protection option hadnt been
selected on C when the quote was first obtained. But Mr P was able to provide Admiral with
the saved quote from C in which it was clear the NCB protection had been selected  so it
was then thought that C hadnt correctly transferred the information across to it when the first
policy was set up.
Despite this, Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. It said Mr P had a responsibility to check
the schedule and other documents when he received them and if anything was wrong, this
couldve been amended or sorted out during the cooling off period. Mr P wasnt happy with
this. He said it was clear it wasnt his error and the details were never confirmed to him over
the phone when taking out the policy. He was just asked if he was happy with the
information hed inputted and because it was correct  he was.
Because of the fault claim and there being no NCB protection on the policy, Mr Ps NCB
entitlement reduced from sixteen years to three years. He says this will continue to have a
financial impact on him in future due to the increase hell see in his car insurance premiums.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He thought Admiral should pay Mr P £100
compensation for the mistake, but he didnt think the NCB should be reinstated. This was
due to there being a renewal since the first policy was obtained. He said the renewal email
reiterated the importance of checking the information and letting Admiral know if anything
was incorrect, which hadnt been done.
Mr P didnt agree. He had a multi-car policy and NCB protection was applied to his wifes
vehicle. Hed looked at the renewal email from Admiral and didnt think it was clear that NCB
protection was only included on his wifes vehicle, so he still thought it should be reinstated.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint and Im not persuaded to reach a 
different decision;
Its not in dispute that Mr P expressed on Cs website that he wanted to protect his NCB. Ive
seen the screenshot of this and am so satisfied. Its also not disputed that the basis of the
contract that was sold by Admiral was what Mr P had entered into the comparison site.
Indeed, Admiral has a service level agreement with that website and the information from it
gets sent through to Admiral. It seems though that Admiral is putting the responsibility on
Mr P to revert to C to sort out any mistake. I dont agree that reaches a fair and reasonable
outcome in all the circumstances of this case.
Its apparent from the multi-car renewal invite that there was NCB protection for Mrs P and
the only place Mr P was able to determine that he didnt have it was from the policy
schedule. Of course, Mr P is invited to and expected to check his renewal for cover. But the
documentation in its entirety isnt clear  why would Mrs P have NCB and not Mr P when he
specifically asked for it?
While C may have made a mistake when sending the information to Admiral, that isnt
known. Admiral simply asked Mr P if he was happy with the information he put into the
website. And its on that basis that I think its fair to conclude that insurance contract should
be based on.
Mr P may well have missed that his NCB wasnt protected, but in reaching a fair outcome I
can reflect the mistakes made by both parties.
Putting things right
In my provisional decision I said the following;
Mr Ps NCB should be reinstated to put him in the position he would be in had Admiral
sufficiently checked the information the insurance was based on. This means though that
Admiral is entitled to charge for the years 2017  2018; 2018  2019 and potentially 2019 
2020 and 2020  2021 (if Admiral remained the insurer).
The claim Mr P made occurred in the policy year 2018  2019. So, the impact of the change
in NCB protection on the premium would be apparent at the 2019  2020 and 2020  2021
renewals. The premiums for these two years need to be recalculated to reflect the NCB
being protected.
The calculations may result in Mr P owing Admiral money, or equally, Admiral may need to
pay Mr P. Admiral must produce a written calculation to show how it has reflected what Ive
said about putting things right. And while this is a provisional decision, and Admiral is entitled
to disagree with it, the finalisation of any decision I make will be significantly enhanced by
Admiral providing the calculation, even if it disagrees. I will take any disagreement by either
party into account before finalising my formal decision.As Mr P had the opportunity to recognise the mistake from the policy documents issued, I
dont think it would be fair to require Admiral to pay him any compensation.
As I havent seen a reply from either party, and more importantly here Admiral Ive not been 
able to specify amounts.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to do the following;
Reinstate Mr Ps NCB with protection effective from the 2017 policy start date
Provide Mr P with a detailed written calculation to show the impact of adding NCB 
protection from 2017 and at each renewal date
oIn that calculation Admiral must not factor in the 2018 claim until the 2019 
renewal
In the event that Admiral owes Mr P money then Admiral will need to refund that to 
him
oIf it reveals that Mr P owes Admiral money then it will be entitled to seek that 
money from him
Provide Mr P with a new document evidencing his NCB status.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 October 2020.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman