DRN-3767736
The complaint
Mr Z has complained about his car insurer Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited 
because it has said he misrepresented detail to it when arranging the policy and, as a result, 
it has applied a proportional settlement to a claim he made for his stolen motorbike (which 
was recovered but damaged).
What happened
Mr Z arranged cover with Markerstudy, through a broker via a price comparison website. The 
detail Markerstudy received was that the bike was garaged. The premium charged to Mr Z 
for cover was £180.90, and the policy carried a £400 excess.
In December 2021 Mr Z found his bike was missing from the secured underground car park 
at his home. He made a claim and the bike was later recovered. Markerstudy, investigating 
the claim, felt the carpark was not a garage, like it had been told when the policy was 
arranged. Markerstudy noted it wouldnt have offered this policy to Mr Z if it had known. But it 
thought a different policy would have been available to Mr Z  at a premium of £1,899.40, 
with an applicable excess of £700. So it said it would honour the policy in place but apply the 
terms of the cover it would have quoted for if the correct parking detail for the motorbike had 
been known. Referring to relevant legislation it said that would mean it could apply a 
proportional settlement to Mr Zs claim, based on its liability being only 9% because Mr Z 
had only paid 9% of the premium which should have applied. Mr Z complained to us.
Mr Z felt that was unfair. He said he had thought it was reasonable to say his bike was 
parked in a garage, not least as his tenancy agreement refers to there being a garage. He 
also felt it was unfair for Markerstudy to say it would have charged him such a high premium. 
Mr Z said hed actually paid £280 to the broker and he sent detail showing what hed paid.   
Our Investigator explained that she couldnt look at what Mr Z had thought when arranging 
the cover  because that was between him and the broker. She felt Markerstudy had shown 
what it would have done if the correct information had been given to it. And that Markerstudy 
had acted fairly and reasonably by looking at a proportional claim settlement, rather than 
seeking to void Mr Zs policy (treating it as though it had never existed). Another Investigator 
later explained to Mr Z that he had paid the broker for extra covers, in addition to the policy 
provided by Markerstudy  the premium charged by Markerstudy was £180.90. 
Mr Z remained unhappy. He said he still felt the amended figure for cover was exorbitant. He 
said he couldnt understand how Markerstudy could cancel his policy, leaving him with no 
settlement for his damaged bike and yet expect him to pay an extra premium. His complaint 
was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regret for the upset I know this will cause Mr Z, Ive found my view of the complaint, on 
this occasion, is in line with that reached by our Investigators. Ive explained my views 
below. 
I can assure Mr Z that his policy was not cancelled and nor did Markerstudy charge, or 
expect him to pay, any additional premium. The remedy Markerstudy applied meant the 
policy remained in place, on the agreed terms and only the claim outcome was affected. The 
fact the motorbike was returned to Mr Z and no settlement was made by Markerstudy for it 
was because of the effect on the claim outcome. That did not happen because the policy 
was cancelled. And no extra premium was charged for the cover  rather Markerstudy just 
looked at what it would have charged, and applied that to determine the claim outcome.
I know Mr Z thinks he answered the questions put to him by the broker correctly. And 
I understand he has raised a complaint in this respect. I cant comment on that here. But 
what I can comment on is the detail Markerstudy received from the broker and on which the 
policy was based. The broker told Markerstudy the bike was kept in a garage overnight. The 
broker would know that where the bike was kept would likely affect the cover being offered. 
So it would be important to provide the correct detail to Markerstudy. And Im satisfied that 
Markersudy has shown this detail  on which it based its offer of cover  is incorrect.
Markerstudy has photos which show that there is an area under the building where Mr Z 
lived, which the residents of the building  not just Mr Z  could use for parking. And Mr Zs 
parking space within that area was not individually segregated or secured. That type of 
parking arrangement would generally not be referred to as a garage and would be indicative 
of an additional risk for most insurers, beyond that which they envisage when offering cover 
for garaged bikes. That is because people other than the bikes owners, and the residents 
of their home, have access to the vehicle. And the security of the area is not under the 
overall control of the bikes owner or of the residents of their home. Markerstudy has shown 
that it would not have offered this policy to Mr Z if it had been told his bike was not garaged.   
Quite often, and as allowed for by legislation, the fact that no cover would have been offered, 
would result in the insurer voiding the policy in place. That would also usually mean that 
claim would fall away too because the voidance would effectively mean that there hadnt 
been a policy for it to be considered under. So if Markerstudy had followed this usual route, 
Mr Z still would not have got his claim settled. And hed have had a voidance on his record. 
A policy being voided can have significant consequences for a policyholder when looking for 
future cover. A voidance needs to be declared to future insurers, and will cause many to not 
offer cover, with those that do often charging a much higher premium. So it is fair to say that 
Mr Z has most likely benefitted from Markerstudy not seeking to void his cover.
Instead of voiding, in March 2022, Markerstudy looked at its wider portfolio of cover and, 
noting it would have offered a policy on a different scheme, sought to apply those terms to 
the situation here. Markerstudy has shown us the terms it would have offered (most relevant 
price and excess). I know Mr Z thinks that was too high, but it is up to the insurer to set its 
prices. It is a matter of each insurers commercial decision what it charges. As long as an 
insurer charges everyone that presents a similar risk in a similar way, this service would be 
likely to find it has acted fairly. And that is the cases even if the end sum, premium and/or 
excess, feels like a lot of money to the policyholder/prospective policyholder. Markertsudy 
has satisfied me that its priced the cover it would have offered fairly. 
So, with the price for cover Markerstudy would have offered being £1,899.40, it compared 
that to that which Mr Z had paid it  £180.90. This was to see what proportion Mr Z had paid 
to it of the premium it would have charged, if it had been given the correct detail. It 
determined that to be around 9% and it applied that 9% to the claim outcome. I think that 
was a fair and reasonable way of doing things in the circumstances. It has had an effect on the claim  but if Markerstudy had avoided the policy, as Ive explained that it couldve done, 
the claim wouldve fallen away anyway. And Mr Z would also have had a voidance on his 
record which, as Ive also explained, wouldve had a negative effect on him going forwards. 
On balance, I think the way Markerstudy has dealt with this here is fair and reasonable. As 
such I dont uphold this complaint.  
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against Markerstudy Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman