DRN-3614134
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) irresponsibly granted him a 
credit card he couldnt afford to repay. 
What happened
In March 2021 Mr A entered into an agreement with RBS to have access to credit by way of 
a credit card account. He was given a credit limit of £7,300. 
Mr A had taken out a previous card with RBS in January 2020 with a credit limit of £6,300. 
Mr A says that RBS didnt complete adequate affordability checks when it opened his credit 
card account. He says he should be put back to the financial position he was in prior to being 
granted the second card. 
RBS didnt agree. It said that it carried out a reasonable and proportionate assessment to 
check Mr As financial circumstances before granting him the second card account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She said that whilst RBS could 
possibly have carried out better checks, the card lending he was granted was affordable. 
As Mr A didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
RBS will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our approach to 
these complaints is set out on our website. 
Account opening
Before opening the account, I think RBS gathered a reasonable amount of evidence and 
information from Mr A about his ability to make the monthly repayments. I say this because it 
completed credit and affordability checks which showed no recent adverse information in 
relation to Mr As borrowing. Mr A had said in his card application that he was in full-time 
employment (although Mr A says this was an error) with a monthly income of around £6,000. 
RBS said this was consistent with the monthly turnover of income going through Mr As 
current account. RBS then made estimated allowances for Mr As monthly living and housing 
costs and relied on credit reference data to establish Mr As level of monthly debt repayment 
at that time as totalling around £740. Based on that, RBS estimated that Mr A would have a 
disposable income each month of around £3,700, which meant it was likely hed able to 
afford the monthly cost of the credit card repayments. 
I think, given that Mr A had a significant amount of existing credit and was about take on 
significantly more, it would have been proportionate for RBS to have verified Mr As financial 
circumstances in some way. In the absence of anything else, Ive reviewed three months of 
bank statements leading up to the lending decision. I think this gives a good indication of 
what RBS would likely have discovered if it had tried to verified expenditure in some way. 
The bank statements show Mr As income as being broadly consistent with the information 
RBS relied upon. The statements show that Mr As average income each month was around 
£5,800. He had average committed expenditure each month of around £2,900, taking into 
account his housing and living costs and existing credit repayments. I think this 
demonstrates that Mr A appears to have had enough disposable income each month to 
make regular, sustainable repayments towards this new credit facility. Had RBS completed 
more proportionate checks, I think its likely it would have discovered this too. It therefore 
didnt act unfairly by offering Mr A the  credit facility. 
Did RBS act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Mr A says that RBS ought not have lent to him given that he was operating an overdraft on 
his RBS bank account. From the bank statement evidence Ive seen, prior to being granted 
the second card, Mr A was making use of his overdraft for each month whilst he awaited 
receiving tranches of income  typically about four times a month. This is not an unusual 
pattern in itself, especially when balancing fixed outgoings against income that comes in at 
different times. Whilst Ive seen that Mr A was making increased use of his overdraft at the 
time, I dont think this in itself means he didnt have sufficient disposable income to afford the 
repayments hed need to make with the card. At the time, Mr A appeared to be managing his 
finances by making use of the overdraft as a buffer in this way. The checks carried out by 
RBS, which included his current account, showed average monthly turnover that was 
consistent with his stated of level of income. It therefore didnt raise any particular concerns 
with RBS at that point. 
It follows that taking into account Mr As overall financial situation, his income stream and 
existing credit commitments, I dont think the new card and the balance transfer borrowing  
taken with it was unaffordable. 
I therefore agree with our adjudicator that RBS didnt act unfairly when approving the finance 
application for the second card. It follows that it doesnt need to do anything more. 
Given that I understand Mr A is now in a debt repayment plan, I would however expect RBS 
to act with appropriate forbearance in seeking to assist Mr A to find a fair and manageable 
way to pay back the debt he owes. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman