DRN-4024773
The complaint
Mrs G is unhappy with Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard asking her to fill in an 
income and expenditure form when she contacted it about arranging a paydown plan for her 
credit card.
What happened
Barclays corresponded with Mrs G about her credit card being in persistent debt. Mrs G felt 
the details were ambiguous about the card being suspended and said the monthly amount it 
wanted her to pay was at the level she was already paying. Mrs G rang Barclays about the 
correspondence to talk about a paydown plan but didnt go ahead as Barclays needed an 
income and expenditure form completed. Mrs G was clear that she didnt want to complete 
this. She stated she didnt want to give Barclays private financial details and she wasnt 
doing anything wrong with the card. Mrs G confirmed to Barclays she would leave 
arrangements as they currently stood.
Mrs G brought a complaint to this service. She wanted Barclays to arrange the paydown 
plan for her, she wanted it to resolve the issue that shed lost two months at the paydown 
plan lower interest rate as she hadnt been able to get it up and running when she wanted to. 
And Mrs G wanted £300 compensation for this, the time shed spent making calls and 
dealing with correspondence and the stress and anxiety this had caused her.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said based on industry codes and 
guidelines she accepted that Barclays had followed these and acted reasonably and fairly.
Mrs G didnt accept this and asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
Mrs G has added in other points too, at a later time Barclays said she didnt need to fill in an 
income and expenditure form to get a payment plan set up, and she was unhappy about a 
late payment marker being added to her credit file for a late monthly credit card account 
payment. These later and further points arent central to Mrs Gs original complaint and so 
werent dealt with by Barclays in its final response. Ill include in my findings the point about 
later being able to get a paydown plan without the need for the income and expenditure form 
and Mrs G has raised a separate and further complaint about the late payment marker being 
placed on her account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Within the Financial Conduct Authority rules (CONC 6.7.27) banks are required to follow 
guidelines on persistent debt as its a cause of potential harm regarding credit and store 
cards. I know Mrs G said that she didnt get all the correspondence Barclays sent out but 
based on the details Ive seen I think Barclays did send out what it was required to.
Ive read all of the details and evidence and listened to the calls too. It is clear that Mrs G 
wasnt comfortable or happy to comply with Barclays request for income and expenditure 
details when Mrs G wanted to set up a paydown plan. But is clear that it was a requirement 
Barclays had at the time and the call handler was following Barclays standard approach. 
Both Mrs G and Barclays put their points across, and Mrs G made a choice not to provide 
the information Barclays required. I can understand Mrs G not wanting to give out personal 
financial information. But I can also see why this information was important to Barclays if it 
was to set up the paydown plan.
I think it was clear at the end of the call that Mrs G wasnt prepared to move on providing the 
information and the parties agreed that the existing arrangements would continue. Mrs G 
decided she would prefer to not go into a paydown plan at that point if she couldnt do so 
without giving over more information. Ive no reason to doubt Mrs Gs point that the payment 
amounts were similar, and she would have been able to make the payments. But I dont 
think Barclays acted unfairly or unreasonably as it was following its process at that time.
It is accepted that at a later date Barclays did relax its requirements for Mrs G. It said it was 
able to have a brief discussion with Mrs G and as it now held enough information it could 
agree a paydown plan. It said when Mrs G made the initial request her account hadnt been 
suspended. Barclays maintained that no errors were made in its process at either time. Ive 
no reason to doubt this and accept Barclays acted reasonably throughout.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make no award against Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman