DRN-2546031
The complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy with the way Great Lakes Insurance SE has calculated its offer of 
a premium refund for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs E bought an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 17 January 2020, to cover any trips of up to 45 days duration 
taken in Europe, up to a maximum of 120 days in the whole policy year. The policy year 
started on 17 January 2020 and ended on 16 January 2021. 
Mr and Mrs E paid £520.06 for the standard level of annual multi-trip travel insurance cover, 
which also covered medical conditions they had declared. 
On 4 April 2020, Mr and Mrs E cancelled their holiday and also contacted the broker to 
cancel their travel insurance policy. Great Lakes said that, as this was outside the 14-day 
cooling off period, no refund of the premium was due. 
 
Unhappy with this response, Mr and Mrs E brought their complaint to our service. Before our 
investigation began, Great Lakes offered Mr and Mrs E a refund of 50% of the premium paid 
as a gesture of goodwill. Mr and Mrs E didnt accept this offer. They didnt think that a 50% 
refund was fair as they had requested that the policy be cancelled much earlier than halfway 
through the cover. They felt the refund should reflect this and asked us to review the matter.
 
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. She found that neither the relevant 
regulators rules nor the policy terms and conditions entitled Mr and Mrs E to a premium 
refund and that Great Lakes had gone above and beyond what it was required to do by 
offering a refund. But she felt Great Lakes should increase the offer to provide a pro-rata 
refund from the time it was no longer on risk. So, she didnt think that the offer of 50% was 
fair.
Mr and Mrs E accepted our investigators opinion, but Great Lakes disagreed. Great Lakes 
said that Mr and Mrs E were not entitled to any refund under the policy. And as it had been 
providing cover for a period of time prior to the cancellation, it felt the offer was fair.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
 
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs E held have a cooling off period of 
14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says: 
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr and Mrs E contacted Great Lakes regarding the cancellation of their travel insurance 
policy over two months after they had taken it out  so the cancellation request was not 
made within 14 days. And, under industry rules, even if Mr and Mrs E had cancelled the 
policy within this time period, they wouldnt have been entitled to a full refund of the premium 
paid. This is because Great Lakes was already covering the risk of them needing to cancel 
any trips for reasons that were covered under the policy during that time, such as ill health.
The policy terms and conditions 
The terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Es insurance policy with Great Lakes outline their 
cancellation rights under the contract. These say: 
You have the right to cancel up to 14 days from the date your policy commences, or 
the date on which you receive your policy documentation, whichever is the later.
You will receive a full refund except in the following circumstances:
Your holiday return date is within one month of the commencement of your 
policy. No refund will be given.
Your cover has commenced. A pro rata refund will be given.
You have made or are intending to make a claim. No refund will be given or 
we will recover the monies paid to you in settlement of the claim before 
refunding the premium paid
See below for your rights outside this statutory cooling-off period.
After the statutory cooling-off period you may cancel the policy at any time by 
contacting us, but no refund of premium will be available.As Ive set out above, Mr and Mrs E cancelled the policy more than 14 days after they 
bought the policy. So, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs E arent entitled to a refund under the policy 
terms and conditions.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances 
Whilst I dont think Mr and Mrs E are entitled to any refund of the premiums under the terms 
and conditions of their contract with Great Lakes, Ive considered what I think is fair and 
reasonable taking into account all of the circumstances of the complaint. 
I understand why any future travel plans which Mr and Mrs E might have had during the 
remainder of the policy year  and therefore the need for this annual multi-trip insurance 
policy  changed due to circumstances outside of their control. So, Ive thought about 
whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and 
the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Es contract because of the exceptional and 
extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr and Mrs Es contract with Great Lakes to 
be performed  cover under the policy started on 17 January 2020. This is because 
Mr and Mrs E were insured from that date for travelling on any number of trips of up to 45 
days duration which they may have taken until the policy was cancelled on 4 April 2020. 
Because of the way annual multi-trip insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of 
knowing how many such trips Mr and Mrs E took (unless Mr and Mrs E subsequently made 
a claim under the policy). There may have been many trips or there may have been none, 
but Great Lakes was covering the risk of a claim during the time the policy was in force. 
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr and Mrs E for the cancellation of any holidays 
which they had booked and were due to take from 17 January 2020 until they decided to 
cancel the policy. So, Mr and Mrs E would have been covered if they had to cancel any 
number of holidays for any of the listed reasons detailed in the policy.
Its a fundamental principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the 
risk concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr and Mrs Es cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain any premiums relating to the risk it covered. 
Great Lakes has offered to refund 50% of the policy premium to Mr and Mrs E. Ive thought 
very carefully about this offer. However, I think it is important to recognise that Great Lakes 
didnt bear any risk under Mr and Mrs Es insurance policy after the date they requested to 
cancel the policy  which was only 78 days after the policy was taken out. 
By the time that Mr and Mrs E asked to cancel their policy their planned holiday had already 
been cancelled. Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim for that holiday and therefore it wouldnt 
have born any risk for a claim being made for any insured event. 
And from the date Mr and Mrs E requested the cancellation of the policy, Great Lakes was 
not providing cancellation cover for any other holidays which Mr and Mrs E may have had 
booked, or for any travelling that Mr and Mrs E may have done either abroad or within the 
UK. As I understand it, Mr and Mrs E have not booked or travelled on any trips abroad 
throughout the whole period this policy was due to provide cover.
As Ive mentioned above, the circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 pandemic are incredibly unusual. And based on those unique and unprecedented circumstances, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs E with a pro-rata refund 
of the premium they paid for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy from the date they 
requested that the policy was cancelled  which was 4 April 2020. 
Putting things right
Great Lakes need to provide Mr and Mrs E with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid 
for their annual multi-trip travel insurance policy.
The refund should be calculated based on the unused period of the insurance cover from the 
date Mr and Mrs E initially requested the policy to be cancelled  which was 4 April 2020  
until the original end date of the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons mentioned above, I uphold this complaint.
Great Lakes Insurance SE needs to put things right as Ive outlined. 
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E and Mr E to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman