DRN-2157801
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund to him the money that he paid 
for a laptop. 
What happened
Mr C used his Nationwide credit card in September 2019 to pay £539.10 for a laptop. The 
laptop developed a fault in January 2020. He contacted the retailer and it told him to contact 
the manufacturer. Mr C then claimed a refund from Nationwide under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 but he was contacted by the retailer and agreed to send the 
laptop to the manufacturer. 
The manufacturer said that the fault had been caused by Mr C and that hed have to pay for 
it to be repaired. Nationwide said that it would need an independent report about the fault to 
continue with his claim. Mr C paid £83.05 to the manufacturer for the repair in April 2020 but 
he wasnt satisfied with Nationwides response so complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought that 
Nationwide had acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr C's section 75 claim with the 
evidence it relied upon. 
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says the 
interpretation of the transaction is incorrect and the retailer and credit provider are equally 
responsible for goods supplied under section 75 and the Consumer Rights Act 2015 and that 
hes allowed to put his claim to the credit card company. He says the Consumer Rights Act  
was breached in his situation leaving Nationwide jointly liable with the retailer. He says the 
obligation was on the retailer to provide an independent report on the laptop due to it being 
less than six months old and Nationwide also shares joint responsibility for that breach of 
contract.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
in certain circumstances, section 75 gives a consumer an equal right to claim against 
the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier;
to be able to uphold Mr Cs complaint about Nationwide, I must be satisfied that 
theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer and that 
Nationwides response to his claim under section 75 wasnt fair or reasonable  but 
Im not determining the outcome of Mr Cs claim under section 75 as only a court 
would be able to do that;
theres no dispute that a fault developed with Mr Cs laptop and the retailer told him 
to contact the manufacturer  and when Mr C returned the laptop to the manufacturer 
it said that the fault had been caused by Mr C;
Nationwide relied on the manufacturers assessment of the fault and said that it 
would need an independent report about the fault to continue with Mr Cs claim;
I consider that it was fair and reasonable for Nationwide to rely on the manufacturers 
assessment of the fault and Im not persuaded that there was any requirement for the 
retailer or Nationwide to arrange or pay for the laptop to be inspected by an 
independent expert;
Mr C hasnt provided an independent report about the fault  or any other evidence to 
show that the laptop wasnt of satisfactory quality - and hes paid for it to be repaired 
but he says that he would like a refund for the laptop as he has no faith in it now as it 
isnt of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose and wont last a reasonable amount of time; 
Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the laptop wasnt of 
satisfactory quality or fit for purpose when it was bought by Mr C, or that theres been 
a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the retailer;
I consider that Nationwides response to Mr Cs claim has been fair and reasonable 
in these circumstances; and 
I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Nationwide to refund to 
Mr C the £539.10 that he paid for the laptop, to reimburse him for the cost of the 
repair, to pay him any other compensation or to take any other action in response to 
his complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman