DRN-3289562
The complaint
Mr R complains about issues dealing with his  Mark & Spencer Financial Services Plc 
M&S)loan. He would like an apology, compensation for the inconvenience and for customers 
to be able to complain online or by email.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again here 
instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have reached the reached the following conclusions:-
M&S accepts its service could have been better when Mr R called to get a settlement 
figure for his loan. Rather than struggling on a poor phone line to get his account 
number it could have accessed his account a different way. It  paid Mr R £50 
compensation and gave feedback to the call handler. The main issue here for me to 
decide is if £50 is sufficient compensation as Mr R doesnt feel it is.
I appreciate the inconvenience in the time taken to obtain a settlement quote for Mr 
Rs loan. Having listen to that call its clear there were connection problems which 
meant it took numerous attempts to get the account number. I dont agree with Mr 
Rs assessment that the call handler was rude She was able to give Mr R the 
information he  wanted although she could have done this more quickly by locating 
his account via for example his postcode.
Mr R is also unhappy that he couldnt log a complaint online but had to either make a 
phone call or write into M&S. Its not for us to tell a business what processes to use. 
M&Ss terms and conditions and website both explain how complaints can be made. 
When problems arise as it can take some time and effort to resolve them and 
compensation isnt always appropriate. I think in this case as it took longer than it 
should have done for Mr R to get the information, he needed it was reasonable for 
M&S to pay some compensation. I am not aware of any other factors that lead me to 
think  M&S should further compensate Mr R. He hasnt for example suffered any 
financial or reputational loss because of M&Ss actions. Based on the information I 
have  I think the £50 compensation paid is fair for the cost of his phone calls and the 
inconvenience caused
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2022.
 
Bridget Makins
Ombudsman