DRN-4158241
The complaint
Mr J is complaining about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has handled a claim he 
made on his buildings insurance policy.
What happened
In November 2021 Mr Js property was damaged in a storm  with damage occurring to the 
roof and greenhouse. As a result of the damage to the roof, rainwater got into his property 
causing further damage. So Mr J reported the damage to UKI to claim on his buildings 
insurance policy. Hes unhappy with the way UKI has handled the claim for the following 
reasons:
He said it took months for UKI to start the work on the property. As a result of this, he 
says his property suffered further damage  both internally and to the battens in the roof. 
He said that, during this time, he was given a number of assurances by UKI and its 
contractors about things that would happen, but then didnt do so. He also said that his 
grandchildren were unable to stay with him over the Christmas period because of the 
ongoing issues with the property.
Hes unhappy UKI initially said it wouldnt cover the damage to his flat roof. Hes also 
unhappy that it only repaired part of the roof, rather than replacing all of it.
He says he and his wife suffered personal injuries as a result of UKIs agents actions. 
He says his wife received an electric shock because water got into the electrics as a 
result of the failure to carry out adequate temporary repairs to the roof. And he says he 
fell over a ladder that he says UKIs agent left in an unsafe place  causing him to suffer 
injuries to his head, shoulder, knee and ankle when he tripped over it in the dark. 
UKI said he needed to arrange for an electrician himself to carry out the electrical repairs 
that were required. He thinks its unfair he had to do the work to source an electrician 
and believes it was UKIs responsibility to do so.
He doesnt believe UKI has adequately fixed the roof as he says the roof battens are still 
soaked through. He believes this is down to the delay in safeguarding the property at the 
start. He says the roofers who carried out the repairs said that the battens needed 
replacing, so hes unhappy UKI didnt authorise this.
UKI acknowledged that it had caused delays in the handling of claim. And it offered him 
£400 in compensation. However, it didnt uphold his complaint regarding the electrician and 
the roof repairs. It said it was entitled to request that he arrange and appoint an electrician 
as it didnt have any contracted electricians on its books. It also said that there should be felt 
lining between the tiles and battens, but there wasnt any on Mr Js roof as it had worn away 
over time. And it didnt believe the battens were damaged by the storm, as it thought the 
issue had been there beforehand.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint as she thought UKIs compensation offer was 
fair. And she didnt think there was anything to show that the roof hadnt been adequately 
repaired.
Mr J didnt agree with the investigator and he arranged for a surveyor to inspect the roof. He 
said the surveyor had highlighted that the roof battens were still wet. He also said there was 
evidence of poor previous repairs. The investigator asked for UKIs comments on this report. 
UKI said it hadnt carried out repairs in the area that the surveyor highlighted issues. And it 
said the roof has no sarking felt which it said would act as a barrier to protect the roof from 
rain penetration if it was there. It highlighted that the roof has been there for around 200 
years with no felt. So it still thought that any issues with the timbers are age related rather 
than down to the insurance claim.
I issued a provisional decision not upholding this complaint and I said the following:
I intend to say that UKIs compensation offer is fair and Ill now explain why.
I should first set out that Im conscious Ive summarised Mr Js complaint in a lot less detail 
that hes set out  particularly in respect to the detailed history about what happened on the 
claim. I also dont intend to comment on each and every point Mr J has raised. However I 
assure him that I have read and considered everything hes provided. In this decision Ive 
focussed on what I consider to be the key points that Im being asked to decide. Our rules 
entitle me to do this.
Mr J has told us hes resolved his personal injury claim privately with UKIs agent. So I dont 
need to comment further on this.
I think there are two key issues for me to decide here:
1. The length of time it took UKI to finalise the claim; and
2. Whether UKI has completed all the repairs its required to do under the terms of the 
policy.
I shall consider each point separately.
Delays in handling the claim
Theres no dispute that UKI and its agent caused some significant delays in the handling of 
this claim. I dont intend to set them all out because, as I said, its agreed that the claim 
should have been handled quicker  particularly at the beginning. But in summary, Ive found 
the following key delays:
There were significant delays at the start of the claim in arranging to carry out temporary 
repairs to safeguard the property from further damage for a number of reasons.
UKIs contractor didnt inspect the flat roof when it carried out its initial inspection. This 
meant that a further inspection had to be carried out.
The contractors didnt erect scaffolding around the whole house, which meant the roof 
works werent able to start when they should have done.
There seemed to be a breakdown in communication between UKI and its contractors 
which caused delays in getting certain works authorised.
However, I am also conscious that this was an extremely challenging time for insurers and 
their respective contractors with a significant uplift in claims due to the severity of storms at 
that time. So there was a shortage in available contractors to carry out the work required, 
due to no fault of UKI. I cant hold UKI responsible for something that was out of its control. 
However, it still seems to me that there were avoidable delays of around three months.
Im also conscious that there were a number of times when Mr J was told certain things 
would happen  such as receiving dehumidifiers, delays in being told that theyd look into 
getting the electrics resolved, but over two weeks later he was told to arrange his own electrician.
Further to this, it seems that Mr J was given no option, but to source his own electrician to 
carry out the electrical work. Mr J set out that he didnt want to do so and believed UKI 
should arrange to get the work done. I understand UKI didnt have a contracted electrician it 
could use, so its not unusual for insurers to ask the policyholder if they are willing or able to 
source their own contractor in these circumstances. And the terms of the contract allowed 
UKI to do this. But I dont think its fair to insist that the policyholder arranges for work to be 
done when they have a fair reason to not want to do so. Mr J and his wife were suffering 
from health concerns and were on benefits. So theyve set out that didnt want to have to 
arrange this work themselves. And I can understand their concerns regarding this. So, once 
aware that Mr J didnt want to instruct his own electrician, I think UKI should have sourced 
an electrician itself at that time.
Im conscious Mr J has raised a number of other issues about the way the claim has 
progressed and also highlighted the distress and inconvenience this matter has caused him. 
But I also think a lot of this distress is down to the general distress and inconvenience that 
would generally occur from having to make a claim such as the one he made. And UKI isnt 
required to compensate him for this. Im also conscious that a lot of this distress also arises 
from a disagreement about how the claim should be handled  particularly regarding how the 
roof should be repaired. But Im not persuaded that, other than the delays Ive set out, UKI 
has handled the claim unreasonably.
Ultimately, while I agree that UKI could have handled the claim better, I think the £400 in 
compensation UKI has offered is fair compensation for the avoidable distress and 
inconvenience its caused and is in line with what I would have awarded.
Has it carried out the repairs its required to do?
Mr J is unhappy with the quality of the repairs to the roof. Hes also been consistent 
throughout the claim that he feels UKI should have replaced the roof in its entirety, including 
the battens that support it. But Im not persuaded that its handled this unreasonably.
Under the terms of the insurance policy, UKI was required to arrange to have the damage 
arising from the storm repaired. But its also a standard principle of insurance that insurers 
arent required to put a consumer in a better position than they were before  a principle 
often referred to as betterment.
As I said, Mr J believes UKI should have replaced the whole roof, but I dont agree. Im firstly 
mindful that Mr Js roof was around 200 years old before the storm. UKI would only be 
required to replace the roof in full if its not possible to repair the damage caused by the 
storm without doing so. But, even if the roof had to be replaced, UKI could have required 
Mr J to contribute towards the cost of the repair if doing so would mean replacing parts that 
were damaged or in a poor state of repair before the storm. However, in this case I can see 
from the latest photos of the roof that the damage has been repaired without replacing the 
roof in full. So Im satisfied that the full roof replacement wasnt required.
Mr J has set out that he believes the delay in safeguarding the roof has meant that the roof 
battens have rotten through. And hes provided a report that sets out that the quality of the 
repairs werent satisfactory. But Im not persuaded that is the case.
I can see that UKI arrange for the battens to be reinspected and the contractor set out that 
there was evidence of water ingress and suggested that the issue with the dampness on the 
battens were a pre-existing issue. I can also see another contractor has said that battens will 
dry over time if they get wet, but if they dont then this highlights a pre-existing issue.Ive reviewed the condition report that Mr J has provided from a surveyor he instructed. 
However, Im not persuaded that this sets out any issues with the repairs to the roof. Hes 
highlighted that lead tingles have been used to secure the tiles. But hes not said that this 
shouldnt be used as a repair method and has specifically said The presence of this number 
of lead tingles indicates that this has been an ongoing issue, likely due to nail sickness or 
batten failure. UKI has confirmed that this is also why tingles were used.
Mr J has highlighted that a large number of faults were highlighted, but these related to 
areas of the roof that werent damaged in the storm, so were pre-existing and not something 
UKI is liable for. It seems to me that the report corroborates that the roof had a number of 
pre-existing issues before the storm  particularly referring to batten fatigue  which is 
commensurate to the roofs age.
Ultimately, Im not persuaded that the battens were damaged by the storm and it seems 
most likely that this has simply highlighted a pre-existing issue. I appreciate Mr J feels 
strongly about this, but I cant reasonably say that UKI needs to replace the battens in the 
roof. And Im satisfied its carried out the repairs its required to do under the terms of the 
insurance policy.
Mr J didnt agree with my provisional decision and, in summary, raised the following points:
He said the battens had never been wet before the incident.
He acknowledged that the surveyor had highlighted other non-related issues. But he said 
the surveyor also pointed out poor workmanship by UKI  i.e. that there are slates that 
havent been replaced.
He said the surveyor set out that tingles should only be used for small areas of repair. He 
said the tingles themselves have to be nailed to the battens which he commented that 
the surveyor had pointed out will cause nail sickness in a few years because they are 
wet.
He highlighted that the surveyor commented there was a leak in the main bedroom due 
to the battens still being wet. He didnt think it was fair that two disabled people should 
be left with a roof that should have been repaired in full but is still leaking two years on. 
And he didnt think its fair that they have to pay to put things right.
UKI responded to say it accepted my findings and had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and considered Mr Js response to my provisional decision, but I dont think hes 
raised anything materially new. So I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one 
I reached in my provisional decision.
I naturally sympathise with the situation Mr J finds himself in. I recognise there continues to 
be issues with the property, but the issue I need to decide is whether its fair for UKI to say 
its not liable to cover this remaining damage. And Im satisfied that my provisional decision 
clearly sets out why Ive come to the conclusion I have. But, I shall comment further in 
respect to the comments Mr J has raised.
Mr J has said that hes never seen the battens wet before, but I dont think this is in dispute. 
But it seems to me that the effects of the water ingress arising from the storm may have 
highlighted an underlying issue with the battens that may not have been apparent before the storm. But this doesnt mean they were damaged by the storm  or UKIs handling of the 
claim. Im satisfied that UKI has reasonably demonstrated that there were pre-existing issues 
with the battens that werent caused by the storm and are down to a gradual deterioration 
over a period of time. And, also for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, this also 
appears to be the findings of the surveyor too. I think this is the reason the battens remain 
damp. But this damage isnt covered under the terms of the insurance policy.
I acknowledge Mr Js comments regarding the large use of tingles. But, as I said previously, 
both the surveyor and UKI set out that this method was used due to the pre-existing 
condition of the battens. Ultimately, I havent seen anything to suggest that UKIs agents 
repair methods were unreasonable given the specific circumstances of this claim.
I note Mr J says the surveyor has set out that there are slats missing. But I can see that a 
number of these issues were pre-existing and not related to the storm. And Im not 
persuaded Ive seen anything to show that UKI hasnt replaced the tiles that were damaged 
in the storm. 
Finally, Ive thought about Mr Js comment that there remains a leak as he highlighted the 
surveyor commented there was damp in the purlin in the main bedroom. But, crucially, the 
surveyor also highlighted that it couldnt be identified what the cause of this was. UKI has 
also set out that this area wasnt part of the insurance claim. And Im satisfied from looking at 
the report and respective areas of damage that thats the case.
I do not dispute that there remain issues with the roof and some water ingress. But it seems 
to me that this is mostly down to a pre-existing and underlying issue with the quality of the 
roof. And I think that this is ultimately the primary cause of the remaining issues  not the 
storm. So I dont think I can reasonably say UKI has any further liability from this claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that I think U K Insurance Limiteds 
compensation offer of £400 is fair. It should pay this to Mr J directly if it hasnt already done 
so. I make no further award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2023. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman