DRN-3696050
The complaint
Ms L complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly terminated her 
income protection claim. 
What happened
Ms L is a beneficiary of her employers group income protection scheme, underwritten by 
L&G. She became unwell and was unable to work in 2004 due to anxiety and depression. 
She made a claim against the policy, which L&G accepted and paid. 
In 2020, L&G reviewed the claim. It arranged a rehabilitation consultation in which Ms L 
described her symptoms at that time and how these affected her. The report showed Ms L 
said she had ongoing low mood and anxiety as well as fatigue and poor sleep. Also 
difficulties with memory, concentration and lack of motivation and confidence. The 
medications Ms L was prescribed were listed, and it was noted she had no medical 
appointments booked and had last seen her GP in April 2019. 
The report concluded Ms L felt unable to return to work, and had said thoughts of doing so 
triggered a relapse in her symptoms. Her barriers to returning to work included anxiety, panic 
and lack of confidence. As well as low mood and lack of focus. 
Following the report, L&G arranged a consultation with a psychiatrist  Dr F, to review Ms Ls 
symptoms and treatment at that time. In summary Dr F said he thought Ms L had suffered 
work-related stress. He referenced that shed had unsatisfactory experiences at work. And 
he thought her symptoms such as low mood and trouble with sleep were connected to work-
related stress. He said Ms Ls long-term absence was likely because the factors prolonging 
her recovery were behavioural, occupational and social and economic, rather than due to 
pathology or medical problems, and management of the situation had been to avoid the 
stressors. 
Dr F said it was unusual for a depressive episode to last for so long without a progression to 
a very severe disorder, commenting that although Ms Ls symptoms were similar to 
depressive psychopathology, these were more commonly associated with stress, rather than 
an illness. And he noted that the anti-depressants prescribed to Ms L had not assisted her in 
a return to normal functioning.  Overall he thought Ms L had been misdiagnosed with 
adjustment disorder and depression and said her presentation at the review didnt persuade 
him there was a depressive illness or specific anxiety. He recommended targeted talking 
therapy and psychological techniques and thought changes in Ms Ls symptoms could be 
possible within three to six months.
In May 2020, following the review, L&G said it thought Ms L no longer met the policy 
definition of incapacity. And it said it would cease benefit payments after the end of August 
2020.
Ms L later obtained her own medical report from Dr N who is a psychiatrist, and provided this 
to L&G together with up to date GP records. Dr N reviewed Ms Ls condition in March 2021. 
He said Ms L was likely to have been suffering from Recurrent Depressive Disorder since 
2004 or before, and was still continuing to suffer with the same. Plus Social Anxiety Disorder 
and long standing symptoms of Generalised Anxiety. He said he thought these disorders 
would have prevented Ms L from being able to work in her role from April 2020 until the time 
of his report. And that her symptoms had considerable impact on her ability to function. He 
recommended Ms L see a specialist in mood and anxiety disorders, and trial further 
medication, plus psychological treatment focused on work related situations. And said this 
could improve the chance of her being able to work again. 
L&G sent the new evidence to Dr F for comment. But he said it didnt change the opinion he 
gave in April 2020. He noted Dr Ns report had been written almost a year after his previous 
review. And he related some of the recent changes in Ms Ls condition (including increases 
in medication, deterioration in mood and an incident of self-harm), to L&Gs decision to 
terminate the benefit payments. He said he thought some of Dr Ns opinions had been based 
on Ms Ls own self-reporting of her symptoms. And that these opinions were at odds with 
two of three specialists who had previously assessed Ms L and had anticipated a recovery. 
And he challenged some of Dr Ns conclusions as lacking the required evidence, and cited 
relevant medical guidelines and classifications to support his opinion. 
In conclusion he said the further evidence had suggested that a behavioural disorder could 
be present, together with stress. But he was still of the opinion that the evidence did not 
show the presence of a psychiatric illness, and maintained Ms Ls inability to return to work 
was due to non-illness related stress as per his original findings. 
L&G said it had originally terminated the claim following the review in 2020, as the evidence 
showed Ms L had the capacity to return to her occupation and that her continued absence 
was due to work related stress. It said after reviewing Ms Ls appeal and new evidence, it 
maintained that decision. 
Unhappy with L&Gs response, Ms L brought her complaint to this service. She said she 
would like her claim reinstated and to be paid the payments she has missed, together with 
interest and compensation. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened and said they didnt think L&G had 
unfairly terminated the claim. 
L&G made no comments on the investigators view. However Ms L disagreed and said she 
still thought L&G had terminated her claim unfairly. In particular she said Dr F may have 
been biased. She was also concerned hed not been provided with her latest GP notes for 
his review and thought it unfair that L&G had given more weight to his opinion, than other 
medical professionals who had reviewed her. 
As Ms L disagreed with the investigators view, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive looked at the relevant rules and industry guidelines, which say L&G has a 
responsibility to handle claims promptly and fairly and shouldnt reject (or terminate) a claim 
unreasonably. 
Ms L has made detailed submissions to us about her complaint. And I appreciate she would 
probably like me to deal with every point shes raised. But, were an informal alternative to 
the courts and this means Ive focused on the issues that I think are material in determining a fair and reasonable outcome to this complaint. No discourtesy is intended by this; it simply 
reflects the informal nature of the ombudsman service and my role in it. I should also clarify 
that Im reviewing L&Gs decision to terminate the claim, so Ive focussed on the period 
following the start of L&Gs review in 2020, rather than the history of the claim which was 
being paid. 
Im very sorry to hear of the struggles Ms L has had with her mental health. My assessment 
here is not based on whether Ms L has been unwell, but rather Ive looked at whether I think 
L&G fairly terminated her claim.
The relevant policy terms and conditions are as follows. 
Disabled member means an Insured Member who at any time,
(i) in the opinion of Legal & General, is incapacitated by a specific, diagnosed 
illness or injury which prevents him from performing the essential duties of his 
own occupation, and 
(ii) continues to be in employment, and 
(iii) is not engaged in any other occupation, other than one which gives rise to a 
payment of a partial benefit. 
For the purposes of (i) above 
(a) own occupation means the job carried out by the Insured Member under his 
contract of employment immediately prior to the commencement of the Deferred 
Period, and 
(b) the Insured Members capacity to perform the essential duties of his own 
occupation will be determined whether or not that occupation remains available to 
him
Ms Ls original claim was paid by L&G, so it accepted that, at that time, she met the 
definition of a disabled member as set out in the policy. And as it was L&G who terminated 
the claim, it needed to demonstrate Ms L no longer met that definition. Its my role to decide 
whether its fair and reasonable for L&G to have terminated the claim on the basis that Ms L 
no longer met the policy definition of a disabled member. Having reviewed the medical 
evidence, Im persuaded L&G terminated the claim fairly. And Ill explain why.
An insurer is entitled to review an ongoing claim and to request medical evidence to support 
a claimants ongoing incapacity. And L&G has said the review was prompted by a request 
from Ms Ls employer to consider a settlement. So Im satisfied it was not unfair for L&G to 
undertake the review it began in early 2020. And I think the rehabilitation consultation it 
arranged, followed by an independent medical exam, was appropriate. 
L&G appointed a consultant psychiatrist to review Ms Ls previous medical reports and to 
examine her. And again I think this was appropriate in the circumstances. Dr Fs report was 
detailed, and demonstrated that he had reviewed and considered both Ms Ls job role and 
her medical history as well as the past medical opinions and diagnoses. And he offered 
explanations as to why Ms Ls previous diagnoses may have been incorrect. I find his report 
to be persuasive in its reasoning and conclusion that Ms L had suffered work related stress, 
rather than a psychiatric illness. And so Im satisfied that it was not unfair for L&G to rely on 
Dr Fs report, and in turn to terminate the claim.
Ms L disputed L&Gs decision, and later provided her own medical report from another 
specialist  Dr N. L&G agreed to review this new evidence, and provided it to Dr F for comment, which is what I would have expected it to have done in the circumstances. Ms L 
has suggested that Dr F may not be impartial as he was appointed by L&G. However 
nothing Ive seen leads me to think that this is the case. 
Ms L said Dr N benefited from her GP notes, whereas Dr F did not. However as Dr F was 
asked to assess Ms Ls condition in 2020 and I note the rehabilitation report stated Ms L had 
not seen her GP since April 2019, I dont think it unreasonable that L&G didnt obtain 
updated GP records for Dr Fs review. And as there were no recent consultations, I dont 
think this prejudiced Dr Fs review at the time. I note Dr F was provided with a copy of the 
rehabilitation report completed in January 2020, Ms Ls continuation statement completed in 
December 2019 and several psychiatrist reports completed since the claim was made in 
2004. And he met with her via a video link for a consultation lasting more than two hours. So 
I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for L&G to rely on Dr Fs report. 
There is an obvious conflict between the opinion of Dr N and Dr F. As Ive said, I think it was 
appropriate that L&G referred the new report to Dr F, as hed conducted the original 
independent medical exam. Dr F provided a further report commenting on Dr Ns findings in 
detail. And as Dr F is a consultant Im persuaded he is the more highly qualified of the two, 
and so I think it reasonable that L&G continued to rely on Dr Fs opinion. 
L&G noted inconsistencies between the symptoms and day to day activities Ms L reported to 
Dr F in April 2020, and those explained to Dr N in March 2021. However it recognised there 
were consistent accounts from Ms L throughout the reports and records, relating to her 
workplace difficulties, pressures and stressors. And having reviewed the reports, I dont think 
these were unreasonable observations. 
L&Gs medical officer reviewed the evidence available, and thought the functional limitations 
Ms L reported to still be present, were not consistent with the activities she had described as 
carrying out when she met with Dr F. He thought the hobbies, voluntary work and planned 
travel Ms L had described demonstrated motivation, concentration and planning consistent 
with an ability to work in her job role. And he said although the opinions of Dr F and Dr N 
differed, both had indicated Ms Ls concerns over returning to work due to stress and work 
performance issues. So he maintained the claim had been correctly terminated. Based on 
the evidence Ive seen, I dont think this was an unfair or unreasonable conclusion in this 
particular case. So overall Im persuaded L&G did enough to demonstrate Ms L no longer 
met the policy definition of a disabled member. And I think it acted fairly in paying the claim 
for a further three months after making the original decision to terminate it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And I 
make no award against Legal and General Assurance Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 January 2023.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman