DRN-3658461
The complaint
Miss M has complained that Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  
(C&G) has declined her claim for the full cost of treatment for her pet dog on the ground that 
some of the costs were for treatment that didnt treat the illness and therefore werent 
covered by her policy.
 
What happened
Miss Ms dog, who Ill refer to as F, has been insured by C&G since 21 December 2020. 
On 18 May 2021 F needed veterinary treatment for possible intoxication having eaten a 
whole poinsettia plant. He was hospitalised for treatment which included treatment with 
fluids. He was discharged the same day. Miss M claimed for the total cost of the treatment 
which came to £627.45.
C&G initially rejected Miss Ms claim on the ground that she hadnt taken sufficient care to 
prevent F from suffering illness as hed been allowed unsupervised access to the room the 
plant was in. Miss M referred her complaint against C&Gs decision to this service.
Following further investigation, on 23 May 2022 C&G subsequently accepted that Miss M 
had taken reasonable steps to ensure Fs safety and that the incident that had caused Fs 
illness was unexpected. It therefore reviewed Fs treatment and agreed to pay £292.02 of 
the total amount claimed. But it didnt accept that it was liable for a further £245.43 claimed 
for fluid therapy, and referred to a term of Miss Ms policy which states as follows:
 What is not insured? 
 Any claim for cosmetic, elective, or routine Treatment or any Treatment which is 
preventive and not treating an Illness or Accidental Injury
On 24 May 2022 Fs vet informed Miss M in writing as follows:
I have spoken with one of my colleagues, and we can confirm that fluid therapy is 
used as essential treatment to any toxicity. If we were to contact the Veterinary 
Poisons Information Service about any toxicity, their 1st line of treatment would be to 
recommend fluid therapy to help flush out any toxins within the body due to the risk of 
kidney damage. Without this treatment the risk of kidney damage and failure is 
increased. It is not a preventative treatment; it is essential and our vets recommend 
this to any toxicity case we deal with.
On 21 June 2022 Fs vet also provided a letter explaining that fluid therapy was an essential 
treatment of any form of toxicity as it aids in the expulsion of toxins without which there is a 
high risk of renal failure and further organ and tissue damage.
On 29 June 2022, our investigator wrote to C&G to ask for its comments on the vets 
professional opinion that fluid therapy is essential, and  if it wasnt willing to reconsider Miss 
Ms claim, to provide the reasons why, along with a copy of any professional opinions it 
relied upon to decline this part of the claim. A reminder was sent to C&G on 7 July 2022.
As C&G didnt respond to our investigator, she provided her view on Miss Ms complaint, 
which was to uphold it. C&G hasnt provided any response to our investigators view so Miss 
Ms complaint has been referred to me for a final decision by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
C&G has referred to a term of the policy that excludes cover for treatment that is cosmetic, 
elective or routine, or which is preventative and isnt treating an illness or accidental injury. 
But it hasnt provided any basis for its reliance on this term. It hasnt provided any 
professional or any other evidence that fluid treatment for toxicity falls within the scope of 
this exclusion.
In my view, having taken into account the clear professional opinion expressed by Fs vet, 
the fluid treatment that F received is clearly an important part of the treatment F received for 
his illness, namely toxicity. Fs treating vet has been quite clear as to how essential fluid 
treatment is in treating cases of toxicity. Its not cosmetic, elective or routine. It is 
preventative only in the sense that without such treatment, there is a high risk of further 
organ and tissue damage. 
My conclusion is that I consider that C&Gs rejection of Miss Ms claim is based upon an 
exclusion that is inapplicable in this case. It has acted unfairly and unreasonably towards 
Miss M in excluding the cost of Fs fluid treatment and it should re-assess her claim.
I also consider that C&G has acted unfairly in delaying its assessment of Miss Ms claim that 
was made in June 2021 and in its failure to respond to the further information provided by 
Fs vet in May 2022. This will have caused Miss M unnecessary distress and the 
inconvenience of having to pursue her complaint through this service. I agree with our 
investigator that it would be reasonable for C&G to pay Miss M compensation of £100 for 
this.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Im upholding Miss Ms complaint.
I require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to re-assess Miss Ms 
claim subject to any other terms and conditions of her policy.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Miss M 
interest on any sum paid following such reassessment at the simple rate of 8% from the date 
of her claim to the date that payment is made to her.
If Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited considers that its required by 
HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Miss M how 
much its taken off. It should also give Miss M a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one 
so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also require Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Limited to pay Miss M 
compensation of £100.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 November 2022.
 
Nigel Bremner
Ombudsman