DRN-2918163
The complaint
Ms A is unhappy Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) hasnt reimbursed her for her loss after she was 
the victim of a scam.
What happened
In April 2017 shortly before he sadly passed away, Ms As father gave her a gift of around 
£80,000. Around this time she met an associate of his, who Ill refer to as Mr M. Starting the 
day after her fathers death, Ms A made a series of payments to Mr M between May and 
August 2017. According to the statement Ms A has provided she made the following 
payments to Mr M, mostly in branch in London and Cornwall:
Date Amount Transaction type
8 May 2017 £25,000 Transfer
8 May 2017 £5,000 Cash withdrawal in branch
15 May 2017 £9,600 Transfer
22 May 2017 £30,000 Transfer
21 June 2017 £700 Cash withdrawal in branch
22 June 2017 £2,000 Cash withdrawal in branch
3 July 2017 £9,000 Transfer
15 August £300 Transfer
Total £83,100
At the time she made the payments, Ms A understood she was lending the money to Mr M. 
But, towards the end of 2019 Ms A felt it was clear shed been the victim of a scam. She 
reported the matter to the police and Lloyds. Shes said this prompted the scammer to repay 
around £3,000 to Ms A  one payment made in November 2019 and further payments in 
January 2020. She also told the business hed promised another payment of £5,000 but this 
had not been forthcoming.
Lloyds responded in February 2020 and said it felt the matter was a civil dispute rather than 
a scam as Ms A had received some money back from Mr M. So, it didnt feel it couldve 
prevented the payments from being made. Ms A was unhappy with its response and brought 
the complaint to our service.
I issued a provisional decision earlier this year. Broadly, I said that:
Overall I didnt think Ms A was the victim of a scam. Although I could see Mr M had 
take advantage of her at a vulnerable time, I didnt think it was more likely than not 
hed defrauded her and taken her money with no intention of repaying it. Based on 
the evidence available it seemed he had borrowed from her with unrealistic 
expectations about repayment. And, it seemed he had started repaying Ms A some 
money after she reported him to the police which seemed to reflect the intention to 
repay the money hed borrowed.
Although I had considered all of the evidence the police had been able to share 
about its investigation, which is very limited because of data rules, I didnt think this 
provided persuasive evidence Mr M was defrauding multiple victims. Even if the 
police could confirm other investigations, without any details it wouldnt be clear 
whether Mr M also borrowed money from others with an intent to repay this money 
and this hadnt come to fruition which would be a civil dispute rather than a scam. 
That said, whilst I was satisfied Lloyds had acted reasonably in treating the matter as 
a civil dispute rather than a scam, Id still considered whether I thought it ought to 
have done more when Ms A made the payments she did. I felt they were all 
significantly unusual enough compared to the usual use of her account that Lloyds 
ought to have identified them as such and intervened in line with its obligations. I 
thought it ought to have asked her more about what the payments were for and who 
they were to. And the information available to Lloyds wouldve been the same at the 
time whether the matter was a scam or a civil dispute. So I have effectively 
considered what I think likely wouldve happened if Ms A was scammed.
Having carefully considered the circumstances, I didnt think Lloyds likely wouldve 
been able to uncover the scam had it intervened when Ms A made the payments she 
did. I thought the circumstances Ms A wouldve described  that she was lending 
money to a family friend at the request of her father who had recently passed away  
wouldnt have appeared to have been a scam or a reason for concern. And, further to 
this, based on the information available at the time, I thought it wouldve been 
unreasonable to expect staff at Lloyds couldve accused Mr M of scamming Ms A 
when even she didnt suspect anything herself until over two years later.
I thought it was reasonable for Lloyds to have treated the matter as a civil dispute 
when Ms A initially reported the money shed lost, based on what shed told it. So I 
didnt think it wouldve known at the time to contact the receiving bank in the case of 
the first payment to see if funds remained. But, I could also see that in the case of 
every payment that was made to Mr Ms Lloyds account, it was spent within days. So 
had Lloyds tried to recall the funds, as over two years had passed, it seemed unlikely 
anything wouldve remained. Even if Lloyds had accepted Ms A had been scammed 
and acted as I think it shouldve, I think its unlikely this wouldve resulted in the 
retrieval of the money she lost.
Ms A responded to my provisional decision and explained she was disappointed with the 
conclusions Id reached. She explained that:
Her father had never asked her to lend money to Mr M and shed never said this at 
any point. This was only something Mr M had told her to tell the bank if she was ever 
questioned about the payments she was making.
She recalled an incident where shed walked in on Mr M with her father in a scenario 
that she later recognised as Mr M persuading her father to sign a letter, which Mr M 
later sent to her. She hasnt explained what this letter said.She explained she was happy for us to contact the police officer involved with the 
investigation of her case against Mr M and mentioned other cases being investigated 
alongside hers. She also explained the police officer has described Mr M as having 
groomed her upon realising she would likely be a more compliant victim than her 
father.
Mr M had preyed on her at her lowest point while she was very vulnerable and didnt 
have any support around her.
Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and confirmed it had nothing further for me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant imagine how difficult this situation has been for Ms A and Im genuinely sorry to hear 
about what shes been through. Ive thought very carefully about the additional points shes 
provided and I have reconsidered the case. But overall, Im not persuaded to change my 
mind. I wont repeat everything I said in my provisional decision (and have summarised 
above), but I wanted to address some of Ms As ongoing concerns.
I understand Ms A has said her father didnt ask her to lend money to Mr M and therefore 
she wasnt acting under her fathers instruction. But Ive listened to the calls in which she 
initially reported the matter to Lloyds. In the first call, she told Lloyds her father had already 
lent Mr M money. Shed said when her father had asked Mr M for the money back hed 
learned Mr M was in debt and had gotten involved with loan sharks that were chasing him. 
She said her father had told her Mr M needed to borrow her money.
I recognise a lot of time has passed between now and this call, and since the money was 
initially lent. So I understand how details may have grown unclear over time. But, given the 
initial call to the bank in which the situation was explained was closer in time to the events 
described, I think its appropriate to rely on it. And in this call I think what Ms A said indicates 
her father had discussed lending Mr M money with her, after he had lent him money himself, 
and this happened shortly before he transferred her a large sum of money. So I think Ms A 
was likely acting on her fathers wishes when she lent money to Mr M.
But, perhaps whats more important in this case is that Lloyds only wouldve known what Ms 
A wouldve told it had it intervened when she made the payments she did. And shes said Mr 
M told her to say her father had asked her to lend Mr M money. Based on what Ms A has 
said it seems this is what she wouldve told Lloyds had it asked her more about the 
payments. As Ive explained, I dont think it wouldve appeared to have been a scam had Ms 
A told the bank she was lending money to a family friend at the request of her father shortly 
before his death. Especially given the money was her fathers that hed recently transferred 
to her.
Ms A has also explained Mr M coerced her father into signing a letter. Shes not said what 
the letter says but I understand shes mentioned it to help demonstrate Mr Ms influence over 
Ms A and her father. I cant make a judgment on whether or not this letter was legitimate. 
What I would say, is that Mr M appears to have presented a letter to Ms A that shes said 
she knew her father was coerced into signing, and she walked in on this happening. After 
this, she still lent Mr M money.I recognise Ms A was very vulnerable at the time she lent Mr M money. But Im raising this 
point because I think it strengthens the argument that even if Lloyds had given her any 
warnings or questioned her further about Mr Ms involvement with her, I dont think this 
wouldve alerted her to any problems or prevented her from making the payments. Ms A was 
clearly fully taken in by Mr M when she was sending him money and I think the transactions 
wouldve appeared legitimate to Lloyds staff.
Ms A has said we can again contact the police officer involved in her criminal investigation. 
But we have previously been in touch with them and I think theyve already given us all the 
information they can. I accept what Ms A has said about what happened to her. I understand 
Mr M took advantage of her while she was vulnerable in order to borrow money he clearly 
knew she had come into. But as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think this proves he 
was borrowing money under false pretences with no intention of repaying it. Ms M knew Mr 
M was in financial difficulty when she lent money to him. And he did make some repayment 
to her.
But, overall, I want to explain the case doesnt turn on whether this situation was a scam or a 
civil dispute. Lloyds couldve only ever acted on the information that wouldve been available 
at the time the payments were made and whether it was a scam or a civil dispute this 
information wouldve been the same. Given what Ms A has told us, and Lloyds, I think its 
likely she wouldve told it she was lending money to a family friend at the request of her 
father whod recently passed away. And I think it wouldve been apparent, if questioned 
further, the money she was lending had come from her father. Based on what it wouldve 
known at the time, I dont think Lloyds reasonably couldve recognised a scam or that it likely 
wouldve had reasonable cause to refuse to carry out the transactions.
I again want to say Im very sorry for what Ms A has been through. I can see how difficult this 
has been for her. But I havent found Lloyds likely couldve prevented her loss, so I havent 
asked it to reimburse her for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2022. 
Faye Brownhill
Ombudsman