DRN-3981471
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) has rejected their application for an 
Eco Home Reward.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B approached Lloyds in February 2022 to discuss re-mortgaging. 
After a successful application, Mr and Mrs B redeemed their mortgage with a third-party 
lender. And, as they had some funds leftover, they installed solar panels on their home. 
Mr and Mrs B understood this entitled them to claim a £500 Eco Home Reward which theyd 
seen on Lloyds website. 
Mr and Mrs B say Lloyds rejected their application and said they hadnt notified it of their 
intention to apply for the reward in advance. Mr and Mrs B say there was nothing to indicate 
this was a requirement, so they think Lloyds should honour the reward. 
Lloyds looked into Mr and Mrs Bs concerns and said they werent eligible to claim the 
reward. The eligibility criteria said they needed to apply for additional lending at the same 
time as the mortgage. So, Mr and Mrs B should have made it clear that not all of the funds 
they requested were being used to repay their existing debt. And if they had disclosed that 
they intended to do home improvements, the adviser would have explained what they 
needed to do to claim the reward. 
Mr and Mrs B remained unhappy, so they referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator looked into what happened, but they didnt think Lloyds had done anything 
wrong. As Mr and Mrs B disagreed, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld, and Ill explain 
why.
Lloyds has provided the eligibility criteria for the Eco Home Reward. In order to qualify for 
the reward, a remortgaging customer had to apply for additional borrowing or a further 
advance for home improvements, then make one or more energy efficient home 
improvements within the timescales specified.
I dont know what information appeared on Lloyds website at the time Mr and Mrs B saw the 
scheme. But I can see it currently says:
You must apply for one of these qualifying mortgages:
Extra borrowing for home improvements on top of moving your mortgage to Lloyds.
It goes on to say:
You won't qualify if:
Youre remortgaging to us but dont take out additional borrowing for home 
improvements.
I think its more likely than not the wording was the same or similar when Mr and Mrs B 
decided to apply for the reward. And I think this wording makes it clear it wasnt enough to 
re-mortgage alone  to qualify for the reward, you had to apply for additional lending 
specifically intended for home improvements. 
Lloyds has provided some notes that were recorded during the initial mortgage application 
process. I can see Mr and Mrs B were asked how much they needed to repay their existing 
third-party mortgage and they confirmed they required £160,000. Theres nothing in the 
notes to suggest Mr and Mrs B intended to borrow more than they needed to repay their 
existing mortgage. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs B told the adviser they required an additional 
sum for anything else.
Mr and Mrs B have since explained the outstanding balance on their existing mortgage was 
lower than they said it was in the initial meeting. So, Mr and Mrs B had requested a sum that 
was greater than they actually required to pay off their third-party mortgage. This left them 
with around £5,000 in surplus funds which is what they used to pay for the new solar panels. 
Mr and Mrs B say they didnt know they were going to do this until after they met with the 
adviser, which is why they didnt tell them about it.
Ive thought about this carefully and I can see why Mr and Mrs B may have thought they 
gave all the information they needed to at the time, but I dont think this means they should 
qualify for the award. As innocent as their omission may have been, they had to specify they 
were borrowing an additional amount for home improvements to qualify for the reward. I 
know Mr and Mrs B have said this wasnt said, but as Ive explained above, I think the 
website they reviewed would have made this clear at the time.
While I appreciate Mr and Mrs B say they werent sure what they were going to use the 
additional funds for at the time, they still should have made it clear the actual re-mortgage 
amount required was around £5,000 less than they asked for. Mr and Mrs B have said they 
guessed how much they would need and ensured there would be some funds leftover. 
Theyve also confirmed Lloyds asked them if they wanted to borrow extra, and that they said 
no. So, I think it was always Mr and Mrs Bs intention to borrow an additional sum, but they didnt 
tell Lloyds thats what they were doing. I dont think its unreasonable Lloyds expects its 
customers to be honest about what theyre borrowing funds for  Lloyds had the right to 
know Mr and Mrs B were purposefully overestimating with the intention of having leftover 
funds. And I think its more likely than not this information would have influenced the 
information provided by the adviser and the application they submitted would have needed 
to have been completed differently.
Once Mr and Mrs B decided to make use of the Home Eco Reward, theyve confirmed they 
didnt approach Lloyds to discuss it further. The records show Mr and Mrs B didnt get in 
touch to discuss it until after their online application had already been declined. So, I dont 
think Lloyds had the opportunity to correct Mr and Mrs Bs misunderstanding at any stage. 
And I dont think it would be fair to say Lloyds is responsible for that. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman