DRN-2942894
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Leeds Building Society didnt treat them fairly when they asked 
for changes to their interest only mortgage. It didnt apply a product switch and they paid 
additional interest as a result.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H took out an interest only mortgage with Leeds in 2013. The 10-year term was 
due to expire in 2023.
In August 2018 Mr and Mrs H made capital repayments of about £26,000. They agreed to 
switch part of the mortgage onto a repayment basis and to take out a new interest rate 
product. They intended to repay the remaining interest only part of their mortgage from the 
sale of a buy to let property.
Mr and Mrs H received an annual statement in early 2019 which showed the capital 
repayments. And their monthly payments increased, as theyd been told they would. Leeds 
says the annual statement also set out the interest rate and said the mortgage was on an 
interest only basis.
Mr and Mrs H received an annual statement in early 2020. At this point they realised the 
mortgage balance wasnt decreasing. Leeds said it had written to them in September 2018 
asking for information about their income so it could do an affordability assessment. As it 
didnt receive a response, it didnt make the changes to their mortgage account. Mr and 
Mrs H say they didnt receive the letter. They say Leeds should have tried again to contact 
them.
Mr and Mrs H re-mortgaged with another lender in May 2020. Their new mortgage is on a 
repayment basis, over a longer term and for a different amount.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties setting out why I didnt intend to uphold this 
complaint. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree, saying:
As the information requested by Leeds was of a financial nature this was part of an 
unnecessary affordability check. They said Leeds already had evidence of Mr Hs 
income from an assessment in 2014.
The product switch was in their best interests.
The point of their complaint was that they didnt receive a reminder letter. 
They did provide information to Leeds. They provided copies of emails sent to Leeds in 
2018 attaching bank statements and asking what evidence of their pensions it needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs H asked for changes to their mortgage in August 2018. This included switching 
part of the mortgage onto repayment terms and applying a new product.
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority or FCA) sets out in its rules that it expects 
stringent assessments of affordability and, for interest only mortgages, repayment strategy 
before lenders agree to enter into or vary mortgages.
There are two exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014 (sometimes referred to 
as the transitional provisions). First, where an existing mortgage is to be varied and theres 
no change to its terms likely to be material to affordability. And, if the first exception doesnt 
apply, the lender doesnt have to carry out an assessment of affordability or repayment 
strategy provided the loan balance hasnt increased since 2014 and the proposed change is 
in the borrowers best interests.
Leeds says the exceptions didnt apply here as the transfer of part of the mortgage onto a 
repayment basis meant Mr and Mrs H increased their borrowing. I dont think thats right. 
Switching part of the mortgage onto a repayment basis was a change likely to be material to 
affordability (the monthly payments would increase), and so the first exception didnt apply. 
But Mr and Mrs Hs borrowing didnt increase, they simply changed the repayment method. 
And so the second exception did apply. Leeds could make the changes  despite any 
concerns about affordability or the repayment strategy  if this was in Mr and Mrs Hs best 
interests.
I should say though that the rules dont say that lenders must not do an affordability 
assessment. It might well be fair for a lender to carry out an affordability assessment to help 
assess whether changes are in a customers best interests. I dont think it was unfair for 
Leeds to carry out an affordability assessment. And I dont think it was unfair for it to ask for 
up to date information about Mr and Mrs Hs income rather than rely on information provided 
some four years previously. 
However, Leeds didnt decline the changes to Mr and Mrs Hs account due to concerns 
about affordability or their repayment strategy. It didnt make the changes because it didnt 
receive the documents it requested. Its process to make the changes wasnt completed.
Mr H attended meetings by phone with Leeds mortgage adviser on 2 and 13 August 2018. 
Ive listened to recordings of these calls.
In the first call Mr H said he wanted to take out a five-year fixed rate product. He was happy 
to remain on interest only terms as Mr and Mrs H intended to repay the mortgage through 
the sale of their buy to let property, in which they had equity of about £140,000. As Mr and 
Mrs H had funds available, the adviser recommended moving part of the mortgage onto a 
repayment basis.
In the second call, the adviser went through the key facts illustration and the changes that 
were agreed. She said the monthly payments would be about £405. The adviser said 
following the call she would send out the pack (which included the key facts illustration). She 
said Leeds would need evidence of Mr and Mrs Hs pension income. She said both Mr and 
Mrs H needed to send recent pension statements and bank statements for the accounts their 
pensions were paid into within 21 days. The adviser said once this information was received 
it would be assessed by the underwriters. Leeds would then send an acceptance form for Mr 
and Mrs H to sign and return.
Leeds wrote to Mr and Mrs H on 7 September 2018 saying it needed information about their 
income and setting out a list of the documents it needed. Leeds wrote again on 25 
September 2018 saying it still required proof of income for both Mr and Mrs H.Leeds says it received bank statements for Mrs H. It didnt receive her proof of income or 
anything for Mr H. As it didnt receive the information it requested the process didnt proceed. 
This meant Leeds didnt send out, and Mr and Mrs H didnt return, the acceptance form for 
the proposed changes to their mortgage account.
Mr H says he emailed copies of his bank statements to Leeds at the end of August 2018 and 
provided an email to support this. He also provided a copy of an email sent in September 
2018 which attached Mrs Hs bank statements. In this email, Mr H asked Leeds what they 
needed to provide as evidence of pension income, and said that Mrs H had asked her 
pension provider for a P60 as shed mislaid her copy of this.
Theres no evidence that Leeds responded to Mr Hs question about what evidence of their 
pensions income it needed. I havent seen anything to suggest that Mrs Hs P60 was sent to 
Leeds. While Mr and Mrs H sent copies of documents, they didnt provide originals or 
certified copies as requested by Leeds. So while Mr and Mrs H did send some information, 
they didnt provide what Leeds had asked for. 
I dont think its reasonable to say that Leeds should have made changes to Mr and Mrs Hs 
mortgage account without their agreement. Mr and Mrs H might have changed their minds, 
or decided to look at other options. The five-year fixed interest rate product included an early 
repayment charge (ERC)  this was over £4,000 if they repaid the mortgage in the first two 
years. The ERC would have also applied to overpayments over a certain amount.
Mr and Mrs H made overpayments in late August. Theyd made overpayments before this, 
including in March 2018. There was a discussion on the first call in August about Mr and 
Mrs H making overpayments to this account and their buy to let account. Mr H said he 
wanted to continue to make overpayments. I dont think Leeds could reasonably have known 
just from the overpayment that they wanted to proceed with the changes to their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs H say Leeds should have tried to contact them again. I think Leeds should have 
responded to Mr Hs question about the pension information it needed. But I dont think this 
error means Mr and Mrs Hs complaint should be upheld. I think that Leeds had made Mr H 
aware of the steps needed to make the changes. It told Mr H during the calls in August that it 
needed evidence of their income, and that once it had reviewed this it would send an 
acceptance form. After the call, Leeds sent two reminder letters. I think this was fair. While 
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt receive the second reminder letter, the evidence Mr H recently 
provided suggests they knew there was information outstanding that they hadnt provided. If 
they wanted to proceed and werent sure what evidence of their pension income Leeds 
needed they could have contacted it again.
The annual mortgage statement, sent in early 2019, set out the interest rate and said that 
the mortgage was interest only.
Mr and Mrs Hs monthly interest payment while the standard variable rate (SVR) applied was 
similar to the amount they expected to pay with the new product and part of the mortgage on 
a capital repayment basis. So the amount of the monthly payment didnt alert them to the 
problem. Im sorry Mr and Mrs H didnt realise the changes hadnt been made, and I 
appreciate how frustrating it must have been to find out the SVR had been applied to their 
account for nearly 18 months. 
I dont think though that Leeds treated Mr and Mrs H unfairly or misled them about the steps 
they needed to take or whether the new product had been applied. It follows that I dont 
uphold this complaint.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 August 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman