DRN-3540614
The complaint
Mr R says HSBC UK Bank Plc has not provided an adequate explanation as to why it would 
not allow him to open a US dollar currency account until 23 February 2022 when his credit 
file had been corrected on 24 January 2022.  
What happened
Mr R applied for a currency account on 21 and 31 January 2022 but was declined. He 
discovered a third party had incorrectly reported adverse data to one of the credit reference 
agencies and so arranged for this to be amended. This was done on 24 January 2022. 
HSBC explained the second application was declined as it was made so soon after the 
correction. It would have been reviewing the data from the previous month from credit 
reference agency.
Mr R says he had to spend hours trying to resolve this and so wants compensation for his 
time and for lost interest due to the delay opening the account.
Our investigator did not upheld Mr Rs complaint.  He said Mr R had been able to open an 
account on 23 February 2022 and HSBC had explained it can take at least a month for a 
revision to a credit file to filter through to it. This was why the second application in January 
had declined. He felt HSBCs response to Mr Rs complaint was reasonable.
Unhappy with this assessment Mr R asked for an ombudsmans review. He said he was 
financially disadvantaged by the delay, not frustrated. He attempted to open the account 
several times and had to contact HSBC several times. The core of his complaint was that he 
has been given no explanation as to why it takes HSBC so long to update a credit file, and 
nor why this is seen to be reasonable. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint. Ill explain why. To note, I have 
carefully reviewed all of Mr Rs comments but in keeping with our role as informal dispute 
resolution service, and as our roles allow, I will focus here on the points I find to be material 
to the outcome of his complaint.
I have not found that HSBC made any mistakes in its handling of Mr Rs first two 
applications. As he knows they did not meet its acceptance criteria due to the adverse data 
on his file. 
Our investigator sent Mr R the banks response to his request for an ombudsmans review, 
and its explanation as to why it takes the bank some time to access refreshed credit data. 
HSBC explained that any updates to a consumers credit file would only show against its 
credit checks on the following months report. It said it is common practice for banks to check 
historical data as credit reports are generally updated on a month to month basis. For this 
reason it generally advises people in such situations to wait around three months before 
reapplying. 
But Mr R pointed out that he knows HSBC completes a new search at the point of each 
application. And whilst that may be the case, the information it will receive from the bureau 
may not have been refreshed since the previous month depending on the date of the check 
and the service HSBC subscribes to.
I know Mr R is looking for us to judge if this is reasonable, or not. But we do not have the 
powers to do that. It is the role of the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) to review 
processes, policies and systems across the industry. Our role is to decide in the individual 
circumstances of each complaint if the bank has made a mistake, and if so what it should do 
to put right any detrimental impact.  
And for the reasons set out above I do not find that HSBC made any error that it needs to 
put right or compensate Mr R for. It follows I cannot fairly hold HSBC liable for any financial 
loss Mr R suffered as a result of the delay to his account opening.
My final decision
I am not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman