DRN-4140650
The complaint
Miss D has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt credit her with £240 which she 
deposited at a machine.
What happened
On 23 November 2022 Miss D went into her Barclays branch. She was intending to deposit 
£240 in cash into her account. She used the automated machine and pressed the button to 
withdraw cash rather than deposit money. She wasnt expecting money to be given to her so 
didnt take any cash. This cash was then withdrawn back into the machine. Three minutes 
later Miss D withdrew £20 in cash and then deposited £40 at the same machine.
Once shed checked her account, Miss D realised her account was missing £240 which she 
thought shed deposited. A £240 cash withdrawal had also been registered. She went back 
to Barclays. They found £240 which had been taken back into the machine after Miss Ds 
mistaken withdrawal. This was credited back to Miss Ds account.
Miss D remained unhappy as she was adamant shed deposited £240 and this was now 
missing from her account. She brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator reviewed the evidence Barclays was able to supply. He believed thered 
been no deposit of £240 so wasnt going to ask Barclays to do anything further.
Miss D has asked an ombudsman to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
Where there is a dispute about what happened, I have based my decision on the balance of 
probabilities. In other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened in the light 
of the evidence. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what Barclays and Miss D have told us. This includes the details Barclays holds about the 
transactions Miss D made at the machine between 16:03 and 16:10. Unfortunately there is 
no CCTV evidence available because of the time that has passed. I should also stress, its 
not clear whether this would shed any further light on what has happened here.
I appreciate what Miss D has told us that she made a deposit of £240 but the other evidence 
does not reflect this.
Specifically:
This evidence shows Miss D entered her debit card to withdraw cash at 4:03pm. The 
cash wasnt taken by the person at the machine  Miss D  so the money was taken 
back and this went into the purge bin. This was the cash discovered later and 
credited back to Miss Ds account on 29 November.
At 4:06pm, £20 was withdrawn using the same debit card. 
At 4:09pm a deposit of £40 was made into Miss Ds account. This consisted of 2 £10 
notes and one £20. When calling back at the branch later, Miss D confirmed shed 
made this transaction.
Miss D agrees she continued to retain her debit card throughout these transactions.
Miss D has stated she deposited £240 but there is only the record of one deposit of £40, 
which Miss D confirmed to Barclays was her additional deposit. Theres no record of another 
transaction that was abandoned whether that was a withdrawal or deposit.
Miss D has been unable to confirm where this second amount of £240 came from or how it 
was made up. I suspect that she just became confused after realising shed tried to withdraw 
money but then was unable to access the £240 she thought shed withdrawn. I wonder if this 
is why she then withdrew £20 just to check the machine was working. As she didnt need the 
money, she then re-deposited that £20 along with cash shes told us she had on her.
Im sorry that I am unable to explain satisfactorily what happened here but I dont believe 
Miss D made a deposit of £240 at the time she believes. I wont be asking Barclays to take 
any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss Ds complaint against Barclays 
Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 October 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman