DRN-4033706
The complaint
Mr B complains that Haven Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. He wants it to remove records of the cancellation.
What happened
Mr B took out a policy with Haven and it requested by letter information from him to validate 
the policy or it would cancel in seven days. Haven sent Mr B an email saying that an 
important letter had been sent to him. Mr B didnt receive the letter and so he called Haven 
to ask what it required. But Haven couldnt provide the information over the phone, and it 
said it resent the letter. Mr B didnt receive this either. Haven then emailed and texted to say 
the policy was now cancelled. Mr B was unhappy with this.  
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Haven 
should have contacted Mr B by two methods, not just one. He thought that if Haven had 
emailed Mr B he would most likely have responded to its requests for proof of his address. 
So he thought Haven had unfairly cancelled his policy. He thought Haven should remove all 
records of the cancellation and provide Mr B with a letter to confirm this. He also thought 
Haven should pay Mr B £300 compensation for his trouble and upset.
Haven replied that it had followed its standard procedure for requesting validation 
documents. It asked for an Ombudsmans review, so the complaint has come to me for a 
final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
I think it was fair and reasonable, and in keeping with standard industry practice and the 
policys terms and conditions for Haven to request information from Mr B to validate his 
policy. In this case, Haven wanted to validate Mr Bs address. Haven said its procedure is to 
ask for validation information by post only. But Im not satisfied that this was fair and 
reasonable. 
Firstly, I think Haven could have easily asked Mr B for information to validate his address 
rather than by expecting him to receive and respond to its letter. And I can see that the letter 
was sent by ordinary post rather than by recorded delivery, which would have ensured that it 
arrived at the correct address.  
Secondly, our approach is that notices of cancellation should be sent to consumers by two 
different means. I can see that Haven was able to email and text Mr B. So I cant see why it 
couldnt have used one of these methods as well as a letter.
Im satisfied that Mr B tried to provide Haven with the requested information. When he 
received the email telling him to expect the important letter, he called Haven when it hadnt 
arrived. Haven then had the opportunity to explain what was required. But it didnt do this. It 
told Mr B to await its letter.
When this still hadnt arrived, Mr B called Haven again. The letter was resent. But the policy 
was cancelled the next day and Mr B was then notified of this. So resending the letter 
wouldnt have allowed Mr B sufficient time to respond to Havens request in any case.
Haven said Mr B hadnt asked for further time to provide his information. But I dont think this 
is relevant as Mr B didnt know what was required. Mr B had responded quickly to Havens 
email. And I think that if Haven had used other means to communicate with him besides its 
letter he would have had an opportunity to respond. So I think Haven cancelled Mr Bs policy 
unfairly.
When a business makes a mistake, as I think Haven has done here, we expect it to restore 
the consumers position, as far as its able to do so. And we also consider the impact the 
error had on the consumer. 
To restore Mr Bs position, I think Haven should remove any records of the cancellation and 
provide Mr B with a letter to confirm this. Mr B can then ask his current insurer to recalculate 
his premium and provide any applicable refund.
Mr B has been caused significant trouble and upset by the cancellation of his policy. He was 
unable to use his car and missed important commitments. He had to use his savings to pay 
for more expensive cover at a time when he needed the money for his family. The 
Investigator thought Haven should pay Mr B £300 compensation for this. And I think thats in 
keeping with our published guidance for the impact caused. 
Putting things right
I require Haven Insurance Company Limited to do the following:
1. Remove records of the cancellation from any internal and external databases where its 
been recorded and provide Mr B with a letter to confirm this. 
2. Pay Mr B £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
cancellation of his policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Haven Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman