DRN-4007247
The complaint
Ms I complains about the acts of Mr Y. She says he gave her unsuitable advice to put some 
money she had into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to be able to invest through a 
discretionary fund manager (DFM)  SVS Securities PLC (SVS). She says Pi Financial Ltd 
(Pi) is responsible because Mr Y was with a business that was an appointed representative 
of it at the relevant time. 
What happened
I can see from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) register that Mr Y worked for a 
business called Future Wealth Management Ltd (Future) between 13 May 2015 and 
11 October 2018. That business was an appointed representative of Pi between 
15 January 2015 and 5 March 2019.
Ms I says shed known Mr G for 15 years after a recommendation from a friend. It seems 
she met Mr G for investment advice on 1 March 2018. She was then sent a recommendation 
letter by Mr Y dated 19 March 2018. That recommendation letter was on Future headed 
paper with Mr Ys name at the bottom and read:
It was good to meet with you on 1st March 2018. I am now writing to confirm the 
content and outcome of our discussions
You will recall you were provided you [sic] with a copy of my Client Agreement on the 
1st March 2018 in which my terms of business and charging structure has been laid 
out. You instructed me to specifically limit my advice to Pension Planning, specifically 
setting up a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and I have acted accordingly. I 
have, therefore, only obtained the necessary information from you to advise on the 
above area. You should be aware that my recommendations may have differed if I 
had undertaken a full review of your financial circumstances
At the present time, your prime objective is to find a suitable SIPP and open this to 
pay in £30,000 before the end of this tax year. This is money you have saved from 
your business and wish to invest this into a SIPP with the view of adding your paid up 
personal pensions when it is active. You wish to have an arrangement that gives you 
flexibility with regards to access and with regards to investment choice. You wish to 
have access to a wider range of investments and the flexibility to change these to 
reflect your circumstances and your attitude to risk. You also wish to be able to leave 
your entire fund to your family in the event of your death and wish your new 
arrangement to take advantage of new laws that benefit pensions in the future. You 
have requested that I research the market for a suitable SIPP provider with whom to 
invest all of your pension monies
You wish to open up a Self Invested Person [sic] Pension not only so you can pay in 
£30,000 from profits from your business but so you can eventually consolidate your 
existing pensions into this arrangement. You wish to have an arrangement that 
allows you flexibility in terms of investment and access when you come to retire. You 
may wish to take lump sums over an income but would like the arrangement to adapt 
to your lifestyle. You also wish your plan to take advantage of any changes to 
access, death benefits etc which the SIPP will reflect immediately.
Your only objective in retirement is that you wish to have a good standard of living 
which you have at the moment. You wish to give this sum of money the opportunity 
to grow so that you can use this to support your leisure pursuits in retirement but 
again this may change and you may continue to work and only access the money to 
reduce the amount of hours that you work. You wish to have flexibility with regards to 
where the monies are invested, how you can access these and how they are 
managed
You completed a risk profile questionnaire and you scored 5 out of 10. This  puts you 
as a balanced risk investor. You agreed with this and feel this is a fair reflection of 
your understanding of financial products and your goals and aspirations
It was clear, given your requirement to have flexibility in terms of where your pension 
monies are invested, that a SIPP would be the best vehicle to allow you to do this
As previously outlined you wish to have your monies managed by an appropriate 
DFM with whom I will be recommending for you, having researched the market
As part of my duty of care to you I have considered the proposed portfolio and 
believe it suitable for you based on your current attitude to risk and capacity for 
loss
After due consideration of your attitude to risk, tolerance and capacity we have 
agreed that the most suitable portfolio for you is within the Mixed Model 
PortfolioThe potential growth on this plan in comparison with the growth on your 
existing plans gives your pension monies a real opportunity to grow so that you have 
enough income in retirement and do not have to work on longer than you would like.
I believe that for you the active portfolio management that SVS Securities charges 
represent good value
Our fee structure is detailed in our client agreement which was given to you at your 
meeting.
An initial fee of 3.25% will be charged to meet the cost of our 
recommendation
There is an ongoing 1.00% charge of funds under management for ongoing 
service and advice, payable monthly.
A SIPP was set up for Ms I shortly after  on 28 March 2018  and I can see from the SIPP 
statements that £30,000 was paid in on 4 April 2018 and £28,510.20 paid out to SVS on 
18 April 2018. 
Ms I says she received a letter saying SVS had gone into administration on 9 August 2019, 
and so she tried to make a claim with the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) 
and then complained to Pi. I understand the claim with the FSCS was later turned down.
Pi didnt uphold the complaint because it said the advice had been given by Mr G, not Mr Y. 
Although it also had an agreement with Mr G, this was an introducer agreement and it said 
he wasnt allowed to provide any advice. It also said the loss incurred was because of the 
mismanagement of the funds by SVS. An investigator was satisfied we could consider Ms Is complaint against Pi. In summary, he 
said there was no dispute that Mr G had been involved but he said the evidence suggested 
Mr Y of Future had carried out regulated activities that had been allowed under the 
appointed representative agreement. He was also satisfied the complaint should be upheld.
Ms I agreed but raised some points about where the compensation should be paid. Pi didnt 
agree with the investigator. Ive read and considered its response in full. In summary, it said:
None of the documentation was signed by Mr Y which is unusual.
It would have been easy for Mr G to issue a letter to look as though it was issued by 
Future.
The recommendation letter says the author met Ms I on 1 March 2018. Ms I only met 
with Mr G so the letter must have been a fabrication drafted by Mr G. And its 
reasonable to assume it was drafted by Mr G without the knowledge or approval of 
Mr Y. 
The loss was caused by Mr G fraudulently giving advice.
Ms I is not and has never been a client of Pi  theres no past, present or future 
provision of services to Ms I by Future. And as shes not a customer, shes not an 
eligible complainant.
Its clear from Ms Is evidence that Mr G held himself out to be an adviser. Theres no 
evidence that Ms I had any contact with Mr Y, let alone that she received advice from 
him. Mr Y was also abroad at the time. Mr G never intended Ms I would get advice 
from anyone else, and he was always intending to carry out business with her under 
the guise of Future. 
It never received any fees.
The investigator ignored the underlying principles that whatever an appointed 
representative does must be lawful otherwise its automatically excluded from the 
principals responsibility. It cant be held liable for fraudulent acts of its appointed 
representative where theyre deliberately concealed from it.
COBS 10 which the investigator had referred to doesnt apply  it only applies where 
theres been a direct offer financial promotion which wasnt the case here.
The investigator assessed the risk profile of SVS with the benefit of hindsight rather 
than with reference to any material available at the time. Just because it failed not 
long after the investment was made, doesnt mean it must always have been a 
greater risk.
Its Mr G that should be held accountable.
The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is one that the Financial Ombudsman Service has jurisdiction to consider.To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Future (and therefore Mr Y) wasnt 
directly authorised. Instead, it was an appointed representative of Pi. Pi is an authorised firm. 
Its authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Pi. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:
There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Pi was authorised to do. 
To decide whether Pi is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Ms I has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?What are the specific acts Ms I has complained about?
Ms I complains Mr Y gave her unsuitable advice to put some money she had into a SIPP to 
invest through SVS.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). The rights under a personal pension scheme (which includes Ms Is 
SIPP) are specified as investments by a provision in Article 82 RAO. Advising on 
investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And making arrangements in 
relation to them is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
Ms I says although she was initially advised by Mr G, she never received any paperwork 
from Mr G and the advice letter she received came from Mr Y. Pi says Mr Y didnt give 
advice and it was only Mr G that did.
Ive thought carefully about all of the evidence. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied 
its most likely Mr Y advised Ms I to set up a SIPP and invest through SVS.
In the circumstances here, there are several things that satisfy me its most likely Mr Y 
advised Ms I:
The recommendation letter dated 19 March 2018 clearly gave advice and Im 
satisfied its most likely Mr Y was aware of the content of this letter and allowed it to 
be sent in his name, even if he didnt draft it himself. I note everything Pi has said 
about the validity of the letter and the fact it wasnt signed by Mr Y. As well as the fact 
it seems Mr Y was abroad at the time. And the fact it doesnt seem any adviser fees 
were paid from the SIPP. But from the email and letter Ive detailed below, its clear 
Mr Y was involved in what was happening and taking everything into account, I dont 
think theres enough to reasonably conclude the recommendation letter was created 
and sent without his knowledge.
The SIPP operator sent SVS an email copying in Mr Y on 18 April 2018 confirming 
itd sent over the funds for investment. The email went on to read:
We have copied this email to the customers financial adviser who will, where 
appropriate, either send us appropriate instructions for the investment of 
these funds to forward to you, or will organise for investment instructions to 
be submitted online via your website.
The SIPP application form named Mr Y as Ms Is adviser  giving a Future email 
address and Pi as the firm name. It was also selected that advice had been given 
and SVS was named as the chosen DFM.Pi says it was Mr G who advised Ms I  and Ms I accepts she received advice from Mr G. 
But just because Ms I received advice from someone else, that doesnt mean Mr Y didnt 
also give advice.
Im also satisfied that Mr Y carried out the regulated activity of making arrangements. I say 
this because a letter date stamped 26 March 2018 was sent to the SIPP provider by Ms Y on 
Future headed paper with Mr Ys email address enclosing Ms Is paperwork.
My conclusion therefore is that Mr Y did give advice to Ms I about the SIPP and investments 
and made arrangements in relation to these so regulated activities took place.
Did Pi accept responsibility for those acts?
Which business was Mr Y acting for?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr Y was acting as Future when he advised 
Ms I and made arrangements. The only mention of any other business is that an email 
address at a different business was used when Mr Y was copied into the email referred to 
above from the SIPP operator to SVS on 18 April 2018. But the fact the recommendation 
letter was sent in his capacity at Future and the SIPP application documentation referred to 
Future satisfy me that he was acting as Future when he carried out the acts complained 
about here. Ive therefore gone on to consider whether Pi accepted responsibility for those 
acts under the agreement it had with Future.
The agreement with Future
The appointed representative agreement between Pi and Future says:
The Company appoints the Appointed Representative to provide Services for the 
Company on the terms set out in this Agreement and the Appointed Representative 
accepts such terms, with effect from 15th January 2015.
Services was defined as:
any Regulated Activity which the Company is authorised to undertake from time to 
time notified by it to the Appointed Representative and also giving advice, making 
arrangements (or offering or agreeing to do either) in relation to term assurance, 
mortgages, tax planning, long term care products and any other product offered in 
the giving of financial advice pursuant to this Agreement.
And Regulated Activity was defined as:
Any activity requiring authorisation under The Act or by the FCA and Regulated 
Activities means more than one of them. 
The agreement therefore is broad and envisages advice being given on, and arrangements 
made in relation to, investments. And Pi hasnt disputed that. 
Instead, Pi said the underlying principles are that whatever an appointed representative does 
must be lawful otherwise its automatically excluded from the principals responsibility. In 
particular, it said it cant be held liable for fraudulent acts of its appointed representative 
where theyre deliberately concealed from it. But Im not persuaded Mr Y acted unlawfully or 
fraudulently in carrying out the regulated activities of advising Ms I and making 
arrangements in relation to her specified investments.So, Im satisfied that Pi did accept responsibility for Mr Y advising Ms I to set up a SIPP and 
invest through SVS and making arrangements for that. 
My decision  jurisdiction 
I dont agree with Pi that Ms I was never its client and therefore isnt an eligible customer. 
For the reasons set out above, Im satisfied Pi is responsible under Section 39 FSMA for the 
acts being complained about and this is a complaint that we can look at.
What Ive decided  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with Pi that COBS 10 isnt relevant in the circumstances here and I confirm I havent 
taken it into account when considering the merits of the complaint.
As Im satisfied its most likely Mr Y advised Ms I to set up a SIPP to invest through SVS, Ive 
considered whether that advice was suitable. The kind of things I would expect Mr Y to 
consider when assessing suitability are:
The likely cost of the proposed arrangement compared to other possible 
arrangements.
The level of funds involved.
Ms Is knowledge and experience.
Ms I seems to have had an annual income of between £18,000 and £20,000 at the time. And 
although the SVS application records her as having liquid assets of over £100,000, its 
clear she had limited investment experience. She seems to have had two modest pensions 
and £20,000 invested elsewhere.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Ms I was a relatively low risk, inexperienced, 
investor and someone for whom traditional low-cost pension arrangements would have been 
appropriate.
The new arrangement Ms I entered wasnt a low cost or traditional pension arrangement. 
The SIPP was stated to have a set-up fee of £100 and an annual fee of £199. And the DFM 
service would also have had costs  both an initial management charge and ongoing 
transaction charges. Additionally, there were the adviser fees  an initial fee of 3.25% and an 
ongoing fee of 1%  that it seems should have been charged and no one has been able to 
explain why they werent.
The letter of 19 March 2018 set out the reasons for recommending the SIPP as being that it 
would give flexibility with regards to access and with regards to investment choice. But 
whilst the SIPP may have had some advantages, I havent seen anything that persuades me 
these benefits were needed by Ms I in her circumstances. Theres no evidence that Ms I  
with her modest pension funds  needed access to a wider range of investments or that 
such funds wouldnt have been available with other cheaper options, such as a stakeholder 
pension, that would have met her needs. Taking everything into account, Im satisfied it 
ought to have been clear to Mr Y that there was no obvious justification for Ms I to set up a 
SIPP to enter the arrangement she did. And this assessment is based on knowledge Mr Y 
ought to have had at the time  not what we now know about the failure of SVS.In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to set up a SIPP to invest through SVS should 
never have been made as a recommendation to Ms I. Im satisfied that if Mr Y hadnt given 
unsuitable advice, Ms I would have set up a cheaper pension and investment arrangement.
As Ive set out above, even if Mr Y didnt advise Ms I, he carried out the regulated activity of 
making arrangements. In conducting this regulated activity, he had to act in line with the 
FCAs Principles for Businesses. Of particular relevance here is Principle 6 which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
And COBS 2.1.1R says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the clients best interests rule).
So, Im satisfied Mr Y would still have needed to consider whether it was in Ms Is best 
interests to set up a SIPP for investment via a DFM. For the same reasons as set out above, 
Im not persuaded it was. And if it wasnt Mr Y that advised Ms I, then it seems likely he 
knew shed been advised by an unregulated introducer, and he should have taken this into 
account.
Pi has commented on the fact Mr G gave advice. But this decision is about Pis 
responsibility. And because Im satisfied Ms I wouldnt have set up a SIPP to make the 
investments she did if Mr Y hadnt given the unsuitable advice or made the arrangements he 
did, I think its fair to ask Pi to compensate Ms I for the full measure of the loss she suffered 
from setting up the SIPP and making the investments she did.
The DISP rules set out that when an ombudsmans determination includes a money award, 
then that money award may be such amount as the ombudsman considers to be fair 
compensation for financial loss, whether or not a court would award compensation 
(DISP 3.7.2R). Someone else may also have given Ms I advice, but Pi had its own distinct 
regulatory obligations which, if met, Im satisfied would have resulted in the SIPP not being 
set up to make the investments that were made.
In making these findings, I take account of the potential contribution made by other parties to 
the losses suffered by Ms I. This includes Pis argument that misadministration by SVS 
caused Ms Is loss. In my view, in considering what fair compensation looks like in this case, 
its reasonable to make an award against Pi that requires it to compensate Ms I for the full 
measure of her loss. I say this because, but for Pis failings, Ms I wouldnt have set up the 
pension she did or made the investments she did.
Im not asking Pi to account for loss that goes beyond the consequences of its failings. Im 
satisfied those failings have caused the full extent of the loss in question. That another party 
might also be responsible for that same loss is a distinct matter and that fact shouldnt 
impact on Ms Is right to compensation from Pi for the full amount of her loss. If Pi still 
believes that other parties actions contributed to the losses, it can take those concerns up 
directly with them.
Putting things right
My aim is that Ms I should be put as closely as possible into the position she would probably 
now be in if she had been given suitable advice.I take the view that Ms I would have set up a different pension and invested differently. Its 
not possible to say precisely what she would have done differently. But Im satisfied that 
what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Ms I's circumstances and objectives 
when she invested.
What must Pi do?
To compensate Ms I fairly, Pi must:
Compare the performance of Ms I's SIPP with that of the benchmark shown below. If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Pi should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
I understand that Ms I is setting up a new pension plan that she wishes to use 
moving forward. Pi should pay into a pension plan of Ms Is choosing to increase its 
value by the total amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation 
should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Pi is unable to pay the total amount into Ms I's pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Ms I wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Ms I's actual or expected marginal 
rate of tax at her selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Ms I is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Ms I would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Pay to Ms I £300 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Ms I has been 
caused significant upset by the events this complaint relates to and the loss of what 
was intended to be part of her pension. Taking everything into account, I think that a 
payment of £300 is fair to compensate for that upset.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi deducts income tax from the interest it 
should tell Ms I how much has been taken off. Pi should give Ms I a tax deduction certificate 
in respect of interest if Ms I asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax on interest from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
SIPP Some 
liquid/some For half the 
investment: Date of 
investmentDate of my 
final 8% simple per 
year from final illiquid FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return 
Index; for the 
other half: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bondsdecision decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the SIPP at the end date.
It may be difficult to find the actual value of the portfolio. This is complicated where an asset 
is illiquid (meaning it could not be readily sold on the open market) as in this case. Pi should 
take ownership of any illiquid assets by paying a commercial value acceptable to the 
pension provider. The amount Pi pays should be included in the actual value before 
compensation is calculated.
If Pi is unable to purchase illiquid assets, their value should be assumed to be nil for the 
purpose of calculating the actual value. Pi may require that Ms I provides an undertaking to 
pay Pi any amount she may receive from the illiquid assets in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan. Pi will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Pi should use 
the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank of England. 
The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates 
should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point 
it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. If 
there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi 
totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair value 
instead of deducting periodically.
The SIPP only exists because of illiquid assets. In order for the SIPP to be closed and 
further fees that are charged to be prevented, those assets need to be removed. Ive set out 
above how this might be achieved by Pi taking over the illiquid assets, or this is something 
that Ms I can discuss with the provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. If Pi is unable 
to purchase the illiquid assets, to provide certainty to all parties I think its fair that it pays 
Ms I an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth of wrapper fees (calculated using 
the fee in the previous year to date). This should provide a reasonable period for the parties 
to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.Im also satisfied its fair to require Pi to pay Ms I an additional £186  the amount the SIPP 
provider charges to switch away from the SIPP  given that Ms I intends to close the SIPP 
when shes able to.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Ms I wanted Capital growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms I's risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Ms I into that position. It does not mean that Ms I 
would have invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Ms I could have obtained from investments suited to 
her objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold Ms Is complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount 
calculated as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Ms I in a clear, simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 August 2023.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman