DRN-2918394
The complaint
Ms K complains about Nationwide Building Societys website and its approach to security 
and that it deleted two standing orders shed set up going to family members without her 
permission.
What happened
Ms K has an account with Nationwide.
Ms K complained to Nationwide in November 2019 about several problems she was having 
with her account and its approach generally to security. For example, she was unhappy that 
her date of birth was displayed on screen when she was logged into her online banking. She 
thought this was risky given that she logs onto her online banking from her local library which 
meant strangers could view this information  information that is often used for security 
purposes. She was also unhappy that Nationwides website had a link that she could click on 
to view or change her security details, amongst other things, but she could, in fact, only 
change her details not view them. Ms K was also unhappy that Nationwide had changed 
its approach to security when she logged on, meaning that despite having already provided 
her details several times she still had to input a one-time passcode. She was also unhappy 
that shed have to pay to receive any one-time passcodes she received should she be 
abroad. And finally she was unhappy that Nationwide had deleted two standing orders shed 
set up for family members without her permission.
Nationwide investigated Ms Ks complaints and initially told her that she could view and 
change her details. Nationwide subsequently accepted that this wasnt the case and offered 
Ms K £25 in compensation by way of an apology. Nationwide also explained why it had 
changed its approach to security when she logged onto her online banking, and that it 
couldnt go back to the previous way it had authenticated her (using memorable information 
only) as the changes it had made were changes to implement strong customer 
authentication regulations. Nationwide said that it offered a card reader for customers who 
didnt want to rely on a mobile phone to receive a one-time passcode, and that she could 
use this when she went abroad to avoid having to pay for text messages. Finally, Nationwide 
said that it had deleted the standing orders Ms K had set up because theyd not been used 
for a long time. Ms K was unhappy with Nationwides response and complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ks complaint. They thought that Nationwides offer 
of compensation for the inaccurate information it had given about being able to view and 
change details was fair and reasonable. They also thought it wasnt unreasonable of 
Nationwide to delete the standing orders Ms K had set up because theyd not been used for 
a long time  over 13 months. And they didnt think it would be right, or appropriate, to 
require Nationwide to change its website or the way details on its online banking are 
displayed. Nor did they think it would be fair and reasonable to require Nationwide to offer 
Ms K other ways of authenticating herself as it had already provided several viable 
alternatives.
Ms K was unhappy with our investigators response. She said that the standing orders shed 
set up went out at least once a year, so she didnt accept that there was a 13-month gap 
between them. And, in any event, she thought Nationwide should have paused deleting 
them when it saw they were to family members rather than a business. She also said that 
she couldnt use the card reader Nationwide had offered and couldnt see why Nationwide 
wouldnt update its website to make sure it gave a true picture of what can and cant be 
done. So I was asked to consider her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going to deal with each of Ms Ks complaint points separately, starting with her complaint 
about strong customer authentication.
strong customer authentication  does Nationwide need to do more?
Businesses, including Nationwide, have made changes to the way they check theyre 
talking to their customers when they log onto online banking, initiate payments through 
online banking or online shopping or when their customers want to perform a task remotely 
that might be risky. For example, when one of their customers want to order a new debit 
card over the phone. Theyve had to make changes in order to implement whats known as 
strong customer authentication. Theyve also had to make sure they offer alternative ways of 
authenticating to consumers, and not rely on mobile phones alone, according to guidance 
issued by the FCA. The FCA issued that guidance because not everyone has a mobile 
phone, not everyone is able to use a mobile phone and not everyone will be in an area with 
mobile phone reception when they need to authenticate.
Ms K has a mobile phone and, as far as I can see, doesnt have any problems receiving one-
time passcodes  which many businesses use to help authenticate their customers  when 
in the UK. The same cannot, however, be said for when shes abroad. Shes told us that she 
either gets charged for receiving the codes or, if she swaps her SIM card for a local one, she 
doesnt receive the codes when shes abroad. I can see why shed be worried about this. 
Nationwide does, however, offer a number of alternative ways of authenticating, including 
using a card reader. Thats an option that would work when Ms K goes abroad, and at no 
cost to her. So I agree with our investigator that its a viable alternative for her. Ms K said 
when she originally complained that she didnt want to take her card reader abroad with her 
and that she cant use it either. I spoke to Ms K on the phone  as I wanted to find out if 
there was any reason why she couldnt use a card reader  and having done so Im satisfied 
that Ms K is now more comfortable using card readers as she uses one for another account. 
So Im not going to ask Nationwide to do more.
Nationwides website and its online banking
I can see that Ms K isnt happy with the design of Nationwides website and its online 
banking, and I agree she makes some good points. But like our investigator, I agree that 
these are really matters for Nationwide or, if Ms K has concerns that there might be a 
systems issue here which is of wider concern, potentially the FCA, but not for us. So I wont 
be asking Nationwide to be making any changes. I do, however, agree that Nationwide gave 
Ms K incorrect information about what she could and couldnt do when it comes to viewing 
and changing her details. But I agree too that the additional compensation Nationwide 
offered to reflect the irritation and frustration this caused, namely £25, was fair and 
reasonable. So Im not going to ask Nationwide to do more in relation to this issue.
deleted standing ordersNationwide has told us that it deletes standing orders that havent been used for 13 months 
or more. Nationwide has told us that it does this because its likely the payees details may 
have changed, so theres a risk that money will be sent to the wrong person. Nationwides 
terms and conditions mention this, and its something that other banks do for the same 
reason. I can see why Ms K was annoyed when she found out that two standing orders 
shed set up had been deleted, but I dont think this was unreasonable of Nationwide. I can 
also understand why Ms K would like Nationwide to think twice if a standing order was set up 
to send a payment to a family member or a friend rather than to a commercial entity, but that 
might not always be obvious for a start. So Im going to ask Nationwide to do more here.
My final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society doesnt need to do more than it already 
has done as its response to Ms Ks complaints was fair.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman