DRN-1804031
The complaint
Mr M complains that Tandem Bank Limited didnt close his credit card account when he 
asked it to. Hes complained that this has led to a missed payment and default being 
recorded incorrectly.
What happened
Mr M had a credit card account with Tandem. On 16 August 2019, Mr M repaid the amount 
outstanding on his card and asked Tandem, in the chat function on the mobile app, to cancel 
his credit card. Tandem responded to Mr M to say he needed to call to cancel the card as it 
needed to go through additional security. Mr M responded to say he felt he didnt need to call 
as had written his request in that message. Tandem responded asking Mr M to call.
On 22 August 2019 an amount was charged to Mr Ms Tandem credit card through a 
payment platform. As Mr Ms account wasnt closed, this amount appeared on his statement. 
Mr M said he believed his credit card to have been closed, so didnt notice this payment until 
some time afterwards. By this point hed had late payment fees applied to his Tandem 
account and was being asked to pay significantly more than the original amount. Tandem 
has since applied a default to Mr Ms credit file.
Mr M complained as he felt he had satisfied his contractual obligations to cancel his credit 
card. So, he believes the card shouldve been cancelled, and the charge rejected on 22 
August. He feels that had this been done correctly, he wouldnt have incurred late payment 
charges or adverse information on his credit file.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She explained that the terms of 
Mr Ms account say he should call to cancel the agreement. And Tandem told him this twice 
when he asked to cancel in the mobile app. So, he wouldve been aware what he needed to 
do and there was nothing to suggest his account was closed. So, Tandem hadnt done 
anything wrong in applying late payment charges, or registering a default.
Mr M disagreed with our investigator. He said he couldnt understand why Tandem wouldnt 
take his closure request over the mobile app messaging service. He said he shouldnt have 
to call. And Tandem hasnt justified what other security measures it could do over the phone 
that it couldnt do in the mobile app messaging service. Mr M asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr Ms Tandem account say:
You can exercise your right to cancel by contacting us on [phone number].  
Mr M has said that he doesnt think the terms set out that he must call to cancel the contract, 
and that he should be able to cancel the contract by requesting it in writing. I dont think the term listed above is ambiguous. I think its clear that for Mr M to cancel his credit card 
account, he needs to call. There isnt another option given.
When Mr M tried to cancel his credit card account in the mobile app messaging service, he 
was told he had to call the specific number. When he replied to say he shouldnt have to do 
that, he was told again that he needed to call to cancel the credit card. I dont think that there 
was anything to suggest his credit card account had been closed and I think Tandem made it 
clear what Mr M had to do to close the account.
Mr M then made a transaction to the account. I understand this was a mistake as he hadnt 
changed the payment method on his payment platform account. But he paid for something 
using his Tandem account and its his responsibility to then make the payment to the 
account. I can see that Tandem told him about this charge in his September statement which 
was available online. And Im satisfied Mr M wouldve received a notification alerting him to 
his statement.
I can also see that Tandem sent Mr M late payment reminders to his home address which 
told him he had missed payments. And it sent a default notice as well. So, I think Mr M had 
been made aware there was an amount outstanding, and what he needed to do to avoid a 
default being applied. Mr M has chosen not to pay this amount as he feels his account 
shouldve been closed. But as Mr M was told he had to call to close his account, and he 
didnt call, I think he ought to have been aware that his account was open still.
I understand Mr M feels Tandem should have accepted his written request  but it isnt my 
role to determine what security processes Tandem should have in place. This is something it 
can set in line with its regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority.
Mr M used his Tandem credit card to pay for something, and hes not repaid that amount. 
Tandem notified Mr M that he had an outstanding balance, and it issued a default notice 
before recording the default. I cant see that it has made an error in this case so Im not 
upholding it.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
Ombudsman