DRN-4355775
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) handled a 
claim under his home insurance policy.
References to LV include their agents who handle claims.
What happened
In January 2023 a bulge formed in the gable end wall of Mr Ss property, at a level with the 
first floor window. The bulge formed over the course of a few days following bad weather 
involving driving rain followed by a cold snap. Concerned about the integrity of the wall and 
his property, Mr S called LV. Initially, LV thought the damage could be due to subsidence 
(given mention of a crack in the wall), but Mr S thought it wasnt the case. He felt it more 
likely to be water having got into the wall then freezing, causing expansion.
LV appointed a surveyor (IG) to assess the damage. They concluded the damage wasnt 
caused by subsidence but could be due to different causes, including differential thermal 
movement, roof spread, lintel failure, poor or defective workmanship and settlement of 
concrete floors. None were insured perils under the policy, so the damage wasnt covered.
Mr S was unhappy at IGs conclusions and LV not accepting the damage was covered, 
thinking the damage was due to the adverse weather (storm) which the policy should cover. 
He engaged a structural engineer (JD) to inspect the damage. In their report, JD concluded 
the wall had destabilised due to high intensity rain entering the stonework, permeating the 
soft filled core between the inner and outer walls. With the frost and freezing conditions in 
the days immediately after the rain, the water froze and expanded, causing the outer wall to 
bulge outwards. Given the bulge meant the wall was at risk of collapse, JD said bracing 
scaffolding was needed to support the wall.
Mr S complained to LV the following month, providing them with JDs report, together with 
testimony from neighbours saying the bulge developed suddenly after the adverse weather. 
He also provided evidence and information about the steps hed taken to address the risk of 
the wall collapsing. He asked LV to reconsider their position. 
LV responded in April 2023 to say they were still considering his complaint and giving him 
referral rights to this Service. Mr S then complained to this Service in May 2023. He said 
JDs report confirmed the bulge was caused by a weather event and hed paid £12,000 (part 
payment) for building work, £960 in structural engineering fees and £19 on metal wall ties to 
secure the inner wall and prevent it collapsing should the outer wall collapse. Hed also been 
quoted £4,776 for twelve weeks scaffolding (and £144 per week after twelve weeks). He 
wanted LV to cover the costs of the repair work to the wall, including the costs hed already 
incurred. Given the poor service he thought hed received from LV, he wanted them to 
apologise and waive the policy excess.
LV responded to his complaint shortly after Mr Ss complaint to this Service. In their final 
response, they referred to IGs report and their conclusion the damage to Mr Ss property 
wasnt caused by subsidence, instead referring to the other possible causes, which werent 
insured perils. LV noted JDs report conclusion the damage was due to water ingress caused 
by horizontal rain followed by days of freezing temperatures.
LV considered this as storm damage, setting out three criteria to assess the claim. They 
concluded there was a storm around the date of the incident (the first criteria). However, 
based on the opinion of their specialists, LV didnt consider the damage typical of that 
caused by a storm (the second criteria) nor that the storm was the dominant and effective 
cause of the damage (the third criteria). Instead, LV believed the adverse weather may have 
highlighted a pre-existing issue with the wall. So, they wouldnt accept the claim.
However, LV acknowledged Mr S had provided further information in February 2023, but 
there was a delay in it being reviewed. LV apologised and awarded £250 in compensation.
Mr S challenged LVs final response and our investigator considered his complaint but didnt 
uphold it. He referred to JDs opinion on the possible causes of the damage, alongside LVs 
further views on the likely cause of the damage. LV said the adverse weather may have 
highlighted pre-existing issues with the wall, which they thought had undergone maintenance 
work with some re-pointing using cement mortar (not lime mortar). They thought saturation 
and subsequent freezing of the soft fill core could have caused the outer wall to move 
outwards on a number of occasions over a period of time before the bulge was noticed by Mr 
S. So, the adverse weather might have speeded up the bulging.
Our investigator was more persuaded by LVs view, considering it more likely the adverse 
weather highlighted an underlying issue with the walls construction. He didnt think rain 
entering the stonework possible on a wall of sound construction, with no defects. From 
online sources, use of cement mortar was strongly advised against, as it didnt bond well 
with the original lime mortar and could trap moisture leading to frost damage. He noted the 
policy excluded damage from gradually operating causes, including frost. He concluded the 
damage wasnt the result of a one-off storm, nor consistent with that expected from a storm. 
So, LV had fairly declined Mr Ss claim. He thought LVs compensation offer of £250 for the 
delay in reviewing the information provided by Mr S was fair.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked that an ombudsman review the 
complaint. In disagreeing, Mr S raised several points. Firstly, he challenged LVs view the 
damage was the result of a progressive issue, rather than a rapidly occurring issue due to 
the adverse weather. He provided testimony from third party witnesses the bulge developed 
rapidly over a matter of days. So, a defined event (the adverse weather) led to the bulge, not 
(as LV had presented) a generalised view of what may have happened gradually. Secondly, 
he referred to re-pointing carried out in 2022 on the front and rear elevations of the property, 
which didnt raise any concerns about a bulge in the gable wall  had any bulge in the gable 
wall been present at that time, it would have been noticed.
Thirdly, Mr S challenged LVs view poor workmanship in previous maintenance could have 
caused the damage. Mr S said previous re-pointing was performed on the gable wall in line 
with good practice (the re-pointing was carried out by a lime mortar specialist, whod quoted 
on the basis of using lime mortar for re-pointing the front and rear elevations). Nor was Mr S 
aware LV had taken samples or analysis of materials to validate the assertion re-pointing of 
the gable wall had been done with cement mortar, rather than lime mortar. The gable was 
professionally re-pointed in 2016 (three years before he purchased the property). 
Fourthly, Mr S said neighbouring properties suffered similar damage from the same adverse 
weather, with one developing a bulge at the same location of a gable wall (facing the same 
direction as the wall on Mr Ss property) although less pronounced. Mr S considered this 
new evidence. He understood the neighbour had submitted a claim for damage to their 
insurer (who he thought was also LV).Fifthly, Mr S challenged the view the damage wasnt caused by adverse weather, due to the 
time between high winds and the damage being noticed. He accepted high winds and 
intense rain didnt occur in the six days before the bulge was noticed (as LV had said). 
However, those days saw unbroken freezing conditions. So, the adverse weather was a 
combination of intense, penetrative rain driven by high winds, followed by intense, prolonged 
freezing. It was this combination JD concluded was the dominant cause of the damage.
Finally, Mr S expressed concern over what he considered errors made by the investigator. 
One, a clerical error in referring to the incorrect insurer in his view and a second being told 
(incorrectly) the ombudsman had found in Mr Ss favour (in a different case). This may have 
affected the investigators consideration of the complaint. Mr S wanted his complaint to be 
reviewed objectively by a separate investigator or manager, based on facts and testimonies 
hed provided (not what he considered generalisations from LV).
Having taken legal advice, he thought a balanced settlement of his claim would be LV 
making, at least, a 50% contribution towards the costs hed incurred from the damage.
Our investigator considered the points raised by Mr S but didnt change his view. Mr S 
restated his request that an ombudsman review the complaint. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether LV have acted fairly towards Mr S. Id want to assure Mr S 
Ive considered all the information and evidence provided as part of this complaint, both from 
him and from LV. Specifically, this includes all the information he provided to LV in February 
2023 in support of his complaint, as well as the additional information and evidence he 
provided in response to our investigators view.
Picking up his final point, as set out when confirming an ombudsman will review the 
complaint, Ive looked at everything provided, and my role is to provide an independent 
decision on the complaint. So, as Mr S requested, the complaint has been reviewed 
objectively, based on the facts and testimonies (and the information and evidence) he and 
LV have provided. It isnt my role to make subjective inferences from the points Mr S has 
mentioned about the investigators handling of the complaint. So, Ive not considered this 
issue any further.
The two key issues in Mr Ss complaint are, firstly, LVs decline of his claim for the damage 
(the bulge) in the wall at his property. Mr S says, supported by the report from JD, the 
damage was caused by the adverse weather (high intensity rain followed by the freezing 
conditions). LV say, supported by the report from IG, the adverse weather highlighted pre-
existing issues with the wall, with saturation of and freezing of water in the soft fill material 
between the inner and outer wall, causing the outer wall to move outward. And this may 
have happened on several occasions over time. 
The second issue is the service provided by LV to Mr S during the claim process. Mr S says 
it took too long, adding to his frustration at the decline of his claim. LV accept their service 
wasnt of the standard Mr S should have expected, awarding £250 compensation.On the first issue, Ive noted LV initially considered the claim under the subsidence section of 
the policy. But as both IG and JD concluded the damage wasnt caused by subsidence (nor 
does Mr S) I think it reasonable to conclude the damage wasnt the result of subsidence.
Mr S says the damage was caused by the adverse weather conditions, a combination of 
intense, driving rain that penetrated into the wall, followed by a period of days of freezing 
temperatures that led to the expansion of the soft fill core between the inner and outer walls.  
In their final response, LV considered the claim under the storm section, using three criteria, 
concluding that while there were storm conditions around the date of the damage, based on 
the opinion of their specialists, they dont consider the damage typical of that caused by a 
storm (the second criteria) or that the storm was the dominant and effective cause of the 
damage (the third criteria). Instead, LV believe the adverse weather may have highlighted a 
pre-existing issue with the wall. 
In cases of claims assessed under storm damage, there are three key questions we 
consider as a Service:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response LV concluded there were storm conditions 
around the date of the damage to the wall. In LVs complaint notes theres a report from the 
weather source we use as a Service that indicates significant rainfall some nine days before 
the date Mr S first notified LV of the damage. And freezing temperatures for six days 
following the rainfall, with the lowest recorded temperature some four days before the 
notification of the damage. Alongside a reference to dry storm between the two dates for 
rainfall and freezing temperatures, Ive concluded this shows there were storm conditions in 
the period immediately before the damage was noticed by Mr S and then notified to LV. So, 
the answer to the first question is yes.
Ive then considered the second question, whether the damage is consistent with that to be 
expected in a storm.
Ive looked at the reports from IG and JD. Taking JDs opinion first, their report states:
Based on our observations and inspection of the property both internally and 
externally, it is our opinion that the wall has destabilised due to the high intensity rain 
event which occurred immediately prior to the appearance of the high-level bulge. 
With the horizontal cracking visible above the bulge, it is our opinion that the high 
intensity driving rain has entered the stonework construction to the gable wall and 
permeated into the soft filled core between the inner and outer dressed stone panels.
It is our opinion that this has caused the soft fill material to slump and with the frost 
and freezing conditions immediately after the heavy rain an expansion due to the 
water in the soft fill freezing course has caused the outer masonry course to push out 
from the inner course.
Due to the speed with which this gable wall has bulged, it is our opinion that this is 
not due to a long term issue of settlement but a weather driven event that has caused 
rapid bulging to high level from water ingress and freezing of the trapped water.Turning to IGs report, it first concludes the damage isnt considered to have been caused by 
subsidence. It goes on to state:
Externally there is a significant high level bulge to the rear section of the solid stone 
gable wall. Internally movement of the gable wall laterally has caused slight cracking 
within the front bedroom and bathroom on the first floor and, on the ground floor, 
within the lounge and kitchen, The external and internal damage appears to be 
reflective of lateral movement of the rear upper section of the gable wall.
Cause 
As indicated above the damage evident appears to be due to bulging/horizontal 
movement of the gable wall of the property. This damage appears to be de-bonding 
of the inner and outer stone skins of the wall while a lack of lateral restraint may also 
be a contributory factor. The damage is not due to subsidence.
As part of our investigation of Mr Ss complaint, LV provided further clarification of their view:
Weather may have highlighted pre-existing issues with the wall. Areas of the wall 
had obviously undergone some maintenance works, some of the wall had been 
repointed using cement mortar, as opposed to lime mortar. I would suggest it was not 
expansion in the joints that caused the stones to de-bond and bulge but the 
saturation of and the freezing of water in the soft fill material causing the external skin 
to move outward  this may have resulted from a saturation/freeze/outward 
movement/settlement of the soft fill material on a number of occasions over a period 
of time prior to the damage being noted by the policyholder.
In my experience de-lamination generally occurs over a period of time and, by 
assumption, on a number of occasions. On each occasion the bulge possibly 
increases slightly. It may have been that the preceding weather conditions speeded 
up the process in this instance. I note high winds were not recorded for six days prior 
to the date of loss.
Taking these views together, it indicates agreement (particularly given the further LV view) 
the most likely cause of the damage was rain entering the wall, saturating the soft fill core 
between the inner and outer walls. The freezing temperatures following the rainfall then 
caused the saturated soft fill core to freeze and expand, causing the bulge in the outer wall. 
Looking at the evidence and information alongside these views, Im persuaded this is the 
most likely immediate cause of the damage (Mr Ss fifth point).
Ive then considered whether this damage is consistent with what wed expect in a storm. 
Water ingress, particularly one involving significant rainfall, is generally something to be 
expected from storm conditions and which then causes damage. Its more common for such 
ingress and damage to result from issues with roofs, rather than external walls. 
Mr S, supported by the views of JD, believe the intense, driving rain penetrated the wall. 
However, that being the case  and I think it is likely to have been the case given Ive seen 
no other view of how the rain penetrated the wall  the issue then is whether that is 
something to be expected. Thinking about this, Im not persuaded that a solid, robust wall 
would have allowed in significant rain, causing saturation of the soft fill core behind. I think 
its reasonable to expect a wall to resist penetration by rain, notwithstanding how significant 
and prolonged the exposure (exacerbated by high winds driving the rain). To let in significant 
amounts of water, to the degree necessary to saturate the soft fill core, would indicate either 
damage from the rainfall itself (such as dislodged mortar or stonework) or existing fissure(s) 
in the wall which allowed the rain to penetrate into the soft fill core behind.On the balance of probabilities, taking all the evidence and information into account, Im 
more persuaded by the latter. So, Im not persuaded the damage is consistent with that to be 
expected from a storm  unless there was an existing issue with the wall. That then takes 
me on to the third question, whether the storm conditions were the main (or dominant) cause 
of the damage.
On this issue Ive noted LVs further comments about the adverse weather highlighting pre-
existing issues with the wall and that the saturation and freezing of the soft fill core may have 
happened on a number of occasions over a period of time prior to the damage being noticed 
by Mr S. And the adverse weather may have speeded up the process (of saturation, freezing 
and outward movement).
While the initial issue was the rain penetrating the wall and saturating the soft fill core, what 
then led to the bulge was the period of cold weather, which led to the freezing of the 
saturated soft fill core. The freezing led to expansion, which in turn led to pressure on the 
outer wall, causing it to bulge. To this extent, I agree with Mr Ss view the damage was the 
result of a combination of the rain penetration followed by the freezing.
At this point, Ive then considered Mr Ss first and second points, challenging LVs view the 
damage was the result of a progressive issue, rather than a rapidly occurring issue due to 
the adverse weather. And that re-pointing work didnt raise any concerns about a bulge in 
the gable wall  had any bulge in the gable wall been present, it would have been noticed. 
Ive seen the testimony from third parties that there wasnt any bulge prior to it being noticed 
after the adverse weather. While the testimonies use very similar - if not identical - wording 
in some places and one is on headed paper for a scaffolding firm engaged by Mr S to brace 
the bulging gable wall, together with what Ive concluded about the most likely cause of the 
damage, Im persuaded there wasnt an obvious, noticeable bulge prior to it becoming 
apparent after the adverse weather. 
On Mr Ss third point, about whether poor workmanship in previous maintenance could have 
caused the damage, Ive looked at the evidence and information provided. Theres an 
invoice from the contractor who carried out re-pointing of the front and rear elevations of the 
property walls  It indicates the use of lime mortar. While it provides evidence of recent 
maintenance of the property, it isnt on the part of the property where the bulge occurred (the 
gable end wall). So, it isnt directly relevant to consideration of the cause of the bulge. 
Mr S says previous re-pointing was performed on the gable wall in line with good practice, by 
a lime mortar specialist (the gable was re-pointed in 2016, before Mr S purchased the 
property). Mr S also says he isnt aware LV have taken any samples or analysis of materials 
to validate their assertion re-pointing of the gable wall had been done with cement mortar, 
rather than lime mortar. 
Looking at the evidence and information available, on the issue of whether cement mortar 
was used on the gable end wall, I havent seen any independent evidence of the nature of 
the re-pointing carried out in 2016. There is a statement from a law firm dated 2019 (when 
Mr S purchased the property) listing works carried out on the property. One of the items is 
described as:
Outside
Removed render to gable end and repointed
While this confirms re-pointing of the gable wall was carried out, it doesnt say anything 
about the method used, or the specific type of render (mortar).However, I have noted the following statement in JDs report:
it was noted that the gable wall has been cement mortared.
This is consistent with the further comment from LV set out above, that some of the wall 
had been repointed using cement mortar, as opposed to lime mortar, So while Ive not seen 
any indication or evidence LV took samples or analysis of materials, given JD visually 
inspected the gable wall, Im persuaded cement mortar was used in the re-pointing.
Ive also noted JDs report includes the following recommendation:
We further recommend that the cement mortar is removed, and lime mortar 
repointing is undertaken to avoid water retention to the wall core.
This recommendation confirms the conclusion Ive reached about the presence of cement 
mortar. But saying it should be removed to avoid water retention suggests to me it was 
inappropriate to have used cement mortar in the repointing. It also suggests the cement 
mortar contributed to, if not caused, water retention in the soft core filling that then was 
subject to freezing, leading to the bulge.
Thinking about these points, Ive concluded the use of cement mortar was, at least, a 
contributory factor to the damage (the bulge) to the gable wall. And while the JD report 
doesnt explicitly state the presence of cement mortar caused the ingress of water from the 
rainfall, I think its reasonable to infer this from the recommendation it is removed. 
On Mr Ss fourth point, that neighbouring properties suffered similar damage from the same 
adverse weather, Ive considered the information provided. While I understand why Mr S 
says this is new evidence, my role is to consider the evidence and information about the 
damage to Mr Ss wall. It isnt to consider what happened to other properties, where the 
circumstances may be different. Its for the insurer of a property, whether LV or another 
insurer, to consider any claim made by the owner of the property, as a policyholder. And for 
them to assess any such claim in accordance with the relevant policy and the specific 
information and evidence about the property and any damage that may have occurred.
Taking  all these points and conclusions together, I dont think the nature of the damage is 
consistent with the damage a storm typically causes. And that storm conditions werent the 
main or dominant cause of the damage.
Moving on from these conclusions, in declining the claim, theres mention of gradually 
operating cause in LVs case notes, which together with the above comments about pre-
existing issues and the process over time indicates LV have applied  a policy exclusion for 
gradually operating causes; The policy booklet sets out the following  In their final response, 
Great Lakes refer to the following exclusion in the policy booklet under the General 
exclusions section::
We will not pay for
Any claim arising from:
Anything which happens gradually including deterioration or wear and tear, 
settlement or shrinkage;
Mildew, fungus, climatic or atmospheric conditions, frost, wet  or dry rot;
Faulty design, materials or workmanshipGiven my conclusions above about the likely nature and cause of the damage, I think its 
reasonable for LV to have applied the exclusion to decline the claim. So, Ive concluded LV 
acted fairly and reasonably in declining Mr Ss claim. 
Ive then considered the second issue, the service provided by LV during the claim process. 
Mr S says it took too long, adding to his frustration at the decline of his claim. LV accept their 
service wasnt of the standard Mr S should have expected, awarding £250 compensation.
Looking at the evidence and information available, while complaint handling isnt a regulated 
activity within the remit of this service, the information provided by Mr S in February 2023 to 
support his view his claim should be accepted is directly relevant to LVs assessment of the 
claim. Its also clear from their acceptance that their service wasnt of the standard Mr S 
should have expected. And their complaint notes indicate the information should have been 
considered by the claims handling team  but it wasnt until they came to consider their final 
response to Mr Ss complaint. 
As such, it is something I can consider. I think LVs failure to review the information Mr S 
provided until some three to four months after he provided it caused Mr S distress and 
inconvenience and unnecessarily prolonged their assessment of his claim. 
So, Im upholding this aspect of Mr Ss complaint. Taking all the circumstances of the case 
into account, I think £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and 
reasonable. My understanding from LV is that theyve paid the compensation (via a cheque, 
which has been cashed). So, I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman