DRN-3317345
The complaint
Mr H complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt offered to refund the premiums 
he paid for an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr H purchased an annual-multi trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. The 
policy was purchased on 21 August 2019, to cover trips within Europe of up to 31 days in 
duration. The policy started on 21 September 2019 and ended on 20 September 2020. Mr H 
paid a total of £123.75 including Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) for the standard level of 
annual multi-trip travel insurance cover. 
Mr H said he was able to make use of his policy in early 2020 when he travelled abroad. 
However, following this he was prevented from travelling as hed intended afterwards due to 
the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic.
On 3 June 2020, Mr H contacted Great Lakes to request a partial refund of his travel 
insurance premium because hed only been able to take one holiday. He didnt think hed be 
able to travel again by the time his policy was due to expire. He did not cancel his policy.
Great Lakes informed Mr H that it was looking at how to deal with refund requests as an 
insurer and would contact policyholders once a decision had been made by its underwriter. 
Mr H didnt cancel his policy during this call. 
By 21 August 2020, Mr H hadnt heard from Great Lakes. So, he contacted it to query 
whether a decision had been made by the underwriter on multi trip travel policy refund 
requests. He was informed during this telephone call that someone from the pro-rata team 
would contact him to discuss whether any refund was due under the policy.
On 25 August 2020, Mr H contacted Great Lakes to chase his refund request. But he was 
informed a decision still hadnt been made and that someone would contact him to discuss 
whether a pro-rata refund was available. Mr H queried whether his policy could be extended 
in view of the pandemic preventing his travel. However, he was advised that an extension 
wasnt possible for annual multi-trip policy.
On 25 September 2020, Mr H contacted Great Lakes again to chase the outcome of his 
refund request. On this occasion, he was informed that there was a backlog due to the 
amount of premium refund requests Great Lakes had received. So, Mr H would need to wait 
until his request was reached. 
Mr H called Great Lakes again on 10 October but was informed there was still no outcome 
on his request for a refund. On 23 October 2020, he was informed by Great Lakes that no 
refund was due because of the date hed taken out his policy. 
Mr H was unhappy with how his refund request had been dealt with. So, he asked Great 
Lakes to raise a complaint on his behalf. On 15 December 2020, Great Lakes issues its final 
response to Mr Hs complaint. It said it wasnt prepared to offer a refund and invited Mr H to 
refer his complaint to our service if he was unhappy with the outcome of his complaint.
After Mr H referred his complaint to us, Great Lakes stated that it was prepared to offer a 
partial premium refund of £12.38 as a gesture of goodwill due to a change in its approach 
relating to annual policy travel insurance refunds. Mr H rejected this offer. 
Mr Hs complaint was considered by our investigator, who acknowledged the unique and 
unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. They set out the details of the relevant 
cancellation rights and how they applied in the circumstances of this case. That means its 
not unreasonable for an insurer to keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during 
that time. 
Our investigator explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of 
insurance to be performed because cover under the policy started on 21 September 2019 
and the policy covered various risks during that time. And they didnt think Great Lakes had 
made an error in how it had dealt with Mr Hs refund query or issued a response that was 
unfair or unreasonable. 
Great Lakes agreed with our investigators view of this complaint and confirmed that its 
partial refund offer remained available. But Mr H didnt agree and requested an 
ombudsmans assessment. Ive therefore been asked to decide what is a fair and 
reasonable way of resolving this complaint.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The terms and conditions of Mr Hs travel insurance policy with Great Lakes state: 
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days from the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right. You will be entitled to a refund of 
premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies and you 
have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of premium will 
be avalable.
For annual multi-trip policies, the 14 day cancellation period is extended up to the start date 
of your policy.
Like our investigator, I dont think its fair and reasonable for Mr H to receive the refund of the 
premiums he requested because: 
Cover under Mr Hs policy commenced immediately once it had been purchased, 
which is confirmed by the insurance documentation he received. Im satisfied Mr H was reasonably made aware of the terms that applied to his policy, which are typical 
of the cancellation terms found in most travel insurance policies.
Mr H didnt contact Great Lakes to discuss a refund of his policy until 3 June 2020. 
And he didnt request the cancellation of his policy at any time. Even if he had done 
during his conversation on 3 June 2020, this would have been outside the cooling off 
period. So, there wouldnt have been a requirement under the relevant industry rules 
and guidelines for the insurer to offer a refund. I say this because its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however 
short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. 
As Ive outlined above, the contract of insurance says that no refund is due for 
cancellation outside the cooling off. I understand that the pandemic may have 
prevented Mr H travelling as hed have liked or intended and that this was beyond his 
control. So, Ive thought about whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great 
Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr Hs contract 
because of the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both 
parties to the insurance contract. However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr 
Hs contract with Great Lakes to be performed  cover under the policy started on 21 
September 2019.
Mr H was insured from 21 September 2019 for travelling on any number of trips 
within Europe of up to 31 days duration which he may have taken until the policy 
expired. Mr H has said he only had the opportunity of travelling once due to the 
pandemic.
I acknowledge Mr Hs candour in relation to the travel hes said he was able to 
undertake while covered by this policy. But, because of the way annual multi-trip 
insurance policies work, an insurer has no way of knowing how many such trips a 
policyholder has taken since their policy was incepted. Even if there was only one 
holiday, Mr H made use of his annual policy and Great Lakes was covering the risk of 
a claim during the time the policy was in force.
The price set by Great Lakes covered Mr H for the cancellation of any holidays which 
he had booked and was due to take from 21 September 2019 until 20 September 
2020. So, he would have been covered if he had had to cancel any number of 
holidays because of any listed events insured under the policy. 
So, Great Lakes covered the risk of Mr H making a successful cancellation claim for 
any number of pre-booked holidays, or the risk of travelling on any number of 
holidays, from 21 September 2019 until 20 September 2020. Its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk 
concerned  for however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. So, 
regardless of what Mr Hs cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to 
retain the premiums relating to the risk it covered.
As I mentioned in the background to this complaint, Mr H contacted Great Lakes on 3 
June 2020 to request a partial refund of his policy premium. By this time, his policy 
had 109 days left to run before it expired.  Mr H didnt cancel his policy at any time. It therefore ran to full term until its expiry on 
21 September 2020. So, it wouldnt be unreasonable for Great Lakes to decline to 
refund any of the premium Mr H paid.
After Mr H referred her complaint to our service, Great Lakes offered to resolve this 
complaint by refunding £12.38 or 10% of the premium he paid. This offer was made 
on 3 September 2021 and presents a change in Great Lakes initial proposed 
resolution to Mr Hs complaint.
I understand that Mr H feels he should receive a higher premium refund because he 
hasnt been able to use his policy as much as hed intended. But I think Great Lakes 
has acted reasonably by offering to resolve Mr Hs complaint by issuing a refund of 
£12.38. I say this because its treated the date Mr H first contacted it in the same way 
it would have done had he requested the cancellation of his policy at that time.
If Mr H had requested that Great Lakes cancel his policy on 3 June 2020, hed have 
been on cover for around 256 days. Great Lakes has said that, in its claims 
experience, it receives varying percentages of claims across different months of an 
annual multi-trip travel insurance policy. This means that the risk of a claim is not 
spread evenly across the year. 
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for 
calculating the percentage refund in the way it has, Im satisfied its demonstrated 
that there was a material unevenness in the spread of risk throughout the term of this 
annual insurance policy. And Im satisfied that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr H 
unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar circumstances. And I dont 
think its fair and reasonable to direct Great Lakes to offer a larger refund in the 
particular circumstances of this case.
Mr H didnt cancel his policy. He had also travelled whilst on cover and Great Lakes 
had been on risk for over 250 days before he contacted it to discuss his refund 
request. In all of these circumstances, I dont think its unreasonable or unfair for 
Great Lakes to offer Mr H a 10% premium refund. 
Ive clarified that Great Lakes refund offer would involve it sending him a postal order 
in the sum its offered. Once received, this can be cashed by Mr H at his local Post 
Office. So, Im going to direct Great Lakes to make a payment of £12.38 in that way 
to Mr H to resolve this complaint. But Im not going to direct it to do anything further.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint Great Lakes should make a payment of £12.38 to Mr H for the 
reasons outlined above.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve Mr Hs complaint, Great 
Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman