DRN-1416997
 
The complaint
Mrs G is upset with her insurers Hiscox Insurance Company Limited (Hiscox) who increased 
her premium on her home contents insurance.  Mrs G felt that her contents insurance had 
increased because Hiscox had considered a claim under a separate unrelated buildings 
policy and as such, she felt that she had been mis-sold the contents policy. Mrs G would like 
compensation of £200 from Hiscox. 
What happened
 
In June 2018, Mrs G contacted Hiscox by telephone to arrange cover for home contents 
insurance only. She explained to the call handler that she had her buildings insurance policy 
with another provider.  Once her contents policy had been opened Mrs G noticed that a 
claim had not been correctly logged and contacted Hiscox to put it right.  The call handler 
found that the accidental damage cover had not been applied to the policy. They applied it to 
the policy and as a result the premium increased, but as a goodwill gesture, Hiscox waived 
the increase.  The call handler explained that it was likely that the premium on the policy 
would rise when the policy renewed.  
 
In May 2019, Hiscox sent out the renewal notice to Mrs G.  She contacted Hiscox as she felt 
that the premium had substantially increased.  The call handler explained to Mrs G that the 
business had increased operating costs which were due to an increase in building claims. 
Mrs G was upset as she felt that any increased costs should only be applied to buildings 
policies and not included with contents only policies.  Mrs G made a formal complaint to 
Hiscox who did not uphold her complaint.  She then brought her complaint to the service. 
 
Our investigator looked into it and did not uphold the complaint on the basis that she did not 
believe that Mrs G had been mis-sold the policy and that she did not believe that Hiscox had 
treated Mrs G unfairly.  Mrs G did not agree with our investigator and the complaint was 
passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.  Having done so, I will not be upholding 
this complaint.  I will now give my reasons why.
  
Like our investigator I agree that there are two main elements to Mrs Gs complaint.  The first 
is whether Hiscox mis-sold Mrs G the policy.  The second is whether Hiscox treated Mrs G 
unfairly.  
 
In order to investigate whether a business has mis-sold a policy the service looks at the 
following criteria.  What happened when Mrs G bought the product? Did Hiscox do what they 
should have done? I have been provided with call records as well as the policy schedule.  
What is of note is that Mrs G requested on the phone, cover for contents only  as she had 
obtained her buildings policy elsewhere.  Her policy also indicates that the cover was for 
contents only. Hiscox confirmed that they offer one type of home policy insurance in which 
customers can choose the level of cover.   I am satisfied that Mrs G chose the level of cover 
that she required and was happy with this level of cover, as she paid the premium sought.  I 
do not believe that Mrs G was mis-sold the policy not only because she chose what level of 
cover she wanted but also because she was happy with the level of cover that she ultimately 
bought.  Consequently, Hiscox did what they were asked to do.  
I must also investigate whether Hiscox treated Mrs G unfairly.  When Mrs G raised her 
complaint with Hiscox, she was informed that the increase in premium was done on the 
basis of increased operating costs Hiscox had experienced. She was told that the increase 
had been applied to all customers on their home insurance book. The call handler stated that 
these operating costs covered a large volume of claims for escape of water claims.   I can 
appreciate why Mrs G felt that she had been penalised by Hiscox especially as the increase 
in her contents policy premium had been partly based on an insured event that would come 
under a buildings policy cover. I dont think FCA has insisted that insurers need to explain 
every detail around price changes.  But if costs rise that is likely to impact on premiums.  
 
Finally, Mrs G was told that these increases were not exclusive to her and that other policy 
holders had experienced similar increases.  In the circumstances, I do not feel that Hiscox 
treated Mrs G unreasonably or unfairly.  Mrs G had the option of not renewing with Hiscox; 
she couldve moved her policy elsewhere if she was unhappy with the price.  But Mrs G 
didnt and Hiscox increased the premium on the basis of a commercial decision.  I dont see 
any reason in this case why I should look to challenge that decision. I can not see how 
Hiscox have acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mrs G and I am afraid that there are no 
reasonable grounds on which I can ask Hiscox to do anything else.   
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2020.
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman