DRN-2899221
The complaint
Mr S complains that staff at a branch of HSBC UK Bank Plc racially discriminated against 
him, and endorsed another customers racist abuse towards him.
What happened
Mr S is an Asian man. In July 2020, Mr S visited a branch of HSBC with his two children. He 
complains that during the visit, he was ignored by a member of staff, who kept serving white 
customers even though he was ahead of them in the queue. He says that another customer 
then used a racist profanity which was directed at him, and that the staff member thanked 
that customer. The staff member then asked a manager to deal with Mr S, and he says the 
manager was unhelpful. Mr S says that both staff members discriminated against him on 
racial grounds, and that this caused considerable emotional distress to him and to both of his 
children.
Mr S complained to HSBC and then, being dissatisfied with the banks response, to this 
service. HSBC denied his account of events, and provided statements from one member of 
staff and two customers who had volunteered their details to staff after Mr S had left the 
branch. According to these three accounts, the staff had behaved professionally, and Mr S 
had been aggressive and rude for no obvious reason, and had jumped the queue.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She said that given the conflicting evidence, it 
was not possible to determine what had happened, and so she could not conclude that the 
bank had treated Mr S unfairly.
Mr S did not accept that opinion, or the evidence provided by HSBC. He asked the 
investigator to review the CCTV footage of the incident. He questioned the credibility of the 
statements HSBC had provided, and said that one of them had clearly been provided by the 
customer who had insulted him. He suggested that the Financial Ombudsman Service 
should independently interview every member of staff at the branch. He asked for an 
ombudsman to review his case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not uphold this complaint, for broadly the same reason as our investigator. I will explain 
why.
I asked HSBC for the CCTV, and it was provided to me (with everyone but Mr S pixelated 
out for data protection reasons). It does not have an audio track, so I cannot tell what people 
were saying. Since most of the conduct alleged by Mr S and by HSBCs witnesses consists 
only of speech, I dont think the CCTV is of very much assistance to Mr Ss case. However, it 
has still been useful to watch.
The CCTV does not show branch staff serving other customers out of turn. Instead, it shows 
Mr S entering the branch and being spoken to by a member of staff. That staff member then 
leaves and fetches a manager, who then takes Mr S aside and appears to speak to him for 
the rest of his visit. No other customers were allowed into the branch until the manager 
began speaking to Mr S. So I cannot accept his allegation that white customers who had 
been behind him in the queue were served before him. That unfounded allegation does not 
support his credibility.
I also think that the CCTV lends some support for the banks allegation that Mr S jumped the 
queue, although it is not conclusive. One camera facing the front door (camera 2) shows 
Mr S arrive at the door from the left, and he appears to be looking at his mobile phone. That 
camera seems to show all of the other customers after him arriving at the door from the 
opposite direction, and so does camera 1 (which is above the door but shows a reflective 
surface which clearly shows the direction from which the customers entered). This suggests 
that the customers had been queueing outside, along one side of the building, and that Mr S 
failed to notice them because he was distracted by his phone, and inadvertently entered 
without queueing.
I am reinforced in that opinion by the fact that the next customer to enter the branch (after 
Mr S was taken aside by the manager) appears in the doorway just after Mr S enters the 
branch, and her body language and Mr Ss reaction suggests that she called out after him, 
probably to object to him jumping the queue. This may well be the customer Mr S says was 
abusive to him, and I cannot rule that out. But since the CCTV tends to support the branch 
staff and customers version of events more than it supports Mr Ss, I am not persuaded that 
the branch staff were complicit in any abusive or racist behaviour by a customer, or were 
otherwise unprofessional. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 September 2021. 
Richard Wood
Ombudsman