DRN-4039203
The complaint
Mr E complains about Ikano Bank AV (publ)s response to his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act in relation to a solar panel system (the system)he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier. 
Mr E is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
Mr E bought the system from the supplier using a fixed sum loan agreement with Ikano. 
In May 2021, the CMC made a claim to Ikano on Mr Es behalf. This alleged that the system 
had been sold to him on the basis it would be self-funding  in that the benefits of the system 
would cover the loan repayments.
In July 2021, Ikano responded to the claim, making an offer of settlement, and requesting 
further information from Mr E so that it could calculate the settlement. The offer was to adjust 
the loan so that the system cost Mr E no more than the benefits the system would provide 
over the term of the loan  in effect making it self-funding. 
The CMC then referred a complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service, saying the claim 
had been rejected. When doing so it also sent us a copy of Ikanos response to the claim. It 
is unclear why it referred the matter to us instead of providing Ikano with the information 
requested for it to calculate the settlement. 
Our adjudicator forwarded the requested information to Ikano and asked it to make the 
settlement. We did not hear back from Ikano within a reasonable time, so Ive been asked to 
make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano has effectively accepted that the system was misrepresented, so I dont need to make 
a finding on that. I uphold this complaint, since Ikano appears to have the necessary 
information to calculate the settlement but has not paid this to Mr E within a reasonable time. 
Having said that it appears that the CMC referred a complaint to us instead of sending the 
requested information directly to Ikano, which delayed the settlement initially. So, Ive 
decided not to award any compensation for trouble and upset, since the CMCs actions will 
have contributed to this as much as Ikanos failure to process the settlement once we sent it 
the required information.
Putting things right
To put things right, Ikano should recalculate the original loan based on the known and 
assumed savings and income to Mr E from the solar panels over the original loan term, so 
he pays no more than that, and he keeps the solar panel system, and any future benefits 
once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mr E is paying (or has paid) more than he should 
have, then Ikano needs to reimburse him accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mr E by way of explanation. 
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mr Es loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mr E in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the original term of the loan.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, a consumers monthly repayments would 
reduce, meaning that they wouldve paid more each month than they shouldve done 
resulting in an overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the 
monthly overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of 
the overpayment to the date of settlement. 
Mr E should be given the following options as to how he would like his overpayments to be 
used:
A. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
continues to make his current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
B. the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and he 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term, 
C. the overpayments are returned to Mr E, and he continues to make his current 
monthly payment resulting in his loan finishing early, or 
D. the overpayments are returned to Mr E, and he pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mr E accepts my decision, he should indicate on the acceptance form which option he 
wishes to accept.
If Mr E has settled the loan, Ikano should pay him the difference between what he paid in 
total and what the loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mr E has settled the loan by refinancing, he should supply evidence of the refinance, to 
Ikano and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mr E paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
3. Refund the extra Mr E paid with the refinanced loan.
4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mr E receives his refund.
5. Pay Mr E the difference between the amount now owed and the amount he wouldve 
owed if the system had been self-funding over the original term of the loan.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) should put 
things right as Ive set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman