DRN-3728815
The complaint
Mr W complains about charges when he returned his car at the end of a hire agreement 
provided by Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions (NVS).
What happened
In April 2019, Mr W acquired a new car using a hire agreement with NVS. The agreement 
was taken over 36 months, with an initial payment of £809.96, followed by 35 monthly 
repayments of £269.99.
When Mr Ws agreement came to an end, he handed the car back. When the car was 
collected, it was inspected for damage by a third-party company who acted as collection 
agents for NVS. NVS say the inspector who carried out the inspection would have been 
trained to the British Vehicle and Rental Leasing Association (BVRLA) fair wear and tear 
guideline standards.
NVS then told Mr W he owed £305 for damage to the car. This consisted of:
Dent and paint damage to bonnet £60
Dent to left front wing £60
Corrosion/rust to alloy wheel £65
Dent and pain damage to the left B post £60
Dent to the right front wing £60
TOTAL £305
Mr W was unhappy with this and complained to NVS. NVS issued their final response to the 
complaint in May 2022. They said, in summary, that they thought the damage charges had 
been fairly applied.
Mr W remained unhappy and referred his complaint to our service. He said that he accepts 
that one of the charges had been fairly applied but disagreed with the other damage 
charges. He also supplied us with comments given to him from a third-party alloy wheel 
repair specialist which said that they dont believe the damage to the wheel to be corrosion.
Our investigator issued an opinion. This explained, in summary, that he thought Mr W had 
been incorrectly charged for the damage to an alloy wheel, but said he thought it was fair for 
NVS to charge for the other damages. So he asked NVS to remove the charge of £65 for the 
alloy wheel. 
NVS agreed with the investigators findings but Mr W disagreed. He said that he was happy 
to accept the damage charge to the right wing, but felt the guidelines are being applied too 
strictly for the remaining damage charges.
As Mr W disagreed with the investigators findings, the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint and Ill explain why below.
I want to reassure Mr W that Ive carefully considered everything hes said in relation to this 
complaint and all the points hes raised. Where I havent specifically commented on 
something below, this is because Im focussing on what I consider to be the key points and 
the crux of the complaint.
Mr W complains about a car supplied under a hire agreement. Entering into consumer credit 
contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I can consider Mr 
Ws complaint about NVS.
Mr W has complained about various damage charges on the returned vehicle. Ill consider 
these in turn. But Ive firstly thought about whether Mr W agreed to be held responsible for 
damage to the car. The terms of the agreement Mr W entered into says:
You agree to keep the Vehicle in good condition and repair. You will be responsible to us 
for any damage caused to or deterioration of the Vehicle otherwise than though fair wear 
and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued from time to time by the British Vehicle Rental 
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
So Im satisfied Mr W agreed to keep the car in good repair and to be held responsible for 
any damage outside of fair wear and tear.
When considering the damages here, Ive referred to the BVRLA guidance on fair wear and 
tear. The BVRLA says:
Dents of 15mm or less are acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and 
the paint surface is not broken. Chips within dents are not acceptable. Dents on the roof or 
on the swage line on any panel are not acceptable.
In relation to the damage to the bonnet, Ive reviewed the photos from the inspection of the 
car. I can see the light is reflected in a distorted pattern which indicates to me that there are 
visible dents. I can see three dents along the right-hand side of the bonnet. And on at least 
one of those dents, I can see the paint surface is broken. Im satisfied this area falls outside 
of the wear and tear guidance. So it follows Im satisfied its reasonable to charge Mr W for 
this damage.
In relation to the dent to the left front wing, looking at the photos, I can see a dent along the 
swage line and the paint surface is broken. As stated above, the BVRLA say dents on the 
swage line on any panel is not acceptable. So Im satisfied this area falls outside of fair wear 
and tear and that Mr W has been charged fairly for this damage.
In relation to the left B post, looking at the photos I can see a dent. It isnt totally clear, but 
Im persuaded on balance this is over 15mm. Either way, I still think NVS can charge Mr W 
for this area. I say this because theres also what appears to be a scratch to the paint that 
has gone through the paintwork and is showing the primer or bare metal. The BVRLA says:
Surface scratches of 25mm or less where the primer of bare metal is not showing are 
acceptable...So, given the scratch has gone through to paintwork, even if the dent is under 15mm, I still 
think its reasonable for NVS to charge Mr W for a repair.
Mr W accepts the damage charge in relation to the right front wing. For completeness, I have 
also reviewed the photos and Im satisfied this also falls outside of fair wear and tear and 
that Mr W has been fairly charged for this damage. I say this because I can see the light is 
reflected in a distorted pattern in two separate areas, which indicates to me that there are 
visible dents. One of the dents appears to be larger than 15mm in length. 
In relation to the corrosion/rust to the alloy wheel, the BVRLA says:
There should be no rust or corrosion on the alloy wheels. 
It also says: 
Dents on wheel rims and wheel trims are not acceptable. Scuffs up to 50mm on the total 
circumference of the wheel rim and on alloy wheels are acceptable.
I have reviewed the photos provided in the inspection report and I cant see rust or corrosion 
to the alloy wheel. I can see what I think is a scuff to the wheel, approximately 30mm in 
length. And I consider this to be within the BVRLA fair wear and tear guidelines. So, I dont 
think it is fair Mr W should be charged for this.
Considering everything here, I think NVS has wrongfully charged Mr W for the damage to 
the alloy wheel and fairly applied the BVRLAs fair wear and tear guidelines in the other 
areas being charged which I have looked into. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I instruct Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc 
trading as Novuna Vehicle Solutions to:
Remove the £65 charge for the alloy wheel, leaving Mr W with outstanding damage 
charges of £240 left to pay.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Ronesh Amin
Ombudsman