DRN-4258520
The complaint
Mr A complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money he lost when he fell victim to 
a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
In early 2022, Mr A was contacted on an instant messaging service by a scammer claiming 
to be from a well-known company (W), offering a job. He was told it involved purchasing and 
reviewing products and was relatively secretive. At one point he had to sign a Non-
Disclosure Agreement (NDA). 
Mr A has explained he had to log into Ws platform, which he says looked professional, and 
complete tasks such as purchasing and reviewing products. Over several months, Mr A 
made a series of payments from his Lloyds account to a cryptocurrency wallet held with B, 
which he says the scammer guided him to set up. I understand he was told he had to pay 
upfront for the products he had to buy, as part of his tasks to earn commission, but would be 
reimbursed. He received two credits back from the cryptocurrency wallet.
Mr A says he realised it was a scam when he tried to access his earnings but couldnt do so. 
Supported by a professional representative, he complained to Lloyds that it had failed to do 
enough to protect him from fraud in response to him making out of character payments. 
Lloyds said it had spoken to him about one of the payments and warned him about the risks 
of investment scams. He had confirmed that he was making the payment of his own 
initiative, and no one had contacted him or asked him to make the payment. So it didnt 
accept liability for his loss.
Unhappy with this response, Mr A referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold it. She wasnt persuaded Lloyds ought to have realised Mr A was being 
scammed based on his responses when it spoke to him. Nor did she think it could have 
recovered the funds. She noted the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) code didnt apply to any of these payments, due to them being transferred on 
to another account Mr A held. 
Mr A appealed the investigators view. In summary, he said the NDA would not have 
prevented him telling Lloyds, if they had asked, that the payments related to work he was 
doing for W. And there were other questions it should have asked, such as about whether he 
had been guided to use any remote access software, which would have uncovered the 
scam.  
Later, Mr A said the NDA he signed was after the loss [he] suffered. He also said the 
questioning during the intervention call failed to adequately delve into what he was doing.  
And he didnt lie and wasnt coached on his answers. So, if Lloyds had questioned him 
appropriately, the scam would have been uncovered.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the bank is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. Its not in dispute that Mr A was 
scammed. But nor is it in dispute that he authorised the payments. So the starting position is 
that he is liable for them.
The key consideration here is whether Lloyds ought to have done more, as part of its duty to 
help protect customers from harm from fraud and scams. I agree with the investigator that, 
given Mr As account history, the payments didnt initially look concerning. But it did 
intervene when Mr A made a series of payments in one day. Ive considered whether that 
intervention reasonably ought to have uncovered the scam.
During the initial part of the call, the Lloyds employee asked Mr A to tell them a bit more 
about the reason for the payment. He simply said it was to pay B, rather than saying (in 
response to the open question) that he was making payments for a job. He was then 
transferred through to another staff member.
In response to their questioning, Mr A explained he had been using the account for a few 
months. He said he had set it up, made transactions, made withdrawals, and he had done it 
all [him]self. 
Lloyds explained it was seeing cryptocurrency scams where someone would help the 
customer set up the cryptocurrency wallet, and then the money was moved on and 
disappeared. It said, if that happened, there was no way to get the money back. Lloyds 
also mentioned the wider risk of cryptocurrency.
At the end of the call, Mr A confirmed that he was making the payment at his own instruction. 
He said he hadnt been contacted and told to lie to the bank, or been told to move the money 
for any other reason. 
I appreciate Mr A says he hadnt been coached or told to lie. And I understand he was the 
one who set up the wallet  albeit under the guidance of the scammer. But I noticed that, 
when asked who set up the wallet on a form from his representative, he volunteered that the 
scammers had guided him to do this. By contrast, when Lloyds asked him, he didnt mention 
that anyone else was involved  and instead gave the impression he was acting alone. 
Based on Mr As response to this question, I dont think it was, or should have been, clear to 
Lloyds that anyone else was involved. Thinking he was acting alone, Lloyds had less reason 
to question Mr A about factors such as remote access software.
Furthermore, the scam risk Lloyds outlined in the call focussed on a scenario where 
someone else helped the customer set up the wallet  which matches what Mr A told us 
happened to him. So I think that was enough to put him on notice of the risk. Yet he didnt 
seem concerned at the time. Nor did he clarify, in response to the warning, that he had been 
helped in setting up the wallet. Instead, he made it clear he wanted to proceed.
Mr As assertion he had done it all himself, and wasnt acting on anyones instructions, also 
seems at odds with his account of the scam. As its premise was that he was being instructed 
by his employer to set up the wallet and make the payments to earn commission. Mr A also told us the job was meant to be secretive. And that does affect my judgment on 
whether, even with more questioning, Mr A was likely to have divulged more detail about 
what he was doing. Although he said he could still have divulged he was working for W (as 
he understood it), its not clear to me, based on his initial submissions, that he would have 
thought he was at liberty to divulge the nature of the work, in order to account for the 
payments. 
While Mr A told us more recently that the NDA was given to him after the scam, the date on 
the form predates some of the payments reported as part of the scam (although its after 
Lloyds intervention call). But if the scam had been uncovered by that point, it suggests he 
went on to make further payments after realising it was a scam  making it less likely that 
Lloyds should have been able to dissuade him from proceeding when it intervened.
On the other hand, Mr As initial submissions to our service  as well as Lloyds records of 
what he told them when reporting the scam  refer to the NDA as part of the onboarding 
process for the job, and a factor which gave him confidence that it was legitimate. So that is 
at odds with his more recent assertion that the NDA postdates the scam. 
Im not sure of the reason for this change. Regardless, I find it makes it harder for me to rely 
on Mr As argument, in hindsight, that he would have revealed key details, which would have 
uncovered the scam, in response to further questioning. As it makes it less clear what he 
thought, and what he was open to divulging, at the time. 
Overall, while I do think Lloyds questioning could have gone further, Im not persuaded 
Lloyds is at fault for failing to uncover the scam at the time. Despite outlining some 
circumstances relevant to the scam Mr A fell victim to, he didnt express concern  and 
asserted he was acting alone. 
Lloyds questioning was also guided by Mr As responses. Based on what it knew, it didnt 
have reason to suspect the payments were being made at the behest of a job  which I 
agree would have been concerning. In all the circumstances, I dont think any shortcomings 
in Lloyds intervention caused him a loss.
Ive also considered whether Lloyds could have done more to help recover Mr As loss. But 
as the funds were transferred to his own cryptocurrency wallet, which he has confirmed he 
had control over, it couldnt have recalled the transfers  as they had already been moved on 
to the scam. And there wouldnt have been grounds for a successful chargeback claims for 
the card payments, as the concerns reported didnt relate to the merchant (B) paid directly. 
As the cryptocurrency wallet paid directly was in Mr As name and under his control, he also 
isnt entitled to recourse under the CRM code. That is because it doesnt cover payments 
made to other accounts held by the customer. 
While Im really sorry to hear that Mr A has fallen victim to a scam, Im not persuaded any 
failings by Lloyds caused or contributed to his loss. In the circumstances, Im therefore not 
persuaded its fair to direct Lloyds to refund him or otherwise compensate him in relation to 
this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023. 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman