DRN-1823691
The complaint
Mr M complains that FirstRand Bank Limited trading as Motonovo Finance has unfairly 
registered a marker at CIFAS, the national fraud database.
What happened
Mr M says he needed finance for a vehicle in January 2015. He cant remember the details 
of how far he got with an application with Motonovo Finance. He recalls being asked for 
further information but says that the following day he took finance from a different business 
and so he didnt respond. Mr M says he didnt purposefully miss any information on his 
application and didnt think he had a record of bad credit at a previous address. This marker 
applied in February 2015 has affected his ability to open accounts elsewhere. 
Motonovo Finance says it received an application from Mr M on 29 January 2015. Its checks 
showed that he had a connection to an address he hadnt disclosed in the prior three years 
of address history it required. There was evidence of bad credit at that address. In its final 
response it said that it wouldnt have sent out a request for his address history as it had 
rejected the application. It said it hadnt made a mistake in adding the marker at CIFAS.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld. He said that the bar for 
recording a marker at CIFAS was a high one. And that a business is expected to keep a 
record of the checks it made to show why a CIFAS marker was recorded. He said that:
- Hed asked Motonovo Finance to provide an audit of Mr Ms application and the 
messages that had been displayed to him when filling out his application. All it had 
provided was a file of details input but it didnt show whether he had intentionally 
omitted certain information.
- We needed fairly to see the questions Mr M was asked and how they were phrased 
when the information was being entered. It was the responsibility of Motonovo 
Finance to keep all the information to demonstrate there were grounds to think that 
application fraud had been attempted.
- He found what Mr M had told him to be credible. But he said he wouldnt be able to 
take into account the potential loss for Mr M if he had difficulty opening an account 
elsewhere. But he did think a payment of £200 for trouble and upset was warranted.
Motonovo Finance didnt agree. It provided an extract of a customer notice it said applied in 
January 2015 stating that it would make searches and share information with credit and 
fraud agencies. And that this emphasised the need for Mr M to take care in his application. It 
didnt think that a request for three years address history was a difficult one. And it didnt 
see why it needed to prove Mr M had deliberately omitted this. Motonovo Finance said that 
Mr M had a reason to do so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Motonovo 
Finance needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that 
the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
I can appreciate why Mr M now has a limited recall of what happened in January 2015. But 
he says he was able to apply for other credit successfully at the time and didnt know about 
the marker until 2019. He thinks that an issue with his address was raised at the time, but he 
didnt pursue this. Our investigator considers hes given a credible account of how the other 
address was missed on his application.
The evidence from Motonovo Finance about what happened has been sent in stages. When 
our investigator initially looked at this he had complaint notes and a limited database file. 
After his first view Motonovo Finance sent the information it had linking Mr M to a different 
address. And indicating he had relevant credit history there. Before the case has been 
passed to me it sent in a copy of the details about the way it would have used information.
It was clearly a matter for Motonovo Finance to decide whether to agree the application for 
credit. I dont have the information to show how that was communicated to Mr M to resolve 
whether he was asked for more information or what he was told about his application at the 
time. The issue remains largely one about process. While I fully understand why Motonovo 
Finance thinks that a question about address history is a simple one, we havent seen how 
this was asked and clear evidence of what was presented to Mr M on screen during an 
online application. I appreciate the difficulty in recreating that for Mr M. But to assess fairly 
whether this was either carelessness or an omission on the part of Mr M I need to see 
exactly what was put to him and how he responded. It is likely he saw a warning of some 
sort about the use of his information and I dont doubt he reasonably expected some sort of 
credit scoring for his application. 
While I fully understand Motonovo Finances position Im deciding here what I think is fair 
and reasonable. There were grounds for suspicion but taking into account what Mr M has 
said I find it hasnt been able to demonstrate to me at this time that in 2015 the high bar for 
the reporting of a CIFAS marker was met.
Putting things right
Mr Ms position seems to be that for some time he was able to access other credit. The issue 
has come more recently he says when he has been applying for further accounts. I agree 
with our investigator that we wont look at potential loss here. And there was no guarantee 
that an application would otherwise have been agreed. But I do think Mr M has been caused 
a measure of trouble and upset. The recommended amount of £200 is appropriate. My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require FirstRand Bank Limited trading as 
Motonovo Finance to remove the CIFAS marker and pay Mr M £200.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman