DRN-2228327
The complaint
Mrs G, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complains that she was 
given unsuitable investment advice by The Co-operative Bank Plc.
What happened
In 1998 Mrs G invested £10,000 in a with profits bond and £6,000 in a PEP following advice 
she received from Co-op. She surrendered the PEP in 2003 for around £6,750 and 
surrendered the bond in 2006 for around £11,980. 
The CMC said, in summary:
Mrs G had recently been made redundant and was looking for alternative 
employment and had no income at the time. She was also looking to change her 
career and therefore was very uncertain as to her future employment opportunities.
The £16,000 was the entire sum shed received from her redundancy pay-out. The 
advice to invest all of it was highly inappropriate and left her with a totally inadequate 
emergency fund.
She was advised to take too much risk with her capital. She was aware that the value 
of her investment could fluctuate but the funds recommended (UK Growth Fund, 
European Fund) contained too much risk for a first time investor with no previous 
experience or knowledge of risk based investments.
Co-op didnt uphold the complaint. They said they only had limited information from the point 
of the sale due the passage of time. However, based on their process at the time, the sale 
would have been completed over two separate interviews.
They thought they would have initially discussed Mrs Gs personal circumstances including 
her income and expenditure, any previous investments/savings, her goals for the future, 
attitude to risk and how much money she wanted to invest.
They would have then presented their recommendations considering her attitude to risk and 
would have made sure she had an adequate emergency fund. So, while they no longer had 
the documentation from the time of the sale, they were unable to agree that they would have 
completed a sale without assessing these details.
They also thought Mrs G should have been reasonably aware she had cause to complain in 
2001/2002 when the value of the investments fell. She therefore had three years from that 
time or six years from the time of the sale to make her complaint. Because she didnt 
complain within those timescales, they thought the complaint had been made too late.
Mrs G didnt agree and brought her complain to this service where it was considered by one 
of our investigators. He thought the complaint had been made in time but didnt uphold the 
complaint.
 He thought, in summary:
He had no evidence of what Mrs Gs situation was at the time of the advice, or what 
was discussed with the adviser apart from her recollections.
He understood the point the Co-op had made about their processes at the time, but it 
didnt necessarily mean it was correctly followed by the adviser.
Hed taken into account that the events in question were over twenty years ago, and 
Mrs G may not fully remember what happened. In particular, the initial complaint 
stated she was looking for a new job at the time of the advice, but she later advised 
she immediately found employment after being made redundant.
On balance, he accepted Mrs Gs recollection that the funds came from a 
redundancy pay-out.
He had no evidence to show what her attitude to risk was at the time, or whether she 
had any funds elsewhere. Hed asked for any evidence she could provide but was 
told nothing was available.
Taking everything into account he didnt think it was fair to conclude that the 
investment was too risky for her, or that she was advised to invest too much of her 
available funds.
The CMC didnt agree, they thought Mrs G was an inexperienced investor and the advice to 
place some of her funds into the UK Growth and European funds was too high in risk. The 
investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to me to 
make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not going to uphold this complaint, I will now explain why. As noted, 
theres a very limited amount of documentation available from the time of the sale. The only 
documents available are some statements from when the investments were in force.
I dont have anything to show how Mrs Gs attitude to risk was assessed. I also dont have 
the benefit of reviewing answers to a risk profiling questionnaire, or something similar. So its 
hard to now judge Co-ops categorisation of Mrs G as someone who was prepared to take a 
medium level of risk. 
The CMC has said medium risk wasnt right for Mrs G  she didnt have any experience of 
investing before. I note this point, but not everyone who makes their first investment must 
only do so on a cautious basis. It isnt automatically the case that the recommendation is 
unsuitable if its medium risk.
An investment heavily reliant upon equity performance could seem more suited to someone 
with some investment experience  and by its very nature, a PEP had to have equity 
exposure. But I dont think we have enough to evidence that Co-ops risk assessment at the 
time was unsuitable.
I note that it isnt risk alone that Mrs G has complained about, but also not being left with 
enough of an emergency fund. But I must balance that with the fact that she held the PEP 
for around five years and the bond for around eight, this seems to suggest that she didnt 
have any pressing need for the funds shed invested. I also note the value of the investments fell in 2001/2002, but this appears to have been a 
loss she could tolerate given she didnt surrender the PEP until 2003 and the bond until 
2006.
 
Ultimately, I don't think that I can reasonably or fairly make a finding that the advice given to 
Mrs G in 1998 was unsuitable. From all that I have seen, I dont think I have enough to say it 
was unreasonable for Mrs G to have taken a balanced risk to investing or to have invested 
the amount she did. So, while this will be a disappointment to her, I wont be asking Co-op to 
compensate her for mis-selling.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman