DRN-4239697
The complaint
Mr G is unhappy with the exchange rate applied by HSBC Bank Plc when he sent US dollar 
payments to his sterling account in the UK.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr G made several wire transfers from an overseas account to the UK between 
March and May 2023. 
He complained that HSBC used an arbitrary rate of exchange when converting the 
payment to sterling, resulting in a loss of over £12,000. He said they should have 
used the prevailing market rate. 
Mr G has supplied evidence to show the average exchange rate advertised by 
different providers was different to the rate HSBC provided for his transfers, and 
therefore he would like them to reimburse the money lost. 
HSBC explained their rates are variable and change throughout each day. They said 
their terms and conditions state they will use the HSBC Exchange Rate applicable at 
the time of receiving the incoming payment. 
HSBC also said this rate is derived from a live interbank market rate, using the mid-
rate, which is the average between the sell and buy rates with their retail margin 
applied. They explained that they dont tell customers what their margins are, but 
they are included in the rate they advertise. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and couldnt say that HSBC had done 
anything wrong. He checked the terms of the account and was satisfied they made it 
clear that payments received in a foreign currency to a UK personal account would 
be exchanged using the HSBC Exchange Rate/ HSBC Global Transfer Exchange 
Rate. 
Our investigator didnt feel the rates used were unfair and explained that in order to 
know how much he would receive after conversion, Mr G would have needed to book 
an exchange rate with the remitting bank before making the payment. 
Mr G disagreed. He said that HSBC setting a unilateral exchange rate is the same as 
them applying hidden charges and they should have let him know that they intended 
to charge a rate significantly different to other providers. 
Our investigator considered Mr Gs points but remained of the view that HSBC had 
made it clear in their terms that they use their own exchange rate. 
Mr G still disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide is whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably when applying the 
exchange rate they did. And having considered everything, I agree with the investigator for 
the same reasons. I will explain why. 
Section 10 of the terms of Mr Gs account state that any funds received in a foreign currency 
will be converted into Sterling using the HSBC Exchange Rate at the time it receives the 
cash.
Mr G has said that banks have an obligation to provide clear and transparent information 
regarding fees and charges associated with their services. He said HSBC failed to disclose 
the significant impact of their margin on the exchange rate which resulted in the loss of over 
£12,000. He also said that HSBC do display a fee of £5 for international transfers on their 
website, which gives the impression that is the extent of the charges, but they are silent on 
the fact they also charge a margin/commission based on the exchange rate they use. He 
says HSBC are misleading in their communications which create a false impression of the 
total costs involved. 
I understand Mr Gs frustrations as he feels he lost more money than he would have done 
had he used a different provider. But Im satisfied HSBC have acted in line with the terms of 
the account and applied the rate that was available at the time the payment was made. And 
while I understand that Mr G sees the amount thats been taken after conversion as a 
charge, it isnt a charge, just a difference in the amount that is left after the payment has 
been converted using the rate available.  
While the rate may have been different to what Mr G could have got elsewhere, banks are 
free to set their own rates, and its for customers to research different providers and find a 
rate they are happy with. HSBC also wouldnt share their margins with customers, as that is 
commercially sensitive information. 
If Mr G wanted to know what he would receive after the payments had been made, he could 
have booked an exchange rate with the remitting bank, so that the payments could be 
exchanged before arriving into his UK account. Given the amounts involved, it would have 
been up to Mr G to look into the rates available at the time and make an informed decision 
about what he wanted to do. 
I understand Mr G has provided evidence to show that better rates were available with 
different providers, however Im not able to comment on those rates as they hadnt been 
guaranteed to Mr G for his exact payments. I therefore cant be sure he would have got 
those rates, had he chosen a different provider. 
Overall, I cant see that HSBC have done anything wrong here. They applied the HSBC 
Exchange rate at the time the payments were made, which is what the terms say they do. 
Because of this, Im not going to ask them to reimburse the sum of money Mr G says he lost. 
I appreciate Mr G will likely be disappointed with my decision, but I hope it helps him to know 
that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 January 2024.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman