DRN-3744152
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC made an error with its payment 
instruction and caused B to experience a financial loss.
B is represented by its director, who Ill call Miss R. For ease, Ill mainly refer to Miss R in my 
decision.
What happened
Miss R initiated an international payment via a Barclays branch in May. The payment failed 
to go through because the beneficiary details were incorrect. Miss R says the details were 
entered incorrectly by a Barclays staff member. Miss R didnt receive the funds back until 
around three weeks later, after which she re-sent the payment successfully. 
Miss R complained to Barclays because she says the banks mistake impacted her business 
and she incurred late payment fees from the beneficiary of the payment  causing her 
around £4,000 in losses. Miss R wants Barclays to pay her compensation and reimburse her 
costs.
The bank apologised for the error but pointed out that Miss R checked the payment details 
and signed to confirm these were correct. Prior to its response, to put things right, Barclays 
waived the transaction fee for both payments  valued at £25 each. The bank didnt accept 
liability but offered Miss R £150 compensation. Miss R didnt accept this and asked this 
service to review her complaint.
One of our investigators agreed that Barclays wasnt fully responsible for the error, given 
Miss R checked and verified the payment details. The investigator decided that the offer the 
bank had put forward was fair. Miss R didnt agree, so the complaint has been passed to me 
to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I share the investigators opinion that Barclays has offered a fair resolution 
to this complaint. I say this because:
Barclays accepts that it didnt copy the beneficiary details correctly when it input the 
information on to its system.
I can see though that it provided Miss R with a copy of the payment instruction, which 
prompts Miss R to check the details and sign to confirm these were correct.
The copy of the signed payment instruction Barclays sent us shows Miss R wrote her 
initials alongside each essential section  both the senders details and the 
beneficiarys details. This makes me think that Miss R made sure to properly check 
the details herself. The overall payment instruction was completed with a final 
signature from Miss R, confirming the payment details were correct.
It seems to me that, although Barclays had a responsibility to enter the beneficiary 
details correctly, the onus was on Miss R to ensure its accuracy  which she did 
when she checked and signed the payment instruction. Its unfortunate that the 
details were not entirely accurate, but I cant fairly conclude that the bank is totally 
responsible for the error.
Miss R says she did query the error with the beneficiarys details after the payment 
was sent and was advised the payment would still be successful. However, its my 
role to weigh up all the information we have on file for this complaint. Given the copy 
of the payment instruction that Ive seen, on balance, I think its more likely that 
Miss R confirmed the payment details as I set out above and the payment was 
processed on that basis. Had she pointed out the error before signing this document, 
I think its likely that the bank wouldve amended the details before processing the 
payment.  
Barclays offer of £150 compensation in addition to waiving both transaction fees is, 
in my opinion, a fair and reasonable way to put things right. Miss Rs claim for 
financial losses doesnt seem to have been substantiated, so I cant conclude that 
she experienced those losses or will at some stage do so, because of what Barclays 
did wrong. 
So I wont be asking the bank to increase what it has offered to pay Miss R.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 November 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman