DRN-3786715
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his account without informing him. 
Mr K says he was given incorrect information several times when trying to keep his account 
open. 
What happened
Mr K opened an account with HSBC in 2002 when working in the UK but has been living 
abroad for a number of years. The account had been dormant for more than 15 years and 
had a credit balance of £14,041.01. 
The terms and conditions of the account allow HSBC to close accounts where there havent 
been any transactions on the account for more than 24 months providing at least two 
months notice is given or if the customer is no longer resident in the UK. 
HSBC sent Mr K a letter on 8 June 2021 stating that as he hadnt used the account for over 
15 years it had frozen his account to prevent any transactions being made to protect him 
from fraud and financial crime. The letter goes on to explain the account would be closed in 
two months time and that HSBC takes part in the Dormant Accounts Scheme where HSBC 
may transfer the balance of the dormant account to Reclaim Fund Limited (RFL) a not for 
profit organisation. Under the terms of the scheme Mr K would have the right to reclaim his 
money at any time and that HSBC would remain responsible for handling all repayments 
claims on behalf of RFL.
The letter advised that Mr K needed to take immediate action and to call HSBC if he wants 
to be reunited with his money.  
On receipt of the letter Mr K got in touch with HSBC in August 2021 regarding keeping the 
account opened. Its not disputed that from this point Mr K was given some incorrect and 
inconsistent information over a number of communications regarding what identity 
documentation was needed to keep the account open and the status of the account.  
This advice included:
HSBC telling Mr K it had the correct identification but then that his passport had 
expired; 
that his account was still active and could still be used; and
failing to advise that the documents HSBC had requested had to be translated into 
English or translated by an official translator.
Mr Ks account was closed on 6 September 2021.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Ks concerns and reached the conclusion that HSBC 
was entitled to close Mr Ks account  it being a commercial decision a bank is entitled to 
take but the information it had provided to Mr K wasnt correct and didnt think it would be fair 
for HSBC to hold onto Mr Ks outstanding balance indefinitely. They thought HSBC should 
return the balance to Mr K on the closed account and pay him £150 in compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience caused.  
HSBC agreed to settle the complaint in line with our adjudicators recommendations on the 
condition Mr K provided an up to date copy of identification. But Mr K didnt agree he wants 
£500 compensation and has asked for an ombudsmans decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, Ive decided to partially uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill 
explain why in a little more detail.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And we may award modest compensation. 
So firstly, I need to consider whether HSBC did anything wrong in closing Mr Ks
account or in the processes it followed when doing this.  
As has already been explained by our adjudicator as a general rule HSBC isnt obliged to 
continue offering an account to a customer if it doesnt want to and it doesnt have to give a 
reason  providing banking facilities and to who is a commercial decision and not something 
for me to get involved with.
That being said it wouldnt be fair for HSBC to close Mr Ks account outside the terms and 
conditions of the account or without reasonable notice.
The terms and conditions of the account say that HSBC is able to close accounts where 
there havent been any transactions on the account for more than 24 months or if the 
customer is no longer a resident in the UK providing at least two months notice is given.  Mr 
Ks account had been dormant for 15 years and HSBC sent Mr K a letter on 8 June 2021 
which among other things told him that the account would be closed in two months time. 
So Im in agreement with our adjudicator here and Im satisfied HSBC made no mistake and 
was entitled to close Mr Ks account as it was dormant, Mr K was no longer living in the UK 
and HSBC gave Mr K the required notice under the terms and conditions of the account. 
However, although I dont think HSBC made a mistake in closing Mr Ks account, that is not 
to say it didnt make any mistakes along the way. 
HSBC has already acknowledged there was some incorrect information given to Mr K during 
the process and agreed to pay Mr K £150 compensation for this in line with our adjudicators 
recommendations and that it would release Mr Ks funds on the receipt of identity 
documentation.
The incorrect information was given to Mr K over a series of phone calls and related to the 
identity documentation HSBC needed from Mr K to keep his account open and the status of 
his account. I accept that this mis-information has no doubt caused Mr K some frustration 
and inconvenience and that Mr K should be awarded some compensation for this. But I 
havent been given enough information to show me that this warrants compensation of £500. 
So on that basis I think what HSBC has already agreed to do is a fair and reasonable way to 
settle Mr Ks complaint and Im not going to ask it to do anything more.So it follows that I dont think HSBC made a mistake in closing Mr Ks account but I think 
HSBC should compensate Mr K £150 for the incorrect advice given to him around this and 
that HSBC should release the funds it holds from Mr Ks closed bank account on receipt of 
Mr Ks identity documentation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I partially uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct HSBC UK Bank 
Plc pay the fair compensation of £150 and release the funds it holds on Mr Ks behalf. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman