DRN-3435877
The complaint
Mr N complains about NewDay Ltd, trading as Marbles recording a default against his credit 
card account.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both Mr N and NewDay. I wont repeat in 
detail what is already known to both parties. In my decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the 
reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mr N had a credit card account with NewDay. He experienced a negative change in his 
financial circumstances because of the COVID-19 pandemic. He lost his main source of 
income - his employment, and was placed on furlough leave.
In August 2020 Mr N requested a COVID-19 payment deferral for three months. This meant 
Mr N wasnt required to make repayments towards his outstanding balance, fees and 
charges were frozen, but interest continued to accrue. After the end of this three month 
period, Mr N got in touch with NewDay to explain his circumstances hadnt significantly 
changed or improved and requested an extension of the payment deferral. This was 
approved and extended until 12 April 2021.
At the end of the payment deferral period NewDay expected Mr N to bring his account back 
into good standing. Mr N spoke to NewDay and they proposed a repayment plan. Mr N 
rejected this and instead offered to make a repayment of £20. Further discussions took place 
and an income and expenditure assessment was completed but this wasnt followed up on 
by NewDay and as Mr N failed to bring his account up to date they recorded it as defaulted.
Mr N complained to NewDay but they didnt uphold his complaint. He then referred his 
complaint to our Service for an independent review. Our investigator considered the 
complaint but didnt recommend that it be upheld. Mr N didnt accept the investigators 
findings so his complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. This isnt meant as a discourtesy to 
either party  it simply reflects the informal nature of our Service. Similarly, I wont comment 
on every interaction between both parties here  only the key ones. However, Ive given 
careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
The COVID-19 payment deferral 
Its positive that NewDay approved Mr Ns COVID-19 payment deferral requests and later 
extended them at his request. Im satisfied that NewDay followed the guidance set out by the 
regulator - The Financial Conduct Authority (The FCA) when implementing the deferrals. 
The FCA set out in their guidance: 
This guidance applies where customers are already experiencing or reasonably 
expect to experience temporary payment difficulties as a result of coronavirus.
Based on what Ive seen and heard about Mr Ns circumstances between August 2020 and 
April 2021, Ive seen no evidence that approving the initial payment deferral and then 
agreeing to Mr Ns request for a further deferral wasnt in his best interest - as he wasnt 
working and his other options were extremely limited.
The end of the COVID-19 payment deferral period
The relevant FCA guidance set out that financial businesses should offer customers tailored 
and flexible support when the deferral period came to an end. 
Its clear that Mr Ns circumstances hadnt changed or improved to the extent that he was in 
a position to clear the arrears or resume his minimum contractual repayments. Around 
April/May 2021 Mr N had indicated that he could afford to repay around £20 per month.
NewDay offered Mr N the option of a reduced repayment plan  but he rejected this. That 
was his own decision to make, but I find it was reasonable of NewDay to offer it.
Its extremely disappointing to see that although NewDay completed an income and 
expenditure assessment with Mr N they didnt follow up on this and call him back as theyd 
intended. Ive kept in mind that although this was an error by NewDay, Mr N also didnt call 
them back to chase this up.
This means I now need to decide if, on balance - the end outcome here (a default being 
recorded) wouldve been different if things had happened as they should have. That is, if 
NewDay had called Mr N back. On balance, Im not persuaded that there would have been a 
different outcome. I say this because:
the income and expenditure assessment completed already indicated that Mr Ns 
disposable income was around £20;
the outstanding balance and arrears at this point exceed £3,000 and it would have 
been irresponsible of NewDay to allow the arrears to grow further; and
at the end of the payment deferral period (April 2021) there was no firm indication or 
certainties that Mr Ns financial circumstances were likely to increase in the very near 
future as he was waiting for the COVID-19 restrictions to ease so he could return to 
work. As Mr N has told us: as we were the last to open no matter how much time 
they gave me if I didn't have the money I wouldn't have the money to pay as we were 
waiting for [the prime minister] to give us the green light so we can get back to 
work....
Everything considered, on balance I dont find it unreasonable that NewDay recorded a 
default on this account. NewDay have a duty as a responsible financial business to 
accurately report a true reflection of their customers accounts to the relevant credit 
reference agencies. I find that they acted in a reasonable and supportive way in trying to 
offer help to Mr N, but ultimately there was no solid indication hed be able to clear his 
arrears or resume his minimum contractual repayments in the near future  due to the 
uncertainty over when held be able to return to work (at that point in time). I understand     
Mr Ns arguments about what subsequently happened, but that is with the benefit of 
hindsight and I dont find NewDay acted unreasonably based on the evidence available at 
the time of making of their decision. 
I know my decision will disappoint Mr N, but it brings to an end what our Service in trying to 
informally resolve his dispute with NewDay can do for him.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 September 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman