DRN-4237263
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited didnt offer renewal 
terms for his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties so I wont repeat it in detail 
here. In summary Liverpool Victoria didnt offer Mr L renewal terms on his motor insurance 
policy. It said this was because of the nature of some calls hed had with Liverpool Victorias 
staff and the threats hed made towards them. Mr L felt this was unfair. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. Mr L appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and although I recognise that Mr L will be disappointed by my decision, I 
agree with the conclusion reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr L made a serious threat to a Liverpool Victoria member of staff and used offensive 
behaviour. Mr Ls policy provides: Well cancel your insurance by giving you 7 days 
notice if... you behave inappropriately for us to continue your insurance, e.g. if you 
harass or show abusive, threatening, racist, sexist or any other anti-social or 
discriminatory behaviour towards our staff. Liverpool Victoria decided not to invoke 
the cancellation clause, but it didnt offer Mr L renewal terms. I dont find that it 
treated him unfairly in doing so.
I understand that Mr L feels this may have an impact on his motor insurance going 
forward. Not inviting renewal is not the same as cancelling a policy. It is not recorded 
on external databases. Liverpool Victoria gave Mr L notice that his policy wouldnt be 
renewed, so Im satisfied that he had the opportunity to source motor insurance cover 
elsewhere.
Mr L has said that he doesnt want to do business with Liverpool Victoria, but he 
would like an apology for the way he has been treated. I do understand that he feels 
he has been treated harshly, and its clear Mr L was very frustrated about the issue 
he called about. But Liverpool Victoria has a duty to protect its staff. In all the 
circumstances I dont find that it was obliged to offer him renewal terms or has 
otherwise treated him unfairly.
I havent disregarded Mr Ls points with regard to his mental health. However, Im 
satisfied that Liverpool Victorias response was proportionate in the circumstances. It 
follows that I dont require it to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman