DRN-3656647
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that they havent received the service they were promised by 
Skipton Building Society (Skipton) on the investment portfolio. They are specifically 
concerned that the monitoring service they were expecting wasnt provided in the 12 months 
up to the end of September 2020. 
What happened
In 2013 and 2015, Skipton advised Mr and Mrs G to invest their savings in the Monitored 
Informed Investing (MII) service it provided. The suitability reports from when the advice was 
given confirm the MII service was recommended and accepted by Mr and Mrs G.
In April 2021, Mr and Mrs G raised concerns about their investment with Skipton. They were 
unhappy they had been paying for a MII service but  during the previous year up to 30 
September 2020, they didnt feel they had received the service as their savings had been left 
languishing in poorly performing funds until a fund switch was actioned on 2 October 2020. 
Skipton responded to the complaint but did not uphold it. In summary it said it had provided 
the benefits included as part of the MII service that it promised when Mr and Mrs G first 
invested. It also provided information about a change to the service it offers. It 
acknowledged, Mr and Mrs Gs portfolio had now been moved to the new proposition but 
maintained that while their savings were still part of the MII it provided the level of service it 
agreed to. 
As Mr and Mrs G werent happy with the response, they referred their complaint to this 
service for an independent review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She 
didnt uphold the complaint. In summary she said:
- Having reviewed the MII Promises brochure and all the information available, she felt 
Skipton had acted fairly. She thought Skipton had provided the level of service that it 
said it would. 
- Skipton followed what its defined as performance monitoring. It also sent quarterly 
reports outlining the performance of the investment.
- While Mr and Mrs G feel Skipton took too long to act on their investment 
underperforming, it has made MII fund switch offers, which is part of what it promised 
when an investment hasnt performed as hoped. 
Mr and Mrs G didnt accept the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsman to 
reach a decision on their complaint. In summary they said:
- Their complaint relates to the 12 months to 30 September 2020. Skiptons terms and 
conditions in force at this time clearly state that it will monitor all MII Core Funds on 
an ongoing basis. They understood this to mean that Skipton should be looking at 
how the investments are performing either week by week or month by month.
- Skipton did nothing for 12 months other than issue quarterly reports.
- They believe the requirement the investigator has referred to that action only needs 
to be taken after a fund has shown to underperform over four consecutive quarter 
relates to non-core funds, so not relevant. 
- They believe there is a clear conflict between the original promises brochure and the 
updated February 2019 Terms and Conditions they have provided. They understand 
that the updated terms take precedence over the promises brochure.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr and Mrs G dont believe theyve received the service 
they paid for and this has resulted in them losing money as they remained in poor 
performing funds. 
Ive reviewed the original documentation Mr and Mrs G were provided with when they 
received advice  including the MII Our Promise brochure. Ive also reviewed the updated 
terms and conditions from 2019 that Mr and Mrs G provided. 
Mr and Mrs G say Skipton havent monitored the performance properly of their investment 
because in the year up to September they saw the value of their investment fall without any 
intervention. They say monitoring itself does nothing unless it is acted upon, and with their 
investment Skipton took too long. Mr and Mrs G have referred to the updated terms and 
conditions they received in 2019. Theyve argued this supersedes the information provided 
in the original MII Promises brochure. They understood there would be ongoing monitoring 
meaning Skipton should be looking at how funds are performing either week by week or 
month by month. They dont think issuing quarterly reports is enough. 
But Skipton says it did provide the service Mr and Mrs G paid for. To support this, it has 
referred to the quarterly reports it produces. It says these provide observations and opinions 
of how funds have performed across a range of factors. Skipton has also confirmed that Mr 
and Mrs G were offered two fund switches shortly after receiving the September 2020 report. 
One in October 2020 and one in November/December 2020 from two of the underperforming 
funds they were invested in.
 
I can see from the original information provided that the MII was a service which provides 
ongoing monitoring of your investments for a charge. Skipton said it would monitor the Core 
Funds and for those that are not meeting expectations it would offer investors a fund switch 
free of charge. The monitoring was said to include regularly meetings with the fund 
managers in order to understand their ongoing strategy, assessing the performance of each 
fund against the rest of its sector, and keeping investors updated on how investments were 
performing. The updated terms and conditions from 2019 also confirm that the MII features 
performance monitoring on an ongoing basis considering each fund's performance, risk 
profile, fund ratings and management team  and that investors would be kept informed 
through quarterly and annual reports (but also Skipton may also write on other occasions 
whenever it is deemed appropriate). It says the reports will provide an overview of the funds 
including information such as fund performance monitoring, notification if the risk profile has 
changed and Skiptons view on the funds future prospects.  Skipton also confirms in the 
terms, fund switches will be offered at its sole discretion when it deems it to be appropriate 
to do so. 
Ive considered the arguments put forward by both parties. Ive looked at what evidence 
there is to show the level of service Skipton provided during the period in question. Ive 
looked at an example of an MII quarterly report (from 2020) and can see that it does provide 
commentary on the performance of the core funds over the preceding period. This includes 
commentary on how funds have performed and the factors that impacted the performance. It also provides an opinion on the future outlook for the fund. Where a specific fund hasnt 
performed as expected, it does make refence to potential fund switch offers. Im satisfied this 
information supports that Skipton was providing the service that it described in both the 
original documentation and the updated terms. The fact Mr ad Mrs G were offered fund 
switches not long after the 30 September 2020 also supports that Skipton were providing the 
service it said it would.  The frequency of funds switch offers is also at Skiptons discretion, 
so the fact it did offer one sooner doesnt mean it failed to provide the service. 
Mr and Mrs G acknowledge receiving the reports but dont think they are sufficient to say 
their investment was being monitored. I also note what they have said about their 
expectation of what the MII service provided. But I dont agree that the type of service they 
expected was what Skipton promised to provide - for example there is no reference to the 
weekly or monthly monitoring they thought should be happening. The updated terms and 
conditions dont indicate this level of service either. I do appreciate their frustration at seeing 
their investment falling and they think action should have been taken sooner than it did. But I 
dont agree this means Skipton must be at fault and responsible for the losses they claim. 
Having reviewed the circumstances of this complaint and the relevant evidence, I dont find 
that Skipton is responsible for the losses Mr and Mrs G claim. Ive found that Skipton did act 
in a fair and reasonable in the way it provided the MII service. 
My final decision
I understand that my decision will come as a disappointment for Mr and Mrs G, but for the 
reasons set out above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 September 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman