DRN-2871002
The complaint
Mr G complains about the quality of a vehicle bought on finance with Aldermore Bank Plc.
  
What happened
Mr G took out a hire purchase agreement with Aldermore for a car in February 2020. He 
says shortly after the car was delivered, he noticed the front camera was sideways, and the 
drivers seat mechanism didnt work properly. 
When Mr G contacted the dealership that supplied the vehicle, they suggested the camera 
should be repaired by the manufacturer under warranty. When Mr G then received an alert 
from the cars computer about his engine management light and wear on his brakes, he took 
the vehicle to a manufacturer garage local to him. 
Mr G paid approximately £1,000 For new tyres and the front brake pads and discs to be 
replaced. The garage informed him there was a problem with the engine, and extensive work 
was carried out to it under warranty, at no cost to Mr G. 
When Mr G got the car back it broke down, so he returned it to the manufacturer garage 
where repairs were completed to the gear box under warranty at no cost to Mr G. 
Mr G says he was unable to get the seat fixed for some time due to staff availability at the 
garage, but this was completed sometime in June and Mr G paid £683.62 for this repair. 
Mr G took the car back to the manufacturer garage in July 2020 due to a ratting noise and 
paid £667.20 for loose objects in a vent under the seat to be removed. 
Mr G complained to Aldermore about the quality of the vehicle and asked for them to 
reimburse the cost of the repairs hed paid for, or to reject the vehicle. He wasnt confident 
he could drive it without further faults. 
Aldermore responded to Mr Gs complaint to say that it was his responsibility to check the 
car was in good condition prior to delivery and, because hed had repair work carried out 
without their authorisation, they couldnt now say what had caused the faults, so they werent 
responsible for them. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G bought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into 
things for Mr G. They thought the items that Mr G had paid for were normal wear and tear 
items, so didnt make the car of unsatisfactory quality. They thought the more extensive 
repairs to the engine and gearbox were faults that would mean the car was of unsatisfactory 
quality at the time of supply. But as these had been repaired, they didnt think Aldermore 
needed to take any further action in respect of Mr Gs complaint. 
Mr G didnt accept the investigators view. He says the car was faulty when it was supplied to 
him, and he shouldnt have had to spend the money he did on repairs. Hes also unhappy 
that he didnt have the vehicle, or a courtesy car, for a long period of time whilst the repairs 
were completed. 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021 recommending that it was 
upheld. I made the following provisional findings: 
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations. The agreement in this case is a hire purchase agreement  so we can consider 
a complaint relating to it. Aldermore as the supplier of the goods under this type of 
agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 is relevant to this complaint. It says that under a contract to 
supply goods, there is an implied term that the quality of the goods is satisfactory
To be considered satisfactory the goods would need to meet the standard that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account any description of the 
goods, the price and other relevant factors. Those factors, in the case of a car purchase, will 
include things like the age and mileage of the car at the time of sale, and the cars history. 
The quality of the goods includes their general condition and other things like their fitness for 
purpose, appearance and finish, safety and durability. 
Here, the car was acquired used with a cash price of around £85,000. It was around 18 
months old and had travelled approximately 17,000 miles at the time of supply. With this in 
mind, I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would expect the level of quality to be 
higher than a cheaper, higher mileage, vehicle and that the vehicle could be used free from 
even minor defects, for a considerable period of time. 
When Mr G began to experience problems with the vehicle, he contacted the dealership who 
supplied the car. They suggested that Mr G contact the manufacturer to arrange repairs 
under warranty. So, I dont think it was unreasonable for Mr G to have taken the vehicle to a 
manufacturer approved garage. 
Aldermore say that Mr G needs to contact them and have any repairs authorised. I havent 
seen any evidence which suggests that the repairs undertaken by Mr G werent necessary, 
or that Aldermore wouldnt have agreed to these repairs had Mr G contacted them. So, I 
dont think Mr G not contacting Aldermore first removes their responsibility for the 
satisfactory quality of the vehicle at the time of supply. 
Mr G told Aldermore he wanted to reject the vehicle, as he wasnt confident it could be 
driven without developing further faults. At the time of his complaint to Aldermore there were 
no ongoing faults with the vehicle, as Mr G had arranged and accepted repairs for the faults 
hed experienced. 
Where a vehicle is of unsatisfactory quality, the consumer rights act allows for various 
remedies, including repair, and rejection. Where repair is accepted and resolves the fault, 
the vehicle cannot then be rejected, unless that repair fails. 
As the repairs were successful and Mr G had accepted them, I find that Mr G isnt able to 
reject the vehicle, and it wasnt unreasonable for Aldermore to refuse this. 
Mr G also asked to be reimbursed for the cost of repairs to the vehicle. Aldermore refused to 
consider these costs as they were completed without their authorisation. As Ive explained, I 
havent seen any evidence that these repairs would have been refused by Aldermore, that 
they were unnecessary or that they could have been completed at a reduced cost to 
Aldermore. But Aldermore would only be responsible for the cost of repairing any faults that 
made the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time of supply. Below is a summary of the faults and work completed, compiled from the invoices provided 
by Mr G. 
March 2020  Replacement front alert bracket, 4 tyres and front brake pads and discs. 
£1,315
May 2020  Engine replacement due to internal piston failure. Super charger and exhaust 
system replaced due to oil contamination from engine failure. ACC unit bracket replaced due 
to damage. No charge. 
June 2020 - recovered with no drive or gear selection. Fault to transfer box module and box. 
No charge. 
June 2020  Drivers seat malfunction £683.62.
July 2020  Investigated rattle from seat. Removed seat and carpet and found objects in 
vent. Removed vent and objects from vent. £667.20 
Tyres and brakes
Mr G needed to replace the tyres and the front brake pads and discs a short time after 
owning the vehicle. These items are consumable items, they are subject to wear and tear 
and are expected to require replacement throughout the life of the vehicle. 
I dont think its unreasonable for a high-performance vehicle which had travelled 
approximately 20,000 miles to need to have the brake pads or discs replaced. I havent seen 
any evidence which suggests the brakes or tyres had worn more quickly than would be 
expected. On balance, I find that this was a result of normal wear and tear, rather than an 
inherent problem with the vehicle. So, Im satisfied that Mr G is responsible for the cost of 
this repair as part of the normal maintenance of the vehicle. 
Engine replacement & Gearbox
When Mr G took his car to the garage an internal piston failure in the engine was discovered, 
and a replacement engine was required. Following this repair, the vehicle broke down shortly 
afterwards, and a replacement gearbox was required. Mr G had travelled approximately 
3,000 miles in the vehicle at the time of the gearbox fault. 
All things considered, I dont think the reasonable person would expect the car to have 
suffered such catastrophic engine failure that results in the need for a new engine and 
gearbox at approximately 2 years old and having travelled a relatively low mileage. It seems 
that there was likely an overall issue with the vehicle which has led to a premature failure of 
parts. The issue doesnt appear to be one of normal wear and tear, nor have I seen any 
evidence that it was caused by driving style or third-party damage. 
On the balance of probabilities, Im persuaded that the car was not reasonably durable, and 
therefore was not of satisfactory quality at the time of supply. 
Mr G accepted repairs of these faults, and they were completed under the warranty at no 
cost to Mr G. So, Im satisfied that Mr G has received an appropriate remedy under the 
Consumer Rights Act for these faults. 
Drivers seat & rattle under seatMr G has provided evidence that the drivers seat was stuck in a reclined position, and he 
has paid £683.62 for a seat motor malfunction to be repaired. Ive also seen evidence that 
there were lose objects under the seat, and Mr G paid £667.20 for these to be removed to 
stop a rattling noise in the vehicle. 
The vehicle was less than 2 years old and had travelled around 20,000 miles at the time of 
these faults. I think a reasonable person, purchasing a high value prestige vehicle, would 
expect the vehicle to be free from even minor defects for a considerable period of time.
The issues dont appear to be as a result of normal wear and tear, nor have I seen any 
evidence that they were caused by user error or driving style. All things considered, Im 
persuaded that these faults make the car of unsatisfactory quality at the time of supply, and 
that Aldermore should reimburse Mr G for the cost of these repairs. 
Finally, Mr G was without the vehicle for six weeks during the first repair to the engine, and 
two weeks for the gearbox repairs during May and June 2020. As Mr G had no use of the 
vehicle and wasnt offered a replacement vehicle, I find that Aldermore should refund two 
monthly payments of £1088.51 for the period Mr G was without a car, plus 8% simple 
interest.
Aldermore responded to my provisional decision. They said they had no further information 
to supply but said that they provided the finance for Mr Gs vehicle and didnt inspect it prior 
to releasing the funds. They said Mr G signed the agreement to confirm he was responsible 
for the choice of vehicle and the supplier. 
Mr G responded to my provisional decision with a number of points, which Ive summarised 
as follows: 
Having to replace all four tyres and brakes after a short amount of time is poor. Mr G 
would like the pre-delivery inspection form to show a proper check was carried out 
before the car was supplied to him. 
He paid £99 for a repair to the forward facing bracket, which holds the adaptive 
cruise control unit. This was found to be damaged when the bumper was removed to 
fix the camera. 
Mr G says he was without the vehicle for 11 weeks, so hed like a total of three 
monthly payments refunded. 
Mr G would like a refund of the tax and insurance he paid for the vehicle for three 
months  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, Aldermore as the supplier of the goods under this 
type of agreement is responsible for a complaint about their quality. That they didnt reassure 
themselves of the quality of the vehicle before supplying it to Mr G doesnt change my 
decision. 
I understand Mr Gs frustration with needing to replace the tyres and brakes when he did. I 
havent seen any new evidence that changes my mind about these items being as a result of 
normal wear and tear, and so Im satisfied that Mr G is responsible for this cost as part of the 
normal maintenance of the vehicle. 
Mr G has provided evidence that he paid £99 to have a bent front bracket repaired. Theres 
no suggestion that this damage was caused whilst Mr G was in possession of the vehicle, and the issue doesnt seem to be one of normal wear and tear. The damage was found 
when the camera was repositioned, and doesnt appear to have affected the performance, 
use or style of the vehicle whilst Mr G owned it. 
On balance, Im satisfied that this item didnt impair Mr Gs use of the vehicle, or make the 
vehicle of unsatisfactory quality, so Im not asking Aldermore to reimburse Mr G for the cost 
of this repair.  
Ive reviewed the timeline and documents provided by Mr G. The vehicle was taken to the 
garage in order to replace the tyres in mid-March 2020. The engine faults were identified at 
this time, and the vehicle was returned to him on 14 May 2020. This is a period of eight 
weeks.
The vehicle was booked in for the fault with the gearbox on 27 May 2020 and returned 
repaired on 15 June 2020. This is a period of three weeks. 
So, Mr G was without the vehicle for a total of 11 weeks, and Aldermore should refund 11 
weeks of payments to Mr G for this period, plus interest. 
Mr G would like a refund for the tax and insurance he paid for the vehicle whilst he was 
unable to use it. It remained Mr Gs responsibility to keep the vehicle appropriately taxed and 
insured during the agreement. I havent seen any evidence that Mr G paid additional tax or 
insurance on another vehicle whilst his was being repaired. So, Im satisfied that Mr G 
remained responsible for these costs. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require Aldermore Bank Plc to: 
Refund the cost of repairs to the seat motor and for resolving the rattling noise at 
£1,350.82. 
Refund 11 weeks of Mr Gs monthly rental payments for the time he was without a 
vehicle.  
Aldermore should pay 8% yearly simple interest on all refunds calculated from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
If Aldermore considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from the interest part of my award, it should tell Mr G how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mr G a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 July 2021. 
Zoe Launder
Ombudsman