DRN-3236365
The complaint
Mr M complains about the quality of a car he was financing through an agreement with 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr M, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let me 
explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear, or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then VWFS, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would include things 
like the age and mileage at the time the car was supplied to Mr M. The car here was brand-
new so I dont think a reasonable person would expect it to have any faults.
The relevant legislation explains that if the fault occurs within the first six months we are to 
assume it was present at the point of supply, when VWFS were responsible for its quality, 
unless they can demonstrate otherwise. 
Mr M did report faults to the dealership in June 2020 that were fixed e.g. a problem with the 
keyless entry and the parking sensors. The relevant legislation allows a business one 
opportunity to fix faults that are present at the point of supply, so I think VWFS were entitled 
to complete those repairs. Mr M continued to complain about a problem with the automatic 
braking and a problem with the power steering.
If there was a problem with those components so early in the life of this new car, I would 
think it reasonable to suggest the car was not of satisfactory quality and Id ask VWFS to 
take some further action. But in order for VWFS to have that responsibility Mr M would need 
to demonstrate there was a fault with the braking or power steering and Im not persuaded 
hes been able to do that.
Neither the dealership or an alternative approved dealership were able to identify any 
problems with the braking or the power steering on the car. Mr M has said thats because the 
diagnostic system had failed, and fault codes were not being recorded. Im not persuaded 
there is evidence of that. 
Mr M has provided a couple of dash cam videos that he says show the faults with the power 
steering. Theyre dated 2014 but I accept Mr Ms submission that the date is wrong because 
he failed to reset it before taking the videos. 
The videos show a view through the windscreen and dont show the dashboard. Its not clear 
that the car is the one in question as the view is limited to the windscreen and a small portion 
of the bonnet. Mr Ms family are clearly present in the car and can be heard discussing the 
problem he is having. He drives the car a few yards and explains that the power steering 
isnt working. There is some discussion about what the fault could be and Mr M appears to 
be reviewing the cars manual and reading out sections. Theres an audible warning and on 
a few occasions Mr M, having consulted the manual, suggests the fault may be due to 
sensors being dirty.
Im persuaded, on balance, that these are videos of the car in question in about June of 
2020, but Im not persuaded it would fair to accept there is evidence of a continuing fault with 
the car. Theres no demonstration of a braking problem and whilst there is an audible 
warning theres no demonstration of what that warning relates to. A warning isnt necessarily 
a fault and could realistically be caused by a dirty sensor as Mr M suggests in the videos. 
Overall, Im still not persuaded there is sufficient evidence of a fault with the braking or 
suspension on Mr Ms car and Im not therefore asking VWFS to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman