DRN-3836727
The Complaint
Mr C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) hasnt been able to trace an account he 
held. 
What happened
In January 1995, Mr C says he started saving in a Tax-Exempt Special Savings Account 
(TESSA) with Lloyds, under a different trading name it used at the time. He made annual 
deposits and by 2000, he had £9,000 in capital and around £2,296 as added interest. In 
November 1999, he received a letter from Lloyds saying his account would mature in 2000. 
So on 6 June 2000, Mr C says he closed the account and transferred the interest to his 
current account. He also said he applied for a Lloyds TSB TESSA Individual Savings 
Account (ISA) to be opened and says he arranged for the remaining sum of £9,000 to be 
transferred to the new TESSA ISA account.
Lloyds sent Mr C a letter dated 20 March 2000 which confirmed the TESSA ISA had been 
opened with a balance of £9,000. It gave him a new account number and said he would 
receive annual statements.
In 2022, Mr C wanted access to the money in the TESSA ISA, but Lloyds was unable to 
trace the account. So Mr C complained to Lloyds. Lloyds rejected Mr Cs complaint as it 
didnt have any record of the new account in its current financial database or in its dormant 
account system. It accepted the account had been closed but no longer had any records to 
show where the money had been transferred to.
 
Mr C raised the matter with this service. He explained that hed been unsuccessful in tracing 
the account despite taking several steps including: 
 Providing copies of previous statements and the account number of the TESSA ISA 
account. 
 Contacting Lloyds on several occasions, including calling their complaints line. 
 Visiting his local branch with all relevant documentation. 
 Trying to trace the account through the My Lost Account service. 
Our investigator rejected the complaint. Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and 
asked for the matter to be looked at again. Mr C made some points including the following:
 He had kept all his account statements from Lloyds which he says proves he never 
transferred the sum of £9,000 from his new TESSA ISA account to another account.
 He said he didnt receive any correspondence about any changes to his TESSA 
ISA account, or that the account had been closed and who or where it was paid to.
 
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Cs frustration with whats happened here. Its clear that hes been 
unsuccessfully trying to understand what happened to the money in the TESSA ISA account 
for some time.
 
Ive carefully considered his testimony and the evidence hes provided, and I have no reason 
to doubt what hes said. But I have to consider both sides of a complaint impartially, so Ive 
also considered the evidence Lloyds has provided. Lloyds pointed out that it has checked 
several historic systems but wasnt able to find any records of the TESSA ISA account still 
being open.
 
It also said it had checked Mr Cs accounts on the current financial database, but it didnt 
appear that the funds had been paid into an existing account with Lloyds.
  
I am satisfied that Lloyds has carried out all the necessary searches in its current account 
and dormant account records. If Lloyds hadnt had any contact with Mr C for five years or 
more, its dormant account register would have shown it made reasonable attempts to 
contact Mr C. However, the dormant records dont show any trace of the new account and 
no contacts were made over the last 15 years.
I note that Mr C has a letter from 2000 confirming the new account had been opened with a 
balance of £9,000 and that he would get annual statements. However, after that, its simply 
not clear what happened to the account or the money in it because of the time thats passed. 
I say this because he hadnt received any statements for more than 20 years, hadnt queried 
this and Lloyds has no record of contact with him in respect of the new account. 
 
But Lloyds has searched its files and given this service all the information it has. Those 
searches havent suggested that Lloyds still has this account, or the money mentioned in the 
letter from 2000. Given the time that has now passed, I dont think it would be fair for me to 
require them to do more to find out what happened. Banks arent required to keep records of 
closed accounts indefinitely and will generally retain records for only six years. So Im not 
surprised they dont have more information about exactly what happened in this case.
 
Nor do I think I can fairly decide that its more likely than not that Lloyds still has the money 
here. Any number of things could have happened in the 20 or so years that have passed 
since that letter was sent. The absence of information here and the fact that Mr C didnt get 
any correspondence about the account for so long suggests that its just as likely that he 
closed the account, moved the money in it and may have forgotten about it.
So having considered everything, and while I cant be sure about what happened, I think its 
more likely than not that the account was closed in 2000. Im not satisfied that any of the 
available evidence shows that the TESSA ISA account is still open, and that Lloyds has 
made a mistake. So  although I know this will disappoint Mr C - I dont think it would be fair 
for me to require them to give Mr C the money he thinks is still in the account. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 February 2023.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman