DRN-3020860
The complaint
Mrs Y is unhappy with how Legal and General Insurance Limited  now known as Fairmead 
Insurance Limited (Fairmead)  handled her water damage claim.
  
What happened
Towards the end of April 2019, Mrs Y noticed that her kitchen floor had sunk and some of 
her kitchen base units had moved away from her kitchen wall. Mrs Y contacted Fairmead 
who sent a surveyor to Mrs Ys property a few days later.
 
Mrs Ys builder investigated the cause of the damage. His report said the kitchen floor joists 
had been seriously damaged by an escape of water and strongly advised urgent action to 
remedy the water damaged sinking kitchen floor area. He provided Mrs Y with a quote for 
£18,995 to replace the kitchen floor joists, flooring, kitchen units and worktops. Mrs Y sent 
the report to Fairmead, which it said it received on 15 May 2019. Mrs Y also sent Fairmead 
the quote.
Mrs Y contacted Fairmead on 20 May 2019 and again two days later about her claim. 
Fairmead told Mrs Y its loss adjuster was trying to make contact with the surveyor to discuss 
her claim and had been trying to contact her contractor. On 28 May 2019, Fairmead say Mrs 
Ys contactor left a message saying he was on holiday and would contact Fairmead on his 
return.
Mrs Y contacted Fairmead on 30 May 2019 because she said her contactor hadnt been able 
to speak to the loss adjuster and she wanted to go ahead with the works. Fairmead told Mrs 
Y it would need to speak to her contractor before confirming any settlement.
 
Towards the end of June 2019, Mrs Ys husband called Fairmead. He said poor 
communication from Fairmead and delays had forced himself and Mrs Y to do the work 
themselves. He said the cash settlement offer of £2,000 was too low. He told Fairmead the 
contractor had been contactable whilst he was away and was confused as to why Fairmead 
couldnt communicate with his contractor by email. Mrs Ys husband queried whether 
Fairmeads surveyor had been qualified enough to scope the remedial work. He told 
Fairmead thered been unavoidable damage to the worktops and kitchen units when theyd 
been removed because the worktops were chemically bonded to the kitchen units. Fairmead 
asked Mrs Ys husband to send it photos of the damaged worktops and units, which he was 
unable to provide. Fairmead said it wouldnt amend its scope or cash offer without the 
photos.
Fairmead issued its final response letter (FRL). It added some new items to its scope and 
increased its cash offer to £3,270.38 less policy excesses. But it felt the granite worktops 
and kitchen units could be reused. It offered Mrs Y £100 compensation for the poor service 
shed received and asked her to send it evidence that the subfloor needed replacing as well 
as the worktops and units that hadnt been damaged by the escape of water. 
Mrs Y responded to Fairmeads FRL. She said the revised cash offer was too low. She said 
shed carried out the work herself because Fairmead hadnt made any real effort to restore 
the damage and eliminate health and safety risks. And the same worktops and cupboards 
couldnt have been reused. She was unhappy that Fairmeads surveyor said her work tops 
were timber composite laminate when they were granite. And she sent Fairmead testimony 
from the person who replaced her work tops confirming her worktops were granite and had 
been chemically bonded to the units so had to be broken into pieces to be removed. 
Mrs Y brought her complaint to us. She told us Fairmeads revised scope didnt include 
kitchen installation, remedial work to the damaged joists, replacement of the flooring, 
replacement of the old and damaged worktops or replacement of the damaged kitchen units. 
She explained shed gone ahead with the work herself for health and safety reasons and to 
avoid further damage. She said Fairmead placed a ceiling on her claim before any damage 
had been assessed. 
In the meantime, Fairmead reviewed Mrs Ys response to its FRL but it didnt change its 
decision because Mrs Y hadnt sent images of the damaged worktops or provided evidence 
that her kitchen units couldnt be reused.
  
Our investigator upheld the complaint when he gave his view. He didnt think the delay was 
unreasonable, so he didnt think Fairmead should pay Mrs Y what itd cost her to carry out 
the work. But he felt Fairmead should increase its cash offer by what it wouldve cost it to 
supply and install comparable floor-standing kitchen units and granite work surfaces. And it 
should also add to its offer 50% of the cost to Fairmead of supplying and fitting Mrs Ys 
replacement wall units.
 
Fairmead accepted the view but told our investigator it would need further information from 
Mrs Y to revise the scope. Mrs Y became concerned Fairmead was delaying settlement by 
requesting this information and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
I clarified with both parties that our investigators view was that Fairmead should increase its 
offer by what it would cost Fairmead to have carried out the work and not what the work cost 
Mrs Y. Fairmead updated its scope of work to reflect this and told this service it would 
increase its cash settlement offer to £6,521.16. 
I asked Mrs Y about her health and safety concerns. She said her fridge freezer had needed 
to be moved into the middle of the kitchen, which blocked a fire escape route. She said a 
hole had been left in her kitchen floor underneath where her fridge freezer had stood 
following her builders investigation into the cause of the damage. She said thered been a 
pungent and unhygienic smell in an area used to prepare food and shed been worried about 
further damage and the floor collapsing.  
My first provisional decision
My provisional decision was to uphold Mrs Ys complaint.
I explained that the terms of Mrs Ys policy were clear that Fairmead may not pay costs it 
hadnt agreed to. And that  because of the difference in cost between Fairmeads scope 
and the scope of Mrs Ys contractor - it was reasonable for Fairmead to need time to 
consider the difference and to want to speak to Mrs Ys contractor. I said I didnt think the 
delay here was Fairmeads fault because at the time Mrs Ys contractor was on holiday. 
I explained I could see that replacement floor joists and flooring - which Mrs Y felt Fairmead 
had omitted from its scope - had been included. But I didnt think Fairmeads revised scope 
was a fair reflection of its costs. Rather than listing cupboards as replacements, Fairmead 
listed them as remove, set aside and refix and appeared to price them as such. Fairmead 
increased its earlier cash offer by including a lump sum amount in its revised scope. But this wasnt itemised, so it was unclear how it corresponded to the units shown in its pictures of 
Mrs Ys kitchen.
It was difficult to see from Mrs Ys invoice how much shed paid for the replacement floor-
standing or wall-mounted cupboards. And Mrs Ys invoice also included an amount for the 
installation of her kitchen, which also wasnt itemised. So it was also difficult to see how her 
invoice corresponded to Fairmeads pictures of her kitchen units.
 
So I was minded to require Fairmead to settle Mrs Ys claim for £12,758.08 - which was the 
mid-point between its most recent cash offer of £6,521.16 and Mrs Ys costs of £18,995.00. 
And for Fairmead to pay 8% interest on this amount from the date Mrs Y notified it of her 
claim.
I also said it was unreasonable for Fairmead to have declined Mrs Ys claim because she 
couldnt provide photos of the damaged worktops or floor standing cupboards. Mrs Ys policy 
terms mentioned providing confirmation from a tradesperson of the cause of the damage 
and Mrs Y provided testimony from her kitchen fitter that the existing worktops were bonded 
to the units and were damaged on removal, which Fairmead later accepted. But because 
Fairmead didnt accept this testimony sooner, I felt it delayed the progress of Mrs Ys claim. 
So I was minded to award Mrs Y a further £100 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience this caused her in addition to the £100 Fairmead had already offered.
Mrs Y accepted the findings of my first provisional decision. Fairmead agreed to pay Mrs Y 
the cash settlement amount Id set out and the further £100 compensation but felt the 
interest shouldnt be calculated from the date Mrs Y first notified it of her claim.
My second provisional decision 
After considering the responses of both parties to my first provisional decision, I reached a 
different outcome to that of my first provisional decision. And because Id arrived at a 
different outcome, I issued a second provisional decision to give the parties a further chance 
to comment ahead of issuing a final decision. 
I explained my second provisional decision to both parties as follows: 
Im minded still to uphold Mrs Ys complaint. But because Fairmead responded that interest 
shouldnt be calculated from the date Mrs Y notified the claim, Ive thought again about the 
date from which interest should be applied to Fairmeads cash offer. 
Our investigator issued his view in May 2020. Following this, Fairmead asked Mrs Y to 
provide a further breakdown from her builder setting out the work he carried out. Mrs Y 
provided this breakdown, which was dated 25 September 2020. Fairmeads response said 
the interest should be calculated from the date of this breakdown. 
 
Our investigators view was clear that the revised cash offer should be based on Fairmeads 
costs and not Mrs Ys. So Fairmead didnt need this breakdown to rescope the work and 
revise its cash settlement amount. And because Fairmead didnt need this further 
information, I dont think its fair to calculate the interest from the 25 September 2020, which 
would reduce the interest to be awarded to Mrs Y. 
 
In my first provisional decision, I explained that the delays Mrs Y feels there were - which 
she says led to her living with an unsafe kitchen  were not Fairmeads fault. I also said that 
its reasonable for Fairmead to have wanted to consider the differences between its scope 
and Mrs Ys. And because these delays were not Fairmeads fault and occurred after Mrs Y notified Fairmead of her claim, I no longer think it would be fair to apply interest to 
Fairmeads cash offer from the date Mrs Y notified Fairmead of her claim.
But in my first provisional decision, I said it was unreasonable that Fairmead didnt accept 
the testimony provided by Mrs Ys kitchen fitter saying the existing worktops were bonded to 
the units and were damaged on removal. And that by not accepting this testimony, Fairmead 
delayed the progress of Mrs Ys claim. So  rather than apply the interest from either the 25 
September 2020 or the date Mrs Y notified Fairmead of her claim in April 2019  I think it 
would be fairer to require Fairmead to apply 8% interest to its cash offer from the date 
Fairmead received the testimony sent by Mrs Y from her kitchen fitter, which was around the 
15 October 2019 and which I think Fairmead should have accepted. 
Both Fairmead and Mrs Y accepted my second provisional decision and provided no further 
comments or information.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Ive also considered the responses of both parties to my second provisional decision.
 
Because both parties have accepted my second provisional decision and havent provided 
any further comment or information, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ys complaint in line with my 
second provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
 I uphold Mrs Ys complaint.
I instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay Mrs Y £12,758.08 for her claim, plus 8% 
interest simple from the 15 October 2019, when Fairmead Insurance Limited received the 
testimony from Mrs Ys kitchen fitter that her worktops were damaged on removal. If 
Fairmead Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs Y how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs Y a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
I also instruct Fairmead Insurance Limited to pay a further £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience it has caused Mrs Y, which is in addition to the £100 it has already offered her 
and which it should pay Mrs Y if it hasnt already done so. Fairmead Insurance Limited must 
pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs Y accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date 
of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Ruth Peek
Ombudsman