DRN-4242378
The complaint
Mr D complains Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk 
(MoneyBoat) failed to conduct proportionate affordability checks prior to lending to him.
What happened
A summary of Mr Ds borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentshighest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 03/10/2021 15/03/2022 6 £138.84
2 £200.00 30/03/2022 13/05/2022 2 £120.68
3 £500.00 25/05/2022 15/09/2022 4 £187.20
4 £500.00 16/09/2022 18/09/2022 3 £239.95
5 £500.00 03/10/2022 15/12/2022 3 £216.08
MoneyBoat considered the complaint and concluded it had made a reasonable decision to 
provide these loans because it had carried out proportionate checks which showed it Mr D 
could afford them. 
However, as a gesture of goodwill it agreed to refund the interest Mr D had paid towards 
loans 4 and 5. Unhappy with this response, Mr D referred his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an investigator, who partly upheld it. She didnt think 
MoneyBoat had done anything wrong when loans 1 - 3 were granted. However, the 
investigator thought further checks ought to have been conducted before loans 4 and 5 were 
granted. Had MoneyBoat carried out those further checks, it wouldve likely seen that Mr D 
was already paying 5 other payday lenders at the same time. So, the payments to these 
loans werent sustainable. 
MoneyBoat agreed with the investigators recommendation. 
Mr D didnt fully agree with the outcome the adjudicator reached. In addition to loans 4 and 5 
he also felt loan 3 should be upheld due to the quick turn around (sic) of loans I was 
taking out. Mr D asked for the complaint to be reconsidered about loan 3. 
As no agreement could be reached the case was passed for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
MoneyBoat had to assess the lending to check if Mr D could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. MoneyBoats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ds 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest MoneyBoat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr D. These factors include:
Mr D having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr D having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr D coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr D. But I dont consider this applies 
to Mr Ds complaint.  
MoneyBoat was required to establish whether Mr D could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr D was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ds complaint.
Loans 1 and 2
Mr D appears to have accepted the investigators findings, which included not upholding 
these loans and MoneyBoat also doesnt appear to have disagreed that it wasnt wrong to 
have approved these loans either. 
In my view these loans are no longer in dispute, so I wont be making a finding about them, 
but I have kept these loans in mind when thinking about the rest of Mr D borrowing history. 
Loan 3
This is the loan, that Mr D wanted reviewing following the investigators assessment. The 
crux of the issue here is that Mr D is essentially says that him taking out loans in quick 
succession ought to have been of concern. 
This was only the third loan, and so only the second opportunity to show how quickly Mr D 
may return for further borrowing. This loan was taken 10 days after Mr D had repaid loan 2, 
but loan 2 was for a smaller amount than loan 1. So, when he returned for loan 3, Mr D was 
in effect borrowing what he had taken when he initially approached MoneyBoat for funds. I have thought carefully about whether a second occasion of quickly taking a loan ought to 
have been of a concern, but I dont think it wouldve raised any flags with MoneyBoat, 
especially as Ive said, loan 2 was for a smaller amount. In my view, no clear pattern had 
been established yet. I dont think the pattern of borrowing at this point wouldve 
automatically led MoneyBoat to have declined the loan and / or have prompted it to carry out 
further checks. 
But what I have done, is review the information MoneyBoat took from Mr D at the time to see 
whether there was anything else that ought to have led to further checks or to it declining the 
loan. 
Before the loan was approved, MoneyBoat asked Mr D for details of his income, which he 
declared as being £2,202 per month which was broadly in line with what he had declared 
for his previous loans. MoneyBoat says the income figures was checked through a third-
party report. 
Mr D also declared monthly outgoings of £1,232 and so just from the income and 
expenditure checks, MoneyBoat wouldve been confident that Mr D wouldve likely been able 
to afford his loan. 
Before the loan was approved MoneyBoat also carried out a credit search and it has 
provided the results it received from the credit reference agency. It is worth saying here that 
although MoneyBoat carried out a credit search, there isnt a regulatory requirement to do 
one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
The credit check results were in my mind were not concerning and so wouldnt have led 
MoneyBoat to have prompted it to carry out further affordability checks. It knew that in total 
Mr D had 8 active accounts of which 2 had been opened in the last six months. The number 
of newly opened accounts is on its own not enough to suggest that Mr D had financial 
difficulties or had a reliance on this sort of credit. 
Finally, MoneyBoat knew there wasnt any sign of insolvency, or any defaults or delinquent 
accounts recorded in the credit search results. Therefore, there wasnt anything to suggest 
that Mr D was having financial difficulties or that this loan would be unsustainable for him. 
Overall, given this was only the third loan Mr D had taken as well as MoneyBoat carrying out 
what I consider to be proportionate checks which showed it that Mr D would likely be able to 
afford his repayments, I therefore think that it was appropriate for MoneyBoat to have agreed 
to this loan. I am therefore not upholding Mr Ds complaint about loan 3.
Loans 4 and 5
MoneyBoat, has accepted, following the investigators assessment that these loans ought to 
not have been granted. It therefore accepts that something went wrong here. 
So, I dont think I need to make a finding about these loans, for the reasons given above. But 
for completeness, Ive outlined below what MoneyBoat should do (and what it has agreed to 
do) in order to put things right for Mr D. 
Putting things right
MoneyBoat shouldnt have given Mr D loans 4 and 5.A. MoneyBoat should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr D towards 
interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything you have already refunded.
B. It should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr D 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr D originally made 
the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. MoneyBoat should pay Mr D the total of A plus B.
D. MoneyBoat should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ds credit file in 
relation to loans 4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to deduct tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
should give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax has been deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am partly upholding Mr Ds complaint. 
  
Evergreen Finance London Limited trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk should put things right for 
Mr D as directed above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman