The complaint
Mr and Mrs B, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain they were 
mis-sold a 'Flexible Savings Plan' by a predecessor business of Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited. The CMC says there's no evidence of alternatives being 
discussed, how Mr and Mrs B's attitude to risk was established or of consideration being 
given to them maintaining an emergency fund.
What happened
Mr and Mrs B were advised to take out the plan - a unit-linked endowment - in 1990 to meet 
a savings need. At the time they were married, Mr B was working, and they had three young 
children. The plan was started with an 18-year term, with monthly premiums of £37 and 
provided £12,000 of life cover, with a waiver of premium. These were increased to £69.50 
and £20,000 respectively 18 months later, in May 1992. The plan was maintained until 
maturity in 2008, when Mr and Mrs B received back just under £13,400.
Sun Life didn't uphold the complaint. It acknowledged that there was no obvious reason for 
the 18-year term but noted that it had been recorded that Mr and Mrs B had other savings 
products in place - such as a 10-year savings plan due to mature in 1995 - that would've 
provided them with a return in the intervening period. It said the plan invested in a balanced 
fund - the Growth fund - which wasn't a high-risk fund as the CMC had suggested.
And it felt that Mr and Mrs B would've had a need for the life cover provided by the plan as 
they had young children. Sun Life highlighted that the level of life cover had been set at 
above the minimum required to make the plan qualifying for tax purposes and also that the 
cover had been increased early in the term, implying an active interest in this feature of the 
plan. Overall, it felt the recommendation had been suitable for Mr and Mrs B.
The CMC referred the complaint to this service, but our investigator reached broadly 
the same conclusion as Sun Life, that the plan had been suitable. She said, in brief:
The absence of any evidence that alternatives were discussed doesn't necessarily
mean the advice was unsuitable. The documentation produced for sales in 1990 was
less detailed than we'd see today. But Mr and Mrs B may well have been aware of
alternatives because they had existing plans and investments.
Given Mr and Mrs B circumstances, with Mrs B not working and looking after three
young children, there appeared to be a need for the life cover.
Again, while there was no record of discussions about risk, the Growth fund in which
the plan invested didn't appear to be high risk.
Increasing their premiums by a large amount after only 18 months and then
maintaining the plan to maturity suggested there were no affordability issues.
DRN-1861877Mr and Mrs B's CMC didn't accept the investigator's view. It said there was no evidence an 
18-year term had been required and the adviser would've been obliged to recommend the
most suitable product from the business' range, which would've been a cheaper 10-year plan
with an option to extend.
As the investigator wasn't persuaded to change her opinion, the matter's been referred to me 
to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I've come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
The CMC's argument for the unsuitability of the advice rested, initially at least, upon an 
absence of evidence to show that full consideration had been given to areas like alternative 
ways of saving, the risk involved with the plan, and affordability.
But a lack of documentary evidence that these things were discussed, particularly in respect 
of a sale carried out 30 years ago, doesn't necessarily mean they weren't. And even if it 
were the case that one or more was overlooked, that similarly wouldn't mean that the 
recommendation was necessarily unsuitable. That would depend upon a consideration of 
their wider circumstances.
At the time of the advice Mr and Mrs B were in their 30s with three young children. They had 
some existing savings and investments. As such, it seems reasonable that they might have 
wanted to add to these existing provisions and plan for the medium to long term while also 
obtaining useful life cover. This seems borne out by the fact they opted to increase their 
premiums and the level of cover substantially after only 18 months. 
In respect of the term, this appears to have been broadly in line with their children coming of 
age. And, as noted, they had other savings and investments that would've provided them 
with financial support during the plan's term. So, while the 18-year term wasn't specifically 
explained in the documentation, it appears to have been generally suitable. And it doesn't 
appear to have created any issues with affordability.
In summary, while there may have been other products that the adviser could've 
recommended, I'm considering whether the Flexible Savings Plan sold to Mr and Mrs B was 
suitable and, given their circumstances at the time, I can see no clear reason why it wasn't. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 July 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman