DRN-4164626
The complaint
Mr H complains about how Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
What happened
Mr H had a motor insurance policy with Ageas covering his car. 
In November 2021 he was involved in a collision with a third party on a roundabout and both 
cars were damaged. Mr H made a claim and said the other driver was at fault for the 
collision.
The third party claimed from their insurer and said Mr H was at fault.
Both insurers gathered information about the collision. 
Mr H regularly called Ageas for updates. 
In November 2022 Ageas told Mr H that it was likely that it wasnt able to definitively say 
which party was at fault for the collision, so responsibility for the collision would be on a split 
basis.
Mr H wasnt happy about this decision. He complained to Ageas about its service and that it 
had held him to blame for the collision. His motor insurance policy was due to renew and he 
felt his premium was high because hes lost some of his No Claims Discount (NCD) and had 
an open claim.
Ageas didnt uphold his complaint. It said it had acted fairly during his claim and the delays 
had been because both insurers had been gathering information. It said both drivers were 
disputing liability and the description of the collision was one drivers word against the other. 
It said it would deal with the claim as being a split liability and Mr Hs NCD would be 
disallowed.
Mr H remained unhappy and brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. She said that the delays had been due to the 
insurers obtaining evidence, and that Ageas had acted fairly in deciding liability for the 
collision because there was no further evidence available.
Mr H didnt agree with the view and asked that his complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. 
This is set out below:
Im planning to uphold Mr Hs complaint in part.
Its important that I say that Im not intending to uphold the main part of Mr Hs complaint, 
about liability for the collision. But I also dont think Ageas service has been good. Ill explain 
both of these points.
Liability for the collision
Its this services role to see if Ageas acted fairly and reasonably in how it assessed liability 
for the collision. Its not our role to assess the collision itself and establish liability.
Its my understanding that the damage to Mr Hs vehicle supports his version of events, in 
which he says he was hit from the rear. But its also clear to me from Ageass comments that 
the damage also supports the third partys version of events.
Ageas asked for further evidence about the collision, but none more was available. I can see 
it asked Mr H for some footage he said he had, but hed not retained it.
In the absence of further evidence, if Ageas had maintained that Mr H wasnt at fault, then 
this case would likely have gone to court to be assessed. This would have brought further 
costs and delays to Mr Hs claim. And I think its fair to say that its likely, without any further 
evidence, that the court would have taken a stance of splitting liability along the same lines 
taken by Ageas.
I can see that Mr H told Ageas he was willing to go to court about the decision, but Ageass 
policy wording says:
The Insurer will be entitled to take over and conduct at the Insurers expense in Your 
name or in the name of any other person insured by this Insurance Document:
(i) the negotiation defence or settlement of any claim
I understand Mr Hs frustrations with this and I have read about his distress. But I dont think 
Ageas has acted unfairly in how it has approached and decided the split liability for the 
collision. 
Claims service
A significant part of Mr Hs complaint is about the delays in his claim. I can see that the 
collision happened in early November 2021 and liability was agreed in late November and 
December 2022. Its Ageas position that it was waiting for further evidence from the third 
party which caused this claim to take this long to settle.
Ive read Ageass file about what went on during the claim and thought carefully about its 
response to Mr H that it was waiting for evidence. 
I can see that Mr H was chasing Ageas monthly for progress from February to about July 
2022, and then less often until November 2022. And I cant see that Ageas was actually 
dealing with correspondence during this period.
I say this because I can see that the third-party insurer asked Ageas for photos of the 
damage to Mr Hs car three times, in March, June and September.
From what I can see, Ageas sent these photos in October. Having done this, Ageas seems 
to have then reviewed the claim within about two further weeks and discussed splitting 
liability with the third-party insurer.
Having looked at Ageass claims log, it seems to me that it only acted on the claim when Mr 
H contacted it. And I dont think this is good service from Ageas. I think Ageas should have done more to keep Mr H up to date, and I think by not doing this 
Ageas has added to Mr Hs distress.
Its important that I say I dont think the claim was excessively delayed as liability claims can 
take a significant amount of time to resolve. But I do think there was some delay and Ageas 
contributed substantially to it by not sending the photos of the damage to the third-party 
insurer. 
This delay seems to have been because it didnt have the photos from its repairer on its 
system. I can see that Ageas did chase the repairer, but still didnt get the photos or send 
them on to the third-party insurer.
Because I think Ageas reasonably caused a substantial part of the delay, I think its 
reasonable to expect it to pay for some of Mr Hs inconvenience. 
Ive thought about this carefully and considered this services guidelines. I think Ageas 
should pay Mr H £200 for the distress and inconvenience I think its reasonably caused. But 
Im not going to ask it to pay towards his increased insurance costs because as I say above, 
I think it made a fair decision on liability.
Responses to my provisional decision
Ageas accepted my provisional decision. It said it had already paid the £200 compensation 
to Mr H.
Mr H didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ageas has accepted my provisional decision and as Ive not heard further from Mr H, my 
final decision and reasoning remains the same as my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part. I direct Ageas Insurance Limited to 
pay Mr H £200 for his distress from its poor communication and delays it caused during his 
claim. Its my understanding that this amount has already been paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman