DRN-3649964
The complaint
Ms F complains that Nationwide Building Society refused her the opportunity to apply for one 
of its Prime mortgages because of age discrimination.
What happened
Ms F in the past had had two previous mortgages with Nationwide. Then, aged 63, Ms F 
wanted to apply for a mortgage with Nationwide on a fifteen-year term to allow her to move 
house. Nationwide refused to provide a Decision in Principle as she didnt qualify for its 
Prime mortgage product because she would be over her 75th birthday at the end of term. In 
the event, the house didnt prove suitable, but Ms F says that Nationwides refusal to allow 
her to apply for a Prime mortgage is age discrimination and complained. Ms F says that she 
has a works pension presently and the only financial change would be that her pension 
would increase by the addition of the state pension.
Nationwide said that its policy is that all Prime mortgages should be paid by age 75. It says 
that its able to consider age in line with regulations and that its lending criteria and policy is 
based on risk assessments. It also said that it offers a product - Mortgages for Over 55s - 
where applicants in receipt of pension income can apply to borrow into retirement.
 
Our investigator felt that Nationwide had done nothing wrong as its Prime mortgage offer is 
based on a risk assessment from reliable sources and offers a product for oner 55s to 
support older customers. She didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld. Ms F 
disagrees saying that the fact that Nationwide says that it has undertaken risk assessments 
based on ONS data doesnt mean its research or conclusions are fair or correct.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F says that the failure to allow her to access a Prime mortgage means that shes been 
discriminated against because of her age. The Equality Act 2010 prohibits treating persons 
differently because of their age subject to exceptions. Our role is not to make a finding as to 
whether there has been age discrimination - thats for a court to decide - but in coming to a 
decision as to whether Nationwide acted fairly and reasonably I have to consider the 
relevant law which would include the Equality Act and other matters including good industry 
practice.
So, Nationwide shouldnt treat Ms F differently than other customers because of her age 
unless an exception applies. There is a financial services exception which allows Nationwide 
to treat customers differently because of their age if it carries out a risk assessment based 
on reliable evidence and reaches a conclusion based on that. Its also a defence to a 
complaint of age discrimination if it can be shown that the treatment in question is a 
proportionate means of achieving a legitimate aim.
 
Nationwide says that in establishing a maximum age at term expiry  which is 75 for its main 
mortgage product, the Prime mortgage, its concerned with the ability of borrowers to meet 
the affordable borrowing required under the MCOB regulations, given that ageing carries a 
range of risks and uncertainties, including the risk of ill health, reduced mobility or death 
which would impact how borrowers manage their money. So, to establish a maximum age 
Nationwide says that it considers the likelihood of such events using available data from the 
office of national statistics (ONS) and its own internal analyses. It also says that in respect 
of older borrowers it has developed a specific product that provides mortgages for over 55s. 
Ms F in response makes a number of points. Firstly, she would like to see the risk 
assessment that produced the lending policy to scrutinise it for relevance, accuracy, and 
completeness. Secondly, given her individual circumstances, she sees no reason why she 
shouldnt get a mortgage, despite what the policy says.
 
I asked for further information from Nationwide and the Society has provided me with a 
document containing details of the underpinning source of material/information that 
Nationwide believes means it has complied with the Equality Act so that its maximum age at 
term expiry policies comply with that Act. The contents of that document are confidential, 
and I cant provide it to Ms F, but I can summarise. 
In essence the document uses ONS mortality rates for England and Wales to show that 
there are significant increases in the mortality rates between those aged 70-74 and those 
aged 75-79. Death and associated sickness would impact on the ability of borrowers to 
repay a mortgage. Even if like Ms F they have a guaranteed pension income, sickness and 
the need for care could affect her ability to repay her mortgage. Nationwide is able to show 
that the risks of mortality and, by implication the risk that borrowers become unable to pay 
their mortgage are increased in the age group over 74 and that assessment has been done 
using reliable evidence. Given that, I dont consider it unreasonable that Nationwide 
differentiates between its customers because of age and restricts its main mortgage product 
to those aged under 75 at term expiry. 
Nationwide has also provided evidence that it shares its maximum age of 75 at term policy 
with the majority, but not all, of the main lenders in the mortgage market which indicates that 
its a common industry practice. Nationwide also says that whilst it has a maximum age 
policy for its main mortgage product - the Prime mortgage - it has developed from 2016 
onwards mortgage products aimed at older and retired borrowers, but Ms F didnt want to 
explore those. For the reasons set out above I consider that Nationwide didnt unfairly refuse 
Ms Fs application and I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 April 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman