DRN-2782436
The complaint
Mrs F is unhappy that the cost of her pet insurance policy increased significantly, and she 
says One Pet One Price Limited hasnt provided adequate information about the reason for 
this. 
What happened
Mrs F took out a lifetime pet insurance policy in August 2017 to cover her pet dog. The policy 
was administered by One Pet One Price Limited.
When she renewed her policy in August 2019, Mrs F was shocked to find that the premium 
was increasing from around £35 per month to around £70 per month. She was also unhappy 
when she became aware that she would now have to pay a contribution towards the cost of 
any claims. She said the policy had become too expensive  she had to downgrade to a 
policy with a lower policy limit and in the end the policy wasnt affordable. She has now 
found an alternative policy, and her new policy wont cover her pets pre-existing conditions.
One Pet One Price Limited said it doesnt control how the premiums are priced and is not 
responsible for setting the terms of the policy, including the contribution a customer has to 
pay when claims are made; thats the insurers responsibility.
One Pet One Price also said Mrs F was given clear information about the premium and any 
co-payments when making a claim, when she first received her policy documents in 2017, 
and then at each renewal.  
Finally, One Pet One Price questioned whether the complaint should be investigated, given 
that it is no longer regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority. 
Our investigator said:
even if it is no longer regulated, One Pet One Price still exists and was regulated 
when the policy was sold, so we could look at the complaint;
the complaint comes down to the information given to Mrs F when she was sold the 
policy;
even if it didnt set the premium or the policy terms, One Pet One Price was 
responsible for the information given to Mrs F and firms are required to provide 
enough provide to allow customers to make an informed decision;
she hadnt been given details of how the policy was actually sold and what 
information was given to Mrs F before she decided to take the policy, but she thought 
it very unlikely Mrs F was given enough information to understand the possible 
pricing journey of her policy, taking into account what was contained in the policy 
documents; 
Mrs F should have been given clear information so she could understand the 
potential long-term costs; 
given the size of the increase and the fact that Mrs F had to find another policy, it 
would be fair for One Pet One Price Limited to pay £500 in compensation to 
acknowledge the upset this had caused.
Mrs F accepted the investigators view but One Pet One Price didnt. It has requested an 
ombudsmans decision, and has asked for the following points to be considered:
it doesnt control the information contained in the policy terms, which is the insurers 
responsibility, and couldnt misrepresent that information;
the insurer has the right to change the policy terms and increase the premium;
the information it provided at the sale and at each renewal was correct  it included 
information about the excess, reasons why the premium might increase, and an 
explanation that a new insurer might not cover pre-existing conditions;
it couldnt have known how much the premiums might increase and it wasnt possible 
to provide more detailed information;
Mrs F had previously had other policies which she had cancelled following premium 
increases, so she did know that premiums will increase..
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand One Pet One Price is no longer regulated, but as our investigator explained 
(and One Pet One Price now seems to accept) we are able to look at the complaint since 
One Pet One Price still exists and was regulated when the policy was sold. But One Pet One 
Price says in any event it shouldnt be held responsible for the information given to Mrs F; 
the insurer was responsible for the policy information and it couldnt change or misrepresent 
what was in the policy terms and conditions. 
One Pet One Price did not set the price of the policy or the terms on which the insurance 
was provided  thats the role of the underwriter. But One Pet One Price Limited was 
responsible for the sale of the policy, and that means it was responsible for the information 
given to Mrs F about her policy when she bought it. 
Ive considered the information provided to Mrs F, taking into account that One Pet One 
Price should have provided enough information to enable her to make an informed decision 
about buying the policy, and any information provided should have been clear, fair and not 
misleading.
I dont have details of how the policy was actually sold and what information Mrs F was given 
before she decided to buy the policy. But I think its unlikely that she was given enough 
information to really understand how much the cost of her policy might increase. The policy 
wording says 
When we offer further periods of insurance we may change the premium, excesses and 
policy terms & conditions.
I dont think this does enough to explain the possible long-term cost implications of
taking out this policy, particularly as her dog got older and if she made claims on the policy. 
Even if it was enough, Mrs F shouldnt have had to read through a long document of closely 
worded text to find this out  it should have been brought to her attention.
I appreciate the key facts documents did include information about the requirement to make 
a co-payment towards claims. And so I think its likely Mrs F was, or should reasonably have 
been, aware that a co-payment would need to be made when her dog reached a certain age. 
But Ive also taken into account that by the time she received the key facts documents, shed 
already decided to take out the policy. And overall, I dont think the information was 
sufficiently clear.Mrs F had a lifetime policy. With this type of policy, the price of insuring a pet will generally 
increase each year as the pet gets older and there's more risk of a claim being made. I 
accept that One Pet One Price wouldnt have known exactly how much the premiums might 
increase and it wasnt possible to provide detailed information about the amount Mrs F would 
have to pay. But when a consumer is taking a 'lifetime' policy, they reasonably expect to be 
able to keep it for the lifetime of their pet  thats the aim of this type of policy. One Pet One 
Price could have given clearer information about what might happen over the life of the 
policy. 
The sort of information about the long-term costs and limitations I would have expected to be 
given to Mrs F before she bought the policy would include:
its likely the premium will increase each year at renewal as the pet gets older and 
vets fees go up;
it might also increase due to other factors such as changes in insurance premium tax 
or increased understanding of the likelihood of a particular breed of animal needing 
to make a claim;
if a claim is made, the premium could increase significantly at the next renewal;
if the policy isn't renewed, the cover will end, and it might be difficult to find a new 
provider that will cover any health problems or medical conditions the pet has already 
had.
Mrs F should have been given enough information by One Pet One Price to understand the 
potential long-term costs of a policy that might run for years. It has made comparisons with 
other products, such as car insurance. But the nature of a lifetime policy is different  theyre 
intended to continue for the life of the pet and so Mrs F needed information about what might 
happen in future years. I dont think the information she received about her policy is likely to 
have been enough to provide her with a clear understanding of what she could expect to 
happen in relation to the premiums she might have to pay, meaning she might find herself in 
the position shes now in.
If One Pet One Price had given Mrs F clearer information about the possibility of such 
significant increases, she wouldnt have been as surprised when this happened, and so she 
wouldnt have been upset by this to the extent that she was. She would also have been 
aware that she might one day be in a position where she couldnt afford to carry on with the 
policy and would have to make a difficult decision about what to do.
I dont think the fact Mrs F had previously had other policies which she had cancelled 
following premium increases, meant she didnt need clearer information. Even if she knew 
that insurance premiums can increase from one year to the next (for example if a claim is 
made) that doesnt mean she understood what would happen over the long term of a lifetime 
policy.
The premium increased so much that the policy became too expensive for Mrs F; she 
couldnt afford it anymore and had to find another policy, which doesnt cover her pets 
existing conditions. This would have been quite a shock, and it was upsetting to find herself 
unexpectedly in this position. In these circumstances I agree it would be fair for One Pet One 
Price to pay compensation of £500 to recognise the upset Mrs F experienced as a result of 
the lack of clear information about the long-term cost implications of this type of policy. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct One Pet One Price Limited to pay 
compensation of £500 to Mrs F in respect of the distress and inconvenience caused to her.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 June 2021.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman