DRN-3120016
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Limited (RSA) have unfairly handled a claim for 
subsidence under her buildings insurance policy.
Reference to Mrs B or RSA includes respective agents or representatives.
What happened
The background of this complaint is well known to all parties, so Ive summarised events.
In August 2018 Mrs B noticed cracking to her home. So, she raised this with her 
insurer of the time  RSA.
RSA accepted the claim and assessed the site. It found the movement was caused 
by clay shrinkage caused by vegetation, and recommended several trees and 
hedges were removed.
RSA directed Mrs B to arrange the removal of the vegetation, but she disagreed. 
Around January 2019 she explained she didnt believe the trees were the cause of 
the movement, and that their removal would leave the property exposed both from a 
privacy and security perspective.
RSA said it would withdraw the claim if she didnt agree to remove the vegetation. 
But it said it would consider the matter again if she provided an expert report.
In March 2019 RSA reached out to Mrs B as no expert report had been received. 
Following some back and forth, Mrs B arranged for an arborist to attend the property, 
and their findings were sent to RSA in August 2019. This said a full removal of all of 
the vegetation in question was not necessary as RSA had suggested, and Mrs B had 
works to the vegetation completed in line with this advice. 
RSA reviewed the steps taken and was satisfied Mrs B had taken appropriate steps 
to minimise the risk of further movement. And sought to produce a repair schedule.
Mrs B told RSA she believed she shouldnt pay an excess for this claim as it was a 
continuation of a previous 2009 incident. RSA disagreed, and also said further 
monitoring would be necessary. 
Mrs B was unhappy RSA had changed its mind about the need for further monitoring. 
Following a further back and forth, RSA completed a remote inspection of the 
property. It concluded that the lack of removal of all the relevant vegetation, 
combined with reference to poor foundations by Mrs Bs arborist meant further site 
investigations would be necessary. But Mrs B denied RSA any further access for 
investigations as she said it had ample opportunity to do so already.
The complaint was brought to this service and our investigator upheld the complaint. 
He explained he wasnt able to look into the previous claim from 2009. But he was 
satisfied that the evidence showed these events were separate, which meant RSA 
had acted fairly by requesting an excess for this claim.
The investigator felt RSA had acted fairly by initially relying on its experts reports, 
and by then reconsidering the matter when Mrs B provided a report from her arborist. 
He said RSAs proposed course of action for further monitoring was reasonable to 
establish if the arborists recommendations had stopped the movement, and to what 
extent any further works may need to be carried out.
The investigator recognised the sentimental value of the trees to Mrs B, and felt RSA 
couldve been more empathetic towards her concerns. And that RSA had caused 
confusion by saying it had sufficient evidence to complete repairs then seeking 
further investigation. He also highlighted delays in places across the claim. 
The investigator concluded that RSA should award Mrs B £250 in compensation for 
the distress caused by its communications and claims handling. And it should cover 
any works to the vegetation if later monitoring showed these to be necessary for 
stabilisation.
RSA agreed but Mrs B didnt. She reiterated her concerns, and said in 2010 RSA had 
told her the installation of a new soakaway was necessary. She had one installed 
around October 2018 which RSA should pay for (£1,070), as well as the cost of 
securing her home (£1,500), arborists report (£250), and hedge removal (£660).
These comments were shared with RSA. It responded with comments from its 
previous loss adjuster. They had commented they found an exhausted soakaway in 
the rear garden. While this wasnt connected to the movement, they said Mrs B was 
advised that without renewal it could cause potential issues in the future. 
RSAs current loss adjuster also commented, saying the damage between the 2009 
and 2018 claims involved separate vegetation  and if these had been linked 
movement wouldve been continuous between claims. They said any soakaway 
issues wouldnt be relevant to this claim as all experts agree the movement related to 
root induced clay shrinkage. And they said Mrs Bs obstruction to further site 
investigations has meant they are unable to establish if movement has stopped or 
what repairs or further tree works may be required.
The investigator looked again, saying:
oRSA should pay the cost of Mrs Bs arborist report plus 8% simple interest if 
she had already submitted this to be paid;
othere was no substantive evidence to support the two claims were linked;
othe soakaway wasnt the cause of the subsidence for either 2009 or 2018 
claim, so RSA didnt need to cover the costs incurred in installing one;
oRSAs attempts to complete further investigation were reasonable, and in line 
with what wed expect to see; and
othe costs incurred securing the property were carried out without any input or 
approval of RSA or its agents. So, he didnt think it was reasonable to direct 
RSA to cover this cost. But he highlighted RSA said it would consider this 
upon receipt of an invoice.
Mrs B still disagreed but said she would like RSA to pay her the cost of the report, 
and £250 compensation. She reiterated RSA would not be able to attend the 
property, but said a compromise could be for her to install monitoring devices to 
monitor movement. Alternatively, she said RSA should award a cash settlement 
based on the available data.
So, the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
I would note that Mrs Bs submissions are extensive. However, within this decision I wont be 
responding in similar detail. This is not intended as a discourtesy, but a reflection of the 
informal nature of our service. 
My role is to focus on what I consider the crux of the complaint to be which means I will only 
comment on those things I consider relevant to the decision I need to make. That may also 
mean I dont comment on everything Mrs B has said but I can confirm I have read and 
considered everything said by both parties.
Policy excess and linked claims
Mrs B has explained she believes this claim is linked to the previous incident of 2009. And 
shes pointed to the damage appearing being similar, if not identical in nature.
RSAs experts have commented following the removal of vegetation within the first claim, the 
property was monitored to ensure stability before super structural repairs were completed. 
And while this second claim also involves root induced clay shrinkage caused by vegetation, 
this is different vegetation. It has also argued that if the instances were linked, then there 
would have been continued movement between the first claim and 2018. 
Ive been given no expert reports or evidence by Mrs B that suggest the two events are 
linked or that go against RSAs position. And Mrs B hasnt disputed there is a certificate of 
structural adequacy from the 2009 claim  albeit she has questioned its accuracy. So, while 
the damage may be similar, from what Ive seen, the cause of the damage is not the same. 
The lack of evidenced movement between claims as well as separate vegetation being 
identified as the cause of the movement lead me to finding RSAs commentary more 
persuasive. It follows Im satisfied RSA has acted fairly by seeking an excess for this 
subsidence claim.
Claims handling
Having looked over the claim, Im in agreement with our investigator that RSAs 
communication at times has been lacking. There are delays in places, and I agree with Mrs 
Bs comments that RSA couldve begun monitoring earlier than it did. I also think its contact 
with Mrs B confirming she had taken appropriate steps, followed by a request for further 
monitoring caused her unnecessary confusion and frustration.
Arborist report, soakaway and security costs
Mrs B has requested the cost of her arborists report which RSA has agreed to pay. Ive not 
been given evidence to support that Mrs B requested payment for these incurred costs at the 
time, so I see no reason for RSA to pay interest on top of this sum.
Mrs B said it should cover the cost of the installed soakaway as she believes this is key to 
the cause of the subsidence problem. She has also said she is certain that a professional 
inspection would have supported this conclusion.
But ultimately this didnt take place, and the evidence Ive seen doesnt reflect this. I say this 
as the available evidence suggests the subsidence was all caused by root induced clay shrinkage. So, Im not persuaded RSA needs to cover these costs.
Mrs B has described it was necessary to install a new inner door for security purposes 
alongside new skirting boards that had become rotten. And said she had done so as RSA 
had not engaged with her and ignored a previous letter. As a policyholder however Mrs B 
has a requirement to not incur costs without the approval of the insurer  this is a condition 
in her policy. 
I cant see RSA had an opportunity to review whether these works were necessary nor the 
costs Mrs B incurred prior to going ahead with them. Simply, these works appear to have 
been carried out because she chose to have them. This hasnt persuaded me it would be fair 
or reasonable to direct RSA to settle course of action in the circumstances. However, I would 
expect RSA to consider these costs upon receipt of an invoice, when it subsequently 
considers necessary costs at the point of cash settlement or producing a repair schedule.
Hedge removal
Mrs B has said RSA should cover her costs for works carried out after the arborists report. 
In line with our investigators thoughts, Im in agreement that these costs would only become 
necessary if it has been shown that they stopped the movement  and therefore wouldve 
been reasonably incurred by RSA anyway. At this time, as there is no conclusion as to 
whether the movement has stopped, I dont feel I can fairly direct RSA to cover this cost. But 
I would expect it to reconsider this if and when the property is shown to have stabilised.
Monitoring
Mrs B has been clear that she is not willing to allow any further monitoring to take place. Im 
sympathetic to her reasons and recognise this is her choice to make. But Im not persuaded 
RSA has acted unreasonably by requesting to do so. 
Subsidence claims by their nature can take some time. Monitoring to ensure works have 
been effective will mean repairs cant take place straight away. And in the absence of 
ensuring the property is stable, any movement may continue and subsequently prolong a 
claim of this nature even further.
Mrs B has referenced RSA having previous opportunities to carry out monitoring and not 
granting any further because of her strong feelings about its actions. But she seems to agree 
monitoring may be necessary, offering to monitor movement herself using relevant tools. 
For this reason, it strikes me RSA has been unable to progress the claim from the point 
access to the property was denied. Going forward, Mrs B has indicated she would accept a 
cash settlement. I will leave this to RSA to consider.
Overall
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied RSA has made mistakes in handling this claim 
in places. And I think these mistakes have made this experience more difficult for Mrs B. 
Following our investigators initial view, RSA accepted to pay Mrs B £250 in compensation. I 
think this is a fair sum in the circumstances and direct it to pay this if it hasnt done so 
already.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint, and direct Royal & Sun Alliance Limited to pay Mrs B:£250 in compensation; and
The cost of her arborists report upon receipt of her invoice.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2021.
 
Jack Baldry
Ombudsman