DRN-3173550
Complaint
Mr M and Mrs M has complained about the overdraft charges National Westminster Bank 
Plc (NatWest) applied to their current account. Theyve said NatWest applied charges 
when they were in financial difficulty.
Background
Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint was looked at by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that 
NatWest had done anything wrong as NatWest didnt have reason to suspect they may have 
been in financial difficulty. So she didnt uphold the complaint. Mr M and Mrs M disagreed 
with the adjudicator and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im not upholding Mr M and Mrs Ms
complaint. Ill explain why in a little more detail.
Before I go any further, I want to be clear in saying that I havent considered whether the
various amounts NatWest charged over the years were fair and reasonable, or proportionate 
in comparison to the costs of the service provided. Ultimately how much a bank charges for 
services is a commercial decision. And it isnt something for me to get involved with.
That said, while Im not looking at NatWests charging structure per se, it wont have acted 
fairly and reasonably towards Mr M and Mrs M if it applied these interest, fees and charges 
to Mr M and Mrs Ms account in circumstances where it was aware, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to have been aware Mr M and Mrs M was experiencing financial difficulty. So Ive 
considered whether there were instances where NatWest didnt treat Mr M and Mrs M fairly 
and reasonably. 
In other words, Ive considered whether there were periods where NatWest continued 
charging Mr M and Mrs M even though it ought to have known they were in financial difficulty 
or it ought to have realised this was the case. Ive looked through Mr M and Mrs Ms 
statements throughout the period concerned. And I cant see that NatWest ought to have 
been aware Mr M and Mrs M might have been struggling during the period weve looked at. 
Its fair to say that Mr M and Mrs M did use their overdraft and they sometimes incurred 
unarranged overdraft fees. And they may argue that this in itself demonstrates that they 
were in financial difficulty. But while Im not seeking to make retrospective value judgements 
over Mr M and Mrs M expenditure, nonetheless there are significant amounts of non-
committed, non-contractual and discretionary transactions account going from the account. 
Id also add that Mr M and Mrs M appear to have had sufficient funds in other NatWest 
accounts such that it could have concluded the overdraft could be repaid within a reasonable 
period of time too. Finally, its also worth noting that NatWest has already refunded a 
significant proportion of the unarranged overdraft fees added too.
I accept neither of these things in themselves (or taken together) mean that Mr M and Mrs M 
werent experiencing financial difficulty. But there isnt anything in these transactions in 
themselves which ought to have alerted NatWest to potential financial difficulty  especially 
as their overdraft limit was low in comparison to the funds being credited to the account. 
I know Mr M and Mrs M are also of the view a more thorough review of their circumstances 
should have taken place including a review of their credit file. But Id only expect a bank to 
carry out that sort of assessment if they were told of any financial difficulty or it was 
obviously the case from the transactions on the account. 
So, in these circumstances and in the absence of being told anything by Mr M and Mrs M, I 
dont think that it was unreasonable for NatWest to have proceeded adding the charges that 
it did. And I dont think NatWest unfairly charged Mr M and Mrs M in circumstances where it 
ought to have realised that she may have been experiencing financial difficulty.
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Mr M and Mrs M. But I hope theyll 
understand the reasons for my decision and that theyll at least feel their concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr M and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman