DRN-4290821
The complaint
Mrs O complains, through her representative, about Liverpool Victoria Financial Services 
Limited. Shes said they didnt inform her that she could end up paying more into an 
insurance policy than the policy paid out. For ease of reading, I will only refer to Mrs O.
What happened
Mrs O took out two 50 plus policies with LV - one in 2005 and another in 2008. The first 
policy had a sum assured of £2,346 for a monthly premium of £11 and the second policy had 
a sum assured of £1,213 for a monthly premium of £8.
She complained to LV in 2022 about the pay-outs of the polices being less than the 
premiums shed paid. LV looked into the concerns shed raised but didnt uphold the 
complaint. They said that the policies were taken out on a direct sale basis, and they hadnt 
provided Mrs O with any advice. They also said that Mrs O would have been provided with 
documentation at the time of each sale which explained how the policies worked.
Mrs O didnt accept their findings and asked for our help. The complaint was considered by 
one of our investigators who didnt think it should be upheld. The investigator thought that LV 
hadnt provided Mrs O with any advice and, on the balance of probabilities, had given her 
enough information to make an informed decision about taking out the policies, including the 
risk that the total amount of premiums paid may be greater than cash sum payable on death. 
Mrs O didnt agree and said that LV hadnt highlighted the risks associated with the policies 
or provided her with enough information to make an informed decision. She thought that LV 
were unable to prove that they had sent her any information about the policies and therefore 
the investigator was unable to base his decision on the assumption they had sent her any 
information. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed 
to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by the investigator, for broadly the same 
reasons and I will now explain why. 
I think the issue at the heart of this complaint is whether or not Mrs O was given enough 
information to put her in an informed position before she took out the policies. Ive 
considered what she has said about not being provided with any information at the time she 
took out the policies. 
I appreciate what shes said but I must also consider the contemporaneous evidence that 
Ive seen, and take into account the fact both sales took place some time ago and memories 
fade over time. The declaration Mrs O signed when she took out the 2005 policy contained a 
statement saying, I have read the Key Features Document and in applying for this Plan, to 
the best of my knowledge and belief, all the statements made in this proposal and any 
attached or associated statements are true and complete. The declaration she signed when 
she took out the 2008 policy said, I have read the Policy Summary document, the Policy 
Conditions and the Declaration and Consent and agree to be bound by them. 
Where evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I have to make my decision on 
the balance of probabilities - i.e., what I consider to have been more likely in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. I think that given the content of the declarations 
that were signed, it is more likely than not that Mrs O was provided with information at the 
time of both sales which highlighted how the policies worked and the attached risks given 
that she signed to say that shed read the Key Features Documents.
The Key Features Documents for both policies explained that depending how long the life 
assured lived, there was a chance that the premium paid could exceed the cash sum 
payable on death. There were also warnings that the policies had no cash-in values at any 
time. Because I think Mrs O was provided with this information, I dont think I can fairly say 
that she wasnt able to make an informed decision about taking out the policies. Therefore, I 
wont be asking LV to do anything to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman