DRN-4008436
The complaint
Mr D complains about solar panels he purchased in 2012. In particular, he is unhappy that 
Lloyds Bank PLC has not upheld or responded to his claim under S75 Consumer Credit Act, 
in relation to the purchase of the solar panels. 
What happened
In 2012 Mr D bought solar panels for his home. In 2022 he raised a S75 claim with Lloyds as 
he believes the benefits of the solar panels were misrepresented to him at the time of sale 
and he was misled about the potential benefits and savings of the solar panels. 
Mr D has provided evidence of his S75 claim being sent to the bank in May 2022. As he 
received no response from the bank he complained to our service. We contacted the bank to 
notify it of the complaint and also request a copy of any business file relating to the 
complaint. We did not receive any response from the bank.
As part of the discussions between Mr D and the investigator, Mr D explained that the solar 
panels were paid for by two cheques. The investigator explained that as Mr D had paid for 
the solar panels by cheque, S75 would not apply to cheque payments. So there would be no 
grounds for the bank to uphold any claim Mr D had submitted under S75. And for this 
reason, the investigator did not consider there were grounds to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr 
D did not accept the investigators findings and asked for the complaint be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. The case was therefore referred to me for consideration as the final part of our 
process. 
After reviewing the complaint, I explained to the bank that as it had not responded to Mr Ds 
claim I did not consider that it had treated him fairly. And because of this, this has potentially 
delayed any outcome for Mr D and caused him unnecessary trouble and upset. In 
recognition of this I felt the bank should pay Mr D £100. I invited further comments from the 
bank and the investigator informed Mr D of my intention to award £100.
The bank responded to say that it had no record of receiving any communication from a 
solicitors on behalf of Mr D. It referred to its website that sets out how to submit a S75 claim 
and ultimately doesnt consider it made any errors here with Mr D. The investigator then 
explained to the bank that Mr D did not have a representative and he submitted his own 
claim. The bank said that it would await my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D submitted a S75 claim to the bank in relation to his solar panel purchase in 2012. The 
bank says it has no record of receiving a claim from Mr D but having considered what Mr D 
has submitted, Im satisfied his claim was addressed appropriately to a bank address. I 
would also add that the bank could have responded to our service when we initially 
contacted it about the complaint if it was unable to locate Mr Ds claim. But we have no 
record of the bank doing this. 
As the investigator has set out, Mr Ds claim was under S75 Consumer Credit Act. This 
essentially says that where a consumer has a breach of contract or misrepresentation claim 
against the original supplier, a consumer has a like claim against the provider of the credit. 
But S75 only applies to certain types of credit and does not apply to cheque payments, 
which Mr D confirmed was how he paid for his solar panels. So there are no grounds for the 
bank to be liable in this instance here through S75, as S75 does not apply to the payment 
method Mr D used in 2012. 
Had the bank explained this to Mr D when he raised his claim it is very likely that I would 
have considered that to have been reasonable. But it did not actually respond to Mr Ds 
original claim. I have noted what the bank has said about having no record of receiving the 
claim but Im satisfied on balance that Mr D did address his claim appropriately. I dont 
dispute what the bank says about having no record of receiving the claim but it is of course 
possible that it was received and not recorded correctly, or directed to the correct 
department within the bank. Having considered what both parties have said and provided I 
consider it more likely than not that Mr D did submit his claim and the bank failed to deal with 
it appropriately. 
My consideration here is about how the bank dealt with Mr Ds claim and while I accept that 
Mr D had no grounds for a successful claim under S75, for the reasons already explained,  
by failing to deal with Mr Ds claim I do not consider it dealt with him fairly or reasonably. Had 
the bank explained at outset to Mr D that he had no valid claim under S75 this may have 
brought his complaint to a swifter conclusion and avoided the need to refer the complaint to 
our service. I therefore consider that Mr D has been caused unnecessary trouble and upset 
and in view of this the bank should pay Mr D £100.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC and direct the 
bank to pay Mr D £100. Should payment not be made within 28 days of Mr D accepting this 
final decision, interest at 8% simple per year should be added to the payment from the date 
of this decision until the date of payment. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Mark Hollands
Ombudsman