DRN-4158879
The complaint
Mr L complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly 
when it approved a credit card application.
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said: 
In November 2019 Mr L applied for a credit card with Tesco Bank. In the application, Mr L 
said he was employed and earning £2,500 a month. Mr L also said he was a tenant and 
gave a rent figure of £150 a month.
Tesco Bank says it looked at the information in Mr Ls application and completed a credit 
search. Tesco Bank found a default that was almost six years old but didnt find any other 
adverse information on Mr Ls credit file. In addition, Tesco Bank says it found a modest 
amount of debt on Mr Ls credit file. Tesco Bank says it used a rental figure of £809 a month 
and estimated living expenses of £731 plus costs to service existing credit which left a 
disposable income of £944 a month. And Tesco Bank says that Mr Ls application was 
approved with an initial credit limit of £3,200 based on the information it obtained.
Mr L went on to use the credit card and completed some balance transfers. But Mr Ls 
explained that he experienced poor health and financial difficulties in the years that followed. 
Last year, Mr L contacted Tesco Bank to let it know about his health problems and 
circumstances. In July 2022 Tesco Bank issued a default notice and agreed to accept £5 
monthly payments from Mr L.
Tesco Bank later received a complaint from Mr L that it had lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card. Tesco Bank issued a final response in November 2022 but didnt 
agree it had acted unfairly when approving Mr Ls credit card application. An investigator at 
this service looked at Mr Ls complaint. They thought Tesco Bank had failed to complete 
proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ls application. And the investigator thought the 
bank statements Mr L supplied from the period before his credit card application wouldve 
shown new borrowing wasnt affordable for him. The investigator asked Tesco Bank to 
refund all interest and charges applied to the credit card from inception.
Tesco Bank asked to appeal and confirmed its view it had completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving Mr Ls credit card. As Tesco Bank asked to appeal, 
Mr Ls complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our general approach to complaints about unaffordable or irresponsible lending  including 
the key rules, guidance and good industry practice  is set out on our website.
In short, before agreeing to lend, Tesco Bank needed to complete proportionate checks to 
be able to understand whether the borrowing was sustainable for Mr L. Theres no specific 
list of checks a lender has to complete. While it is down to the lender to decide what specific 
checks to carry out, these should be reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of 
credit being provided, the length of the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments, 
the total cost of the credit and what it knew about Mr L at the time of application.
In this case, Tesco Bank has provided evidence of the information it used in Mr Ls 
application. Tesco Bank took the details Mr L provided, including his income of £2,500 a 
month. I understand Mr Ls income may not have been in line with that figure when he 
applied. But Im not persuaded that a declared income of £2,500 in itself was unreasonably 
high to the point Id have expected Tesco Bank to obtain further evidence. Im satisfied it was 
a reasonable income figure for Tesco Bank to use. I also note Mr L gave a rent figure of 
£150 but Tesco Bank used a higher figure of £809 a month (based on industry estimates) as 
well as an estimated regular outgoings figure of £731.
In addition, Tesco Bank completed a credit search to get a picture of Mr Ls finances at the 
time of his application. Whilst a default was found, it was historic in nature and there was no 
other adverse credit or missed payments showing. Tesco Bank didnt find evidence of a 
substantial unsecured borrowing and Im satisfied it factored the ongoing costs of meeting 
Mr Ls existing debts when looking at the application.
I understand Tesco Bank approved a credit limit of £3,200, but in my view, the checks it 
completed were reasonable and proportionate to the application Mr L made. As Im satisfied 
using the application information and credit file details Tesco Bank found was proportionate, 
Im not persuaded there were grounds for it to request further information, like bank 
statements, from Mr L to further support his application.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L as Ive reached a different decision to the investigator, but the 
information Ive seen so far hasnt persuaded me that Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly when it 
approved his credit card application.
Mr L has given us some very personal information about his health and circumstances both 
around the time of his application and in the years that have followed. I can see Mr L has 
been through a particularly difficult time. When a customer experienced difficulties of the 
nature Mr Ls told us about wed expect a business to treat them positively and 
sympathetically. There are a range of options businesses can use to provide support.
In this case, Tesco Bank agreed to accept payments of £5 a month in place of the normal 
minimum payment. I understand that led to the credit card being terminated with a default 
recorded on Mr Ls credit file, but the effect of that process meant no further interest or 
charges could be applied to the outstanding balance. That means any payments Mr L made 
from that point were used to repay the balance rather than covering interest. In my view, 
Tesco Bank has provided positive and sympathetic support to Mr L.
Ive very sorry to disappoint Mr L as I understand my provisional decision differs from the 
investigators view of how to fairly resolve his case. But as the information Ive seen so far 
hasnt persuaded me that Tesco Bank lent irresponsibly I dont intend to uphold Mr Ls 
complaint.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments or information they wanted 
me to consider before I made my final decision. Mr L responded and said he didnt think 
Tesco Bank had reviewed a full copy of his credit file. Mr L said that if Tesco Bank had it 
wouldve found he was using his overdraft at the time he applied. In addition, Mr L says Tesco Bank wouldve found satisfied debts that showed he was in debt management plans. 
Mr L added that the provisional decision made no mention of Tesco Banks decision to 
reduce his credit limit. Mr L explained he thought Tesco Banks decision to reduce the credit 
limit was made on the basis it had lent irresponsibly when approving his credit card. 
Tesco Bank responded and confirmed it had nothing further to add. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In Mr Ls response he raised concerns that Tesco Bank hadnt reviewed a full copy of his 
credit file or factored his overdraft facility into account when reviewing his application. But 
Ive checked the evidence available and can see that Tesco Bank did complete a full credit 
search and obtained a complete breakdown of what Mr L owed at the point he applied. 
Im satisfied the credit file information Tesco Bank obtained included details of the credit Mr 
L had outstanding at the time of his application. And Im satisfied Tesco Bank factored Mr Ls 
existing debts and payments to service them into its assessment when looking at his credit 
card application. So whilst I understand Mr L was using his overdraft at the point of 
application, I havent been persuaded that Tesco Bank failed to consider it or lent 
irresponsibly. 
Mr L added that Tesco Bank wouldve found settled accounts in his name showing he was 
party to debt management plans when he applied. But the credit file information doesnt 
show any reference to debt management plans or other arrangements of that nature that Mr 
L was party to at the time he applied. The only adverse information Tesco Bank found was a 
default that was 71 months old when Mr L applied. But Im satisfied Tesco Bank was aware 
of the default which was almost six years old and that its lending criteria was correctly 
applied. Im sorry to disappoint Mr L but I havent seen anything that shows his credit file 
included references to debt management plans.  
Mr L has pointed out Tesco Bank went on to reduce his credit limit. The credit limit was 
brought down to £3,100 in March 2021 and £2,850 in September 2021. Mr L suggests this 
was due on the basis that Tesco Bank had lent irresponsibly. But Tesco Bank has confirmed 
it regularly reviews customer accounts and credit files. And the reductions in Mr Ls credit 
limit was made due to the reviews it completed at the time, not on the basis of its original 
lending decision. I havent seen anything that leads me to conclude the credit limit reductions 
were linked to the original application Mr L completed. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr L but I havent been persuaded to change my view of how to 
fairly resolve his complaint. I still think Tesco Bank dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly, for the 
same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman