DRN-3667332
The complaint
Miss M complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc refuses to refund money she lost to an 
investment scammer.
What happened
Miss M has explained that in 2020 she made a debit card payment of £968 to Jubiter.com 
from her Barclays current account, for what she thought was a legitimate investment. 
When Miss M subsequently got in touch with Barclays to explain shed been scammed, 
Barclays didnt reimburse her lost funds. Remaining unhappy, Miss M referred her complaint 
about Barclays to this office. As our investigator couldnt resolve the matter informally, the 
case has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold this complaint, for materially the same reasons as the investigator. 
Ill explain why.
At the time Miss M made her payment, banks were expected to process payments a
customer authorised it to make; but as a matter of good industry practice, a bank should
have taken proactive steps to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or
uncharacteristic transactions  that could involve fraud or be the result of a scam.
Ive reviewed the prior operation of Miss Ms Barclays account. I dont think I can say  given 
the payment in question here  that Barclays unreasonably failed to intervene before 
executing Miss Ms instruction, or that it would be reasonable here to hold Barclays 
responsible for Miss Ms loss.
There is a balance to be struck  banks had (and have) obligations to be alert to fraud and to 
act in their customers best interests. But they cant reasonably be involved in every 
transaction. I think the payment in question here was of relatively low value when compared 
to Miss Ms normal account spend and was not sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic to say 
that Barclays ought to have been concerned that Miss M could be at risk of financial harm. 
The payment was in keeping with the normal operation of the account, for example, Miss M 
sent an undisputed payment - using the same payment method as that of the scam  which 
was higher than the amount in dispute here (£1,810.92 on 27 July 2020). 
I understand when Miss M reported the scam to Barclays, it processed a chargeback claim 
on her behalf, but this was defended by Jubiter.com. Barclays concluded it had no grounds 
to pursue the chargeback claim any further and I agree. As Miss M didnt pay the scammers 
directly and instead paid a genuine crypto exchange company (Jubiter.com), Barclays 
wouldnt have reasonably been able to do any more than it did to try to recover Miss Ms 
payment. Thats because she received the service she paid Jubiter.com for which was for 
them to convert her £sterling to crypto (which isnt in dispute) and so I dont think Barclays 
acted unreasonably by choosing not to pursue Miss Ms chargeback claim. 
I appreciate Miss M will be disappointed with this outcome. But I can only uphold this 
complaint if Im satisfied Barclays did something wrong that caused her loss. And in this 
case, whilst I sympathise with Miss Ms position, for the reasons Ive explained, Im not 
persuaded Barclays can fairly be held responsible for her loss. 
My final decision
My final decision is, despite my natural sympathies for Miss Ms loss, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2023.
 
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman