DRN-4272702
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as F, complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin 
Money (Virgin Money) wont refund the money it lost in a scam.  
Mr S, who is a director of F, brings the complaint on Fs behalf. 
What happened
F is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr S or F.
Mr S says he started his own business  F  in August 2022. F was going to sell gloves 
locally. He was in touch with a company Ill refer to as T in Asia. T sent samples to Mr S, and 
he was in regular contact with a representative of T. Mr S also received an invoice.  
Mr S opened a business account with Virgin Money and said F would start trading on 14 
October 2022. On 14 November 2022 Mr S went into branch to make a payment in USD that 
amounted to £8,691.87. Mr S, on behalf of T, made a further payment of £2,503.89 on 25 
November. After hed made the payments the representative of T stopped communicating 
with Mr S, so he tried other methods to contact T. Mr S received a response on social media 
from a genuine company with a very similar name saying that its details were being used 
fraudulently.
Mr S contacted Virgin Money to report the scam at the end of December 2022. Virgin Money 
considered Fs claim but didnt agree to provide a refund. It said relevant scam advice was 
provided at the time the transactions were made and it had attempted to recover Fs funds 
but had been unable to do so. 
Mr S, on behalf of F, was unhappy with Virgin Moneys response and brought a complaint to 
this service.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint didnt recommend that it be upheld. He noted 
that international payments arent covered by the Lending Standards Boards Contingent 
Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and went on to say there was no reason why 
Virgin Money should accept responsibility. Fs account was relatively new, with very little 
activity, and the payments were in line with the information provided when the account was 
opened. And evidence from Mr S and Virgin Money indicated there was a discussion about 
the reason for the payment.  
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view. In summary, he said:
- Branch staff should have asked more questions about the first payment, particularly 
given the prevalence of scams during the pandemic. Mr S said that had Virgin Money 
done so, the scam would have been prevented. 
- Mr S was dealing with a company that was impersonating a genuine company. The 
genuine company had a fraud alert on its website at the time Mr S made the 
payments. 
- Action Fraud published warnings about Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) as far 
back as May 2020, so Virgin Money should have been aware of this type of scam. 
- As a bare minimum, Virgin Money should have provided a generalised warning about 
purchase scams. 
The complaint was passed to me to consider. I reviewed the complaint and asked Virgin 
Money for some additional information about what happened in branch when the first 
payment was made. Ill refer to this evidence in the section below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the time.
The CRM Code doesnt apply in this case because it doesnt cover international payments. 
So in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Virgin Money should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In this case, I need to decide whether Virgin Money acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mr S when he made the payments on behalf of F, or whether it should have 
done more than it did. I have considered the position carefully.
Fs account was opened at the end of July 2022 and there was very little activity on it before 
the scam payments were made so it wasnt possible to establish what Fs normal account 
activity looked like. 
Ive considered the information Mr S provided to Virgin Money when he opened Fs account 
to see if the transactions made were in line with how Mr S said the account would be used. 
Mr F said he would be selling vinyl gloves and that the account was being opened for day to 
day trading. When asked how funds would be lodged, Mr S said by him. The annual turnover 
of the business was anticipated to be between £0 and £100,000. Before making the 
payments Mr S credited Fs account with £10,000 and he was buying gloves.  So I consider that the transactions made by F were consistent with the information provided when the 
account was opened. 
But the transactions were made in branch, so Virgin Money had the opportunity to take 
additional steps before processing them. I have been provided with a form that records Mr 
Ss responses to the questions asked and the advice given on 14 November 2022. I have 
set out the detail below.
We asked you some questions about your payment and this is what you said:
1. Have you received any unusual calls from someone advising they are from the bank 
or a known provider asking you to move money to a new or safe account? No
2. Has anyone advised on how to respond or guided you on how to answer the 
questions if the bank were to ask you about this payment? No
3. Are you being rushed or pressured into making this payment? No
4. Have you received the invoice via eMail or in person? eMail
5. Were you due to make a payment to this company for this amount? Yes
6. Have you confirmed verbally with the company that the invoice came from them?
We have recommended that you dont make this payment until you have made further 
enquiries. You accept that you have been advised not to make the payment and still 
wish to proceed.
I have also been provided with a statement from the member of staff who served Mr S. The 
advisor says that she went through the warnings and would have advised Mr S not to 
proceed but, given the time that has elapsed, cannot recall the exact conversation.
Mr Ss signature appears below the text above to say he is happy to proceed with the 
payment. Given the advice from the Virgin Money advisor not to make the payment its clear 
that relevant and proportionate questions were asked but Mr S decided to make the payment 
anyway.
In some cases, Id conclude that a bank should refuse to make a payment until a customer 
provides further evidence rather than simply advising not to. In this case, Virgin Money has 
retained the invoice provided to Mr S which looks professional (although Mr S wasnt paying 
T, and this may well have been Virgin Moneys concern). In addition to this, Mr S says he 
had received samples of gloves which Mr S said were of good quality; various certificates; 
had regular contact with a representative of T who was knowledgeable; viewed Ts website 
and noted that it contained usual information, contact details and testimonials; found T on a 
map and also on social media. So I dont think there was enough going on for Virgin Money 
to be refuse to make the payment on the basis that it was clear F was being scammed. I 
think Virgin Money acted reasonably in highlighting concerns and urging Mr S to complete 
additional checks. 
The second payment was made online by Mr S so there was no interaction with Virgin 
Money staff when it was made. I dont think Virgin Money needed to do anything more in 
respect of this payment given the reason the account was opened, its value and Virgin 
Moneys previous interaction with Mr S.
Virgin Money contacted the bank that received Fs funds but was unable to recover anything. 
This is common when international payments are made, as the obligations that exist in this 
country dont apply abroad and scammers remove scam funds from recipient accounts 
quickly. I appreciate that the loss of funds has had a substantial impact on Mr Ss new business. But 
I need to be fair to both parties here. The evidence shows that Virgin Money intervened and 
told Mr S not to make the payment until further enquiries had been made. 
My final decision
For the reasons stated, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask F to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman