DRN-4024007
The complaint
D, a company, complain that Allianz Global Corporate & Speciality SEs (Allianz) decision 
not to renew their Professional Indemnity Insurance (PII) policy was unfair.
The complaint is brought by Ms S on behalf of D, but for ease of reading I shall refer to all 
submissions as Ds own.
What happened
D took out PII insurance with Allianz through a broker. A year before the policy was due to 
renew Allianz put D, through its broker, on notice that it would not be renewing the cover on 
the basis that Ds business did not fit within its risk appetite. 
D was unhappy with this. The content of the correspondence that followed is well known to 
both parties, so I dont intend to repeat it here. Ds complaint is essentially that Allianz wasnt 
prepared to offer it cover at renewal, or extend the policy period or the cessation period, 
upon expiry. D says that Allianzs decision led to it having to close its business because it 
wasnt able to source alternative cover in the prevailing market.
The matter I need to decide is therefore whether Allianz was entitled to make the decision 
that it did and if not, what remedy applies in the circumstances.
Our investigator considered Ds complaint and concluded that it shouldnt be upheld. D 
doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear about the considerable financial impact Ds inability to obtain PII cover 
has had on its business, including its subsequent closure. But for the same reasons the 
investigator set out, I wont be upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
The starting point is to make clear that we are not able to determine who an insurer is able to 
offer cover to. That is a commercial decision for businesses and one we wouldnt interfere 
with. What we can consider however is whether a decision to decline cover, or the renewal 
of cover, is fair. So long as an insurer is able to show that it treated its customer fairly in 
doing so then were unlikely to say its done something wrong.
In this case D has said the decision to decline cover was unfair because Allianz had 
previously offered it cover and it had offered the same insurance to other similar entities. I 
cant comment on cover offered to other businesses that might be similar to D- not least 
because D hasnt provided any details of these. But even if it had, I would have exercised 
caution in relying on those. I say so because insurers make decisions about whether to 
underwrite insurance based on a number of factors and any variation in those businesses 
could be cause for a different decision. And an underwriter might, in limited circumstances 
decide to depart from a decision not to underwrite based on the features of that specific 
business and anticipated changes that might affect it. So as things stand, Im not persuaded 
by the argument that D had offered PII to businesses similar to D.
What Ive focussed on in this decision is Ds specific business and Allianz decision to 
decline the renewal of cover and associated run off periods. In this case, Allianz has 
provided us with evidence that its risk appetite didnt extend to businesses with less than 
four partners and if they didnt have an established track record to support them. Instead, D 
was a business in its infancy with one partner and an adverse claims history. So, its 
underwriting criteria didnt support offering insurance to firms with Ds particular 
circumstances. 
Allianz has said its risk appetite was the same when it agreed to offer D cover so it shouldnt 
ideally have offered it cover at that time. I cant comment on why the decision to offer cover 
was made and I accept D's assertion that Allianz probably should never have offered cover if 
that was its underwriting criteria, but I dont think that in itself means Allianz doing so was 
wrong. I understand Ds point that the insurance market changed considerably in the years 
that followed such that the absence of a renewal from an existing insurer meant that it 
couldnt obtain cover elsewhere. But I dont think Allianz agreeing to offer PII cover to D 
when it did means it did something wrong. If D had taken out cover with another insurer at 
the time, there are no guarantees that that insurer wouldve been prepared to renew Ds PII. 
Insurers, like market conditions are fluid and make underwriting decisions on a changing 
basis. It follows that even if Allianz shouldnt have offered D insurance when it did, it was 
entitled to decline to offer a renewal at a later date on reliance of its underlying underwriting 
decisions.
Im satisfied that Allianz gave Ds broker enough notice of its intention not to offer renewal 
terms a year in advance of the policy expiring. I know D doesnt agree that this information 
was communicated to it but Ds broker was representing it in the process of arranging 
insurance so if D feels the broker didnt communicate this to it, then that it a matter it needs 
to address with the broker directly. And its not something I can hold Allianz responsible for.
I also appreciate D feels Allianz decision was unfair but taking into account the evidence 
Allianz has provided, Im satisfied that Allianz followed an internal approach that was 
established before cover was offered to D when it declined to offer renewal terms 
D is also unhappy that Allianz didnt agree to extend the policy period or the cessation 
period. I dont think Allianz needed to do that. It gave a full policy years period of notice that 
it didnt intend to renew the PII so I think D had fair opportunity to try to source cover 
elsewhere. Its unfortunate that D couldnt achieve this but I dont think thats something that 
Allianz are responsible for. The nature of Ds business and risk profile coupled with 
prevailing market conditions are most likely the cause of this and not something that Allianz 
has specifically done.
  My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Ds complaint against Allianz Global Corporate 
& Specialty SE.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 June 2023.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman