DRN-3454531
The complaint
Mr K has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Select account in 
September 2006, a Gold account in November 2009 and a Platinum account in January 
2012. 
What happened
Prior to this complaint being brought to us, Lloyds upheld Mr Ks complaint about the Select 
account. So we have not looked into this sale. It also accepted that it should not have sold 
Mr K a Gold account, rather it believes it should have recommended the cheaper Silver 
account in November 2009, because it says this was more suitable for Mr Ks circumstances 
at the time. 
Lloyds therefore refunded the difference in cost between the two accounts, and paid Mr K  
interest on those fees, which is in line with our general approach to redress. In relation to the 
Platinum account, Lloyds decided that the complaint had been raised too late.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint she agreed that Lloyds shouldve 
recommended the Silver account. She also agreed that the complaint about the sale of the 
Platinum account was brought too late. Mr K did not agree with this. A jurisdiction decision 
was issued by a colleague about the Platinum account and the ombudsman decided that the 
complaint about the Platinum account was raised too late. 
So this decision will only be considering whether what Lloyds has already done in relation to 
the sale of the Gold account was appropriate.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website 
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has 
been provided, I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more. I will explain why. 
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I 
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything 
that is available. 
Firstly, I can see that Mr K held a fee-free account with Lloyds prior to when the Gold 
account was taken out. So I think that he wouldve been aware in general that fee-free 
accounts were available and an option for him. I note that he says he needed to upgrade his 
account at this point because he wanted to take out a credit card. But looking at the products 
that he held with Lloyds, I cant see a credit card was taken out at the time. So overall I think 
that he wouldve known that he had a choice as to whether to upgrade his account and Im 
not persuaded that he agreed to the Gold account as he thought it was the only way to 
obtain a credit card.
Lloyds says that it should not have recommended that Mr K take out a Gold account and 
instead shouldve recommended a Silver account, as this was a more appropriate account 
from its range of packaged accounts. Given this I need to consider whether this wouldve 
been the most appropriate account given Mr Ks circumstances at the time of the upgrade. 
The benefits the Silver account came with at the time included European Travel Insurance, 
Breakdown Cover and Mobile phone insurance. I can see that Mr K says he did travel, he 
registered mobile phone handsets whilst under the Gold account mobile phone insurance 
policy and his bank statements suggests that he drove a car. So based on the above I think 
that the Silver account wouldve been a broadly a reasonable recommendation based on Mr 
Ks situation at the time of the sale, especially as it was cheaper than the Gold account. 
Given this I am satisfied that if things had gone as they shouldve, Mr K wouldve been 
recommended the Silver account. Had Lloyds done so, I think that Mr K wouldve agreed to 
this upgrade knowing that he did not have to agree to it if he didnt want to. 
So, the refund that Lloyds has already made i.e. the difference between the cost of the more 
expensive Gold account to what Mr K wouldve paid on the cheaper Silver account, has 
effectively done this. So I dont think Lloyds needs to do anything more to put matters right in 
this case.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 June 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman