DRN-2879441
The complaint
Mr D says a malfunction in the trading platform for his Interactive Brokers (UK) Ltd (IB) 
account negatively affected a DAX mini futures sell trade (the trade) he tried to place on 30 
March 2020 (the date). He seeks redress in the matter. IB disputes the complaint and 
denies the allegation that its trading platform was faulty.
What happened
Mr D complained to IB and he described the relevant event mainly as follows:
He had a single trading account but two usernames and a trading set-up in which he 
used both usernames to operate the account on two computers  one username 
logged on one computer, the other on the second computer and both logged into the 
same account. He used one computer/log-on for charting and the other mainly to 
place trades.
Around 14:30 (GMT) on the date he tried to place the trade on one computer but 
encountered problems in the forms of slowness of the platform, seemingly inaccurate 
prices, unresponsive controls and unresponsiveness to his attempts to cancel the 
trade (which he sought to do because of the uncertainty created by the problems). 
This lasted several minutes without a resolution.
He turned his attention to the other computer/log-on in order to see and monitor what 
had happened with the attempted trade. He notes that the platform on this computer 
 did not seem to be affected in the same way even though data for it comes via 
the same modem. He was able to use the platform on this computer and he found 
that the trade had been executed as a buy trade  not a sell trade as he had 
submitted  at 14:33:31 (GMT) at the price level of 9675. In order to mitigate this, he 
had to sell the trade at 14:50:17 (GMT) at the price level of 9630, incurring a loss.
IB describes the event differently. In the main, it says the following activities happened in the 
account and platform:
A market buy order  for the DAX 19JUN20 futures contract  was placed at 
09:33:30 (ET) and was executed, at market price, at 09:33:31 (ET) on the same date.
At 09:33:42 (ET) a limit sell order was placed in the same product at the price level 
of 9671, it could not be filled and a cancellation order from Mr Ds account was 
subsequently received at 09:33:50.
At 09:34:51 (ET) another limit sell order was placed in the same product, this time at 
the price level of 9676, it also could not be filled.
At 09:50;17 (ET) a limit sell order was placed in the same product at the price level 
of 9627 and it was executed three seconds later at the price level of 9630. At the 
same time of execution, a cancellation order was received from Mr Ds account for 
the limit order that was placed at the price level of 9676.
Mr D was logged into his account at all times relevant to his complaint and he did not 
contact IB to complain about the platform at the time or on the date. In fact, he did 
not complain about the alleged platform problem until 13 days after the date.
IB says it investigated the matter (including its platforms software), it confirms that the 
platform worked properly at all times relevant to the complaint and it says there is no 
evidence to suggest otherwise. In Mr Ds view, and in the main, IBs position wrongly 
assumes its systems data is always reliable, which he considers not to be the case, and he 
has referred to wider matters in support; and it also assumes that whatever appears to have 
been ordered from his account was/were what he ordered  which he also says was not the 
case, because the platform was essentially frozen at the relevant time; he says the platform 
was  dead to orders or realtime prices for several minutes .
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and concluded that it should not be 
upheld. He noted the lack of evidence to support the platform malfunction alleged by Mr D or 
to support his claim that the sell trade he sought to place was wrongly executed as a buy 
trade. He commented that trading platforms can, from time to time, encounter technical 
issues but the terms for his account included, as is common in the sector, notice that IT 
based services can fail (or be disrupted) and IB disclaimed responsibility for such issues. 
The investigator also noted IBs assertion that Mr D would have had to go through a number 
of steps to complete the relevant trade, which would have alerted him to the trade he was 
placing.
Mr D disagreed with this outcome. He considered that the investigator had unfairly accepted 
the credibility of IBs position and unfairly doubted his, which he considered indicative of bias 
in favour of firms within this service. He repeated the arguments that incorrect assumptions 
are being made that IBs system is reliable and that if its audit did not identify a malfunction 
that means there was no malfunction. He argued that the facts of his case as he has 
presented them  a presentation that is credible and should be viewed as such  shows the 
opposite, and he referred to other examples of malfunctioning behaviour in the platform that 
he has experienced over the many years in which he has been an IB client. Mr D also 
objected to the suggestion that IB can rely on a contractual disclaimer to avoid responsibility 
for the lack of good working order of the platform that it is responsible for. Instead, he argued 
that IB should be accountable for not providing a platform that is fit for purpose (based on 
industry standards) and any generic disclaimer in its terms should be interpreted against IB.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator. I do not 
uphold Mr Ds complaint.
I understand the points Mr D has made with regards to IBs position and evidence, but I 
disagree with his assertion (or suggestion) that this service has mishandled our treatment of 
either (or both). I have not seen anything to show or suggest that the investigator had a 
baseless or arbitrary preference for IBs position over Mr Ds. Instead, his findings were 
properly explained and, I consider, well-reasoned. I also have not seen anything to suggest 
the investigator approached the case with bias for or against either party.
Primarily, in a case like Mr Ds, there is a need to establish, on balance, the trading platform 
malfunction that is alleged, and if that is done there is the coupled need to establish, on 
balance, that the malfunction affected the relevant trade as alleged. As part of his 
comments, Mr D made a fair point that from his position as a customer  who is unable to 
access and audit the inner workings of a firms trading platform  he is limited in his ability to 
make a technical case in support of his allegation. I agree, but it is also fair to say that he does not have to make such a technical case. This service has experience in cases about 
trading problems and/or trading platform problems and they have been determined with 
different outcomes depending on the weights of available evidence, including trading activity 
evidence. Sometimes technical evidence is available sometimes it is not, but unavailability of 
such evidence does not always, or automatically, mean the case cannot be fairly 
determined.
In Mr Ds case, a piece of evidence with important weight  which has been presented by 
him  stands notably against his position. IB has referred to the investigation it conducted 
into his complaint and into its platform, it says it found nothing wrong with the platform at the 
relevant time, I have not seen cause to doubt its account in this respect so I am without a 
basis to say IBs submission is unreliable. Furthermore, at Mr Ds end and with his 
description of events, I find evidence that appears to support IBs submission that the 
platform worked properly at the time(s) relevant to the complaint.
As quoted above, Mr D confirms that as he was experiencing, on one of his two computers, 
the platform malfunction that he alleges, the platform on his second computer  did not 
seem to be affected in the same way even though data for it comes via the same modem. It 
appears that he was able to use the same platform and view (and monitor) the same 
account on the second computer, at the same time that he says the platform was unusable 
on the first computer. The former arguably stands as evidence to show, or at least suggest, 
that the platform was working properly at the time  as IB says it was. It is reasonable to 
consider that a platform malfunction would have affected his account on both computers or 
any computer, but that was not the case.
Without evidence of a platform malfunction and with evidence from Mr Ds description of 
events that suggests there was no such malfunction, it is reasonable not to accept his 
allegation. I have not seen cause to doubt his sincerity, so I do not suggest that he 
experienced no problem on the date. It is possible that he did but that is not clear from 
available evidence and if he faced a problem it is unlikely that the problem was caused by 
IBs platform. The implication is that IBs platform treated the trade orders correctly, as they 
were received and as recorded on the platform. As summarised above, those orders show 
no irregularities, each order was either executed or cancelled and the buy order that was 
initially executed was closed off by the corresponding sell order.
In the absence of evidence of a platform malfunction a debate about the effect of IBs 
contractual disclaimer of liability for platform/system problems is arguable redundant  given 
that no such problems have been established in this case. I understand Mr Ds point that a 
service should be fit for purpose regardless of such generic disclaimers and for the sake of 
completeness I will address this. 
Each case in this service is addressed on its facts and merits, and we have considered 
cases in which, depending on the facts and merits, the effect of a disclaimer has been 
upheld, and considered cases in which its effect has not been upheld. It stands to reason 
that fitness for purpose is a key consideration in this point, and in Mr Ds case I have not 
seen evidence to show that IBs disclaimer should be disregarded because its platform was 
unfit for purpose  no such unfitness has been established. I have limited myself to the 
complaint matter(s) before me, I acknowledge that Mr D has referred to wider evidence 
which he says shows faults in the platform at other times. That might or might not have been 
the case at the times he has referred to, but for the reasons I have set out above it has not 
been established that the platform was faulty for the trade on the date or during the relevant 
times on the date.
My final decisionFor the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman