DRN-1227403
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Briefly:
In 2004 Mrs B took out PPI at the same time as applying for a credit card. Both things were 
taken out during a meeting in-branch. 
The policy provided protection for Mrs B's card payments in the event she couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy paid a monthly benefit of 10% of 
the outstanding card balance and it would do so for up to 12 months per claim. It cost 79 
pence for every £100 Mrs B owed on the card and the payments did attract interest.
At the time of the sale Mrs B was employed, and she said she was entitled to six months' full 
sick pay. She said she had some savings - around £500 - she could've used to make her 
payments. She said she was in good health at the time.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said Mrs B chose 
to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was wrong or inappropriate for her. 
They added that the payment Barclays made in relation to high commission and profit share 
was a fair way to settle things.
Because Mrs B disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mrs B's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs B's complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mrs B have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
I think Barclays made it clear that Mrs B didn't have to take out the PPI and that she chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this. Barclays has provided a copy of Mrs B's credit card application from the time. Looking at this 
I can see in a separate section there were two equally prominent options to chose from - 
'Yes' to take out PPI and 'No' to decline it - by ticking the required box. Mrs B ticked the 'Yes' 
box. The application didn't say or imply PPI had to be taken out. And by the way the 
application was laid out, I'm not persuaded Mrs B would've reasonably thought she had to 
take it out.
Because this was an advised branch sale, I accept the adviser might have encouraged Mrs 
B to have PPI. But I've not seen anything to persuade me they went further than this and 
undermined the optionality of the policy.
So, in light of the above I think Mrs B chose to take out PPI, and she did so without undue 
pressure.
the advice
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mrs B. This means it had to check that the PPI 
was right for Mrs B  and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think 
that it was. For example, she was eligible for the cover; she wasn't affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover such as those related to existing medical conditions 
and unusual employment circumstances; and she seems to have had a need for the cover.
While Mrs B says she had some sick pay and some savings, the policy would've paid out in 
addition to these and for longer if necessary - up to 12 months per claim. So I think she 
would've found the policy useful had the insured risks become a reality - it would've helped 
her out at what would likely be a difficult time. Because of this I don't think it was wrong for 
Barclays to have recommended PPI to Mrs B.
the information  
Given the limited evidence about a meeting which took place many years ago, I accept its 
possible the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve 
been. But as I found above, I think she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. And as I also said above, based on her circumstances at the time it doesn't 
appear that it was inappropriate for her. In addition, it looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put Mrs B off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While Barclays might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mrs B PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time and for the reasons above I 
think she would  have still gone ahead and taken out PPI had Barclays done anything more.
This means I dont think Mrs B has lost out as a result of having PPI to the extent she should 
get back everything she paid for PPI.
But Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because it didn't tell her, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
I've thought about everything Mrs B and her representative have said - including what they've said about Mrs B's sick pay and the fact the policy only paid out for 12 months. But 
these things don't change my decision.
I've already said I don't think Mrs B's existing means meant the policy was wrong or 
inappropriate for her. And while the policy benefit was limited to 12 months per claim, this 
was longer than her existing means would've lasted - it's also the case that she could've 
claimed again if required after she'd satisfied the re-qualification period. So, I don't think PPI 
was unsuitable for Mrs B. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But Barclays Bank UK Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share 
it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman