DRN-3504329
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the way his claim on his legal expenses insurance claim was dealt with 
by Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA). He says he wasnt given adequate support or advice 
on the claim and there were long delays.
Where I refer to IPA, this includes its agents and claims handlers acting on its behalf.
What happened
In 2010 Mr P had an operation which involved the use of an implant. He later became ill with 
a condition caused by poisoning from the implant. In November 2012 Mr P contacted a firm 
of solicitors to discuss a proposed clinical negligence claim.
In February 2013 Mr P contacted the legal helpline provided as part of the policy and then 
submitted a claim to IPA, who referred the claim to panel solicitors. Their initial view was that 
the claim didnt have reasonable prospects of success. But they said Mr P hadnt provided 
enough information to assess the claim fully. Mr P was asked to provide further information.
There were a number of phone calls around that time and correspondence over the following 
months where Mr P said he was going through his documents and would provide the 
information requested. In June 2013 he said he was still collecting evidence. But he was 
unhappy with IPAs response to his claim and complained. In response IPA said it couldnt 
comment on any advice Mr P had received from the helpline or the solicitors involved. It said 
the claim hadnt been dealt with because Mr P needed to provide the information requested - 
once it had the evidence from him it would assess the claim.
In March 2014 Mr P contacted IPA again. He said he had been gathering evidence and had 
instructed a direct access barrister. IPA advised him that it still needed evidence from him to 
assess the claim and couldnt cover any costs he had already incurred. In May IPA agreed to 
cover a clinical negligence claim, subject to confirmation that the claim had a reasonable 
chance of success, and to appoint the direct access barrister. The barrister advised that 
there were reasonable prospects of success for the claim against the surgeon, subject to 
obtaining expert medical evidence.
In June 2014 IPA sent terms of appointment to the barrister. He acknowledged the 
correspondence and said he would consider the matter further, as did Mr P. There was then 
no further contact between Mr P and IPA until February 2016. Mr P explained that he had 
been pursuing the clinical negligence claim but this was now on hold and he had started a 
product liability claim against the manufacturers of the implant. He said the panel firm and 
another firm of solicitors were dealing with a group litigation case against the manufacturer 
but they couldnt take his case on as were not taking on any more clients.
IPA referred the matter to another firm of solicitors who said they couldnt deal with that type 
of claim. Mr Ps barrister then advised that his claim had reasonable prospects but needed 
expert medical evidence. IPA approached the panel solicitors again but they declined to take 
the case. In May 2016 IPA agreed to fund the costs of obtaining medical advice through the 
direct access barrister, and to look for a firm of solicitors to obtain the expert report
Mr P was unhappy with the way the claim was progressing and made another complaint. IPA 
issued a final response saying it had always been willing to consider the claim and, although 
the panel solicitors said the chance of success for the product liability claim was low, as 
Mr Ps counsel said it did potentially have reasonable prospects, it would provide cover for a 
solicitor to obtain expert evidence for counsel to review.
Mr Ps barrister said Mr P was hoping IPA would be able to find a solicitor to deal with 
obtaining the medical report but IPA said it couldnt do this as the panel firms who dealt with 
this type of work had declined to act. It suggested another firm of solicitors but they were not 
taking on more cases. IPA suggested Mr P contact one of the other firms dealing with the 
group action.
Mr P next contacted IPA in September 2018 to say he had been offered a payment to settle 
the product liability claim but had rejected that offer. In the meantime, the test case had been 
heard and the claimants had lost.
Mr P said he had been going through mediation with the hospital on his clinical negligence 
claim but the limitation period for that claim would expire in November 2018, so there was 
limited time to issue proceedings. He told IPA the original panel firm wouldnt take the case 
on. He asked for another panel solicitor to be appointed to deal with this claim. IPA decided 
to get counsels advice.
Counsels advice on the clinical negligence claim was that the prospects of success were 
better for one aspect of the claim, about a failure to inform Mr P of the outcome of blood 
tests in 2012. He commented that the product liability claim didnt seem to have good 
prospects. He said if the mediation process that Mr P was going through with the hospital 
wasnt successful, he should have funding to obtain expert evidence to explore pursuing the 
clinical negligence claim.
IPA appointed another firm of solicitors to obtain a medical report and draft particulars of 
claim for the clinical negligence claim and proceedings were issued, to protect Mr Ps 
position. The solicitors said the prospects for that claim were 51%.
When the medical report was obtained, it wasnt supportive. Mr P stopped instructing the 
solicitors and continued the clinical negligence claim as a litigant in person after he 
disagreed with their advice. He later settled this claim and received a sum of money as part 
of the settlement. But he says he would have obtained a much better settlement if hed still 
had solicitors representing him.
Mr P remained unhappy with the way the claim had been handled and complained again. I 
PA issued a final response in February 2019. IPA referred to the actions it had taken in 2016 
and said any delays between then and 2018 were due to waiting to hear from Mr P. It  said 
prompt action had been taken in 2018, when counsel was instructed; part of the claim was 
said to have prospects, and solicitors were instructed to issue proceedings, before the 
limitation period expired. IPA acknowledged that Mr P was unhappy with the way the claim 
had been handled and some of the communication with him, but said it had taken 
reasonable steps, and decisions about cover were based on legal advice.
When Mr P brought his complaint to this service our investigator didnt think it should be 
upheld. Mr P disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsmans decision.
Before considering the merits of the complaint I initially addressed whether some aspects of 
the complaint were outside our jurisdiction. Mr P provided comments on that issue and IPA 
accepted that the whole complaint could be considered.Mr P provided further, detailed comments on the complaint. I wont set these out in full but 
will summarise some of the key points he made, as follows:
The policy documents say he will be given advice about his legal rights and access to 
legal advice but this never happened.
Although IPA accepted he had a valid claim and the claim was kept open throughout, 
he was never given a framework for dealing with it, and hes never spoken to anyone 
who has given him any guidance or assistance with his claim - they should have 
explained his legal rights and what evidence he would need to provide, but never 
asked for the information needed to assess the claim. If IPA had engaged with him 
correctly, he would have had proper conversations and understood what information 
was needed.
His case was delayed due to not having medical reports but the barrister he 
instructed was able to sort this out very quickly.
The panel firm had a conflict of interest as they were dealing with other claims and 
knew his case would be disruptive, but this was never discussed - it should have 
been addressed.
There were periods where nothing was happening, but he was very ill and unable to 
pursue things himself. When he was fobbed off by IPA he felt paralysed and didnt 
know what to do. He ended up having to find his own barrister and spend his own 
money obtaining evidence. IPA never followed things up and just left him on his own.
In 2018 they finally obtained counsels advice but there was a very short timescale 
for doing this, which meant he wasnt able to provide all the evidence - he provided a 
bundle of documents and said it was important he spoke to the barrister to explain 
things properly but this wasnt allowed.
They didnt tell him the barrister would comment on both the clinical negligence claim 
and the product liability claim.
His product liability claim was different from the other claims being pursued in the 
group action and he could have pursued his case separately but they made no 
attempt to discuss this with him, understand his claim properly or deal with it.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint in which I said I was intending to uphold the 
complaint in part and direct IPA to pay compensation of £500 to Mr P, for the following 
reasons:
In deciding whats fair and reasonable I need to take into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and (where 
appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant industry guidance says an insurer should deal with a claim promptly and fairly; 
provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. As a general principle, firms 
should treat their customers fairly.
The policy provides cover for certain types of legal claims. The policy document explains that 
there's a legal helpline and the policyholder will be given confidential advice over the phone 
on personal legal matters - We will tell you what your legal rights are, what course of action 
is available to you and whether these can be best implemented by you or whether you need 
to consult with a lawyer. There are no consultation fees and lines are open 24 hours a day, 
365 days a year.
Where cover is provided for a claim, a lawyer will be appointed to represent the policyholder 
according to IPAs standard terms of appointment. In the first instance (and up to the point where it becomes necessary to issue proceedings) this will usually be one of IPA's panel 
firms of solicitors, unless there is a conflict of interest.
Mr P wanted to bring a claim for clinical negligence in relation to treatment he received and a 
product liability claim against the manufacturer of an implant. His policy provided cover for 
such claims. But as with most insurance policies, cover was subject to the policy terms. 
Although IPA accepted that there was on the face of it a valid claim, the policy terms say 
cover will only be provided if there are reasonable prospects of success. So Mr P had to  
show that his claims had reasonable prospects of success - in other words, he was more 
likely than not to win. The terms say prospects of success will be assessed either by IPA or 
a lawyer appointed by IPA.
I have considered this complaint in the light of the policy terms and the other relevant 
matters set out above.
Mr P says he was never given any advice or guidance throughout the whole time his claims 
were being considered. IPA says it acted promptly whenever Mr P was in contact but there 
were long periods when he was not in touch and it couldn't progress the claims without 
receiving the information it needed from him. Ive considered carefully the sequence of 
events. In my view, the crux of this case is whether IPA took the right steps to assess the 
claim from when Mr P first claimed in 2013 through to 2014, and then when he made contact 
again in 2016 and 2018. So although I have reviewed everything that took place I will focus 
on what happened at those points.
The initial claim
When Mr P first sought to claim in February 2013. IPA referred the claim to panel solicitors 
to assess the prospects of success. The solicitors said they did not think the claim had 
reasonable prospects, but that was based on very limited information. IPA advised Mr P that 
if he provided more evidence it would arrange for a further assessment. I think that was 
reasonable - I wouldnt expect an insurer to provide cover where the legal advice is that the 
claim isn't likely to succeed.
As a general principle, in the first instance its for a policyholder to show they have a valid 
claim. Although IPA referred the claim for a prospects assessment, the key point is that if 
Mr P didn't show he had a valid claim, it was reasonable for IPA to ask for more information. 
Ive considered whether IPA made it clear to Mr P what information was needed. IPA asked 
Mr P to provide documents including a copy of his complaint to the hospital and their 
response; correspondence: a copy of any expert report obtained; copies of any court papers 
if proceedings had been issued; and any other information relevant to his claim. I think it was 
reasonable at that point for IPA to request this. It knew little about Mr Ps circumstances and 
wouldn't have known exactly what information he had but this set out for him the sort of 
evidence he would need to provide. He would have understood he needed to provide copies 
of correspondence he'd had with the hospital and any documents that supported his claim.
In the phone calls and correspondence with IPA, it doesnt seem that Mr P was confused or 
didn't know what was wanted. In June 2013 he said he was still collating the information 
requested. Again, it doesn't seem that he was unsure about what needed.
Mr P was unhappy when he found the panel solicitors were the same solicitors he had 
consulted in 2012, before making his claim. He considered this should have been disclosed 
to him and thought they had a conflict of interest. The solicitors had said they couldn't act for 
him due to a conflict of interest; IPA said that was a matter for the solicitors and it had no 
control over that. IPA said once Mr P had all the information to support his claim and had completed the complaints procedure with the hospital it would assess his claim. I think that 
was reasonable.
Mr P contacted IPA again in March 2014 asking about proceeding with his claim. He said he 
was still collecting evidence and had instructed a direct access barrister to help. IPA then 
heard from solicitors instructed by Mr P, who said they shared the barrister's view that the 
case had good prospects of success - at least at 60% - and asked that cover be provided for 
them to act for Mr P. This wasn't, however, a reasoned legal opinion reviewing all the 
evidence and setting out detailed reasons why the claim was likely to succeed. I wouldn't 
expect IPA to provide cover in reliance on a letter such as that.
IPA wrote to Mr P advising that it would only consider whether his claim would be accepted 
once the policy terms and conditions were satisfied; it couldn't confirm cover as it only had 
limited information. It asked for full details of his claim so it could arrange a legal 
assessment, or alternatively a reasoned advice from Mr P's barrister - though the cost of that 
advice would not be covered under the policy. IPA said it couldn't advise Mr P whether to 
provide the information at that time or provide this later if it became necessary to issue 
proceedings.
This may not have seemed entirely helpful to Mr P as he didn't get a definitive answer about 
whether this claim would be covered. But it did set out what he needed to show and 
alternative ways of doing this - either by providing all the documents he had so IPA could 
arrange a legal assessment, or providing an advice from the barrister he had consulted.
In May 2014, Mr P provided a bundle of documents and a letter from his barrister setting out 
the possible legal action and advising the prospects of success were over 51%. As there 
was now legal advice that the claim had reasonable prospects, together with documentary 
evidence, I would expect IPA to provide cover. IPA agreed to do so, and in June it sent 
terms of appointment to Mr P's barrister.
It wouldnt normally be necessary for a policyholder to get their own legal advice before 
cover Is granted. If IPA had Insisted that Mr P did that, I dont think that would have been 
reasonable. But If Mr P had provided all the documents to IPA It could had obtained a legal 
assessment. I appreciate Mr P may feel had had to seek legal advice himself but I dont think 
thats the case. What IPA had asked for was either documentary evidence to enable It to 
seek a legal opinion, or an advice from his barrister - it hadnt Insisted he get the legal 
advice. And It had given him an explanation of how the policy worked and how his claim 
would need to be considered.
Mr P told IPA he was speaking to the barrister, they had decided to take time to carefully 
consider the terms or appointment, and would get back to IPA In due course. So on that 
basis, there was nothing further for IPA to do - it was waiting to hear from Mr P or his 
barrister. Ive thought about whether IPA could have provided more guidance to Mr P, or 
whether he was forced to get legal advice due to IPA failing to deal with his claim correctly. 
Im satisfied IPA explained to Mr P the sort of information he needed to provide. As Ive said, 
in the first Instance its for a policyholder to show they have a valid claim. I think Mr P had 
enough from IPA to understand that he needed to gather all the documents and 
correspondence related to his claim and submit that. While I can appreciate why he may 
have wanted to seek legal advice himself I dont think he was forced to do so by any failings 
by IPA. Mr P must have provided evidence to his barrister to enable him to advise; he could 
have provided that information to IPA.
So up to this point, I think IPA had acted fairly and In line with the policy terms and the 
relevant expectations for dealing with an insurance claim.What happened In 2016
There was then no contact from Mr P until February 2016. He said the clinical negligence 
claim was on hold and he was now pursuing a possible product liability claim against the 
manufacturer of the implant.
IPA referred the matter to another firm of solicitors who said they couldnt deal with that type 
of claim. In April 2016 IPA approached the panel solicitors again but they declined to take 
the case. The solicitors referred to their previous assessment and said they had concerns 
about the prospects of success; lots of investigation was needed and they didnt have the 
capacity to deal with this. The solicitors said the barristers working with them on the group 
litigation were very experienced and didnt think the prospects of Mr Ps claim were good. 
They were also concerned that taking on his case could affect the chances of settling other 
(more favourable) cases, so there was a potential conflict of interest.
IPA advised that the panel solicitors that specialised In this type of work were unwilling to 
consider the claim and so suggested to Mr P that he approach another firm as they were 
acting for other claimants in the group action.
In May 2016 IPA agreed to fund the costs of obtaining medical advice, through the direct 
access barrister. It asked Mr Ps barrister to draft a letter of instruction to the expert and said 
it would ask one of its panel firms of solicitors to arrange for the report to be obtained.
IPA said as the two panel firms had rejected the claim on prospects IPA considered it was 
entitled to decline further assistance but, since Mr Ps counsel said he did, on face of it, have 
reasonable prospects, it would provide cover for the costs of a solicitor obtaining expert 
evidence for counsel to review.
I would normally expect an insurer to seek legal advice on whether a case has prospects of 
success. And It's generally reasonable to rely on that advice provided it's a reasoned opinion 
from someone suitably qualified, unless It's obviously wrong. In this case, one of the panel 
firms had said there was a conflict of Interest and its view seems to have been based, not on 
a review of all the information the available, but on its pre-existing view of Mr P's 
circumstances. The other firm had made a cursory assessment of the product liability claim 
without fully reviewing all of Mr P's circumstances. That firm had advised back In 2014 that it 
only accepted certain types of product liability claims and didn't have the expertise to deal 
with the type of claim Mr P was proposing.
In these circumstances I'm not satisfied IP A had properly reasoned opinions from suitably 
qualified lawyers. And at least one of the firms had a conflict of interest. In those 
circumstances it wasn't reasonable to rely on the views given by the two panel firms. So I 
don't think it was right for IP A to say it could have rejected the claim.
The question then is what steps IPA should have taken. It was prepared to fund obtaining an 
expert report for Mr P's barrister to review. That seems reasonable - but it didn't go ahead. 
By now, Mr P had told IPA he wasn't able to deal with the matter himself and asked IPA to 
provide details to the barrister of a solicitors firm that could arrange the assessment. IPA 
suggested Mr P contact one of the other firms dealing with the group litigation but in view of 
Mr P's circumstances I don't think it was fair to leave matters like that, with no further contact 
with Mr P.
IPA says it took no further action because it didn't hear from Mr P again until 2018. If an 
insurer is waiting to hear from the policyholder I wouldn't necessarily expect it to chase them 
for information: it's the policyholder's claim and ultimately it's for them to decide if they wish 
to proceed. But it was clear to IPA that Mr P wasn't well and was struggling to deal with a complex situation. Bearing in mind its duties to deal with the claim promptly and fairly and to 
provide reasonable guidance to help Mr P make his claim, I think it could have done more to 
ensure matters proceeded at this point and engaged with Mr P to explore other options.
Having said that, there was a limit to what IPA could do. There wasn't a panel firm able and 
willing to take the case on. Generally, a panel firm will be appointed and the policyholder 
may only choose their own lawyers once proceedings are necessary, or where there's a 
conflict of interest. Since there was a conflict of interest - and no available panel firm - Mr P 
should have been able to choose his own solicitors. However that obviously means it's for 
him to find someone to represent him. Although IPA could have been more proactive in 
terms of speaking to Mr P and discussing alternatives, ultimately it was for him to find 
another solicitor. So even though IPA could have engaged with Mr P at that point rather than 
sitting back and waiting to hear from him, ultimately I don't think the lack of progress after 
2016 was IPA'S responsibility. It did, however, cause Mr P some distress at a time that was 
already very difficult.
What happened in 2018
Mr P contacted IPA again in September 2018 to say he had been offered a sum of money to 
settle the product liability claim but had rejected that offer. He now wanted to pursue the 
clinical negligence claim. As the limitation period for that claim would expire in November, 
there was very little time to issue proceedings. Mr P asked for another panel solicitor to be 
appointed to deal with this claim.
IPA agreed to get counsels advice. When counsel advised that there were reasonable 
prospects for one aspect of the proposed claim and Mr P should have funding to obtain 
expert evidence to explore pursuing it, IPA acted on this - it appointed another firm of 
solicitors to obtain a medical report and draft particulars of claim for the clinical negligence 
claim. Cover wasnt provided for the product liability claim but that was in line with the legal 
advice. Proceedings were issued before the limitation period expired, to protect Mr Ps 
position. The solicitors said the prospects of success for the clinical negligence claim were 
51%.
Mr Ps particular concerns around what happened at this point focus on the information 
given to the barrister. Due to the short timescale he wasnt able to provide all the evidence - 
he provided a bundle of documents but he wanted to speak to the barrister. He felt this was 
important as it would have enabled him to explain things properly but this wasnt allowed. He 
also says IPA didnt tell him the barrister would comment on both the clinical negligence 
claim and the product liability claim. His product liability claim was different from the other 
claims being pursued in the group action and he says he could have pursued his case 
separately but they made no attempt to discuss this with him, understand his claim properly 
or deal with it.
It wouldnt be standard practice for a policyholder to speak directly to a barrister whos 
instructed to advise on the prospects of success. Thats because they are not acting for or 
advising the policyholder - they are giving advice to the insurer to help the insurer make its 
decision on whether to provide cover.
I appreciate Mr P considers the barrister didnt have all the information relating to the case, 
and he could have filled in the gaps had he been allowed to speak to him. But the barrister 
provided a lengthy advice which was detailed and set out various possible claims with 
analysis of the evidence and his views on the strength of each. This was a very experienced 
barrister. He had three bundles of documents. If he didnt have information he needed he 
would have explained this. I dont think I can say the fact Mr P wasnt able to speak to the 
barrister meant the advice couldnt be relied on.Mr P says he wasnt aware the barrister would comment on the product liability claim, and he 
points out that his circumstances were not the same as those of the people involved in the 
group litigation (which was unsuccessful). But the barrister noted that Mr Ps circumstances 
were different. So he was aware of this and nevertheless commented that it was unlikely 
Mr P would find any lawyer willing to take his case on.
Although Mr P discontinued his product liability claim, saying this was due to IPAs refusal to 
provide a legal assessment in relation to this claim, it was reasonable for IPA to proceed on 
the basis of the barristers advice.
There were issues with the way the proceedings continued. Ive considered what Mr P says 
about this but responsibility for managing the litigation lay with the solicitors, not IPA. His 
comments concern how they went about pursuing the case and obtaining expert evidence. 
IPA wasnt responsible for that. And its not for me to comment on the solicitors actions or 
how the court case was pursued. So while I appreciate Mr P has concerns about how his 
case was managed and the way he had to negotiate the settlement, I cant comment on any 
of that.
For these reasons, I don t think IPA was at fault in relation to how it dealt with matters in 
2018.
Other issues
Mr P says arguably the most important issue is the lack of any direct access to advice 
provided to him throughout the claim from 2013 to 2018. He refers to the policy wording ''We 
will tell you what your legal rights are, what course of action is available to you and whether 
these can be best implemented by you or whether you need to consult with a lawyer" and 
says IPA never provided him with any useful or qualified legal advice and guidance. Instead, 
he says he was repeatedly told to go and find his own solicitor until IPA panicked in 
November 2018 and all of a sudden paid for a QC to advise.
His other main concern is that IPA would or should have known from the outset that there 
were already serious conflicts of interest as IPAs claims handlers, together with their panel 
solicitors (who ran the legal helpline) and other insurers had already arranged cover for the 
other product liability claims. He says they breached their duty of care when they continually 
chose not to reveal these conflicts of interest to him; he was misled and denied any help or 
legal advice, because they were guarding against the possible loss of millions of pounds 
across many other cases spread between their own and other insurers in the group. Mr P 
considers he was effectively forced to act as a litigant in person. He also says many of the 
other solicitors and barristers told him they could not be seen to act for him on either of his 
claims due to their involvement in the group action.
I appreciate the policy refers to giving information to the policyholder about their legal rights. 
But that doesnt necessarily mean Mr P was entitled to detailed legal advice on each of his 
cases throughout. The policy wording he mentions is referring to the legal helpline; that 
provides initial advice on possible courses of action. As it says, that includes whether the 
policyholder can pursue matters themselves or will need a lawyer. If legal representation is 
required, they then need to proceed with a claim on the policy. And if cover is provided, 
solicitors will then be appointed. IPA doesnt provide legal advice or expertise itself. In order 
to have full access to legal support and representation, Mr P needed to show he had a valid 
claim under the policy terms, and that his case had reasonable prospects of success.
With regard to the conflict of interest, IPA could have explained sooner that there was a 
conflict, though this is generally a matter for solicitors to address; its for the solicitor to decide whether they can take a case on or are prevented by a conflict, since that is a matter 
for them under their professional obligations. And as Ive explained, where there is a conflict 
of interest the way to address that is for a policyholder to choose their own solicitors rather 
than expect the insurer to do that for them. I know Mr P had difficulty finding solicitors to act 
for him but ultimately its for the solicitors to decide whether to take a case on and IPA has 
no control over that.
Summary
I think the way IPA dealt with the claim in 2013 to 2014, and again in 2018, was in line with 
the policy terms and was fair, for the reasons set out above. It could have done more to 
assist Mr P in 2016 given his circumstances, but ultimately there was a limit to what it could 
do. So I dont consider IPA was responsible for the fact Mr P didnt have representation until 
2018. And it wasnt responsible for how the solicitors handled his case once they were 
appointed. For these reasons my judgment is that IPA wasnt responsible for how Mr Ps 
cases were pursued or that he received a lower settlement than he might otherwise. 
Although there were periods where no action was taken, IPA was waiting to hear from Mr P. 
I know there were times when he couldnt pursue matters due to other factors, such as his 
health. But looking at all the circumstances I dont consider IPA failed to deal with the claim 
promptly at those times when it was in contact with Mr P.
I do consider the lack of support in 2016 would have been upsetting for Mr P. He wasnt well 
and was struggling to deal with the situation. The lack of support made an already difficult 
situation even worse. In the circumstances a compensation payment would be fair to 
acknowledge the impact of this on Mr P and the figure I have in mind is £500.I realise Mr P 
considers he has suffered substantial losses as a result of not being able to pursue the 
claims in the way he wished. In particular he says he would have obtained a much better 
settlement than the one he agreed to if hed still had solicitors representing him. This 
compensation doesnt address that and he will find that very disappointing. But for the 
reasons set out my view is that IPA is not responsible for any losses he claims.
my provisional decision
For the reasons given above I intend to uphold the complaint in part and direct Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to pay compensation of £500 to Mr P for the distress and inconvenience 
caused to him by what it got wrong.
Replies to the first provisional decision
IPA did not provide further comments for me to consider. Mr P however provided further 
submissions of his own, together with comments from a barrister. These further points 
included the following:
From the beginning he had two potential claims. Anyone assessing these should 
have been qualified to assess issues including what may constitute lack of care, 
whether he had given consent and how to establish whether the damage might justify 
a legal claim, so they could form an opinion on the treatment and possible claim.
If either claim seemed to have merit he should have been guided to identify, provide 
and facilitate access to the relevant evidence. And IPA should have provided him 
with competent legal advice and guidance. This didnt happen in his case - no-one 
from IPA or any of the solicitors assessed his case in this way.
As the courts wouldnt award damages twice for the same injury, he should have 
been advised and guided to assess the merits of the two claims and any limitation 
deadlines for issuing claims.Instead, what happened was they offered to refer the claim to the panel solicitors 
then abruptly said the panel firm refused to deal with him. He asked for an alternative 
and trained claims handler but was ignored.
All IPA did was keep insisting he provide them with all his records while ignoring his 
request for legally knowledgeable help.
By late 2013/early 2014 IPA had effectively repudiated the contract by their negligent 
actions and nothing that happened later was an adequate remedy for this.
Its correct to find that IPA wasnt entitled to reject the product liability claim on the 
basis of the legal advice it had in 2016, but I should give further consideration to 
whether it was fair and reasonable for IPA to leave him to find a solicitor at that point, 
or should have appointed a solicitor for him then.
The failure to appoint a solicitor in 2016 wasnt remedied by what happened in 2018.
Although IPA instructed a QC, they were only appointed to advise on policy cover; 
this wasnt the appointment of an appointed representative for him.
It would be unfair to rely on the QCs advice about the product liability claim because  
- he didnt reach a conclusion on prospects of success for the product liability 
claim; and
- his comments were generalised and not specific to Mr Ps case.
The QCs comments did not give IPA good reason not to take steps to get solicitors 
to obtain expert evidence on the product liability claim and/or a legal assessment on 
prospects based on the full facts and documents.
The reasons IPA gave for not providing cover were contradictory - initially it said it 
was relying on the QCs advice that the claim didnt have reasonable prospects; then 
said the policy doesnt cover product liability claims; then again said the decision was 
based on the QCs advice on prospects.
After considering the further comments I issued a second provisional decision in which I 
explained that my conclusions remained broadly the same. But I thought there had been 
some poor communication with Mr P after he contacted IPA again in 2018, for which some 
compensation should also be paid. I set out my further conclusions as follows:
The initial claim
Mr P says IPA should have assessed his two potential legal claim properly at the outset, I 
wouldnt however expect IPA to assess his legal claims - thats a matter for solicitors. IPAs 
role as an insurer is to deal with the insurance claim on the policy. So it would carry out an 
initial assessment of whether there is on the face of it a valid claim - for example, 
considering whether it falls under one of the heads of cover in the policy, or whether any 
exclusions might apply. But any assessment of the legal merits would be a matter for the 
panel solicitors.
As I said in my first provisional decision, in the first place its for the policyholder to show 
they have a valid claim. So Mr P would be expected to provide enough information to show 
what his claim was about and provide any relevant information to allow it to be assessed. 
IPA explained this to Mr P and advised him of the sort of information it would need.
In his initial claim Mr P said Obviously I have a lot of background correspondence and 
records but before I start copying and sending them I would like to discuss my overall case 
with one of your solicitors by phone. In my view it was reasonable - and in line with normal 
practice - to ask Mr P to provide what information he had so that it could be referred to the 
panel solicitors. If they needed to discuss anything with him that could have happened then. 
I wouldnt expect a policyholder to be able to discuss their case with solicitors before cover is 
in place.In March 2013, IPA asked Mr P when he would get the paperwork together and he said he 
was still doing it. Later, in June, he told IPA he was putting the claim together with another 
solicitor and would be in contact when it was done.
Ive reviewed the sequence of events but it remains my view that it was reasonable for IPA 
to wait for Mr P to provide the information he had relating to his claim and then arrange for it 
to be assessed. Mr P must have collated evidence and provided that to his barrister to 
enable him to advise; he could have provided that information to IPA and if he had done so, 
it would have been passed to panel solicitors to assess.
What happened in 2016
It remains my view that I PA wasnt entitled to reject Mr Ps claim on the basis of the panel 
firms advice at that time. And I agree he was entitled to a solicitor, as counsel advised he 
did have prospects of success.
Mr Ps barrister says that where Mr P was unable, or did not wish, to make an nomination, 
the policy seems to require IPA to choose the appointed representative and this means IPA 
should have appointed a solicitor for him.
I appreciate the policy refers to IPA appointing an appointed representative. But I dont think 
that means IPA had to search for and find a solicitor who would act for Mr P. Where any 
solicitor acts under the policy, the insurer will agree terms of appointment with them - to that 
extent, they are appointed by the insurer to be the policyholders appointed representative. 
But I dont think it would be fair to say that meant IPA had to find a solicitor.
Normal industry practice is that insurers will usually appoint panel firms in the first instance 
but where a policyholder is choosing their own solicitor, its for them to find someone willing 
to act. Once the policyholder has found someone, the insurer will agree terms of 
appointment. IPA could have been more proactive in terms of speaking to Mr P and 
discussing alternatives. But it did suggest other firms to Mr P. And ultimately it was for him to 
find another solicitor that he wanted to act for him.
I appreciate that at times Mr Ps health made it difficult for him. However, he was able 
between 2016 and 2018 to collate evidence, instruct a barrister and pursue legal action 
himself. So even if at that point in 2016 it was difficult for him to find a solicitor I dont think 
that would have been the case throughout.
The lack of engagement did, however, cause Mr P some distress at a time that was already 
very difficult. So its still my view that IPA should pay compensation for the distress this
caused.
What happened in 2018
When Mr P contacted IPA again in 2018 it was reasonable to want to review the prospects of 
success. Its a requirement that a claim has reasonable prospects throughout and insurers 
are entitled to keep this under review. And IPA hadnt heard from him since 2016. So it was 
reasonable to want to have all the up to date evidence from him and review the claim before 
confirming whether cover would be provided. It wasnt simply a case of being able to appoint 
solicitors - that would only happen if Mr P was entitled to cover for the claim.
Mr Ps barrister says the issue here is whether IPA remedied its failure in 2016 to identify 
and appoint an appointed representative for the product liability claim, or legally assess the 
claim on the full facts and documents. While I dont agree there was a failure to appoint a solicitor for Mr P in 2016, nevertheless I agree its relevant to consider whether IPA did 
enough when looking at the claim again in 2018.
The barrister says it didnt, because the focus of the instructions to counsel was on the 
clinical negligence claim and there wasnt a proper assessment of the product liability claim. 
Ive considered whether the assessment was sufficient or was lacking in any way.
The insurers role is to assess the insurance claim, not the merits of the underlying legal 
dispute. Its generally reasonable for an insurer to rely on a properly written and reasoned 
legal opinion on whether a claim has prospects of success. And I wouldnt question or 
comment on the legal advice unless its obviously wrong (to the extent that a lay person 
would be able to spot the error).
Mr Ps barrister says the advice wasnt adequate because it only mentioned the product 
liability claim briefly; the QC didnt have all the facts or documents relating to that claim and 
so wasnt able to consider it properly.
While the focus was on the clinical negligence claim, the QC was aware of the product 
liability claim and considered this too. The instructions asked him to advise on whether he 
considers his case falls within the remit of clinical negligence ...or whether the claim should 
have been pursued as a product liability claim.
The introduction to his opinion says at paragraph 2:
For the reasons set out below, I consider that:
(i) The potential claim falls more comfortably within the remit of clinical
negligence than a product liability claim in view of the outcome of the[...] 
Group Litigation judgment 
Mr Ps barrister says it would be unreasonable for IPA to rely on the QCs advice when 
considering the product liability claim because:
although the QC commented on the product liability claim in his advice, that was in 
the absence of being fully and clearly instructed to do and in the absence of full facts 
and full documentation;
the main focus of his advice was the clinical negligence claim.
As Ive explained, its reasonable for IPA to rely on a properly written and reasoned opinion. 
So the question is whether - in relation to the product liability claim - this was a properly 
written and reasoned opinion. Mr Ps barrister says not, because the QC wasnt fully 
instructed on that issue and didnt have all the relevant information.
I agree the main focus was on the clinical negligence claim, but the QC also covered the 
product liability claim. And he set out why he didnt think that claim should be pursued. 
Bearing in mind this was a QC, if he considered he didnt have enough information to 
comment on the product liability he could have said so. And had he done that, it wouldnt 
then have been reasonable for IPA to rely on this advice. However, while the focus of his 
advice was on the clinical negligence claim, the QC made a number of references to both 
claims and, as Ive said, advised that he thought the claim should proceed within the remit of 
clinical negligence, not product liability.
I need to consider - from IPAs view - whether this was an opinion it could reasonably rely 
on. The QC was satisfied he had enough information to comment on both claims and 
advised which claim he felt should be pursued. If Mr P had provided another legal opinion at 
the time challenging the advice, then IPA would have had to review it. But in the absence of 
any such challenge I dont think theres enough reason for IPA not to take that advice at value and act on it. Nor is there anything so obviously wrong in the advice that IPA should 
not have followed it.
For these reasons Im satisfied it was reasonable for IPA to rely on the QCs advice.
Following that advice, solicitors were instructed to deal with the clinical negligence claim. 
There were issues with the way the proceedings continued. I explained in my first provisional 
decision that its not for me to comment on the solicitors actions or how the litigation was 
managed.
However, having considered the further points raised, I do accept there were issues with the 
insurance claim at that time too. In January 2019 IPAs claims handlers requested 
underwriting confirmation for the product liability claim. The underwriters reply was that 
while they agreed that claim wasnt covered as it didnt have reasonable prospects, they 
didnt think there was no cover at all (as the claims handler was suggesting). But the 
underwriting advice was that it wasnt necessary to consider this in the absence of 
reasonable prospects of success and where the clinical negligence case was the better 
claim to consider. IPA advised Mr P of this. But looking at the sequence of events and the 
communication with Mr P, I dont think it was clear to him whether the product liability claim 
would be covered and if not, what the reason for that was, since the reasons given to him 
changed.
Taking into account the already stressful time Mr P was experiencing, this delay and lack of 
clarity in explaining to him the position on this claim would have caused him additional 
distress. I think a payment of compensation to recognise this would be fair and the amount I 
propose is £200.
Summary
My view remains that:
IPA was not at fault in the way it handled the initial claim between 2013 and 2014;
IPA wasnt obliged to find and instruct a solicitor for Mr P in 2016 but its handling of 
the claim at that time did cause him some unnecessary distress for which a payment 
of £500 would be reasonable;
it was reasonable for IPA to rely on the QCs advice in 2018 and to deal with the 
claim on that basis, but the confusion between then and January 2019 around what 
was being covered also caused some unnecessary distress for which a payment of 
£200 would be reasonable.
Replies to the second provisional decision
IPA has advised that in order to bring matters to a conclusion it accepts the findings in the 
second provisional decision.
Mr P said he didnt accept the second provisional decision and was seeking further 
information. Although he has since advised that he differs in his view of whats happened, he 
hasnt provided any further substantive comments or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed my provisional decisions and in the absence of any further substantive 
comments, I see no reason to change my conclusions. So it remains my view that:IPA was not at fault in the way it handled the initial claim between 2013 and 2014;
IPA wasnt obliged to find and instruct a solicitor for Mr P in 2016 but its handling of 
the claim at that time did cause him some unnecessary distress for which a payment 
of £500 would be reasonable;
it was reasonable for IPA to rely on the QCs advice in 2018 and to deal with the 
claim on that basis, but the confusion between then and January 2019 around what 
was being covered also caused some unnecessary distress for which a payment of 
£200 would be reasonable.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mr P, IPA should pay him compensation of £700 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay 
compensation to Mr P as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 July 2022.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman