DRN-3917330
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with U K Insurance Limiteds (UKI) handling of a claim she made on her 
motor insurance policy.
All references to UKI includes its agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
On 31 March 2022 Miss W made a claim via UKIs online form following an incident in which 
her car was accidently damaged. However, she wanted to use her local garage for the 
repairs. Miss W says she waited ten working days after logging the claim and as she hadnt 
heard back from UKI she emailed it for an update on 15 March 2022.
As she hadnt received a response to her email, Miss W phoned UKI on 18 March 2022. On 
20 March 2022 UKI arranged for an engineer to inspect her car on 26 March 2022 and to 
give approval for the repair work to go ahead. Miss W phoned several times for updates 
during this period and she complained because she was unhappy with the time UKI had 
taken in its handling of her claim.
In response to her complaint, UKI said an engineer wasnt instructed sooner because of an 
error on its part. It thought the claim could have been dealt with more proactively and its 
communication could have been better. As such, it paid Miss W £150 in compensation. 
Miss W didnt think this was enough and brought her complaint to us. She said she had been 
without a car for almost two months and had been paying more to commute to work and to 
go to university. She told us she often worked nights, so she had to ask friends and family to 
pick her up because there were no buses at that time. Miss W says this occurred during her 
assessment period, so she doesnt think the overall distress has been accounted for as well 
as the extra costs she had to pay. Miss W was also unhappy UKI didnt provide a courtesy 
car and says she paid an additional premium for this cover.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He said Miss W phoned for 
updates on her claim and was given misleading information. He also said the stress and 
upset the situation caused meant he thought UKI should increase its compensation to £250. 
However, he thought that as the repairs were being carried out by a garage of Miss Ws 
choice, and not a UKI approved garage, she wasnt covered for a courtesy car.
UKI didnt accept our investigators opinion. It acknowledged its communication could have 
been better, but it didnt think an additional £100 in compensation was fair or reasonable. It 
gave the following reasons:
It said, upon the claim being updated, Miss W was sent a link asking her to provide 
evidence of the claim as well as an estimate from the garage she wanted to use, but 
it didnt receive a reply from her. UKI said it had to wait for the estimate, and it could 
not have done anything until it was provided.
It said Miss W phoned three days after she provided the estimate and at this point an 
inspection was arranged. It said it normally takes ten days to action post, but 
because Miss W phoned it was actioned earlier. So, UKI doesnt think its reasonable 
to hold it liable for the three-day period.
However, UKI acknowledged it took longer than it would expect for the engineer to 
inspect the car (six days instead of five days).
In response to UKIs comments Miss W said she was not asked to add the repair estimate 
when she completed the online claim form. She says she also wasnt asked for one after she 
submitted the claim. Our investigator didnt think Miss W was ever asked for an estimate. So, 
he didnt think it was reasonable for UKI to say it was waiting for the repair quote before 
progressing the claim.
UKI didnt accept what our investigator said and thought the evidence that Miss W failed to 
send the quote earlier is more persuasive. It thinks the expectation was set in the emails it 
sent Miss W that it can take up to ten days to action emails. So UKI doesnt think its fair to 
consider redress from the date the claim was made until it arranged the engineers 
inspection. It also said Miss W would always have had to make alternative travel 
arrangements because she chose to use her own garage for the repairs, so it doesnt think it 
should compensate for this.
Our investigator didnt change his view - so UKI asked for an ombudsmans decision on the 
matter. I issued my provisional decision on 8 November 2022 in which I said: 
The terms and condition of Miss Ws policy say a courtesy car would be provided if a UKI 
approved repairer carried out the repair work. As Miss W chose to use her own garage to do 
the repair work, the policy terms say she wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car. And from 
what I can see, Miss Ws policy didnt include the guaranteed hire car optional extra cover. 
So, I dont think UKI were required to provide Miss W with a courtesy car or hire car while 
her car was being repaired.
UKI acknowledges there were errors in the service it provided Miss W, mainly in its 
communication with her. It says it took a day longer than it would expect to have Miss Ws 
car inspected. However, it thinks Miss W caused some of the delay by not providing the 
estimate for the repairs earlier. So, Ive considered whether UKI progressed Miss Ws claim 
in a timely manner and if its done enough to compensate her for its errors.
UKI initially said an engineer wasnt instructed sooner because of an error on its part. The 
system notes also suggest the arrangements should have been made when the claim was 
initially set up rather than roughly 20 days later.
However, UKI has since said it needed the estimate from Miss W before it would arrange the 
engineers inspection of her car and that it only received this roughly 15 days after the claim 
was made. I have seen one reference to this in the file in a record logged a few days after 
the claim was made. There are no further references to this until Miss Ws complaint. So 
even if that was the case (that she had to send the repair estimate in) I would have expected 
UKI to have made this clear to Miss W and I dont think it did. I explain why below.
Miss W says she wasnt given the option to include an estimate when she first registered her 
claim online and UKI hasnt disputed this. But it says Miss W was later told she could upload 
or email the information to it, but she didnt do that. Ive looked at the emails UKI sent after 
Miss W logged her claim. In the first email it says where possible Miss W should upload 
photographs of the incident through a link it would send to her mobile phone. A second email 
gave instructions on what Miss W should do if she needed to send UKI an email. I dont find 
the emails asked Miss W to provide the estimates, nor did they make it clear that her claim wouldnt be progressed until that happened.
UKI says the email Miss W sent it requesting an update shows she knew it required the 
estimate, and she failed to provide this earlier. But I dont agree. Miss W says she attached 
the quote from her garage when she sent UKI the email, because she thought it would 
speed things up. I find that to be a reasonable explanation particularly as, as I said above, I 
dont think UKI asked Miss W to send the repair estimate in its initial emails to her. And for 
the same reasons, Im not persuaded Miss Ws email suggests she knew she ought to have 
provided the estimate, or that she was aware her claim couldnt proceed without it.
As UKI pointed out, Miss W had already obtained the estimated repair cost from her garage 
before making her claim. Considering Miss W was reliant on her car to travel to work and to 
university, its clear to me she was motivated to have her car repaired quickly. So, I consider 
its likely she would have provided the estimate earlier if she was aware that her claim was 
on hold until she did.
UKI doesnt think it should be held responsible for the delay from the point the claim was 
made to the point the repair estimate was provided, but I dont agree. An engineer wasnt 
instructed until Miss W phoned UKI, which was almost three weeks after the claim was 
logged. Had Miss W been asked to provide the estimate when she logged the claim, I think 
she would have, and an engineer couldve been instructed by the initial handler when they 
updated the claim the following day.
UKI says it had up to ten days to acknowledge emails, but in these circumstances, I think 
thats a long time for Miss W to have been required to wait. Even if that is the case, had the 
handler asked for it when initially updating the claim, I think it would have been provided 
earlier. So, I still find its errors delayed Miss Ws claim.
When things go wrong, we expect a business to make a reasonable attempt to put things 
right, so Ive thought about the compensation UKI offered. Its already acknowledged the 
communication with Miss W could have been better.
UKI says regardless of its errors Miss W would have had to make her own transportation 
arrangements as she wasnt entitled to a courtesy car. While I agree, I find the delays it 
caused meant Miss W was without her car for longer than she would have been if the claim 
had been progressed on time. Miss W says her transportation costs were higher without her 
car, but there isnt enough evidence available to work out the difference between what she 
paid for transportation and what she would have paid if her car had been repaired earlier.
Miss W told us she often finished work late and had to rely on family and friends to pick her 
up. I think this will have caused further frustration, during what was already a stressful period 
for her. So, I find that UKI should increase the total compensation amount to £250, to 
account for the inconvenience caused and to cover any financial impact its error had on Miss 
W.
Miss W accepted my provisional decision, but UKI didnt. It raised the following points: 
It says the online form Miss W filled in when she logged her claim says she would 
need to obtain and provide a quote before any work would be provided. It also 
provided evidence of the form. 
It says the relevant channels to progress the claim were given to Miss W, but they 
werent used. It says the email it sent Miss W says to click to provide information 
about the claim.It thinks the email Miss W sent suggests she had included the quote when she 
logged the claim, but she hadnt. It says this was Miss W error and not UKIs
It doesnt think its fair or reasonable to say it caused an initial ten days of delays 
when it didnt have the information it needed, and it signposted Miss W to the 
information it needed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why. 
UKI has now provided evidence of the form Miss W completed and the answers she entered 
when she logged her claim online. I can see under section 21 of the form it says, by you 
using your own repairer you will need to obtain and provide a quote that we will [need] to 
approve before any work is carried out. 
UKI hasnt shown Miss W would have been able to include the quote when she submitted 
her online form. But I can see she was sent an email the same day which gave instructions 
on how to provide it with information relating to her claim. Therefore, Im satisfied UKI made 
Miss W aware it needed the estimate before the repair work could begin on her car and it 
also told her how to provide this information. However, I can see this wasnt provided to UKI 
until ten days after the claim was logged. UKI says it couldnt progress Miss Ws claim until it 
received the quote, so I dont think it can be held responsible for the initial delay to her claim. 
Ive therefore thought about whether it progressed her claim in reasonable time once it 
received the quotation. UKI says it took one day took longer than it would expect for an 
engineer to inspect the car. It also acknowledges that its communication with Miss W could 
be better. Its already paid her £150 in compensation, so Ive also considered whether its 
done enough to compensate her for its errors. 
Miss W emailed the estimates from her local garage on 15 April 2022. UKI says it can take 
up to ten days to acknowledge correspondence. However, I can see Miss W phoned on 18 
April 2022 and she was told the arrangements would be made for the inspection of the car. 
Its notes show it made the arrangements on 20 April 2022. UKIs engineer was scheduled to 
inspect the car on 26 March 2022, which it says is a day longer than it would normally 
expect. 
The repairs were subsequently authorised, but Miss W wasnt informed of this or that she 
could arrange with the garage to start the repair work, until she phoned UKI on 30 March 
2022. Considering it said the repairs would be authorised by 28 April 2022, I find this caused 
further unnecessary delays. So, I think its right it compensates Miss W for this delay. I find 
the delay it caused was more likely to have been around three days all together. 
Miss W would like UKI to compensate her for the time she was without a car to use, 
however, as Miss W opted to use her own garage, she wasnt entitled to courtesy car, so I 
find most of these costs were uninsured losses, which I wouldnt expect UKI to cover. 
We usually think it reasonable for an insurer to pay £10 per day for the time a consumer was 
without a car to use due to its mistakes. I wouldnt expect UKI to cover the transportation 
costs Miss W incurred in the 10 days before it received the quote. But as I mentioned above, 
I find UKI was responsible for a delay of around three days once It received the quote. Even if UKIs engineers had been instructed when the claim was first logged and the 
inspection was carried out sooner, the earliest the repairs could have been approved was 
the 15 March 2022, (when Miss W sent the estimates), which is around 15 days earlier than 
it was. So, whether UKI was responsible for a delay of 3 days or 15 days, I think its already 
done enough to compensated Miss W for the delays it caused.
I can see Miss W had to phone UKI for updates on her claim on several occasions. As I said 
above it also didnt inform her the repairs had been authorised until she phoned for a further 
update. So, I find it could have done more to keep Miss W informed about the progress of 
her claim. But I find the £150 its already paid is fair and reasonable compensation for this 
and for the delays it caused. In light of this, I dont think UKI needs to do anything more than 
it already has.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Oluwatobi Balogun
Ombudsman