DRN-2036222
The complaint
Ms H complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) misled her into thinking she 
couldnt downgrade her packaged bank account (PBA) in around 2005 or 2006.
She says that this caused her severe psychological trauma and she thinks that NatWest 
should pay her compensation for the distress and inconvenience.
What happened
Ms Hs free account with NatWest was upgraded to a PBA in July 2005, which she paid a 
monthly fee of £10 for. Earlier this year, NatWest accepted that the account had been mis-
sold, and refunded the fees in line with our approach, including the addition of 8% statutory 
interest.
Ms H told NatWest that she believed she was due compensation for the upset, but NatWest 
replied that the 8% interest had been added to acknowledge the stress of the situation, so it 
wouldnt provide anymore.
Ms H came to this service, and we confirmed that 8% statutory interest is in not awarded in 
recognition of distress and inconvenience. 8% statutory interest is our standard approach 
when a businesss mistake has left a consumer out of pocket, as that consumer has been 
deprived of the use of that money. NatWest appears to have eventually conceded that was 
correct, but maintain that no further compensation is due.
One of adjudicators looked at the case and she concluded that NatWest didnt need to offer 
Ms H any more compensation. Ms H doesnt accept that, and has asked an ombudsman to 
look at her case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be instructing NatWest to pay Ms H any more compensation, and Ill 
explain why in detail.
What happened when Ms H tried to downgrade her account in 2005/2006?
I can see that Ms H feels that we perhaps dont believe what she has told us happened 
when she tried to downgrade the PBA. She has told us various things about the 
conversation, including that the NatWest representative told her she would lose her overdraft 
and that she would owe them thousands.
NatWest no longer has any record of such a conversation, but that doesnt necessarily mean 
very much, given how long ago Ms H says it happened. And given the passage of time, the 
bottom line is I will never be able to say for certain exactly what was talked about. It is 
possible that NatWest may have told Ms H an outright lie, namely that she would lose her 
overdraft. It is also possible that it told her that her overdraft might cost her more if she 
downgraded, which was potentially true.
But actually, the absolute detail of what was said isnt the key issue in this case. I have 
absolutely no doubt that Ms H is telling us her sincerely held recollections, and if I accept 
that NatWest actively lied to her, that doesnt automatically mean that she should be paid 
more compensation. Ill go on to discuss why.
Is it fair and reasonable to hold NatWest responsible for Ms Hs health problems?
Clearly, if the NatWest representative had told Ms H that she couldnt downgrade without 
having her overdraft taken away, that would have been a serious mistake. It is also clear that 
Ms H has suffered extreme and enduring psychological difficulties over many years, which 
Im really sorry to hear about. But I would need to be persuaded that NatWests mistake was 
either the sole, or even main, cause of those difficulties to be able to reasonably conclude 
that it needs to pay her compensation for distress and inconvenience. And the evidence 
doesnt lead me to that conclusion.
Having considered what Ms H has said, and the history of her account, Im not persuaded 
that being misled in this way could reasonably be described as even being the main cause of 
the serious mental health issues that she has sadly suffered. Firstly, she regularly used an 
overdraft before the account was upgraded to a PBA. So I think its most likely she knew that 
was possible on a free account. Secondly, she talks about feeling trapped in the PBA, but 
the upshot of not downgrading her account was that she paid £10 or £12 per month and 
received a slightly cheaper overdraft. Having looked at Ms Hs account, the fees for the PBA 
made no real difference to her financial position. So I cant see how being lied to about her 
downgrade options, and continuing to pay the account fee, could have in any real way 
caused the extreme psychological problems she has told us about.
In her most recent email, Ms H has talked about her fear and worry and stress about 
being overdrawn on her account. That makes a lot of sense to me, and I can entirely see 
how financial difficulties and a limited income have almost certainly contributed significantly 
to her serious health problems. But her financial position is not NatWests fault, and 
specifically being lied to about downgrade options cant fairly be described as having played 
any real role in her difficulties. Ms H would have been regularly overdrawn regardless of 
whether her account was a PBA or a fee free one, and she has had all account fees 
refunded.
Should NatWest compensate Ms H for initially telling her 8% interest was for distress and 
inconvenience?
Ms H highlights that she was led to believe that NatWest accepted it ought to pay her 
compensation for trouble and upset, but that was covered in the 8% interest. When she 
queried that, on our advice, it seems NatWest asked what compensation she wanted, went 
away to consider it, and then said it wasnt prepared to pay any more. So, essentially, she 
temporarily had an expectation of being paid compensation, which was then taken away 
from her.
I was surprised to see NatWest misinforming Ms H in this way, and Im sure it will take steps 
to ensure that the staff involved now correctly understand the role of 8% statutory interest in 
putting things right. And I can see how Ms H may have thought that NatWest was accepting 
she ought to be compensated for distress and inconvenience. Ive thought extremely 
carefully about whether NatWest needs to now pay a small amount to acknowledge the loss 
of expectation. But I havent seen anything to persuade me that is the case. Ms H fairly 
quickly knew that this information wasnt correct, and she hasnt said anything about the impact this potential disappointment had on her. She talks about a lack of trust in NatWest 
as a result of this, which I can understand. But it is not my role to punish businesses, rather 
to put things right where a mistake has left a customer worse off. In relation to this loss of 
expectation, I dont have evidence that it had a significant enough impact to warrant a further 
payment.
I have no doubt that this decision will come as a real disappointment to Ms H, who has 
clearly had a very difficult time, and feels strongly that NatWest hasnt helped with that. But I 
cannot reasonably say that her problems have been in any way caused by misinformation 
about downgrading the account around 15 years ago. I have real sympathy for her financial 
difficulties, and am sure those have contributed significantly to her health problems. But 
there is no evidence to show that those financial problems have been caused by NatWest 
telling her she couldnt downgrade. So I cannot instruct it to pay her any additional 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint and NatWest doesnt 
need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2020.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman