DRN-2575495
The complaint
Mrs A and Mr S complain that Al Rayan Bank PLC hasnt applied payments to their home 
purchase plan (HPP) correctly.
What happened
Mrs A and Mr S took out a HPP with Al Rayan Bank in 2013. They say Al Rayan hasnt 
applied their payments correctly and the balance owed hasnt reduced as expected. Mr S 
says Al Rayan Bank has applied charges and threatened possession action. He says hes in 
financial difficulty.
I sent a provisional decision to the parties, explaining why I intended to uphold the complaint. 
I said that there was no evidence Mr S and Mrs A had made payments which hadnt been 
allocated to their HPP account. However, I said there were signs they were in financial 
difficulty. I said Al Rayan Bank should hold recovery action for another three months from 
the date Mr S and Mrs A accept my decision (if they do). This was to give them an 
opportunity to discuss their circumstances with Al Rayan Bank with the aim of agreeing a 
suitable payment plan or concession. It would also allow them time to seek independent 
financial advice about their options.
Al Rayan Bank provided more information about the history of Mr S and Mrs As account. It 
pointed out that the account is now over 10 months in arrears, and this is increasing. It 
agreed that theres a hold on evictions, but asked that recovery action isnt delayed any 
further. 
Mr S and Mrs A sent copies of bank statements and a spread sheet of payments. Mr S and 
Mrs A raised new complaints. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The home purchase plan offered by Al Rayan Bank is intended to be Sharia complaint. The 
bank and Mrs A and Mr S own the property jointly. Mrs A and Mr S make monthly payments, 
which consist of two parts: acquisition payments to buy Al Rayans share of the property, 
and rental payments for occupying the property.
Al Rayan Bank says it hasnt received all the payments that were due from Mrs A and Mr S. 
It provided a breakdown of the payments received and the arrears balance to them. It said if 
they provide evidence theyve made payments that havent been applied to the account it 
would review this again.
Mr S says theyve made payments which havent been applied to their account correctly. He 
provided copies of bank statements and a spread sheet hed prepared. 
Mr S and Mrs As HPP account fell into arrears for a short time in early 2017, but they made 
payments to clear the arrears. The account fell into arrears again in April 2018. Mr S and 
Mrs A made a complaint that payments werent properly applied to the account in May 2019. 
Ive compared the bank statements and the statements provided by Al Rayan Bank between 
April 2018 and May 2019. I havent included direct debit payments that were returned 
unpaid, and Ive rounded the numbers set out in the table below.
Month Payments from 
bank accountPayments received and applied to HPP
April 2018* - -
May 2018 - -
June 2018 - £286 (credited as late payment for April)
July 2018 - -
August 2018 £650 £365 (credited as late payment for April)
September 
2018£650
£218£867 (credited as late payments for May and 
June)
October 2018 £650
£218£868 (credited as late payment for June and 
July) 
November 2018 £650
£218£868 (credited as late payment for July and 
August)
December 2018 £217
£650£868 (credited as late payment for September 
and October)
January 2019 £650 
£217 £868 (credited as late payment for October 
and November)
February 2019 £650 £650 (credited as late payment for November 
and December)
March 2019 - -
April 2019 - -
Total £5,640 £5,640
*statement not provided
Mr S said a payment made from his account on 1 April 2014 went missing. I dont have a 
bank statement for the rest of April, so cant see if the direct debit was returned unpaid. If the 
payment didnt arrive with Al Rayan Bank this is most likely the reason: Mr Ss account was 
overdrawn and direct debits were returned unpaid in March and May. The statements 
provided by Al Rayan Bank show payments were received for March to May 2014.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Al Rayan Bank received payments from Mrs A and 
Mr S that werent applied to their account. 
Al Rayan Banks notes show it was in contact with Mrs A and Mr S about their arrears. Its 
notes say it received income and expenditure information, which suggested Mrs A and Mr S 
were able to afford monthly payments and make payments towards the arrears. Its notes say 
Mr S wasnt willing to make payments while the balance is in dispute. However, there was a 
pattern of late and missed payments to Mr S and Mrs As HPP account and I think this 
should have alerted Al Rayan Bank to them being in financial hardship.
When he brought the complaint to us, Mr S said theyre in financial difficulty. We asked Mr S 
more about his circumstances. He said hed been in financial difficulty due to sickness and 
loss of work. Mr S has told us recently hes been unable to work.
The information provided by Mr S to Al Rayan Bank suggested Mr S and Mrs A could afford 
to make payments, and chose not to do so due to the disputed balance. I appreciate this made it difficult for Al Rayan Bank to properly assess Mr S and Mrs As circumstances and 
offer appropriate support. Al Rayan Bank said it did later receive information from Mr S that 
they were in financial difficulty, however Mr S and Mrs A didnt engage in trying to find a 
solution. 
Al Rayan Bank says Mr S and Mrs A should contact its collections team to discuss what 
concessions it could offer and Id encourage them to do so. I dont think, at this point, I can 
fairly require Al Rayan Bank to offer a particular concession. Al Rayan Bank will need to 
know more about Mr S and Mrs As circumstances, to assess whats appropriate.
Al Rayan Bank put action on hold while the complaint has been with us, which was the right 
thing to do. Mr S and Mrs A will now need to contact Al Rayan Bank to provide the 
information it needs to assess what concessions it can offer. 
Ive considered what Al Rayan has said about the time this has been on hold and the 
increasing level of arrears. Higher levels of arrears will make it more difficult for Mr S and 
Mrs A to get their HPP back on track and, if they do have to sell the property, will reduce 
their equity. Ive also taken into account that I issued my provisional decision in November 
2020, and Mr S and Mrs A have had more than three months since then to talk to Al Rayan 
Bank and take independent advice.
Mr S and Mrs A didnt agree with my provisional decision, and provided further evidence 
which they said supported their complaint. I need to balance concerns about the increasing 
levels of arrears against allowing Mr S and Mrs A time, after receiving a final decision, to 
discuss their circumstances with Al Rayan Bank or seek independent financial advice about 
their options. And Mr S has recently provided evidence of ill health. 
On balance, I think Al Rayan Bank should hold recovery action for three months from the 
date Mr S and Mrs A accept my decision (if they do).
The regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) issued guidance in response to the Covid-19 
pandemic. Current guidance is that lenders shouldnt enforce repossession before 1 April 
2021, although they can take recovery action up to that point. Al Rayan Bank should take 
account of any further guidance issued by the regulator. Id also remind Al Rayan Bank that 
it must treat Mr S and Mrs A fairly. 
Mr S has recently raised a number of new complaints. I understand Al Rayan Banks 
concern that this could further delay it taking recovery action. I dont think its fair for me to 
deal with these new issues here, when the parties havent had an opportunity to provide 
evidence and to comment on the findings and recommendations of our investigator.
Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable in the circumstances to order Al Rayan Bank to hold recovery 
action for three months from the date Mr S and Mrs A accept my final decision (if they do).
Al Rayan Bank should use this time to try to understand more about Mr S and Mrs As 
circumstances and consider whether any concessions or forbearance might be appropriate. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Al Rayan Bank PLC to hold recovery 
action for three months from the date Mr S and Mrs A accept my final decision (if they do). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A and Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman