DRN-2574296
The complaint
Mr D, who is represented by a third party, complains that St Andrews Insurance Plc 
(St Andrews) mis-sold him a Life Stages Repayments Cover policy which is similar to a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in February 2010. It was sold to him after hed 
arranged to take out a personal loan.
The policy was originally sold by Halifax. However, St Andrews Insurance Plc has taken 
over responsibility for all these policies and Ill be referring to St Andrews in this decision.
Halifax has paid back some of the commission it received from the premiums to Mr D. But 
to be clear the complaint Im looking at is about St Andrews and whether the policy was 
mis-sold.
What happened
The policy would have covered him if he was off work because of an accident or if he was 
ill. It also would have covered him if he lost his job. It cost £13.66 per month and would 
have paid a monthly amount of £136.53 for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Mr D says he was made to feel he had to take out the policy. He also says he didnt need 
it. 
Our adjudicator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. Mr D disagreed with this 
view and asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website 
and Ive taken this into account in deciding this complaint.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. I will explain why below. 
I think St Andrews recommended the PPI to Mr D. That meant it had to take reasonable 
steps to make sure it was right for Mr Ds circumstances. It also had to give him enough 
clear information so he could decide for himself whether or not he wanted it.
St Andrews should have given Mr D a fair choice about buying the policy. Ive seen that 
its likely this policy was taken out over the phone. I dont have a call recording from the 
time. Thats not surprising as the sale took place in 2010. But to help me decide Ive kept 
in mind that Mr D has told us about his recollections of the sale plus what I already know 
about how these sales worked at the time. Taking into account the call script used at the 
time, as well as the notes Ive seen that were made by the St Andrews representative, I 
think on balance Mr D would have been aware that he had a choice about whether or not 
to take the cover. 
Looking at Mr Ds circumstances, I think the policy was suitable for him. I say this because I 
think he was eligible for the cover. And I dont think he would have been affected by any of 
the main limitations or exclusions on the policy which might have made it more difficult to 
make a successful claim - for example, because of a pre-existing medical condition or an 
unusual employment situation.
Mr D wasnt entitled to any benefits from his employer if he wasnt able to work. This 
policy would have paid out for up to 12 months per successful claim. So it could have 
covered his loan repayments and would have avoided the necessity of relying on other 
ways to meet his loan repayments, such as using savings he may have had or asking 
family members for help. It follows that I think the policy was suitable for him and could 
have been useful if something went wrong. Ive also not seen anything to make me think 
the policy was unaffordable for him.
Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it could have been. Ive seen that 
Mr D was given details of the cover as well as a policy schedule which set out details 
about how much the policy cost. But even if all the information wasnt clear for much the 
same reasons as Ive explained why the policy was suitable for Mr D, I dont think 
clearer or better information would have changed Mr Ds mind about buying the cover. I 
still think he would have bought it.
So although I realise Mr D will be disappointed with my decision, I hope the reasons Ive 
given explain why I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2021. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman