DRN-4394669
The complaint
Mr C complains that Tide Platform Ltd mishandled a number of chargeback claims he had
raised with it.
What happened
In or around February 2022 Mr C made a number of purchases for goods via an online
retailer. He bought the goods using his credit card held with Tide.
Mr C complained to the retailer that some of the ordered goods were not received by him
and that one item that he had received and then returned, hadnt been refunded. The retailer
responded that they were satisfied the items had all been delivered correctly and didnt
accept an item had been returned. They didnt provide Mr C with any refunds.
Mr C raised a number of chargeback requests with Tide. These chargebacks were for the
following amounts involving the same online retailer:
£51.14
£80.00
£249.99
£72
£52.19
£234 (which was made up of two items costing £145 and £89).
Mr C also made two further chargeback claims involving a different company for £42.33 and
£46.32.
Tide raised chargebacks for £51.14, £80, £249.99, £42.33 and £46.32. The claim for £51.14
was successful but the remaining matters were all disputed by the retailers. An agent of
Tides informed Mr C there was no further action that could be taken, and his chargeback 
claims had been declined.
Mr C complained to Tide about its handling of his chargeback claims. Tide said that although
the claims had been raised correctly and rejected there had been some mishandling on its
part as he had been told no further action could be taken. Tide said Mr Cs account was now
being handled by a more senior agent. It offered Mr C £50 compensation for the distress
caused and said his claims were ongoing.
Tide then raised chargeback claims with the retailer for the amounts of £72, £52.19 and
£234.
Tide decided on reviewing Mr Cs account that there were some issues regarding the billing
name and address for some of the items and the information it held. In light of the delay in
pursuing the claims further Tide decided to cover the claims for the following amounts:
£42.33, £46.32, £80, £249.99. It informed Mr C these claims had been successful and that it
would reimburse him in one sum once the three remaining chargebacks had been
considered by the retailer.
The three outstanding chargebacks were declined by the retailer and Tide decided not to
challenge those decisions. Mr Cs chargeback claims were declined. He didnt complain
directly to Tide about these three amounts being declined.
Mr C was unhappy at Tides decision and complained to this service. Our investigator said
that he didnt think Tide had acted unfairly. He explained the chargeback process and that
the banks do not have to raise a chargeback when requested by their customers if they 
believe this would be unsuccessful. All the chargeback claims made by Mr C had been 
defended by the merchants. He said there was an option for the banks that if the claims 
were defended to ask the card scheme to decide the claim, but banks may be reluctant to do
this as they get charged if the claim is rejected meaning the evidence would need to be
strongly in support.
Our investigator said he thought Tides offer to pay Mr C £50 for informing him there was
nothing further that could be done when his claims were rejected by the retailers was fair.
Mr C disagreed with the view of our investigator. He said as he had won the pre-arbitration
stage with the first four of the defended claims then it was likely he would have won for the
three amounts that remained outstanding. He also said that in respect of the claim for £234
this was actually two items, one that he hadnt received which cost £85 and one item costing
£149 which he had received but returned.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement then the complaint was passed to me. I 
issued a provisional decision in the following lines.
I issued a provisional decision because Mr Cs complaint to Tide and its final response letter 
hadnt included the three amounts of £72, £52.19 and £234 because these claims were 
raised just afterwards. This meant that Tide hadnt investigated Mr Cs complaint that it had 
handled these matters unfairly. However, it had given me permission to look at all the
chargebacks claims made by Mr C when deciding his complaint. In these circumstances it 
was fair I gave the parties a chance to respond to my view before reaching a final decision.
The issue for me to consider here was whether Tide had handled Mr Cs claims for
reimbursement via the chargeback scheme fairly. Chargeback is a process that involves
the card issuer disputing payments made on the card through a dispute resolution scheme 
operated by the companies which run the card networks, here that was MasterCard. It allows 
customers to ask for a transaction to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or 
services they've paid for. There's no automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a 
guaranteed method of getting a refund.
The Card Scheme sets out the necessary conditions under which a claim can be processed.
Mr Cs claims had been because the goods werent received, that he should have received a
refund and that the goods werent as described. These were all situations that were covered 
by the chargeback scheme. Mr C appeared to have tried to resolve the issue with the retailer 
for most of the chargeback claims and this had been unsuccessful.
When a chargeback claim is received by the bank then it will require evidence for the claim,
the merchant is then contacted to ask for its view about the claim. Here, all of Mr Cs
chargeback claims except one had been disputed by the retailers. Banks are able to decline 
to take the chargeback claim further at this point.
There is a pre-arbitration stage if the cardholder disputes the transaction for a second time
with new evidence. I hadnt seen that Mr C had provided any new evidence to Tide about his
claims.
The final stage would be for the bank to agree to take the matter for arbitration, that is for thecard scheme to decide the claim. However, as set out by our investigator, the bank is under
no obligation to take a chargeback claim to arbitration. And as there are cost implications for
the bank it would want to be sure about the strength of the claim.
Mr C said that because some of his claims had been successful then they all should be, but 
Id seen it was Tide who had taken the business decision to cover a number of the 
chargeback claims not that the chargeback claims had themselves been successful under 
the scheme. It was clear that the retailers had not agreed that a reimbursement to Mr C was 
due. Tide had made the business decision to cover the first four claims and I thought that 
was fair, it had accepted there had been internal delays dealing with these claims. However, 
I didnt think I could reasonably conclude that by making this decision it was bound to also 
cover the final three chargeback claims.
Id seen that the claims for £72, £52.19 and £234 had all been raised as chargebacks and 
the retailer had been contacted as per the scheme. The retailer provided evidence that the 
items had all been delivered to Mr C. It also appeared to have disputed that the one item Mr 
C said had been returned and it had not accepted the post office proof of postage that Mr C 
had provided. Tide had decided that as the merchant had rejected the evidence of Mr C and 
had provided paperwork showing proof of delivery that these three chargeback claims would 
be declined and not taken further.
As the chargeback scheme is voluntary and its for the bank to decide whether the claim is
moved on to arbitration then I didnt think Tide had acted unfairly in making the decision that 
it had. I was satisfied that in respect of these three amounts it had applied the chargeback
process correctly.
Tide had accepted that it hadnt provided Mr C with the service he could have reasonably
expected by wrongly advising him there was nothing more it could do after the claims had
been rejected in June. I thought the £50 offer of compensation had been fair because it had 
reviewed the claims again and agreed to cover them. It appeared that for some of the claims 
there had been some possible discrepancies around addresses which possibly supported Mr 
Cs claim. However, that situation didnt appear to have applied to the three outstanding 
chargeback claims. I was therefore not going to ask Tide to do more than its offer.
Mr C had raised his frustration that Tide had not reimbursed him each of the chargeback 
claims as they were agreed but instead waited for all the claims to be considered and then 
paid one lump sum. Looking at this, I could see that there had been a number of claims and 
that the situation hadnt been straight forward. Tide said it had made this decision to avoid 
mistakes and duplication of payments. I didnt think this decision had led Mr C to experience 
an undue delay in receiving the reimbursement. So, I didnt think compensation was 
warranted for that decision.
For the reasons set out above, and although I appreciated this would be of disappointment 
to Mr C, I didnt intend to uphold his complaint.
Tide hasnt asked me to look at any parts of my decision again, but Mr C has disagreed. He 
says that Tide didnt raise his chargeback claims correctly and, if it had, then these three 
chargebacks would also have been successful as per the outcome of the other claims. He 
also says that in respect of the item he had received and returned, the retailer had raised 
evidence that the item had been delivered but nothing regarding the items return.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reviewed the evidence again and the conclusions that I had reached, but while this 
will be of disappointment to Mr C, I havent changed my view.
As set out above, chargeback is not a guaranteed method to receive a reimbursement and 
Im satisfied that here the retailer raised objections to the majority of the chargeback claims 
made by Mr C. I also havent seen any evidence that in respect of the three unsuccessful 
chargeback claims that Tide had incorrectly handled them. These three claims were all 
raised with the retailer and although contested by the retailer this wasnt on the grounds of 
being late but that the items had been received by Mr C.
I appreciate Mr C feels that the retailer didnt provide evidence as to the item he says was 
returned, but it appears the retailer didnt accept this item had actually been returned. In 
these circumstances, Im unsure what evidence the retailer could produce other than the 
item had been delivered to Mr C. 
When chargeback claims are contested by the retailer then Tide isnt obliged to take the 
claim further. To do so it would need to be satisfied that the claim would be likely to be 
successful and I think in those circumstances it would be reasonable for Tide to seek 
additional evidence from Mr C to assist with his claims. I havent seen that he provided any 
further evidence to Tide.
Although some of Mr Cs chargeback claims were reimbursed, this wasnt because the 
retailer agreed with the claims or that the scheme had found these claims should be 
successful. They were reimbursed as a result of a business decision made by Tide. And 
while I appreciate that some of these claims appeared to have potential queries about 
addresses, this didnt apply to all of Mr Cs claims. So, I still think that it was fair for Tide to 
consider the three unsuccessful chargeback claims separately and not reimburse these on 
the basis that it had agreed to reimburse the earlier claims.
So, for the reasons given, Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given Im not upholding Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman