DRN-3388198
The complaint
Ms D has complained about her car insurer U K Insurance Limited (UKI) as she feels it let 
her down when dealing with a claim she made for damage to her parked car.
What happened
A visitor to Ms Ds neighbours house connected with her car whilst trying to park. Ms D 
made a claim. She was told her car would go to a garage for repair. She was offered the 
details of a hire company to organise a replacement car. When Ms D looked at the details of 
the hire company she felt misled as this wasnt related to the cover on her policy for a 
courtesy car. Ms D called to enquire when her car would be picked up to go to the garage, 
the garage said the booking had been cancelled. Ms D called UKI, it confirmed this was 
correct  it felt her car was likely a total loss, so the booking had been cancelled. But it 
accepted it should have communicated this to Ms D and offered her £25 compensation.
Ms D remained unhappy about her car being viewed as a total loss. She obtained a copy of 
the engineers report and was disappointed to see it noted that her car had been inspected 
when it hadnt. The cars value was logged as £1,670. Ms D spoke to a UKI engineer. He 
agreed to settle Ms Ds claim on a cash in lieu of repair basis  so to not view it as a total 
loss. He felt it would likely cost £1,291 to repair. UKI sent Ms D an offer based on this but 
with the £300 excess deducted. Ms D said the engineer hadnt told her the excess would be 
deducted and felt he should have told her to view the repair costs as being more to allow for 
the excess amount. She also felt UKI had not done enough to chase the other drivers 
insurer to accept liability. So she felt UKI should pay her the excess amount without delay. 
When UKI wouldnt agree, Ms D complained to us.
Our Investigator didnt think UKI had done anything wrong. So she didnt uphold the 
complaint. Ms D said the Investigator had overlooked that her car wasnt inspected by the 
engineer and she said that whilst an excess might sometimes be due  in a situation where 
a policyholders car is damaged whilst they arent in it, it shouldnt be taken. She maintained 
her view that UKI should return her excess payment because it had not done enough to get 
the other driver to accept liability. Ms D said this had all been very stressful for her. 
Our Investigator responded to Ms D. Ms D remained unhappy and her complaint was 
passed for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this has been a difficult and frustrating time for Ms D. And I think there are 
some things UKI could have done better. But, overall, I dont think it acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in looking to settle Ms Ds claim as it initially did or, once it reviewed that 
position, in taking the excess amount.
UKI can offer the hire car option to Ms D, it is different to the courtesy car cover sometimes 
available under the policy. Ms D did the right thing in checking the hire car documentation 
before agreeing to it. But I dont think UKI did anything wrong.
Looking at the excess  this sum is something the policyholder is usually liable for paying. 
UKIs policy does contain an uninsured driver promise. So where an uninsured driver causes 
damage to its policyholders car, and where certain other conditions are met, UKI wont take 
the policy excess. But there is no such promise in respect of damage caused to a car whilst 
UKIs policyholder/the cars driver is not in it. The policy otherwise requires the excess to be 
paid in respect of every claim. But if liability is accepted the other party will usually cover the 
excess amount and UKI will then refund it. Unless or until that happens, Ms D is liable to pay 
the excess.
That said I can understand that Ms D is frustrated that the engineer, when discussing the 
cash in lieu settlement didnt remind her of the excess amount. But that doesnt mean it cant 
fairly be deducted. Thats because the repair amount wouldnt change or couldnt be 
increased just because the excess is due. And the first part of the repair cost, the excess, is 
always for Ms D to pay. But ideally, as the engineer was putting the offer to Ms D, he should 
have been clear with her that the offer would be paid net of the excess amount. 
I know Ms D thinks UKI should also refund the excess because it hasnt in her view, dealt 
proactively with the other party. But I see UKI has attempted to contact them. And, as it has 
said, it does then need to give time for reply. In any event though, UKI cant force the other 
party to reply. I cant be sure, even if I felt UKI should have chased it more, that chasing it 
more would have achieved its acceptance of liability, such that Ms Ds settlement wouldnt 
have been subject to the excess deduction. Of course, in time, if no reply was forthcoming 
I might expect UKI to take other action, perhaps such as issuing court proceedings. But, in 
the time in question, I think UKI acted reasonably to progress matters with the other party.
Turing to the settlement itself  it was always for UKI to choose how to settle this. And it is 
often the case that claims for older cars are settled based on the cars market value. Thats 
because as cars age they lose value, and often repairing them becomes an uneconomical 
proposition. In other words, it will likely cost the insurer less to settle based on the cars 
market value. I know Ms D thinks that is unfair to drivers of older cars  but it is an approach 
applied across the industry. That is not to say an insurer should assume an older car 
shouldnt be repaired. Each case should be assessed on its own merits. But it is usually the 
case that if the likely cost of repairs approaches the value of the car, most insurers will look 
to settle based on the cars market value. The lower the value of the car, the more likely that 
is to happen, even for only minor damage. And depending on the value of the car and the 
nature of the damage, the damaged car wont always need inspecting for an engineer to 
fairly determine that.
Of course, I can understand that Ms D was disappointed to see that the report for her car 
referred to it having been inspected when it hadnt been. And I think UKIs engineer should 
have taken more care when compiling the report to ensure it was accurate. It is also fair to 
say that there wasnt much detail available at that time about the nature and likely cost of 
repair. But, following a discussion with Ms D the cost of repairs were felt to be £1,291. Whilst 
UKI agreed to settle on a cash in lieu basis for this sum (less the excess), given the cars 
value was only felt to be £1,670, I dont think UKIs initial view that the car was likely an 
uneconomical proposition for repair was an unreasonable one. Even if it didnt make that 
decision based on all the correct facts.
I know Ms D had to make some calls to UKI and it took some effort from her to get it to 
review its position on her claim. But its fair to say that dealing with financial issues, such as insurance, is not a hassle-free proposition. Sometimes it takes a degree of effort to get 
claims resolved in the way that is desired. As I said above, I think UKI couldve done some 
things better here, but overall I think the claim outcome was fairly and reasonably reached.  
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. I dont make any award against U K Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 April 2022. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman