DRN-3609620
The complaint
Miss K complains Oplo HL Ltd (then trading as 1st Stop Home Loans Limited) irresponsibly 
provided her with a guarantor loan.
What happened
Miss K was approved for a loan with Oplo in September 2013. The loan was for £5,000 
payable over 60 monthly instalments of around £192. The total repayable value of the loan 
was around £11,500.
Miss K complained to Oplo in November 2020. She said it had irresponsibly approved her 
the loan as had it completed reasonable and proportionate checks it would have identified it 
was unaffordable for her. 
Oplo didnt uphold the complaint so Miss K brought it to our service for consideration.
 
Our investigator reviewed Miss Ks complaint and upheld it. He said Oplo hadnt completed 
proportionate checks before approving the loan; but he concluded he didnt need to review 
what further checks would likely have shown, as the evidence it obtained suggested Miss K 
wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to and as such Oplo made an unfair lending decision. 
Oplo didnt agree with our investigators assessment. It said it took into account the 
information it obtained as part of its checks; and although Miss K was reliant on credit it 
argued it had made a fair decision to lend. 
Oplo asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending as 
well as the key rules, regulations and what we consider to be good industry practice on our 
website. Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ks complaint.   
Bearing in mind the complaint before me, I think that there are a number of overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to fairly and reasonably determine Miss Ks complaint. 
These are:
1. Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss K to satisfy itself she 
was in a position to afford to repay each loan sustainably?
If so, did it make a fair decision?
If not, would those checks have shown Miss K would have been able to do so?
2. Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive gone on to consider each of these questions in turn.
Did Oplo complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss K to satisfy itself she was 
in a position to afford to repay the loans sustainably? 
Oplo needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it responsibly lent to Miss K. The relevant 
rules, regulations and guidance at the time Oplo lent required it to carry out reasonable and 
proportionate checks. These checks needed to assess Miss Ks ability to afford the loan and 
repay it sustainably over its term without causing her financial difficulties.
There isnt a set list of checks a lender needs to carry out, but they should be proportionate, 
taking into account things like the type, amount, duration and total cost of the credit, as well 
as the borrowers individual circumstances.
And it isnt sufficient for Oplo to just complete proportionate checks  it must also consider 
the information it obtained from these checks to make a fair lending decision. This includes 
not lending to someone in financial hardship; and ensuring repayments can be made 
sustainably without having to borrow further.
Ive taken all of this into account when thinking about this loan.
Oplo has said it obtained details of Miss Ks income and expenditure, as well as completing 
a credit file check before approving this loan. It has said Miss K declared the purpose of the 
loan as debt consolidation. In its responses to our service it has said it was aware Miss K 
had become persistently reliant upon credit. Oplo maintains it made a fair decision to lend. 
Having considered all of the above I dont consider Oplos checks were proportionate in the 
circumstances of this lending. The credit file it obtained showed recent and historic signs of 
financial distress. As our investigator said, Miss K had been consistently heavily reliant on 
short term credit for around 15 months leading up to this loan, had taken out additional 
borrowing and increased her total indebtedness in the more recent months, and had recent 
adverse information recorded on her credit file. This suggests to me someone who wasnt 
managing their finances well  and was showing signs of financial distress.
The purpose of this loan is detailed as debt consolidation  but Oplo was aware Miss K 
wasnt intending to clear all of her existing borrowing with this loan; and in any event 
Miss Ks total outstanding debt at this point was more than double the loan being advanced, 
meaning she would still have other debts to service on top of this loan.
I think Oplo needed to complete further checks to fully understand Miss Ks financial 
situation  by verifying her income and expenditure. Because it didnt do this, Im satisfied it 
didnt complete reasonable and proportionate checks.
Would further checks have shown Miss K would have been able to sustainably afford the 
loan? And did it make a fair decision to lend?
As Ive found above, I dont think Oplos checks went far enough in order for it to get a 
thorough understanding of Miss Ks financial situation. It could have verified Miss Ks income 
and expenditure by obtaining evidence like payslips and bank statements, for example. 
Miss K hasnt provided us with any evidence to show her financial situation at the point of 
this loan. But in the individual circumstances of Miss Ks complaint, I dont consider I need 
further evidence. I say this because the information Oplo obtained as part of its checks ought 
reasonably to have led to it identifying Miss K wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to; and in 
doing so it made an unfair lending decision when providing this loan. The credit check Oplo completed shows Miss Ks total indebtedness as around £11,500  
with around £8,850 of this made up from loans and instalment credit rather than revolving 
credit. Shed opened 12 credit accounts within the six months leading up to this loan and had 
two current accounts over their agreed overdraft facilities. One current account had been at 
or over its agreed limit in each of the most recent six months. And another of Miss Ks 
current accounts had been at or over its agreed limit in each of the most recent eight 
months. 
Miss K also had two credit cards and a mail order account, all of which had been at their 
limits in each of the reporting eight months.
Miss K had four active short term or instalment loans (all being proposed to be repaid by this 
loan) and had settled around nine other short term or instalment loans within the previous six 
months leading up to this loan. Looking further back Miss K had taken around 25 short term 
or instalment loans between roughly six and 15 months leading up to this loan. 
Miss K had taken advances against her income in April, May, June, July and August 2013 in 
the build up to this loan being provided in September 2013. And in August 2013 shed taken 
another unsecured loan over a repayment term of 13 months with a total repayable value of 
just over £1,000.
So, not only had Miss K increased her total indebtedness within the six months leading up to 
this loan; she was showing signs that she couldnt afford to sustainably repay her existing 
borrowing without taking further credit. While the purpose of the loan with Oplo is detailed as 
debt consolidation, it wasnt enough to clear Miss Ks existing borrowing in full. And Oplo 
was already aware that Miss K only planned to use around £3,500 consolidating her existing 
debt. Meaning it was adding around a further £1,500 to her total indebtedness. 
Taking all the above into account, I think it was clear that Miss K was not managing her 
money well. She was in a cycle of debt, borrowing each month to maintain her existing 
essential expenditure as well as her existing credit commitments. Although this loan was 
largely to consolidate Miss Ks existing debts; Oplo was aware Miss K would be left with a 
significant level of debt to service, as well as this new lending increasing her total 
indebtedness. And it has acknowledged it was aware Miss K had become persistently reliant 
on credit.
I consider Oplo ought to have identified from the evidence it obtained as part of its checks 
that Miss K was already in a position where further borrowing was likely to be unsustainable; 
and she therefore wasnt a suitable candidate to lend to. So, Im satisfied Oplo didnt make a 
fair lending decision when providing Miss K this loan. 
Did Oplo act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any information which suggests Oplo acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
other way in relation to Miss Ks complaint.
Putting things right
As Miss K has already repaid the loan, in order to settle this complaint Oplo HL Ltd should 
do the following:
Refund all interest and charges Miss K paid on this loan
Pay Miss K 8% simple interest on the refund of interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement.Remove any negative information recorded on Miss Ks credit file regarding the loan
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Oplo HL Ltd to take off tax from this interest. Oplo HL 
Ltd must give Miss K a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im upholding Miss Ks complaint and direct Oplo HL Ltd to 
put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Richard Turner
Ombudsman