DRN-3948199
The complaint
Mr W complains HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) restricted and then closed his credit card, ISA 
and online savings accounts. 
What happened
HSBC restricted Mr Ws accounts. It is unable to say when it did so for Mr Ws credit card, 
ISA and savings account. On Mr Ws joint account  which has been decided on a separate 
reference at this service  HSBC restricted the account from 13 January 2020 for fifteen 
days and then again on 23 March 2020 for eight days. 
Later, in April 2020 Mr W was given notice that his accounts would be closed in two months. 
Unhappy with HSBCs actions Mr W complained. HSBC did not uphold Mr Ws complaint, so 
he referred it to this service. As Ive said, Mr Ws joint account complaint was decided under 
a separate reference at this service, and this complaint was set-up for his HSBC accounts 
held in his sole name. 
One of our Investigators looked into Mr Ws complaint, and in summary they found: 
- Its likely Mr Ws sole accounts were restricted during the same periods as that of his 
joint account 
- HSBC is entitled to review its customers accounts and suspend them whilst doing so 
as it has regulatory obligations to comply with
- The reviews of Mr Ws accounts were carried out in a timely manner 
- The terms of the accounts say they can be closed for any reasons as long as two 
months notice is given. Mr W was given two months notice allowing him time to 
make alternative banking arrangements 
- HSBC is under no obligation to give a reason for its actions
Mr W did not agree with what our Investigator said. Some of the key points he makes are: 
- HSBC didnt treat him fairly given its actions occurred in the pandemic and it didnt do 
enough to consider his customer profile and personal circumstances which caused 
him financial hardship  
- HSBC should provide a reason for its actions, and by not doing so isnt transparent 
- He is a long-standing customer who has always acted diligently and appropriately 
- The UK Government has now said it will make changes to the law requiring banks to 
explain why they are closing accounts
I note Mr W has made several arguments about how banks close accounts and the 
imbalance this causes between them and its customers. My role here is to consider the 
individual merits of this complaint. How the industry is regulated is the role of the Financial 
Conduct Authority. 
As Mr W didnt agree, his complaint has now been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I know this will disappoint him, 
and I note he feels strongly about it, so Ill explain why. 
Im very aware that Ive summarised the events in this complaint in far less detail than the 
parties and Ive done so using my own words. No discourtesy is intended by me in taking 
this approach. Instead, Ive focussed on what I think are the key issues here. Our rules allow 
me to do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to 
the courts. 
If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I think is the right 
outcome. I do stress however that Ive considered everything that Mr W and HSBC have 
said before reaching my decision. Its important to note, my decision focuses only on 
HSBCs actions regarding Mr Ws sole accounts as set-out above.  
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information HSBC 
has provided is information we consider should be kept confidential.
Banks in the UK, like HSBC, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to 
meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out ongoing 
monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means banks need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
HSBC cant say exactly when it restricted Mr Ws accounts. Mr W says they were restricted 
for at least four weeks if not longer. Where information is not available or inconclusive, I can 
make a finding based on what I think is most likely to have happened  the balance of 
probabilities. 
Given Mr Ws joint account was restricted for fifteen days in January 2020 and then eight 
days in March 202, and as the correspondence Ive seen generally speaks to all his 
accounts in the round, Im persuaded his credit card, ISA and online savings accounts were 
most likely restricted in this way. 
Having reviewed the information HSBC have given me, Im satisfied that it acted in line with 
its obligations and did so properly when restricting Mr Ws accounts in the way it did. I also 
think that it did so in a timely manner. I note the timing of its actions coincided with the 
pandemic, and alongside the other personal circumstances Mr W has described, this caused 
him an exacerbated level of distress and inconvenience. 
I appreciate this must have undoubtedly been a difficult and highly stressful time for Mr W 
and Id like to assure him that I havent underestimated the impact this had on him. But 
HSBC has important legal and regulatory obligations to meet, and its actions here are in line with that. 
HSBC is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before HSBC closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the accounts, which HSBC and Mr W had to comply with, say 
that it could close the account by giving them at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice.
Once it had concluded its reviews, HSBC gave Mr W two months notice of its intention close 
his accounts. Mr W had access to his accounts during this time. So given what the terms 
say, Im satisfied HSBC fairly applied them here.  
I do appreciate this matter wouldve caused Mr W difficulty  as Ive alluded to earlier. But 
having looked at whats happened in this particular case, I can see no basis on which I might 
make an award against HSBC given that I dont think it failed to properly follow its own 
procedures when it restricted and later closed Mr Ws accounts.
I know Mr W would like to know the reason why HSBC took the actions it did. But Im not 
aware of any obligation under which I, or HSBC, should disclose this. 
Lastly, I note Mr W says the Government has recently said it will make changes to the law 
requiring banks to explain why they are closing accounts. Id like to assure Mr W that we are 
aware of the current events. 
But in deciding this complaint Ive considered the most relevant rules and regulations at this 
time as well as what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of it. 
Whilst no changes have been introduced by the government, I would like to make Mr W 
aware that any changes introduced in the future wont likely affect events or accounts closed 
before the changes.   
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2023. 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman