DRN-3955126
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is about investment accounts they each set up with 
National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) in 2021. They have told us the investment 
accounts were promoted as suitable for a cautious investor on the basis the vast majority of 
the funds would be in fixed interest/bonds. As such, they say they cant understand how the 
accounts have incurred losses of the magnitude they have and believe the accounts were 
mis-sold.
What happened
In 2021 Mr and Mrs T each took out an investment account (IA) via NatWests online portal, 
with no advice being given by NatWest. Both accounts invested in the same fund  the 
Personal Portfolio 1 Fund. The Key Investor information document available to Mr and Mrs T 
set out details of the fund they chose to invest in. It said:
The Fund aims to increase in value over the medium to longer-term, through a diversified 
portfolio of investment. At least 70% of the Net Asset Value of the Fund will be invested in 
bonds or collective investment schemes (CIS) that invest in bonds. 

The Fund will invest in a mix of investments (e.g. equities and bonds) from a combination of 
developed and emerging markets, which are best placed to meet the overall objective of the 
Fund. At least 70% of the Net Asset Value of the Fund will be invested in bonds, or CIS that 
invest in bonds, and the remaining portion of the Fund in equities and other financial 
instruments.

This Fund is designed for retail customers with little or no experience of investing in 
collective investment schemes and basic or no knowledge of the characteristics and risks of 
investing in equities and bonds. 
A typical investor in the Fund has a low tolerance for risk; they accept that the value of their 
investment may fluctuate and they have a low tolerance to bear losses to their capital. The 
minimum investment horizon is 5 years.
The document then went on to set out a risk scale of 1 to 7, with the scale indicating 
increasing risk as the numbers increased. It was confirmed that the lowest category of 1 did 
not indicate a risk-free environment. The fund Mr and Mrs T selected was documented as 
being 3 on the scale. The rating was explained as:
This Fund is ranked at 3 because funds of this type have experienced low to medium rises 
and falls in value in the past.
It was then confirmed that there were charges taken for the management of the fund. It was 
also highlighted that Past performance is not a guide to future performance; the value of 
your investment and any income from it may go down as well as up.
Mr and Mrs T complained to NatWest, and it responded in its letter of 4 August 2022. It 
highlighted that Mr and Mrs T had arranged their IAs without advice from it, through its 
website based on information provided. This information told them that the fund they 
selected represented a low to medium level of risk  3 on a scale of 1 to 7. It was also 
explained the factors that could affect the value of the fund, the key risks and information 
about charges. NatWest also highlighted that the IAs were designed to be held for at least 
five years, to allow for long term growth and avoid losses caused by short-term volatility in 
the fund. The complaint was not upheld.
Mr and Mrs T werent satisfied with the response from NatWest and referred the complaint to 
this service. One of our investigators considered the complaint, but he didnt recommend 
that it be upheld. He was satisfied Mr and Mrs T made their own decision to open the 
accounts, based on the information available to them. As the product literature was accurate 
and wouldnt have misled Mr and Mrs T, he was satisfied they made an informed decision. In 
addition, the investigator explained that since they invested, there had been changes to the 
markets and NatWest couldnt be held responsible for this or the effect it had on the value 
Mr and Mrs Ts IAs.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept the investigators opinion. They again commented on the risk 
profile of the investment accounts as having been described as cautious. In addition, they 
reiterated they didnt understand how the fund had lost the amount it had, given its make-up 
and economic conditions. Mr and Mrs T said they could not accept the fund represented a 
low or cautious level of risk, as it was promoted as being. 
Our investigator considered what Mr and Mrs T said, but he didnt change his conclusions. 
However, he did provide them with some further information and context about the fall in the 
values of their IAs. 
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy and commented that they didnt think a lay person would 
be able to determine or believe there was the possibility of double-digit percentage losses. 
They went on to say they considered the fund had been misrepresented as suitable to a 
cautious investor and the risks and volatility of the fund was way beyond the expectations of 
a customer with a low tolerance to risk of capital loss. Mr and Mrs T asked that the complaint 
be referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Essentially, Mr and Mrs Ts complaint is not that they didnt understand there was a risk 
associated with the fund they chose to invest in, but rather they think the description of the 
level of risk associated with it was not accurate. They have reached this conclusion because 
of the amount the value of their IAs decreased by over the first couple of years. 
When a fund is designed and a risk rating attached to it, it is based on the knowledge the 
fund managers and financial business has of the type of investment mediums that will be 
used. I know that Mr and Mrs T wont agree with me, but the type of fund they selected for 
their IAs would generally be considered within the financial services industry to represent a 
low level of risk and be suitable for a cautious investor. This is due to the aim of the fund and 
the nature of the investments contained within it. The fact the risk of a loss of the capital is considered to be low and unlikely to happen, doesnt mean that it wont. Nor would it 
determine the amount of any such loss.  
I have reviewed the information Mr and Mrs T had access to when they were making their 
decision about whether to take out their IAs and into which fund to invest. Again I know they 
wont agree with me, but I am not persuaded it was inaccurate or misleading. 
The issue here is not the nature of the fund or its generic risk rating at the time of the sale, 
but rather the performance of the fund since Mr and Mrs T invested in it and the fact the risks 
inherent in all investments has come to fruition. Most investment classes have experienced 
some volatility over very recent years due to the financial markets reacting to the Covid-19 
pandemic, UK and global political situations and unrest. I cant hold NatWest responsible for 
this. 
It was clearly stated in the product information, and it has been highlighted to Mr and Mrs T 
during the complaint, that due to the nature of the fund it should not be used for short-term 
investment purposes. Rather the investment should be in place for at least five years. So 
assessing the performance of the IAs before that point, especially during a period of volatility 
in the markets, is not reasonable. 
I am afraid the simple fact here is that Mr and Mrs T invested in a medium- to long-term 
investment product which has unfortunately over the short-term performed badly. I see no 
grounds for upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 14 July 2023.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman