DRN-2329745
The complaint
Miss S complains Home Retail Group Card Services Limited (trading as Argos Card 
Services Argos) added a default marker to her credit file in relation to a debt that doesnt 
exist.
What happened
Miss S bought some electrical items from Argos in 2016 on a buy now pay later basis. 
The first payment was due in July 2017. Miss S registered her Argos card to her mothers 
address and arranged for the items she ordered to be delivered to a different address. 
Although Miss S has changed address since opening the Argos account, her mother is still 
at the same address.  
Miss S ordered three items but there were problems with two of them  she didnt accept 
one on delivery (and she says it was immediately returned to Argos on the delivery truck) 
because it was the wrong colour and the second item was faulty. Miss S tried to return the 
faulty item to Argos and she says it told her to wait for the replacement for the item that was 
the wrong colour, at which point shed have an invoice to enable her to return the faulty item. 
Miss S says she never received the replacement, so she bought a similar item from another 
retailer instead. She still has the faulty item and believes she paid for the third (and least  
expensive) item at the time. 
Argos wrote to Miss S in June 2017 to tell her payments would become due the following 
month. The account statements show Miss S didnt make payments in July 2017 as 
expected. Argos then added deferred interest to the account and continued to add monthly 
interest after that. 
As the account then fell into arrears, Argos sent a default notice to Miss S registered 
address  in October 2017. It told her a payment of £173.94 was due within 14 days to 
prevent enforcement action being taken. Miss S didnt make payments, so a default was put 
on her credit file in November 2017. Argos then transferred the debt to a third-party debt 
collection agency in December 2017. Miss S says she didnt receive the default notice.
Miss S applied for a mortgage, but her application was rejected. She says this was because 
of the default marker that Argos placed on her credit file - which shed previously been 
unaware of. So, she complained to Argos in May 2020. 
In its final complaint response, Argos said it was satisfied it acted correctly in registering the 
debt because Miss S hadnt made any payments (although it was willing to look into that 
again if Miss S provided more evidence). It also said it couldnt find evidence shed returned 
any of the items. Argos told Miss S it sent account statements to her regularly between 
October 2016 and November 2017. And, once the debt was passed to a debt recovery 
agency, it was for them to chase the debt. It told Miss S she could apply to a credit reference 
agency for a notice of correction if she thought there were mitigating circumstances to 
explain the details held on her credit file. 
Miss S complained to us. She explained the circumstances leading to the items being 
returned and said Argos hadnt contacted her about payments  despite having her address 
and telephone number on file. Our investigator looked into Miss S complaint but didnt 
uphold it. He said hed seen no evidence Argos knew an item had been returned, so he 
didnt think it acted unreasonably by charging Miss S for it. He was also satisfied Argos had 
written to Miss S regularly to tell her payments were overdue and that a default might be 
recorded against her credit file. As there was no evidence the letters were sent to the wrong 
address, or of Miss S contacting Argos, the investigator thought it acted reasonably in taking 
the action it did. Miss S didnt agree with the investigators assessment, so the matters been 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss S doesnt think it was fair for Argos to add a default marker to her account because she 
doesnt believe the debt exists. Thats because she says she returned the most expensive 
item when it wasnt fit for purpose; she tried without success to return a damaged item 
(although she accepts she still has it) and she believes she paid for the third  and least 
expensive item - at the time. 
Im sorry to hear of the position Miss S finds herself in. And that events from four years ago 
are having an adverse impact on her credit file and ability to secure a mortgage. 
But, having carefully considered Miss S complaint, Im not going to uphold it. Ill explain why.
I dont agree with Miss S that the debt doesnt exist. Thats because Miss S entered into a 
financial agreement with Argos in 2016, which meant that she was bound by its terms and 
conditions. Whilst she benefited from a grace period by being able to defer payments, the 
terms of the agreement meant she had to start making payments in July 2017. Ive seen no 
evidence she did make payments (although I accept Miss S thinks she might have paid for 
one of the items at the time) so Im satisfied that meant a debt did exist.  
I appreciate there were problems with some of the items Miss S bought. But unless Argos 
confirmed it had refunded her account - and theres no evidence it did - I think Miss S should  
have known shed be liable to pay for the items she ordered. And whilst Miss S thinks she 
probably did contact Argos to discuss the problems with her order, she isnt able to evidence 
that now, as she no longer has access to the email address likely to have been used. 
Its not possible to say four years on exactly what happened. And whilst I have no reason to 
doubt Miss S version of events, Ive seen no evidence Argos received communication from 
Miss S about the faulty and unsuitable items. Given that, and the fact Argos says it has no 
evidence of any items being returned, its not unreasonable for Argos to have charged the 
items to her account. Its also a pity Miss S didnt follow things up with Argos to check the 
position on her account. As if shed done so, shed have realised Argos was chasing her for 
payments. 
Theres a responsibility on businesses offering credit to contact customers when payments 
arent made or fall behind. Thats to stop the situation from getting worse and prevent more 
serious action such as recording a default on the customers credit file. Thats really 
important  not least because, as Miss S has found, these types of situations can have far 
reaching and long - lasting implications on a customers credit file and ability to secure credit.  Im satisfied Argos did whats expected in the circumstances, because its sent me copies of  
regular account statements and a default notice that it sent to Miss S. But Miss S says she 
didnt receive any correspondence at all from Argos. She told us she registered the account 
to her mothers address. And whilst Miss S has since changed address a few times (and 
accepts she didnt give Argos her updated contact details because she thought the matter 
was resolved) her mother is still at the same address. From the evidence Ive seen, thats 
the address at which Argos wrote to Miss S throughout. Its not possible to say now why 
Miss S didnt receive Argos letters. I should make clear though that Argos isnt responsible 
for ensuring that letters are safely delivered - but it is responsible for ensuring it contacts 
customers using the details held on file. And Im satisfied it did so in Miss S case. So, I dont 
think it acted unfairly when it didnt receive any response and then registered a default on 
the account. I appreciate this will likely be more disappointing news for Miss S. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
Amanda Scott
Ombudsman