DRN-1512680
 
The complaint
Mr C complained that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) acted irresponsibly 
when it gave him unaffordable loans.
What happened
Mr C took out four Lending Stream loans between July 2017 and April 2018. Mr C has repaid 
all the loans. 
Heres a table showing more information:
LoanDate 
takenDate 
repaidInstalments Amount
1 09/07/2017 25/08/2017 6 £100.00
2 09/12/2017 29/05/2018 6 £1,000.00
3 17/04/2018 07/06/2018 6 £200.00
4 19/04/2018 07/06/2018 6 £200.00
Mr C mainly said that Lending Stream had failed to carry out proper affordability checks 
before lending to him. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr C and Lending Stream told us about these loans. 
Overall, he thought that given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mr Cs 
circumstances and his history with the lender, it wouldnt have been proportionate for 
Lending Stream to ask Mr C for the amount of information needed to show the lending was 
unsustainable. And our adjudicator didn't think that the number of loans Mr C had taken out, 
the amounts hed borrowed or the length of time hed been borrowing from Lending Stream 
shouldve alerted Lending Stream to think he was having money problems. So he didnt 
uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Mr C disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for an ombudsman to look at his 
complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Ive used this approach to help me decide this complaint.
Lending Stream provided Mr C with high-interest loans intended for short-term use. So 
Lending Stream needed to make sure that it didnt provide them irresponsibly. 
Lending Stream was required to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether any lending was sustainable for Mr C before providing it. Our website sets out what 
we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. 
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much information it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early 
stages of a lending relationship. But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a 
borrowers income was low or the amount lent was high. 
And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of it becoming 
unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect a lender to 
be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly. 
Having carefully thought about everything Ive seen and been told, Im not upholding Mr Cs 
complaint. Heres why I say this.
Lending Stream agreed to Mr Cs applications after carrying out affordability checks and it 
relied on information Mr C provided about his monthly income and expenditure.  
From what I can see, Mr C declared his minimum income as £2750 - and after paying his 
declared outgoings it looks as though he should always have had ample disposable income 
left over to cover the cost of the repayments on his loans. 
Mr C was due to repay the loans in six instalments and the highest monthly repayment on 
his Lending Stream borrowing  even when loans 3 and 4 overlapped with loan 2  still 
looked affordable for him, based on all the information it seems Mr C told Lending Stream 
and the information it recorded for him each time he applied for a loan. 
Ive taken into account that Mr C took out loans 3 and 4 in quick succession, whilst he was 
still paying for loan 2  but that isn't a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Hed been 
successfully paying loan 2 for a number of months and given no indication that finding the 
money to do this had been particularly difficult. The combined repayments should still have 
been comfortably affordable for Mr C looking at what Lending Stream had recorded about 
his financial situation. So Lending Stream wouldnt have had any reason at that stage to 
think that any of these loans werent likely to be sustainably affordable for him.
Based on all the information it seems Mr C told Lending Stream and the information it 
recorded for him on each application, it wouldve looked like Mr C had sufficient money left 
after paying his other monthly outgoings to sustainably repay all these loans.
I think that Lending Stream gave Mr C fair opportunity to provide relevant information about 
his spending and it was entitled, at this early stage in their relationship, to rely on the 
information he provided.
So I dont think Lending Stream was wrong to lend these loans.  
Im sorry that Mr C found repaying these loans difficult. And I accept that in reality it looks 
likely that Mr Cs financial situation wasnt fully reflected either in the information he 
provided, or the other information Lending Stream obtained. But in order to uphold this 
complaint I have to be able to say a lender did something wrong. And, in this case, I dont 
think that Lending Stream did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr C. I appreciate that my decision is going to disappoint Mr C but I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman