DRN-2593839
The complaint
A partnership, which Ill refer to as T, complains about the actions of The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc regarding its loan accounts. Mr M, who is a partner of T, brings the complaint 
on Ts behalf.
What happened
In 2005, T took out a loan of £165,000 from RBS for its property development business. In 
2007 the loan was increased to £401,496 with a two-year term. 
In 2009, following delays in the development caused by changed economic circumstances, 
the loan was renewed for a further two years.
The loan expired in May 2011 and the bank passed the management of the account to its 
Specialised Relationship Manager. There were discussions between T and the bank but little 
progress, and during 2012 the relationship was transferred to the banks Global 
Restructuring Group (GRG). 
After the expiry of the loan in May 2011, the debt was outstanding with no loan agreement in 
place until April 2012. 
In April 2012 the lending was renewed with a three-month agreement. The partners reduced 
the debt, partly by the sale of some land to Mr Ms pension plan, and in the autumn of 2013 
a new two-year loan of £266,495 was agreed. In 2014 the relationship was passed back to 
mainstream banking in RBS. The loan was fully repaid in 2015.
The partners complained to the bank in 2018, saying that excessive monitoring and 
arrangement fees were charged while under GRG management, and that the bank used 
bullying tactics throughout. The bank didnt offer any compensation. Unhappy with the 
banks response, the partners referred their complaint to this service.
Our investigator thought the bank had dealt with the complaint fairly. He didnt think the 
account fees and charges were unreasonable, or the bank had used bullying tactics. He 
gave these reasons, in summary:
The fees were typically charged following reviews on the expiry and restructuring of 
the loans. Arrangement fees are a normal part of agreeing commercial facilities and 
were something the partners were familiar with. Overall, the fees were charged at a 
reasonable rate. Some fees were deferred or not charged at all.
It wasnt unreasonable of RBS to require a valuation of its security in 2011 after the 
loan had expired without repayment, especially in the light of changes in the property 
market.
In 2012 and 2013 the bank proposed a monthly monitoring fee. The partners were 
clearly very unhappy with the proposal and complained at the time. But the fee 
wasnt taken, and instead there was an arrangement fee for the 2013 loan. The 
investigator didnt think the arrangement fee was unfair. 
The bank had offered £350 for confused communication, which the investigator 
thought was a fair offer.
From the correspondence, there was no evidence to support the allegation that the 
bank used bullying tactics.
The bank extended the partnerships loan facilities in 2009, 2011, 2012 and 2013, 
and for some time kept the lending in place without a repayment strategy. At the time 
of Ts 2012 complaint, the loan was in default but the bank wasnt seeking immediate 
repayment. The investigator thought this indicated a good degree of forbearance and 
support rather than unacceptable tactics to get the loan repaid.
The partners didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. Mr M made the following 
points, in summary:
Much of what the investigator said is true about the arrangement fees and charges, 
which the partners were aware had to be paid in connection with borrowing money. 
The partners also understood that the loan eventually did need to be repaid at some 
point. But the investigator has failed to understand the cost implications of having to 
raise funds for repayment under pressure. He hasnt grasped the seriousness of the 
circumstances at the time. The partners are seeking redress for the pressure and 
additional costs they had to endure to make the forced repayment of the loan in a 
short-term structure.
The bank wanted their money back quickly to satisfy their shareholders and 
regulatory shortcomings. The partnership was forced to repay a loan in a financial 
crisis brought on by irresponsible bank lending. This basically amounted to a greedy 
bank looking for others to pay for their shortcomings.
Paying back the loan in the short term led to costs and inconvenience for the 
partnership business. The transfer of the plot to the pension plan incurred capital 
gains tax and rental costs; the business overdraft was increased; and there were 
professional fees. The partners also suffered personal costs and inconvenience  
they had to increase their mortgage, take out personal loans and use their own 
savings.
Bullying comes in many different guises. The partners had to get these funds 
together to satisfy what can only be described as financial bullying by the bank.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusions as the investigator, and for largely the 
same reasons.
Mr M says the partners understood that the loan would eventually need to be repaid. But he 
says the investigator hasnt grasped the core of the partners complaint  which is that the bank demanded repayment too quickly, and the shortness of the timescale caused losses 
and inconvenience.
I need to take into account that banks are contractually entitled to seek repayment of the 
outstanding balance when a commercial loan comes to the end of its term. Theres no 
obligation on a bank to offer new facilities. So I dont think it was wrong of the bank to ask for 
repayment of Ts loan when it expired in 2011. In my view, the bank didnt seek repayment 
too quickly  rather, it requested repayment when it was due.
I do understand that the partnership faced difficulties in repaying the loan. In the event, the 
bank continued the loan facilities, initially without a loan agreement and then with renewed 
and restructured agreements. Eventually the partnership was returned from GRG to 
mainstream banking before the loan was finally paid off. I agree with the investigator that 
RBS showed forbearance and support.
I accept that, in order to reduce the loan, the partners had to make arrangements they found 
uncomfortable and costly. But the balance of the loan was due and I dont think the bank did 
anything wrong in requesting it. 
I dont think charging the valuation fee or the arrangement fees was unreasonable in the 
circumstances. The arrangement fees were within the banks own guidelines and werent 
unusually high.
I agree it was fair for the bank to pay £350 for poor communication. This was paid to the 
partners in 2012.
Like the investigator, I havent seen any evidence in the documents that shows bullying by 
the bank or its staff. Mr M says the banks actions in seeking the funds so quickly can only 
be described as financial bullying. I understand Mr Ms argument here, but Im afraid I dont 
agree with him. I think the bank was entitled to seek repayment of the expired loan, but it 
kept the facilities open while the parties sought a strategy to reduce the debt, and it didnt 
demand immediate repayment. I can see that the partners were upset when RBS wanted a 
monthly monitoring fee in 2012 and 2013, but in the end the bank didnt charge this fee. I 
dont regard the banks actions as financial bullying. 
Mr M points out that the bank sought repayment from T in the wake of a general financial 
crisis and he feels that the origins of the crisis ought to be taken into account. I accept that 
the crisis had an effect on the events in this complaint, through both the banks changed 
appetite for lending and the difficult market conditions in which the partnership was 
operating. But it isnt my role here to determine who or what was to blame for the wider 
crisis, and it would be wrong for such considerations to alter my view of whats fair and 
reasonable in this individual dispute between the parties.
I realise that the partners will be disappointed by my decision. I appreciate that Ts business 
and the partners themselves have faced difficulties and costs, and they have strong feelings 
about the matter. But after considering all the evidence and arguments, I find that the banks 
actions werent unfair or unreasonable, so I dont require RBS to pay any compensation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ts complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2021.
 
Colin Brown
Ombudsman