DRN-1962213
 
The complaint
Miss K and Mr K are complaining about the way Ageas Insurance Limited (Ageas) handled a 
claim they made on Miss Ks car insurance policy.
What happened
The facts of this complaint are well known to all parties, so I wont set them out in detail. But, 
in summary, following an accident in December 2018, Miss K claimed on her car insurance 
to get her car fixed. Ageas said it wanted to send the car to its approved repairer, but Miss K 
said that garage had done work on her car before and she wasnt happy with the way it 
repaired it. Ageas said it would try to find another garage, but it later said it couldnt find any 
available within Miss Ks postcode. So it said the car would have to go to the approved 
repairer (the AR). But it said the AR couldnt do the repairs until January 2019 because of 
the Christmas period. It also said there werent any courtesy cars available, but it said it 
could do a temporary repair to enable Miss K to be mobile.
Mr K  a named driver on the policy  complained about this. He didnt think a temporary 
repair was suitable and he says Miss K should be given a courtesy car to get around. Ageas 
agreed to pay for a hire car until it could be booked in. The AR looked to collect the car on 
21 December 2018, but it wasnt able to do so because Mr K or Miss K werent available. It 
eventually collected the car on 28 December 2019.
On 8 January 2019, the AR said it had finished the repairs and looked to arrange to return 
the car to Miss K. It eventually returned it on 15 January 2019, but Mr K rejected the return 
because he said there was damage to one of the wheels. The AR took the car back and 
refurbished the wheel. It later looked to return the car to Miss K, but Mr K rejected this again 
because of an alleged issue with the suspension.
The AR inspected it and it said the right front suspension was out of specification and may 
need replacing. But it didnt think this was accident related as it was at the opposite side of 
the car where the accident damage was. Ageas engineer instructed the AR to take the car 
on a long road test and then to redo the geometry test to see if it resolves it. The AR said, 
following this, the geometry test suggested it was now within tolerance.
 
Mr K remained unhappy, so Ageas agreed to pay for to send the car to a manufacturer 
dealership for a further inspection. It said this inspection also confirmed the suspension was 
within tolerance. So, in March 2019, it said it needed to arrange to return the car. Mr K 
complained about how the claim had been handled. Ageas acknowledged this and offered 
£500 in compensation.
Ageas said that it struggled to then contact Mr K to arrange to have the car returned. So in 
April 2019 the AR lefty the car on Miss Ks driveway and it said it posted the car keys 
through the letterbox. Mr K complained that it had done so because he hadnt authorised the 
cars return and he said the keys were no longer there. He also said the AR had poorly 
refurbished the wheel.
Ageas agreed to have the locks changed on the car and for the AR to refurbish the wheel 
again. On 16 April 2019 Ageas contacted Mr K to explain the cars manufacturer needed a 
copy of the cars V5C form before it would agree to send a replacement lock for the car.
Miss K and Mr K were initially unable to provide this, but eventually emailed the form to 
Ageas on 23 May 2019.
In June 2019, Mr K looked to change the hire car Miss K had been given. But he says the 
hire car company wouldnt provide him with one and he said he had to walk the 2.5 miles home. He called Ageas to complain. Ageas said it couldnt source him another vehicle. But it 
said it would pay him £20 per day to enable him to hire his own vehicle. Mr K said he 
remained unhappy with the way Ageas was handling this claim.
On 4 July 2019, Ageas contacted Mr K to say that the repairers were finished and it wanted 
to return the car. Mr K said he wouldnt be able to receive it on that day and could only take it 
back at the weekend. Ageas said it wasnt willing to continue paying for hire until then, so
Mr K agreed to accept the car back on 4 July 2019.
Mr K called the next day to complain that there were still issues with the car:
 Paintwork was coming off the rear bumper;
 The dashboard wasnt fitted correctly; and
 The alloy wheels were scraped.
Mr K also said hes had to take numerous days off work to resolve this. He said he didnt 
want the car to go back to the AR. The AR disputed it was liable for all the damage. It said it 
hadnt taken the dashboard out. And it said the photos of the alloy wheels for when it first 
received the car showed that they were in average condition. It accepted the issue with the 
paintwork was down to its repair. It estimated this would cost around £400 to fix it. So it said 
it was willing to pay Miss K this directly plus a further £150 in compensation.
Mr K subsequently referred his complaint to this service, raising the following points:
1. He remained unhappy with how long the claim had taken and that hed had to take time 
off work to deal with this matter;
2. He says it had cost £42 per day to hire the replacement car, so he thinks Ageas should 
pay the difference; and
3. He doesnt think he can get the outstanding issues resolved for £400.
I issued a provisional decision saying that I thought Ageas had already paid Mr K sufficient 
compensation. And I said the following:
Theres no dispute that the repair of the car has taken a lot longer than it should have done 
as the car was finally returned to Miss K around seven months after the accident and there 
were still issues with it. It doesnt appear that it was a significant damage claim and it seems 
the repairs shouldnt have taken more than a few weeks  i.e. the repairs should have been 
completed in mid-January. So it appears that there was a delay of around six months. The 
majority of these delays are down to the quality of the repairs. But I also think Miss K and 
Mr K have to accept some responsibility for this, namely for the following reasons:
It took them around six weeks to provide the V5C form;
It seems Ageas and the AR had difficulty in contacting Mr K to arrange to have the car 
returned to him, which I think is demonstrated by the time delays from the repairs on the 
car being completed and the car eventually being returned to Miss K.
However, its clear that there were delays and I think the poor quality of repairs have 
inevitably caused Miss K and Mr K a lot of distress and inconvenience in this matter. But Im 
also conscious Ageas has paid for a hire car during this time. And this was for a larger car 
than Miss Ks own car. Ageas also paid to give Miss K a hire car for the time before the car 
was first picked up around nine days.
Miss K chose to not take out the guaranteed hire car cover with her insurance policy. So she 
was only entitled to a courtesy car while the car was being repaired. And this was only a 
small class A courtesy car. So I think Ageas acted more than reasonably in this respect. Im also conscious that Ageas has effectively offered £650 in compensation for whats 
happened. Given Miss K hasnt been without a car at any time in this matter, I think this is 
significantly more than what I would have awarded. So I think its acted more than fairly in 
this respect.
I note Mr K says he paid £42 per day to hire a car. But I also note that he initially told Ageas 
that he could hire a car for £16 per day. I think it was fair that Ageas paid for a hire car 
during this time as Miss K was without her car due to the actions of the AR. But Ageas was 
only required to pay for a like-for-like replacement. I think £20 was a fair amount for it to pay 
towards a replacement hire car  especially given Mr K said he could hire a car for £16 per 
day. But, even if this wasnt the case, given I think Ageas had already paid more than it 
needed to do in compensation, I think it would be unfair to require it to pay anything further 
than this.
Finally, I think Ageas has offered a fair level of compensation to put the outstanding issues 
right. Its offered £400 which is what it thinks is how much it would cost to fix the issue with
the rear bumper. And Miss K and Mr K havent given me anything to show that they couldnt 
resolve this issue for that amount. Im also not persuaded that theyve given me enough to 
say the issues with the alloy wheels and the dashboard were down to anything the AR did 
wrong.
So, in summary, while its clear Miss K and Mr K have had a poor experience in this claim, I 
think Ageas has acted more than reasonably in looking to put things right. So I dont think it 
needs to do anything further to put things right.
Ageas responded to accept my provisional decision. Miss K and Mr K didnt respond to it.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has given me anything else to think about, I see no reason to reach a 
different conclusion to the one I reached in my provisional decision. So, Im still of the 
opinion that, while its clear Miss K and Mr K have had a poor experience in this claim, I think 
Ageas has acted more than reasonably in looking to put things right. So I dont think it needs 
to do anything further to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, its my final decision that Ageas Insurance Limited offer 
to pay £650 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience its caused and £400 to fix 
the outstanding issue with repairing the rear bumper is fair. And I dont award anything 
further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K and Mr K to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 July 2020. 
Guy Mitchell
Ombudsman