DRN-3615734
The complaint
Mrs J complains about the repairs arranged by AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited 
(AA) following an accident when driving her car, under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
In May 2021 Mrs Js car was damaged in an accident. She contacted AA and it arranged for 
the repairs to be completed. Mrs J says the wheel arch trim wasnt fitted correctly and the 
repaired rear panels didnt match the colour of the rest of the car. 
Mrs J complained to AA. It agreed to arrange a repair of the wheel arch trim. But it says Mrs 
Js policy provides for only the damaged area of the car to be repaired. AA says the repaired 
areas appear brighter in colour because the original paint has dulled over time. It explains 
that the car was produced in 2013. AA says its policy doesnt cover painting the entire car, 
which would involve betterment. It says the paint has faded due to wear and tear.
Mrs J didnt think this was fair. She thought it was possible to at least polish the paintwork to 
blend the repaired area with the rest of the car. AA didnt agree. It says it isnt responsible for 
the undamaged parts of the car and doesnt think polishing would work. 
Mrs J referred her complaint to our service. Our investigator upheld her complaint. She didnt 
think AA had shown the correct colour of paint had been used in the repairs. She thought AA 
should arrange for the paint to be colour matched and the repaired area repainted. 
Alternatively, it could pay the cost of Mrs J arranging this. In addition, she says AA should 
pay £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mrs J had been caused.    
AA didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
been passed to me to decide.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen photos taken of Mrs Js car after the repairs were arranged by AA. Its clear the 
trim connected to the wheel arch wasnt fitted correctly. I understand this has since been 
repaired to Mrs Js satisfaction. So, I neednt consider this point further in my decision other 
than to acknowledge the inconvenience and upset this caused. However, Mrs J remains 
dissatisfied that the rear section is now a different colour to the rest of her car following the 
repairs. 
My focus here is whether AA treated Mrs J fairly when handling her claim and arranging 
these repairs. 
From the photos provided I can see the rear section of the car where the panels have been 
repaired are noticeably brighter and appear to be a different colour white to the adjoining 
panels.  
In its final response to Mrs Js complaint AA says, Your vehicle has older paint which will 
appear discoloured against any new parts freshly painted. It also says:
It will be impossible to match the new parts to the rest of the vehicle as it [sic] highly unlikely 
to replicate this older colour. By blending into the vehicle, it will lead to other panels to also 
look two tone which will result in us having to colour correct the whole vehicle. This is not our 
responsibility and we will not be authorising this to be done. 
And:
We are only responsible for the parts that we repaired, and this repaint work you are 
wishing for us to be involved in is not circumstantial or accidental damage, therefore would 
be considered betterment and no [sic] claimable under your policys terms and conditions.
I have thought about AAs comments and read Mrs Js policy terms to understand what is 
and isnt covered by her policy. The terms under, What is not covered say:
Loss of or damage to the Insured Car caused from deterioration, wear and tear or 
depreciation. 
I think what AA says about it only being responsible for repairs to the damaged section of the 
car is fair. It also makes a reasonable point that the paint on the remainder of the car may 
not match the new area as a result of wear and tear and it becoming duller over time. 
However, Mrs J arranged for her car to be assessed by a specialist body shop. The 
information it has provided is that it didnt think the paint used in the repairs matched the 
original colour on the rest of the car. It advised the original paint is of a high solid lacquered 
finish which prevents solar bleaching and colour fading. The opinion it gave is that this 
should mean minimal fading of the original paint. To rectify the situation, it says the repaired 
sections should be colour matched to the original paint, and the area repainted and blended 
to match the rest of the car. 
Mrs J was able to provide the colour code for the paint used on her car originally. We asked 
AA if it could confirm that the colour used in the repairs was a match for this. It says it has 
contacted its approved repairer but wasnt able to confirm what paint was used. 
I have thought about the information Mrs J provided, and the opinion provided by the expert 
that inspected her car. Because AA cant confirm that the correct colour was used in the 
repairs, I cant be certain that the correct colour was used. Id expect colour matching to be 
carried out before the repairs were undertaken. Having considered the photos and the 
experts view that colour fading should be minimal, I think the view that the colour of paint 
used in the repairs is a different shade from the original is persuasive. In these 
circumstances I think its fair that AA arranges for the repaired area to be colour matched 
and re-painted and blended to ensure the repairs match the rest of the car. 
Mrs J has lost confidence in AAs ability to carry out repairs effectively. In the circumstances 
I think its reasonable that it provides two alternative repairers for Mrs J to choose from. If it 
isnt able or willing to do this it can pay for the repairs to be carried out at a repairer chosen 
by Mrs J.
Ive also thought about the impact on Mrs J of all of this. The repairs werent carried out 
correctly in relation to the wheel arch trims. Mrs J had to make further contact with AA and 
arrange for the remedial repairs, which was upsetting for her as well as inconvenient. She 
has also had to spend further time arranging for a body shop to inspect her car and identify 
that the colour of paint used in the repairs is unlikely to be a match. Id expect AA to ensure repairs were carried out to a good standard on the first occasion. It hasnt done so in this 
case. It has taken some time to reach this point and the matter has yet to be fully resolved. 
In light of the distress and inconvenience this has caused Mrs J I think its fair that AA pays 
her £250 in compensation.
In summary, I dont think AA treated Mrs J fairly when arranging repairs to her car. It should 
now offer two repairers for her to choose from to colour match, repaint and blend the area 
that was originally repaired, or pay for Mrs Js choice of repairer to do this. And pay £250 for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused her. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. AA Underwriting Insurance Company 
Limited should:
offer a choice of two different repairers to Mrs J and arrange to colour match, repaint 
and blend the originally damaged sections of her car or pay for the work to be carried 
out at Mrs Js own choice of repairer; and
pay £250 compensation to Mrs J for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman