DRN-2666362
The complaint
Mrs Cs complained about The Equine and Livestock Insurance Company Limiteds (ELI) 
decision to decline her claim for her dogs surgery.
What happened
Mrs C took out a pet insurance policy for her dog in October 2019.  The policy provided up to 
£3,500 cover for vets fees per policy period, with a limit of £1,000 per condition.
In March 2020, Mrs Cs dog needed surgery on his left hind cruciate ligament.  He was 
operated on and Mrs C made a claim for the treatment costs.  ELI paid £895 towards the 
treatment (the maximum amount payable for one condition, less the policy excess).
Unfortunately, in July 2020, the dog needed the same operation on his right hind cruciate 
ligament.  ELI declined cover for this. They said that they consider bilateral conditions as one 
condition under the policy  and the limit for treatment to cruciate ligaments had been 
reached when Mrs C had claimed for her dogs first operation.
Mrs C complained to ELI about their decision.  ELI investigated her complaint but didnt 
change their decision.  So Mrs C brought her complaint to us.
Our investigator considered Mrs Cs complaint.  He concluded that it was fair for ELI to have 
treated the two surgeries as one condition.  And as the maximum benefit had been paid in 
respect of the first surgery, it wouldnt be fair for him to say that ELI should pay Mrs Cs 
second claim.
Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators view.  So Ive been asked to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
I can understand why Mrs Cs frustrated.  She bought pet insurance to help with the cost of 
any treatment her dog needed.  But, when she made a claim for the second surgery, it was 
rejected.
Ive reviewed Mrs Cs policy.  The schedule confirms it covers vets fees:
Up to £3,500 per policy period (£1,000 limit per condition) for treatment and/or 
complementary treatment, following the diagnosis of a specific illness or injury.
Its clear to me from this that the maximum Mrs C couldve claimed for any particular 
condition is £1,000, less the policy excess  which is what ELI paid for her dogs first 
operation.
Mrs Cs told us that she wants ELI to settle her claim for her dogs second operation as well.  
Ive considered this by referring to the policy details again.
Cruciate ligaments fall within the definition of a bilateral condition.  The definition says:
Bilateral Condition - any condition affecting body parts of which your pet has two. one each 
side of the body such as (but not limited to) ears, eyes, cruciate ligaments, hips and 
patellae.
The definition goes on to say that bilateral conditions are considered to be one condition. So 
on the face of it, both Mrs Cs dogs operations were for one condition  which meant cover 
was limited to £1,000.
Ive thought about whether there are any factors which meant that ELI should have treated 
the two operations as separate conditions.  Mrs Cs told us her dog slipped chasing a cat 
and she thinks that caused an injury, which led to the second surgery  as opposed to it 
being classed as an illness.  
Mrs C sent us a video showing what happened.  Ive watched the video.  Im not an expert.  
But I cant see when the dog had injured himself.  So Ive relied on the vets records and 
comments to see what  if anything - theyve said about the cause of the condition.
Mrs Cs own vets notes do say that the dog had been lame since chasing a cat the previous 
day  but dont say whether that caused an injury.  The notes from the operating vet (dated 
about a week later) say the dog had been getting progressively more lame over several 
weeks.  Again, no injury is mentioned.
And I can see that ELI specifically asked the operating vet whether they considered the two 
treatments to be bilateral or separate before coming to a final conclusion about the second 
claim.  The vet replied that they werent aware of any trauma which would have caused the 
condition in either leg.
Im satisfied from this that ELI did investigate the reason Mrs Cs dog needed surgery on his 
right leg before concluding the condition was bilateral.  Ive not seen anything which shows 
me that conclusion was unreasonable.  
And the policy is clear that bilateral conditions are treated as one and the cover limit is 
applied accordingly.  Thats how ELI dealt with the claim.  I dont think they shouldve dealt 
with it any differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint about The Equine and 
Livestock Insurance Company Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2021.
 
Helen Stacey
Ombudsman