DRN-2958353
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Granite Finance Ltd. He isnt happy about its involvement in 
the cancellation of his commercial motor insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr P took out an insurance policy which was arranged through his broker. The finance for 
the policy was taken out through Granite. Unfortunately, Mr P missed a payment for the 
policy which ultimately led to the cancellation of his insurance. 
However, Mr P had paid the outstanding premium but not through the usual method which 
meant that this didnt align with his account. But he didnt find out that his policy had been 
cancelled until a few months later and this affected his taxi licence and his profession 
amongst other things. 
So, Mr P complained to Granite. It eventually traced the payment and refunded this back to 
Mr P. But it didnt take responsibility for Mr P not being notified about the policy being 
cancelled highlighting that this was the responsibility of his broker. As Mr P remained 
unhappy he complained to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. Although she 
sympathised with Mr Ps position, and accepted that he paid the outstanding amount, she 
thought that if there were any errors in cancellation then that was a matter for Mr Ps broker.
As Mr P didnt agree the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps frustration here, as he did eventually pay his premium. But given he 
didnt follow the steps that were clearly outlined when he missed a payment the cancellation 
process was commenced. Granite has acknowledged that Mr P paid his outstanding 
premium, but it gave him specific instructions to follow about when he made the payment. 
And Mr P should of followed those instructions.
However, I would have expected any cancellation of the policy to have been communicated 
clearly to Mr P. But, as our investigator explained, his insurance broker was responsible for 
communicating this to Mr P. I note that Mr P has questioned whether Granite notified his 
broker, but I have seen sufficient evidence to say it did. And so, if there was any problem 
with this and the way the cancellation was communicated then Mr P would have to advance 
this with his broker.
So, although I know the cancellation of his policy had severe consequences for Mr P I think 
Granites response was fair. Once Mr P made it aware that he had paid the outstanding 
amount, but to a different account, it refunded the amount and confirmed to his broker and 
insurer that he had paid the outstanding amount. And his insurer provided a letter of 
indemnity explaining that his policy was cancelled in error. So Im not asking Granite to do 
anything further here and Ill simply leave it to Mr P to decide if he wants to advance a 
complaint against his broker. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman