DRN-3206551
The complaint
Miss H complains about end of contract charges when her agreement with Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited ended.
What happened
In July 2017 Miss H was supplied with a car and entered into a hire agreement with MBFS. 
Miss H decided to voluntary terminate the agreement in February 20210. The car was 
inspected and collected.
During the inspection, the inspector identified damage to the alloy wheels, which Miss H 
signed for. Miss H had insurance to cover damage to the wheels but didnt have time to 
arrange repairs before the car was collected.
Following collection, a second inspection was carried out and further damage was found. 
MBFS invoiced Miss H for the damage.
Miss H disputed the charges. She said she was unaware of the second inspection and didnt 
agree that the damage to the bumper and quarter panel was present when the car was 
collected.
In response, MBFS said the second inspection was necessary because of the adverse 
weather conditions at the first inspection. It said the car hadnt sustained any damage after 
collection and that the charges had been correctly applied.
Miss H wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said he was satisfied that it was reasonable 
for MBFS to carry out a second inspection because of the adverse weather conditions at the 
first inspection. He also said that all of the damage fell outside of the relevant wear and tear 
guidelines and that the charges had been fairly applied. 
Miss H didnt agree so Ive been asked to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions of the agreement say that Miss H must return the car in good 
condition and that any damage which exceeds fair wear and tear is the customers 
responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been issued by the BVLRA and these are accepted as an 
industry standard in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear and tear. Ive also had 
regard to MBFSs vehicle returns standards which set out what is considered acceptable 
wear and tear. 
Ive looked at the inspection report including the photos and the video. Miss H has signed to 
say she accepts the damage to the alloys, so I wont be looking into this item of damage any 
further. In addition, MBFS has removed the charge for the rear bumper, so I wont look into 
this item either. Ive looked at the remainder of the damage and in doing so, Ive had regard 
to the relevant guidelines. Having done so, Im satisfied that the damage exceeds fair wear 
and tear. So, I think the charges have been fairly applied.
I appreciate that Miss H isnt happy that a second inspection took place. Ive looked at the 
video of the first inspection and I can see that its raining quite heavily. I think this would have 
affected the inspectors ability to see scratches and dents, and to miss damage that would 
have been visible under better weather conditions. In the circumstances, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for MBFs to carry out a second inspection in better weather conditions.
Miss H has said that some of the damage wasnt there when the car was collected. Ive 
reviewed the available information but theres nothing to suggest that the car was involved in 
a post collection collision. MBFSs agents are obliged to report any such incidents. So, I 
think its very unlikely that the damage occurred after the car was collected. I can see that 
Miss H had been in possession of the car for around four years and covered around 32,000 
miles. Its more likely that the damage occurred during this time due to usage.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that the damage exceeds fair wear and tear in 
accordance with the guidelines and that the charges have been applied fairly.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 March 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman