DRN-4512804
The complaint
Ms K complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) dealt 
with a claim she made to it.
What happened
The background facts are well known to the parties so I wont repeat them in detail here  
instead I will cover these briefly and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
Ms K bought a flight ticket from a travel agent (the agent) but says that due to the Covid-19 
pandemic she had to change her itinerary.
Ms K says the airline assured her it would agree to a refund or change of flight but the agent 
was not able to arrange this. She wants a refund of the ticket cost.
Ms K went to AESEL to raise a claim to recover her money but it did not uphold her claim.
Ms K brought her complaint about AESELs claim handling to this service. Our investigator 
did not uphold the complaint and Ms K asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case which said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the submissions by the parties but I wont be commenting on everything  
only those matters I think are central to this complaint. This is not intended as a discourtesy 
but reflects my role in resolving disputes informally.
I am sorry to hear about Ms Ks situation which came about as a result of the pandemic. 
However, it is worth noting here her complaint is against AESEL which is not the supplier of 
flights or travel agency services. When considering what is fair and reasonable I look at 
AESELs role as a provider of financial services. In this case the relevant protections 
available for AESEL to have considered as ways to fairly reimburse Ms K are Section 75 of 
the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75) and the chargeback scheme.
AESEL does not appear to have considered Section 75 here at all or in any detail even 
though it was relevant to the dispute. I think that it fairly should have, and that it should have 
upheld said claim. As a result I have not considered chargeback.
Section 75
Under Section 75 Ms K is in certain circumstances able to hold AESEL responsible for a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier in respect of goods or services bought 
using her credit card.
Certain requirements have to be in place for a valid Section 75 claim. I have considered 
these, and note that the requirements are met for Ms K to have a claim in respect of the 
travel agent she paid for the tickets. However, she cant claim against AESEL for the direct 
actions of the airline because she didnt fund an agreement with it via her AESEL credit card.
Because Ms Ks claim is in respect of the actions of the agent then it is the agreement 
between it and Ms K I have focused on here in deciding if AESEL has acted fairly. 
My starting point is that the agent appears to have fulfilled its basic contractual agreement 
with Ms K in arranging the initial flight she requested. There is no persuasive evidence that 
the original booking was incorrectly made or the flight itself did not go ahead as planned.
The key issue is that due to the pandemic Ms K wanted to either change or have her flights 
refunded. Here, as Ms K has pointed out the airline was willing to allow flexibility and change 
or refund tickets but the agent failed to recognise this and told Ms K that its records showed 
the flight was in fact non-refundable. When Ms K insisted that the airline was allowing 
flexibility for her booking the agent said it would find out more  but then didnt get back to 
her before her flight departed and she lost the value in her ticket.
The agents agreement with Ms K
I note that in promoting its flexible options the airline does point out the following:
If your ticket was purchased through a travel agency, booking changes/cancellation policies 
may vary. Please contact your travel agency for details.
So the key question for me is whether the agent had some other contractual policy in relation 
to fare conditions and changes that would differentiate from those set by the airline.
Ms K purchased her flight at the end of October 2021 so I have looked at the 2020 terms and 
conditions of the agent that appear to apply to this booking. I note the following terms within 
these which indicate that the agent does not have its own restrictions and in fact bookings 
are governed by the Third Party Provider (which might be an airline or provider of 
accommodation):
When you make a booking for a Service using the Website, you will be entering into a 
contract with the relevant Travel Service Providers for that Service.
Cancellations can be made for flights, Package Holidays and car hire by calling 
[agent number]..
All such requests will be dealt with on behalf of the Travel Service Providers 
concerned. Customers do not have an automatic right of cancellation unless such 
rights are provided by the individual Third Party Providers under their Rules and 
Restrictions (which are provided to the Customer prior to booking)..
If a Customer wishes to cancel any part of a booking, and if such cancellation is 
permitted by the applicable Third Party Provider, then an [agent name] cancellation 
administration fee will apply in addition to any fees imposed by the Third Party 
Provider. Please see the table below for the specific fees.. 
Similar terms are also expressed in relation to a request by a customer to change a booking. 
Furthermore the agent in webchats had said things to Ms K such as we still have to followed 
[sic] policy of your ticket and airlines indicating that its own policy is dictated by the airline.Overall, I am satisfied that contractually the agent has agreed it is essentially acting on 
behalf of the airline and will follow the policy of the airline in respect of fare conditions 
including cancellation or change requests. This is further reinforced by the fact that the agent 
later offered to go back to the airline to confirm the fare conditions.
The airlines change/cancellation policy applicable to Ms Ks booking
The question now is for me to determine what airline policy relates to Ms Ks booking 
regarding cancellation or change. 
I note the airline states on its website that an international booking of the kind Ms K made 
between 11 June 2020 and 30 November 2021 is eligible for free rebooking or a refund in 
the event that someone is unable to travel due to travel restrictions imposed by the 
destination (resulting from the pandemic). So prima facie, and based on the information 
provided to me by Ms K I consider that this flexible policy applies to her ticket and overrides 
any usual fare conditions that would have been in place at the time of booking.
The contradictory information Ms K was given by the agent
Ms K was told her booking was non-refundable by the agent. I note her booking confirmation 
under [Name of airline] flight rules and regulations also says that the booking is non-
refundable. This somewhat contradicts what the airline had advertised in regard to its fare 
conditions at the time.
However, Ms K has provided compelling information about what she saw when she booked 
the flight about the additional flexibility on offer (in light of the pandemic) for the fare booked 
through the agent. Ms K has also screen grabbed a booking process screen for a similar 
flight with the same airline which shows that General Rule Does Not Apply in the area 
describing penalties for changes. There is also reference to this exception in respect of 
tickets issued on or before 30 November 2021 which ties in with the information on the 
airlines website regarding when bookings have to be made by to benefit from the overriding 
flexible fare conditions.
Ms K has also communicated how important the flexibility was to her during the pandemic 
and that had she known she wouldnt get the flexible conditions through the agent she would 
have gone and booked directly with the airline. This persuasively adds to the overall picture 
here that Ms K did see information during the booking process that showed she was in fact 
booking a flexible flight.
So overall, it appears plausible here that the confirmation email Ms K received from the 
agent and its systems might have mistakenly classed the ticket as non-refundable (because 
it usually isnt refundable) despite it being subject to the airlines special temporary fare 
conditions. 
In any event it is worth noting again that the agent is very clear its fare conditions are 
dictated by the airlines policies and not it  so even if Ms Ks booking confirmation does say 
it was non-refundable this is not necessarily an accurate reflection of the airlines fare 
conditions applicable to Ms Ks purchase at that time. I am satisfied that the terms applicable 
to the fare are those shown by the airlines website. For clarity I dont consider this to be a 
case of the terms changing after Ms Ks booking either  as when Ms K booked the airlines 
flexible policies were in place. 
Even if I accepted there were some mistake in the conditions the agent attributed to the 
original booking I dont think this is Ms Ks fault. Furthermore, even if the lack of clarity at the time of booking was attributable to the airline the agent appears to have had a reasonable 
amount of time before the flight was due to leave to go back and simply confirm the situation 
with the airline  but it appears not to have done so
I note that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) the service provided by the agent to 
Ms K must be done with reasonable care and skill. The CRA does not define what this is 
but noting the agents role here (including its agreement to deal with cancellation/change 
requests on behalf of the airline) I dont think it was unreasonable to have expected it to:
attribute the correct cancellation/change conditions to the original fare; 
in the event of a request such as Ms Ks to then clarify said conditions with the airline 
in a reasonable timeframe and in any event before her flight was due to leave (here it 
had more than enough time - about 3 weeks from her request to change or cancel 
where she explained in some detail the flexible fare conditions she had seen the 
airline offering in respect of her booking).
I presently consider there to be persuasive evidence that the agent breached its contract 
with Ms K under its explicit terms in respect of its policy regarding cancellations/refunds 
and/or the implied term as to care and skill via the CRA. Therefore, Ms K has a valid claim 
for breach of contract against the agent. As a result I dont think that AESEL acted fairly in 
the way it handled the claim made to it by Ms K. Therefore, with Section 75 in mind it should 
now refund her the price of the ticket (£1,021.36) minus the £25 administration fee she 
would have paid under the agents terms and conditions had it properly arranged the 
cancellation or change for her as it should have done.
It appears Ms K contacted AESEL in April 2022 and it gave her a substantive response to 
her chargeback claim on 12 May 2022. I think it was in a reasonable position to consider and 
respond to a Section 75 claim around this time even if that were after chargeback had been 
initially ruled out. So I think any reworking should fairly be calculated from 31 May 2022.
My provisional decision
AESEL should re-work Ms Ks credit card as if it had refunded £996.36 to it on 31 May 2022 
(including removing applicable interest and charges). If this results in a credit balance it 
should refund this to Ms K with simple interest from the date of credit balance to the date of 
payment. The interest should be calculated at a rate of 8% yearly.
If AESEL considers it should deduct tax from the interest award it should provide Ms K with a 
certificate of tax deduction so she may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate. 
Both parties accepted my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties have accepted my provisional findings. Based on this I see no reason to change 
my findings here.Putting things right
AESEL should put things right as set out below for the reasons given in my provisional 
findings (as copied above).
My final decision
American Express Services Europe Limited should re-work Ms Ks credit card as if it had 
refunded £996.36 to it on 31 May 2022 (including removing applicable interest and charges). 
If this results in a credit balance it should refund this to Ms K with simple interest from the 
date of credit balance to the date of payment. The interest should be calculated at a rate of 
8% yearly.
If AESEL considers it should deduct tax from the interest award it should provide Ms K with a 
certificate of tax deduction so she may claim a refund from HMRC if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 January 2024.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman