DRN-2812255
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with National Westminster Bank Plcs decision to review, suspend and 
subsequently close his account. Mr O is also unhappy that he was made to visit a NatWest 
branch to withdraw his money despite him shielding from Covid-19 at the time.
What happened
In March 2020, Mr O opened an account with NatWest. On opening, he credited the account 
with around £300  and the day after made a large transfer of around £5,000.
Mr O explained he received a text message the day after he opened his account to let him 
know that NatWest would be closing it. On receipt of this text message, Mr O went into 
branch to try and withdraw his money. The NatWest staff couldnt release Mr Os money at 
this stage and told him hed have to wait for a letter. Mr O wasnt happy about this and says 
he couldnt access his salary money despite providing a wage slip.
Mr O didnt receive a letter and was able to withdraw the money his money in branch around 
10 days after being notified of the account closure. Mr O says he shouldnt have had to go 
into branch because hed been advised to shield from Covid-19 at the time.
NatWest didnt uphold Mr Os complaint. They provided Mr O with the terms and conditions 
of the account  and the specific term they relied on when closing. 
The investigator who looked into Mr Os complaint didnt think NatWest had acted unfairly. 
He was satisfied they were entitled to close the account in the way they did  and while he 
recognised the inconvenience of Mr O going into branch to withdraw his funds, he concluded 
this was a more efficient way for Mr O to access his money. The investigator explained that 
NatWest usually send a funds release form which can take up to 60 days to transfer the 
money  but Mr O was able to withdraw his money within 10 days. The investigator also 
hadnt seen any evidence of Mr O shielding so wasnt able to uphold his complaint on this 
point.
Mr O wasnt happy and asked for an ombudsman to review things. So the complaint has 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr Os complaint. I know this will come as a great 
disappointment to Mr O, but Ive explained my reasons further below.
NatWest are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. Theyre also required to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and 
existing relationships. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers accounts  
either in full or partially while they carry out their review. 
Having looked at whats happened, Im satisfied NatWest was complying with their legal and 
regulatory obligations when they reviewed Mr Os account. So, I cant fairly say theyve done 
anything wrong. I appreciate Nat West didnt tell Mr O about the review  but theyre not 
obliged to. 
I know it would have been extremely inconvenient for Mr O to open an account, transfer 
money into it and then to find out the account would close, and he couldnt access his 
money. While I recognise the inconvenience of not being able to access his money, that in 
itself doesnt mean NatWest did anything wrong. Ultimately, theyre allowed to inhibit 
accounts while they review things  as long as they have a legitimate reason for doing so 
and dont cause any unnecessary delays. NatWest hasnt shared any information about why 
they took the action they did with Mr O  and theyre not obliged to. But Id like to reassure 
Mr O that based on the evidence Ive seen and the circumstances of this complaint, Im 
satisfied NatWest were fair in their actions.
Banks sometimes choose to end their relationship with customers. This can be due to a 
number of reasons, and a bank isnt obliged to give a reason to the customer. Just the same 
as if Mr O decided to stop banking with NatWest, he wouldnt have to explain why. NatWest 
can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if it is in the terms and conditions of 
the account. NatWest have relied on the terms and conditions when closing Mr Os account 
 and helpfully pointed out the specific term they relied on when doing so in their final 
response to Mr O. 
This service wont generally intervene in a banks commercial discretion. NatWest exercised 
their right to no longer offer Mr O banking facilities and I've seen nothing to suggest that 
theyve made an unfair decision. So, I cant fairly ask them to do anything differently.
NatWests policy states that funds can take up to 60 days to be released. Im pleased to see 
Mr O was able to withdraw his money after around 10 days. 
Ive thought carefully about Mr Os comments regarding him shielding from Covid-19 at the 
time. Mr O said he wasnt able to provide a note from his GP as the letter had expired. My 
knowledge of shielding is that individuals would have received a letter through the post from 
the government, rather than a note from their GP. Ive also seen some contact notes from 
the branch visits. According to the branch notes, it appears that Mr O told branch members 
he was experiencing symptoms of Covid-19 and therefore should have been isolating. I think 
this is an entirely different scenario to being advised to shield  however I agree both 
situations would mean Mr O shouldnt have been in branch. I havent seen anything to 
suggest that NatWest asked Mr O to visit branch. Mr O has explained that he went to branch 
after receiving the text message about the account closure in an attempt to withdraw his 
money straight away. Mr O was advised to wait for a letter  which no doubt would have 
been the funds release form. Mr O would have had the opportunity to complete this and 
receive a bank transfer without any added risk to himself, or anybody else due to the Covid-
19 pandemic. However, Mr O chose to visit branch and ultimately that resulted in him 
accessing his money after 10 days rather than 60 days  so I consider Mr O has benefitted 
from this action. And as Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr O going into branch while he 
should have been shielding and/or isolating was the fault of NatWest, I cant fairly uphold the 
complaint on this point alone.
Overall, I recognise how strongly Mr O feels about whats happened, but I can only uphold 
Mr Os complaint if I think NatWest have acted unfairly. And based on the evidence Ive 
seen, I dont think they have. So, Im not going to ask NatWest to do anything differently.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Hayley West
Ombudsman