DRN-3284575
The complaint
Mrs H complains about Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited, referred to as Scottish 
Friendly. 
In summary, shes unhappy about the following:
The performance of her Tax Free & Friendly Bond (referred to as the bond or the 
investment) that she took out through a third-party business but managed by 
Scottish Friendly. 
Shes unhappy about the maturity value of the bond. She was told shed receive a 
maturity bonus if the bond was kept for its full term, but she only received £73.  
To put things right, shed like Scottish Friendly to accept the bond was mis-sold and honour 
the bonus payment. 
What happened
The bond was started in April 2011, for a term of 10 years and Mrs H contributed £180 a 
year. The bond also included £1,800 sum assured. 
In April 2021, the bond matured with a value of £1,873 which included a £73 annual bonus. 
Scottish Friendly didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said: 
The bond only provided a guaranteed minimum cash sum  £1,800 sum assured  
which was payable at maturity or upon death of the bondholder.
The investment was a savings plan and provided potential for growth via bonuses but 
wasnt guaranteed. It was dependent on actual investment growth.  
The investment qualified for bonuses  to the value of £73  but bonuses werent 
guaranteed. 
Because Mrs H was sold the bond by a third-party business and it wasnt involved in 
any advice it wasnt obliged to consider that aspect of her complaint.  
Unhappy with Scottish Friendly response, Mrs H referred the complaint to our service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Mrs H invested in the 10-year tax exempt plan, invested in the Scottish Friendly With-
Profits fund, across a range of assets. 
The investment only guaranteed a minimum cash amount at maturity. Even though 
bonuses are added to this amount, there was no guarantee, as the bonus depended 
on the performance of the With-Profits fund. 
The Key Features Document (KFD) made clear:
othese figures are only examples and are not guaranteed  they are not 
minimum or maximum amounts. What you get back depends on how much 
your investments grow.
Although Mrs H hoped for better returns, hes seen no evidence that the final 
bonus/annual bonuses were guaranteed. The investment was designed to work in 
line with how risk-based investments worked, so Scottish Friendly hasnt done 
anything wrong. 
Despite Mrs Hs points about the mis-sale of the investment hes satisfied that 
Scottish Friendly didnt provide any advice. 
The KFD states:
oScottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited will pay commission to the 
introducer (name anonymised).
oThe third-party business acted as the broker/financial adviser to Mrs H, not 
Scottish Friendly. So, despite what Mrs H says, theres no scope for it to take 
any responsibility for the advice she received. 
Whilst Mrs H is adamant that some of the key features werent explained to her by 
the adviser, thats not something he can consider as against Scottish Friendly.  
Mrs H disagreed with the investigators view and asked for an ombudsmans decision. In 
summary, she said:
Its been a waste of her time. 
She was told shed receive bonuses, but she wasnt told they werent guaranteed. 
As no agreement has been reached the matte has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusion for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mrs H says, I cant safely say that 
Scottish Friendly behaved unreasonably.  
Before I explain why this is the case, I think its important for me to note I very much 
recognise Mrs Hs strength of feeling about this matter. She has provided submissions to 
support the complaint, which Ive read and considered carefully. However, I hope that she 
wont take the fact my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not in 
as much detail, as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address every single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented by Mrs H, and Scottish Friendly, and reach what I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must consider the relevant law, regulation and best 
industry practice. But its for me to decide, based on the available information Ive been 
given, whats more likely than not to have happened. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, as the investment provider I dont think 
Scottish Friendly was involved in giving Mrs H advice, therefore it isnt responsible for what 
she may (or may) not have been told about the bonuses. I appreciate Mrs H is adamant that she was told shed receive bonuses, but she wasnt told 
they werent guaranteed. If that was the case, this is something that Mrs H may wish to 
consider separately against the third-party business responsible for the sale of the 
investment.  
Based on what Scottish Friendly says, on balance I dont think it has taken over 
responsibility for the sale of the investment, and therefore I cant consider that part of the 
complaint against it. So, despite what Mrs H says, I cant blame Scottish Friendly for not 
considering whether, or not, the investment was mis-sold. 
The above notwithstanding, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mrs H was given a guarantee 
by Scottish Friendly as to the level of returns she might receive on her investment. The only 
guarantee was in relation to the sum assured  to which annual bouses would be added  
but there was no guarantee as to what that bonus might be. 
Im mindful the KFD made clear that the figures in relation to the bonuses were only 
examples and werent guaranteed  in other words, they werent minimum or maximum 
amounts. So, what Mrs H would get back above the guaranteed amount depended on the 
growth of her investment, and the bonus amount  dependent on several factors  and was 
never guaranteed.
I should also point out that our service doesnt generally consider complaints about 
investment performance alone, which can be dependent on a number of factors  such as 
what the stockmarket did for example  which are outside the control of the business.
I appreciate the investment didnt do as well as Mrs H had hoped, but in the circumstances 
thats not something I can blame Scottish Friendly for. 
For the reasons set out above, in the circumstances, and on balance, Im unable to safely 
say that Scottish Friendly behaved unreasonably. 
I appreciate Mrs H will be thoroughly unhappy that Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Whilst I appreciate her frustration, I cant ask Scottish Friendly to pay her a 
larger bonus because it hasnt done anything wrong.  
On the face of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold the claim for 
financial loss compensation and give Mr M what he wants. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2022.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman