DRN-2931514
The complaint
Mr R complains that Highway Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
on his commercial vehicle insurance policy.
What happened
Mr R held a commercial vehicle insurance policy with Highway. One day he found his van 
with the door open, and when he tried to start it, he couldnt. He took the van to a garage to 
be repaired and was told that the damage was caused by someone attempting to steal his 
van. Mr R then put a claim in to Highway for the damage.
Highway declined Mr Rs claim. It said an engineer didnt think the damage was caused by 
an attempted theft as there was no sign of forced entry or damage to the ignition instead it 
thought the damage was the result of an electrical failure. Highway said Mr Rs policy didnt 
cover him for damage caused by an electrical failure.
Mr R wasnt happy with Highways decision. He said it didnt make sense for the person who 
tried to steal his van to damage it further. He thinks Highway should prove the damage was 
caused by an electrical fault and not by an attempted theft. And he doesnt think its fair that 
Highway rely on the engineers report because he doesnt think they carried out a competent 
inspection.
Highway didnt change its stance, so Mr R brought his complaint to us. One of our 
investigators looked at Mr Rs complaint and didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought it 
was for Mr R to show the damage was caused by a theft  which she didnt think he had. 
And she thought Highway was acting reasonably by relying on the engineers report. 
Ultimately, she thought Highways decision to decline Mr Rs claim was a fair and reasonable 
decision in all the circumstances.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint. I understand this wont be the answer 
he was hoping for. Ill explain my reasoning.
Mr Rs policy with Highway covers him for damage caused by attempted theft. But it doesnt 
cover him for damage caused by mechanical or electrical failures. So, the key dispute in this 
case is the cause of the damage to Mr Rs van.
Mr R thinks its Highways responsibility to prove that the damage was the result of an 
electrical failure, not the result of an attempted theft. And in some ways, hes correct. If 
Highway are relying on an exclusion in the policy, it is for Highway to show that its fair for it 
to do so. But importantly, Mr R first needs to show that the damage was caused by an event 
covered by the policy - in this case, an attempted theft. Wed expect Highway to help him 
show that, and in this case, Im satisfied it has.
Here, Highway inspected Mr Rs van, and an engineer said that they didnt think the damage 
was caused by an attempted theft. They thought it was more likely than not the result of an 
electrical failure. I understand Mr R doesnt agree with that engineers findings, and I 
understand his reasons. But Im satisfied Highway were entitled to rely on the engineers 
findings.
The engineer who carried out the report on Mr Rs van is qualified in their profession. And 
although I understand Mr Rs reasons for not agreeing with the engineers findings, Im not 
persuaded they are reason enough to question them. Mr R is entitled not to agree with the 
findings of the engineer, but other than Mr Rs opinion Ive not been provided with any 
evidence to support the engineers findings being flawed or suggesting the damage was 
caused by anything other than an electrical failure.
Based on the engineers findings, Highway think that Mr R hasnt been able to show the 
damage to his van was caused by an attempted theft and Im satisfied thats reasonable. 
Whats more, the engineers findings point to it being more likely than not that the damage 
was caused by an electrical failure which is specifically excluded from cover.
In light of the above, Im satisfied Highways decision to decline Mr Rs claim was in line with 
his policy. And Im satisfied that decision was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I can 
see Highway is open to reconsidering Mr Rs claim if he can provide further evidence to 
support that the damage was caused by an attempted theft. And Im satisfied that too is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman