DRN-3950126
The complaint
Ms D complains that HFIS Limited trading as Hamilton Fraser (HFIS) left her uninsured on 
one of the properties she owned.
What happened
Ms D held a number of insurance policies taken out with HFIS, a broker  including one for 
the property she lived in and policies for other properties she rented out. Shes said she had 
an arrangement with HFIS that it called her to discuss each renewal.
In August 2021, Ms D contacted HFIS to let it know that she would be moving into a new 
residential property  which Ill call property B. As a result, Ms D said she would be renting 
out the property she was currently living in  which Ill call property A.
HFIS said that because Ms D hadnt exchanged property A yet, it couldnt change the policy 
to a residential risk policy  which is what Ms D needed. It said that the residential cover 
would transfer from property A to property B on the proposed exchange date. But it said 
when this happened thered be no cover in place for property A. It said it provided a new 
business quotation for a residential let policy for property A and said Ms D needed to contact 
it to confirm the exchange had taken place and that she wanted to take up the quotation and 
set the policy up.
This didnt happen  Ms D never directly let HFIS know shed exchanged and wanted to take 
out the cover HFIS had quoted her for. This resulted in property A being uninsured for 
around 13 months. Ms D complains that this is HFISs fault. She thinks there were multiple 
missed opportunities for it to check in and remind her that property A wasnt insured and that 
it had enough information to know shed exchanged.
HFIS didnt think it had done anything wrong. It said there was an arrangement in place that 
it call Ms D at every renewal, but said this wasnt a renewal, it was new business. It said it 
was Ms Ds responsibility to let it know she wanted to take out the policy it quoted her for.
Ms D remained unhappy and brought her complaint to us.
One of our investigators recommended it not be upheld. She thought HFIS had done 
everything it needed to so didnt find it responsible for property A being uninsured.
Ms D didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding it. I understand this will be disappointing for Ms D. Ill 
explain my reasoning.
Ms D had an agreement with HFIS that it call her to discuss renewals  thats 
accepted by both parties. But key here is that this wasnt a renewal, it was new 
business. I appreciate it was for a property HFIS had arranged a policy for in the 
past, but it was for a different risk. It was a policy to cover it being rented out as 
opposed to being lived in by Ms D. So, I dont think any agreement Ms D had with 
HFIS applies to this policy. Although I can see why Ms D thought it would.
I can see why Ms D thought it was a renewal, but Im reasonably satisfied that HFIS 
made it clear to Ms D that she needed to contact it and let it know shed exchanged 
and wanted to take out the policy it quoted her for.
I agree with Ms D there were multiple missed opportunities for HFIS to check if shed 
exchanged and wanted to take out the policy it had quoted her for. It doesnt make 
much business sense for it not to do this. But I cant fairly say it did something wrong 
by not doing so  it was under no obligation to.
Im also not persuaded that simply knowing Ms D had exchanged (which I agree it 
probably had enough information to determine) is enough to alert HFIS to her not 
being insured on property A. As an example, she may have decided the quotation 
provided by HFIS was too expensive and taken cover elsewhere.
Again, I appreciate it would have made more business sense and been better service 
to have checked with Ms D. But simply because it would have been better for HFIS to 
check, it doesnt mean it acted unfairly by not doing so.
I dont find HFIS gave Ms D any information to suggest property A was insured when 
it wasnt. It simply didnt follow up a quote for new business. But neither did Ms D. 
Ultimately, its Ms Ds responsibility to insure her properties, not HFISs.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman