DRN-2687660
The complaint
Mr C complains that Scottish Equitable Plc (trading as Aegon) caused a delay in receiving 
payments of his Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP) plus his tax free lump sum payable 
under a section 32 buyout plan through their failure to communicate with him in a timely 
manner.
What happened
Mr C contacted Aegon in May 2019 to advise that he wished to begin receiving payments 
under the GMP from 6th September 2019. At this time, I understand Mr C was told by Aegon 
that it was too early to begin this process and that he should contact them again in August 
2019.
In July 2019, Mr C contacted Aegon to start the process of arranging payments from the 
GMP fund, and to receive the tax-free lump sum. In response to this, Mr C was sent a letter 
from Aegon providing details of the value of the policy, including the GMP. Following this, I 
understand Mr C spoke to his financial adviser about the GMP. The letter from Aegon 
included a section which advised that, if Mr C decided to choose to receive the tax-free cash 
from his policy, they would need certified copies of some documents confirming Mr Cs 
identity. The letter also contained a section about certified copies and what was needed to 
meet Aegons requirements.
In early September 2019, Mr C sent Aegon certified copies of documents to confirm his 
identity and Aegon subsequently replied to him advising that these would be kept on file. 
Following this, Mr C sent an application to Aegon which Mr C says he thought would mean 
the payments under the GMP could begin in arrears from 6 September 2019.
Some weeks later, Mr C contacted Aegon for an update on his application and was told that 
the tax-free sum and the payments under the GMP could not be processed because Mr C 
had not told Aegon what he would like to do with the remaining, excess part of his fund  . I 
understand Mr C then spoke to his financial adviser once more who then advised Mr C that a 
financial adviser  suggested by Aegon (who I will refer to as financial adviser O), should be 
used to arrange for the excess part of his policy to be invested. Financial adviser O then 
contacted Aegon and the two parties exchanged the details needed to make these 
arrangements.
Mr C was then advised by Aegon that the certified copies sent to them by Mr C in early 
September were not acceptable as they had not been certified in line with the requirements 
set out in their previous letter to Mr C. On 25 October 2019, Mr C wrote to Aegon again 
providing further certified copies to confirm his identity. These certified copies were also 
rejected at first by Aegon as Aegon said they did not meet their requirements. In a later letter 
to Mr C dated 31 October 2019, Aegon agreed to accept the documents.
In late November 2019, Mr C was contacted by the product provider (who I will refer to as 
provider L) who would be responsible for paying the GMP. Aegon does not provide 
annuities, but instead has an arrangement with provider L to do so. In the course of this 
correspondence, Mr C was told by provider L that they were unable to proceed with the 
payments as Aegon had advised the identity documents were still outstanding. Aegons 
requirements were satisfied on 18 December 2019 and the tax-free payment was paid on 23 
December 2019, with GMP payments starting in January 2020.
Our investigators view was that:
Aegon, as the administrator of Mr Cs pension, needed full instructions before carrying 
out any actions.
Aegon werent to blame for not being able to offer advice on what to do with the excess 
funds from Mr Cs pension.
The delay in confirming that the ID originally provided by Mr C was unacceptable was 
understandable given that Mr C may have decided not to go ahead with the completed 
application and Aegon had clearly explained how they wanted the documents to be 
certified.
Provider L, when they contacted Mr C in late November 2019 may have been incorrect in 
the reason behind the delay and this was caused by a lack of completed forms rather 
than an issue with the identity documents.
Aegon have not done anything wrong to delay the payments under the GMP and of the 
tax-free cash, and have acted fairly.
The complaint was not upheld.
Mr C disagreed with our investigators view and his complaint has come to me to consider. 
Mr Cs view was:
He didnt expect to receive advice from Aegon but did expect clear and unambiguous 
guidance in terms of the process for payments under the GMP.
He received little communication and a lack of willingness to inform Mr C that further 
action was needed.
Aegons policy has caused the payments to be delayed and a failure to provide 
information.
He was unaware of what the process of triggering payments would involve and believed 
Aegon had a duty of care to him as a client.
It was not the role of the financial adviser to provide advice on what to do to satisfy 
Aegons requirements and they could not advise on these products.
After several approaches from Mr C to Aegon, he became aware that financial adviser O 
would have to process the excess funds for him unless he was prepared to have the 
GMP element of his pension benefits significantly reduced and Mr C suggests this 
restriction was never made clear to him.
He was aware of the requirements around identity certification and, although Aegon 
originally told him they were acceptable, they later said they were not and he feels time 
could have been saved if he had been told this initially.
Aegons lack of customer focus and poor communications practices are the main cause 
for the delayed payment of his pension.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and considered the view given by our investigator, I have reached the same 
conclusion and will not be upholding Mr Cs complaint.I have carefully considered what Mr C has said and have looked at the correspondence and 
notes prepared by the investigator as well as Mr Cs response to the investigators view. 
Whilst I can appreciate Mr Cs frustration at some of the events, my view is that Aegon have 
followed a process which is reasonable in the circumstances.
It seems that Mr C understands that Aegon were not able to provide him with any advice in 
relation to the policy or his options as far as the different parts of it are concerned and this is 
certainly my view. With regard to his receiving clear and unambiguous advice on Aegons 
process and what they needed from him, I think it can be difficult for providers like Aegon to 
strike a balance between offering help on these matters whilst avoiding being seen as 
providing advice. In this case, I think it is understandable that Aegon followed the processes 
they did. Therefore, although customers like Mr C may feel they need more guidance as they 
are not familiar with things like a pension, it can be a problem for providers like Aegon to 
help with this.
Mr C also talks about a corporate policy of deliberate delay being the reason as to why he 
was not able to receive the information he needed earlier. In looking at the file and the 
correspondence, I do not agree that Aegon have deliberately delayed in responding to Mr 
Cs questions and providing information to him. My view is that this is also the result of 
Aegon trying to follow their process and keep a balance between offering help and not 
providing advice.
I can appreciate that Mr C was unaware of the processes involved here, including in relation 
to triggering the payments under the GMP but these are matters that Aegon could not advise 
him on. Mr C mentions a duty of care from Aegon and I agree that Aegon do have a duty of 
care to all of their customers. But I do not think Aegon have failed to meet their duty of care 
in this matter.
Mr C has also said that it was never his financial advisers responsibility to advise him on 
what Aegon needed to satisfy their requirements. I dont think this was what either Aegon or 
the investigator were referring to when they talked about advice that Mr C should receive. 
The issue here though is that it may have been helpful for Mr C to have sought financial 
advice to better understand what decisions he needed to make about how best to realise the 
benefits under the different elements of his policy, taking into account his financial needs. 
I understand that Mr C felt he had to continue to chase Aegon before he could get an answer 
on what needed to be done but, having looked at the file, I think that if Mr C had received 
advice on the instructions he needed to give to Aegon and provided the information they 
needed, these delays might not have happened.
In relation to the point about whether or not Mr C could invest the excess funds of the policy 
through another party other than financial adviser O, and his saying that this information was 
never made clear to him, I think that it was for Mr C and whichever financial adviser he 
chose to use to explore these options. Aegon could then confirm  to Mr C which forms 
needed to be completed. Mr C has said that his expectations of clarity of communications 
have not been met by Aegon but I do think Aegon have acted reasonably.
I have looked at the discussions between Mr C and Aegon about the certified identity 
documents and dont agree that Aegon told Mr C that the certified documents he sent first 
were acceptable. I can see no evidence that Mr C was given anything other than 
confirmation that the documents had been received and would be kept on file. In relation to 
the documents later sent to Aegon by Mr C, I agree with Aegon that these do not meet the 
requirements set out in their original letter to Mr C and later confirmed in writing to Mr C. I 
can see that the ways in which this second certification does not meet these requirements is 
quite minor but I would expect Aegon to maintain these requirements unless they decided to make an exception. Aegon did make an exception for Mr C in relation to the second 
certification and I think this was sensible in the circumstances but I do not think that this 
means they should have made this exception from the start.
Mr C has said that he thinks Aegons conduct was not satisfactory and is of the view that 
Aegon knowingly delayed telling him what they needed as far as his pension was concerned. 
As I have said earlier in this decision, I can see no evidence that any of the delays which 
occurred in relation to the payment of Mr Cs pension were deliberate or were the result of 
Aegon refusing to do something they should have done. I can however very much 
appreciate that Mr C found the process to be confusing and frustrating particularly because 
he was dealing with a matter he was not familiar with and had no experience of.
I think this frustration is understandable but this does not mean that it was the fault of Aegon 
or their processes and I think that, if Mr C had received more complete advice from a 
financial adviser, many of these delays could have been avoided which, in my view, would 
have helped all of the parties here.
So, in my view, Aegon are not responsible for the delays caused to the payments of Mr Cs 
pension and do not have to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Rana Chatterjee
Ombudsman