DRN-1507231
Complaint
Mr M complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave him wrong advice on transferring money from 
his current account, which has cost him £10,000.
Background
Mr M had instructed a builder to complete some renovations on his home. He says that the 
builder asked for £10,000 to be paid to him to start the work.
Mr M explains he called HSBC and asked if he would be able to get his money back, if there 
was a problem and the builder didnt complete the works. He says HSBC told him that yes, 
he would be able to get the money back, so he went ahead with the payment.
He says it was a few weeks later that he than asked HSBC to get his money back, because 
now he was in dispute with the builder. They then said they couldnt get the money back, 
and he raised a complaint.
HSBC responded and said they were sorry hed been given the wrong information about the 
payment on the phone. But the issue was a civil matter between him and the builder. They 
did however pay him £100 compensation to say sorry for what happened.
Mr M didnt agree with this, so asked us to look into things. One of our investigators did so. 
He felt that even if HSBC had told Mr M the correct information, he would have still sent the 
payment as he did, so didnt think HSBC should refund him £10,000. But he did feel HSBCs 
offer of compensation was too low and felt £400 in total was more appropriate.
Mr M didnt accept this though. In summary, he said its unfair, they make a mistake it costs 
them £400, he makes a mistake it costs him £10,000. Because of this, the complaints been 
passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain in this case that I need to consider what I think would have 
happened, if HSBC had given Mr M the right information  rather than if the wrong 
information HSBC gave Mr M had been true.
Ive listened to the phone call Mr M had when he transferred the money. Its clear hes 
concerned about the security of the transfer. He says he wants to pay the money by credit 
card because of the protection offered, but his builder doesnt have a card machine. During 
the call the HSBCs adviser does tell him that he could get his money back if he pays by 
debit card.
HSBCs adviser then processes the payment through an account transfer. Mr M couldnt 
have made a debit card payment  because itd have to be taken through a card machine 
which his builder doesnt have.So on listening to the call Im satisfied HSBCs adviser got some very basic information 
wrong.
But as Ive explained above, I need to then consider what Mr M would have done, had he 
been given the wrong information.
In the calls Ive listened to its clear Mr M has already settled on the builder hes asking to 
make payment to. Hes had enough conversations to talk about how long the process will 
take, the total value and so on. And the builder didnt have any other way of taking the 
money from Mr M.
Its always difficult in situations like this to determine what someone would have done if 
theyd been given the correct information. Mr M would naturally argue that hed have done 
something different given the problems hes encountered. 
But on balance Im satisfied that Mr M was more likely than not still going to pay his builder if 
hed been told the correct information  because hed already lined up the builder to do the 
work.
A dispute about the work appears to have come up several weeks after Mr M made this first 
payment  so HSBCs argument this is a civil matter may be correct.
So, while Im satisfied HSBC arent required to refund Mr M £10,000 as hes asked for  
compensation for the error that happened is justified.
Ive also listened to the phone calls Mr M had after he realised he wasnt going to get his 
money back. Given what hed been told, it was quite a shock that turned out not to be true.
Taking into account what Ive outlined I think the £100 HSBC originally offered isnt fair. Our 
investigator felt £400 was more appropriate, which HSBC agreed with, and explained this is 
compensation for the incorrect information being given  rather than any attempt to refund 
Mr M what hes claimed for.
Given all the circumstances, I think £400 is a fair and reasonable amount to settle this 
complaint.
My decision
It follows I uphold this complaint and order HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay Mr M total 
compensation of £400 for this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman