DRN-3146035
The complaint
Ms C complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited (Calpe) avoided her car insurance
policy, kept the premiums and asked her to make a payment of £5,556.35 for a third party
claim that was made against her.
Although Ms C renewed her policy through a broker, the broker was acting on Calpes
behalf. So, for the purposes of this decision I have referred to Calpe throughout.
Ms C is represented in her complaint by a company who Ill refer to as A throughout my
decision.
What happened
Ms C had a motor insurance policy with Calpe which began on 13 August 2018. Her
husband, Mr O, was a named driver on the policy.
In March 2019 Mr O was charged with driving under the influence and was waiting for the
matter to be heard in court. On 9 December 2019 Mr O was convicted of this offence by the
court and disqualified from driving.
Ms C renewed her insurance in August 2019, she did this over the phone. Ms C was asked
the following question:
In the last year have either of you received any criminal convictions, pending points,
endorsements, bans or disqualifications
Ms C replied No to the question.
On 2 December 2019 Ms C was involved in an accident which she admitted fault for. While
Calpe was investigating the claim, it discovered Mr O had been disqualified from driving for
the offence described above. Calpe said if itd known about Mr Os pending conviction when
Ms C renewed the policy itd have added 50% to the premium.
It said as the hearing for Mr Os offence was pending at the time of renewal Ms C should
have disclosed it by answering yes to the above question. It went on to say her failure to
disclose this was a deliberate or reckless act, and under the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations) Act (CIDRA) it could avoid the policy, which is what it did 
in March 2020. It kept the premiums Ms C had paid and asked her to pay the third-party
claim amount. 
A said the named driver wasnt convicted until 9 December 2019 so at the time of the
renewal the named drivers circumstances hadnt changed so Ms C had answered correctly.
A argues that even if Ms C answered the question incorrectly, this wasnt deliberate or
reckless. A has also said; as Calpe wouldve still offered Ms C a policy at renewal if itd
known about the conviction, avoiding the policy was disproportionate.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said at the time Ms C renewed her policy in
August 2019 shed answered the question correctly and therefore hadnt made a
misrepresentation. Had she answered differently, this would have presumed Mr O would be
convicted which wouldnt have been fair as it seems he was waiting for a hearing. Our
investigator noted Calpe said it would have added 50% to the premium had it known about
the conviction, but he didnt think this applied here as there was no conviction to disclose at
this stage.
In settlement of the complaint our investigator asked Calpe to:
re-instate the policy as if it ran until 21 March 2020
handle the claim as if the policy wasnt avoided (taking into account Ms C would have 
to pay the excess of £3,000)
remove any adverse information recorded externally against Ms C, so that she 
doesnt need to declare a cancelled policy in the future
refund the cost of the new policy Ms C had to take out
pay £300 compensation to Ms C given that this was a difficult time for her. She has a 
young child and it was very worrying to be told shed have to pay £5,556.35 as well 
as having her policy avoided and having to arrange new car insurance at short 
notice.
Calpe didnt agree, it said the named driver had committed the offence at the time of the
renewal so the conviction would have been pending at this point, and Ms C was asked to
disclose any pending convictions. It considered the conviction is pending from the time the
named driver was arrested for being under the influence and failed the test.
Our investigator said there wasnt a pending conviction at the time of the renewal, as it
wasnt until 9 December that this was decided. Calpe argued it cannot comprehend how in
the time between failing the test and attending court we didnt consider this a pending
conviction. But our investigator said he didnt think it was enough to say that just because
the named driver was attending court, they knew they had a conviction or disqualification
pending.
Calpe said the named driver was aware hed failed the test and was attending court because
of this. Therefore, it believed this is a pending charge and should have been disclosed. It
added, questions regarding pending motoring convictions are standard for motor insurers
across the industry. If this does not relate to pending cases where the customer may receive
a conviction, then it said it fails to understand what we believe this question refers to. It said
the named driver had been accused of a motoring offence and had a pending case, this
should have been declared.
Calpe asked for an ombudsmans review, so the matter was passed to me to decide. I 
issued my provisional findings on this on 19 October 2021 (below) and invited both parties to 
let me have anything in response they thought was relevant. 
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Ms C renewed her policy, she had a responsibility - under CIDRA to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. And for Calpe to take any action at 
all it needs to show Ms C didnt do this and she made whats described as a 
qualifying misrepresentation.CIDRA sets out a number of things that need to be considered when deciding 
whether a consumer failed to take reasonable care. One of these considerations is 
the questions the consumer was asked. Ive listened to the call where Ms C renewed 
the policy. Calpe asked her In the last year have either of you received any criminal 
convictions, pending points, endorsements, bans or disqualifications. I think the 
question is clear, which Ill explain in more detail below. And Ms C answered No.
I think the clarity of the question here hangs on if Mr Os conviction and 
disqualification were pending at the time of renewal. To decide this, Ive considered 
the meaning of the word pending and the intention of the question.
The definition in the English dictionary for pending is:
Awaiting decision or settlement, or;
About to happen; imminent.
From the moment Mr O failed the test and was arrested, he was on notice that he 
would have to attend court for the charge to be decided. The outcome of the court 
hearing could have led to points, endorsements, bans or a disqualification. So, Im 
satisfied that this meets the definition of pending as Mr O was Awaiting decision on 
his charge. In view of this I think Ms C failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation.
But to show Ms Cs misrepresentation was a qualifying one under CIDRA, Calpe 
needs to show it would either not have offered the policy at all, if Ms C hadnt made 
the misrepresentation or that it would have offered it on different terms. Calpe has 
provided evidence to show that it would still have sold Ms C the policy, but the 
premium would have increased by 50%. So, Im satisfied the misrepresentation was 
a qualifying one.
If the misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate  and an insurer can show it 
would at least only have offered the policy on different terms  its entitled to avoid 
the consumers policy. If the insurer is entitled to avoid the policy, it wont have to 
deal with any claims under it. But if the qualifying misrepresentation was careless, 
then to avoid the policy, the insurer must show it wouldnt have offered the policy at 
all, but for the misrepresentation.
For the misrepresentation to be considered deliberate or reckless Ms C had to have:
Known the information she provided was untrue or misleading or didnt care it 
was untrue or misleading; and
Known the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insureror did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
I consider she did. In this case, Ms C was asked a clear question about the matter  
she answered No to the question even though she was aware of Mr Os upcoming 
court appearance. Having been asked a clear question about the matter she ought 
reasonably to have known it was relevant to the insurer and should have taken 
reasonable care to answer it correctly.
Even if I thought it was reasonable for her to be in any doubt about the answer she 
was giving (which for the avoidance of doubt, Im not), I would have expected her to 
ask the adviser, at the time she was asked the question, during the renewal call.Given the above, Im satisfied Calpe has acted fairly and reasonably when:
concluding Ms Cs misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless; and
deciding to avoid her policy, retaining the premiums and asking her to pay the 
third-party claim.
Calpe didn't respond.
A responded on behalf of Ms C, in summary they said:
Calpe's question was clear, specific and Ms C answered the question correctly. They 
say the focus in the question should be on received rather than pending. And at the 
time of answering the question Mr O had not received a criminal conviction, pending 
points, an endorsement, a ban or a disqualification.
I had taken a biased view by considering that the only possible outcome when a case 
is pending means that it could have led to points, endorsements, bans or a 
disqualification.
My understanding of the question was significantly different from the understanding 
of the investigator who originally looked at the case.
It is wrong for me to have placed the responsibility on Miss C to ask the advice about 
the question or about the answer she was giving.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here as the ombudsman deciding cases is not to rubberstamp an investigator's 
opinion, but to review the case afresh and decide the fair and reasonable outcome in the 
circumstances of the case. This will sometimes mean making findings that are different to 
that of the investigator who originally looked at the complaint, as I've done in this case.
Having said that, I think its important to explain I've read and taken into account all of the 
information provided by both parties, in reaching my decision. A lot of information has been 
provided for me to consider during the course of the complaint. If I've not reflected 
something that's been said in this decision is not because I didn't see it, is because I didn't 
deem it relevant to the crux of the complaint. Having done so I have to tell Ms C that A's 
comments haven't changed things for me, I'll explain.
I've considered what A has said about the focus of the question being on the word received 
rather than pending. However, I don't agree this should be the case, I say this because the 
question asked:
In the last year have either of you received any criminal convictions, pending points, 
endorsements, bans or disqualification?
While Mr O had not received a conviction at this point, he was awaiting trial and so there 
was the possibility at that point that he may receive: points, endorsements, a ban, a 
disqualification, or none of the above - pending the decision made by the court. So, at that 
time all of those possibilities were a potential outcome of the hearing and so were pending 
and therefore needed to be disclosed when the question was asked. 
There is no dispute the question was a clear one, and having been asked it, I'm still of the 
opinion, that Ms C ought reasonably to have known it was relevant to the insurer and should 
have taken reasonable care to answer it correctly. By simply answering No to the question 
without giving it any thought, whilst having the knowledge of Mr O's upcoming court date, was in my opinion reckless.
So, it follows, I'm satisfied Calpe has acted fairly and reasonably when:
concluding Ms C's misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless; and
deciding to avoid her policy, retaining the premiums and asking her to pay the third-
party claim.
I understand Miss C will be disappointed with this outcome. But my decision ends what we  
in trying to resolve her dispute with Calpe can do for her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2021.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman