DRN-4035603
The complaint
Mr H has complained about his car insurer Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited in 
relation to a claim he made when his classic car was stolen.
What happened
Mr Hs car was stolen in 2018 and Markerstudy began considering the claim. But it had 
concerns, undertook various investigations and asked Mr H for various details. In 2021 the 
claim remained unsettled and Mr H wasnt happy. He complained to Markerstudy and it 
issued a final response to him on 29 March 2021 addressing his concerns at that time.
Following the 2021 letter the claim remained outstanding. By 2022 that had not changed and 
Mr H was still unhappy. He complained to Markerstudy again and he also complained to this 
service. Markerstudy, in final responses dated April and September 2022, acknowledged 
that some delay had occurred and offered a total of £400 compensation (£250 and £150). In 
the September 2022 response Markerstudy also said it would then expedite the claim 
settlement. To us Mr H said the service from Markerstudy had been terrible and that he had 
just been given excuse after excuse for the claim not progressing. He noted that the value of 
his car had increased markedly in the years since it was stolen. Mr H told us he was worried 
that any claim settlement would only focus on the cars value at the time of the loss  which 
would leave him with a financial loss four years on. He also felt that £400 compensation for 
the upset and worry caused by four years of Markerstudys delays was insufficient. He said 
that he wanted Markerstudy to pay him at least £50,000 to replace his car (the value at the 
time of loss having been around £30,000). He confirmed later that the total hed like to 
receive would be £60,000 to include compensation for his upset and legal fees. 
On 21 October 2022, Markerstudy told Mr H it thought the market value for his car was 
£30,000, so it would pay him that in settlement of his claim less his £200 excess. Mr H said 
he would accept that as an interim payment only. The funds were transferred to Mr Hs bank 
account the following day.
Our Investigator told Mr H that he couldnt consider the merits of what had happened before 
29 March 2021. Subsequently, I, issued a decision confirming that this service cannot 
consider a complaint about what Markerstudy did and how it handled the claim in the period 
after the loss up until 29 March 2021.
In respect of the period that we can consider, that after 29 March 2021, our Investigator felt 
that Markerstudy had caused some delays. He said Markerstudy should pay a further £200 
compensation.
Markerstudy said it accepted the findings. Although it subsequently also confirmed it would 
pay interest on the claim settlement from December 2021. It said that was the date when its 
enquiries had ended and it had decided to settle the claim, which it then didnt do until 
October 2022. It said that would equate to an additional payment to Mr H, after tax of around 
£1,600.
Mr H, represented by his solicitor, said the compensation award was derisory. Not least as it 
didnt even equate to four years worth of interest applied to the delayed claim settlement. 
And he didnt think wed properly considered the evidence about the cars likely current 
market value which had been provided. Mr H asked that we review the complaint and it was 
passed to me for an Ombudsmans consideration.
I was minded to uphold the complaint. I felt more interest was due than what Markerstudy 
had offered, and more compensation. But I didnt think anything should be paid regarding 
Mr Hs contention that the car had appreciated in value, or in respect of his solicitors fees. 
So I issued a provisional decision to share my views with both parties. My provisional 
findings were:
Settlement
Clearly, by the point Markerstudy was continuing its enquiries in the last few days of 
March 2021, the claim had already been going on for a very long time  the car having been 
stolen at the beginning of August 2018. There had also been poor communication. And Mr H 
was understandably frustrated by all of that. So he started this period in a disgruntled state 
but, from what he has said, hopeful that things would improve and soon resolve with the 
claim being settled.
From reviewing Markerstudys file from the end of March 2021 onwards, I can see that it had 
some significant concerns about the claim. I can understand that its concerns meant that 
enquiries had to be on-going, and even at this point in the claim, that there were still some 
investigations to be undertaken. I accept that investigations arent always compact  it is 
sometimes the case that one thread pulled, releases another that then has to be followed. 
It is also the case that during this type of investigation theres often not much an insurer can 
provide to its policyholder by way of updates. That is because the nature of the 
investigations are not something that can usually be shared. But that doesnt mean an 
insurer should just not speak to its policyholder  or that its reasonable to not call them 
when promised. And Markerstudys file does show that it did not communicate well with Mr H 
at this time  that Mr H was promised call-backs that werent returned and that he was really 
unhappy as he felt generally ignored. 
Markerstudys file also shows that its investigation team were satisfied in June 2021 that all 
worthwhile enquiries had been exhausted. Markerstudys notes from that time state that it 
should have handled the investigations, in the early stages of the claim, better. Seemingly its 
enquiries being on-going after March 2021 was because of those failures in the early stages. 
And that as of June 2021 the available evidence Markerstudy held and could reasonably 
expect to be able to attain, didnt suggest this was anything other than a genuine claim. 
However, despite recommendations (internally) made to move the claim to settlement at that 
time, Markerstudy didnt do so. Its recently told us that its enquiries were only completed in 
December 2021. And it was, of course, then October 2022, when it finally made a settlement 
for the claim. But I havent seen anything that makes me think that any delay in settlement 
beyond June 2021 was in any way reasonable.  
So it does seem to me that the claim took far longer than it should have done to move to 
settlement. And whilst the policy only requires Markerstudy to pay Mr H for the market value 
as at the time of the loss  it cant possibly be fair, delays or not, for him to only receive that 
money four years later. Markerstudy was entitled to investigate the claim. But, here, its 
choice has impacted Mr H as it resulted in it not settling the claim for four years. I cant see 
any good reason why interest*  generally applied on claim settlements from the date of loss 
 shouldnt be applied here. Currently Markerstudys settlement is £29,800 (£30,000 less the 
£200 excess). I think it should add interest* to that sum from the date of loss in August 2018 
until 22 October 2022 when settlement was paid.Compensation for distress and inconvenience
I also think that the period of March 2021 to October 2022 was particularly difficult and 
stressful for Mr H. He had been waiting on his claim to be settled for a very long time and 
that took its toll on him during this period. A further period of waiting. And during which 
Markerstudy continued to fail to keep in reasonable contact with him. Further, when 
settlement was made, Markerstudy did so without awarding any interest at all  yet even by 
its own account, it had unreasonably failed to settle the claim for ten months at least 
between December 2021 and October 2022. Taking everything into account, I think 
Markerstudy should pay Mr H a total of £750 compensation. It has paid £400 already so it 
will now need to pay a further £350.
Appreciation of value since the point of loss
Mr H has said that the cars value has appreciated so much in the years since it was stolen 
that it will cost in the region of £50,000 to replace. So he thinks that even a payment of 
interest* on the market value sum from the time of loss wont enable him to replace his car. 
Ive considered this but I dont think Mr H has sufficiently evidenced that this is most likely 
the case. 
Mr Hs car is a classic  so the usual trade guides often held by this service to be reliable 
indicators of market value, cant assist here. They simply dont provide details for cars of the 
age of Mr Hs. Whilst we often find that adverts for cars for sale arent wholly reliable 
indicators of a cars value, in a situation like this, they are often all that is available to make 
that determination. That is the case here and Ive considered the evidence Mr H has 
provided in this respect.
One of the difficulties with sale adverts is that they only reflect the asking price for a car. 
They dont reflect what it is sold for. And it is the sale price achieved which is the real 
indicator of what the car is worth  or what someone like Mr H might have to pay to replace 
their car. But when comparing adverts, the details of the cars for sale also have to be 
considered. Mr Hs policy entitles him to the cost of replacing his car with one similar to that 
he had.  And that remains even with the settlement having been outstanding for so long. So, 
even if some allowance is given against the asking price for what the car might sell for, any 
adverts presented can only be seen to show what the insured car might likely cost to replace 
if the car(s) for sale is (are) similar. Things like mileage and age of a car, especially a classic 
where cars built in certain years might hold a higher, or lower, prestige value for enthusiasts, 
can have a significant effect on the sale price set for a car. So, where adverts have been 
provided with a view to showing what Mr H will have to pay for a replacement car, for me to 
be persuaded that is the case, Id have to be satisfied that the advertised vehicles were 
similar to Mr Hs. And Im not.
Mr Hs car was from 1973, and at the time of loss it reportedly had around 70,000 miles on 
the clock. Of the adverts Mr H has provided, only one is a car from 1973. That car is 
advertised for sale at £41,603, only around £11,000 more than Markerstudy said Mr Hs car 
was worth in 2018. But it was showing as only having done around 11,000 miles. It seems 
likely to me that a car of that age, with such little mileage, would naturally attract a higher 
price than a similar car that had been used much more  around 60,000 miles more. Other 
adverts Mr H has provided are for cars from different years, so I cant be satisfied theyre 
reasonably similar to Mr Hs 1973 car. One is a car for sale on an internet trading website. 
The seller is asking nearly £70,000 for their car. Which is clearly much more than 
Markerstudy paid Mr H, and is even more than Mr H has asked for. That might, on the face 
of it, suggest that Mr Hs request of a sum part way between the two is reasonable. 
However, the car in question is, again, of a different year to Mr Hs, and the advert doesnt 
detail the cars mileage. So Im not persuaded that this advert does show that Mr H will likely 
have to pay more, much more, than £30,000 plus interest* from the date of loss, to replace his car with one that is reasonably similar. As such, having reviewed all of the evidence 
provided, Im not minded to require Markerstudy to pay more (beyond the interest Ive said 
Im intending to award) to Mr H to compensate him for its delayed claim settlement.
Legal costs incurred
I know Mr H has also incurred solicitors costs during this claim and complaint. I also know 
he thinks that Markerstudy should reimburse his outlay in this respect  he feels that its 
delays and poor claim handling left him with no choice but to appoint a solicitor. However, 
when Mr H appointed his solicitor, he had already made the complaint to this service. And as 
a free, impartial dispute resolution service, set up as an alternative to the courts, we dont 
expect or ask complainants, using our service, to be represented by solicitors. As such, this 
service doesnt usually make awards to cover solicitors costs incurred by the complainant.
I know the claim was still on-going at the point Mr H came to us and, as Ive said above, 
I understand that Mr H was frustrated with everything. I also accept he likely felt that he 
wasnt getting anywhere  that in early 2022 he was in the same position he had been a year 
before. But his option then, if he hadnt wanted to incur costs, was to let us deal with his 
complaint. Instead though he appointed a solicitor and it was the solicitor that then brought 
the complaint back to us a few months later  around six months after Mr H had initially 
contacted us and four months from Markerstudys April 2022 final response letter. In the 
circumstances here, I havent seen any good reason to make me think that an exception to 
our general approach of not awarding legal costs should fairly and reasonably be made.
Markerstudy said it accepted my findings.
Mr H, via his solicitor said it seemed likely he would not be able to persuade me to change 
my view. He feels our claims process is biased towards insurers.
Mr H said that, regarding the vehicles value, at least he has made some effort to evidence 
this. Whereas Markerstudy hasnt produced any evidence to counter his submission. He 
feels that is because it knows the Ombudsman will find in its favour.
Mr H said it is still a concern for him that I could not look at what had happened before 
March 2021. But he is pleased that compensation for the period after that has been found to 
be due. 
Regarding his solicitors fees, Mr H said that regardless of his complaint to us, the claim with 
Markerstudy was not progressing. And did not do so until after he appointed his solicitor. He 
believes that cant just be coincidence  the claim settlement offer came within a few months 
of the appointment and would not have happened otherwise.
Mr H queried the tax requirement mentioned in my provisional award. He said there is no 
deduction in court proceedings for tax.
In respect of my provisional awards, Mr H asked that I set a time period of 21 days for 
Markerstudy to pay them, and direct that interest is paid if the payments are not made within 
that period. He is worried that Markerstudy will continue to delay matters and he wants to put 
this behind him.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I understand Mr Hs concerns but can assure him that if I saw evidence that gave me cause 
to change my view, I would do so. As Mr H will note from my provisional decision, I have 
been critical with Markerstudy where I have felt such is warranted, also making awards 
against it. 
I appreciate that Markerstudy didnt provide evidence to counter Mr Hs submissions on the 
appreciated value of his car. But that didnt mean I could just accept what Mr H was saying 
the appreciated value was, not without assessing the evidence provided to see if it 
supported that contention. And my provisional findings show my detailed assessment of that 
evidence, and explain why I did not find it was persuasive evidence of the value put forward. 
My decision about the period I can consider the complaint about remains. I note Mr H is 
pleased with the compensation I have awarded for the period subject of this decision. 
The complaint Mr H made to us was about the delayed claim. I appreciate that Mr H feels 
that the appointment of his solicitor was crucial in achieving resolution of the claim. But, that 
appointment, which naturally entailed a cost, was a choice Mr H made. He could have 
continued his complaint via the Financial Ombudsman Service without entailing a cost. Ive 
not seen anything which makes me think it would be fair and reasonable for me to award 
Mr H reimbursement of his solicitors costs.
My note on tax in the award section of my provisional decision should have read that HMRC 
may require tax to be paid. Ive amended that paragraph before including it below in this final 
decision. 
I can understand why Mr H is worried that Markerstudy might cause a further delay. I dont 
think it will at this stage. But it is the case that this service does sometimes apply a caveat to 
awards regarding when they should be paid and what should happen, including the 
application of interest, if payment is delayed. I think its fair for me to add that here, not least 
as a period of 21 days  from the date Markerstudy knows it must pay the sums  is a 
reasonable length of time for the payments stipulated to be calculated and paid. 
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy to pay Mr H:
An amount equivalent to interest* on the sum of £29,800, applied from the date of loss in 
August 2018 until 22 October 2022 when settlement was made**.
A further £350 compensation for upset, where total compensation is £750 but £400 of 
that has already been paid**.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. HM Revenue & Customs may require Markerstudy to take off tax from this 
interest. If asked, it must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off.
**I require Markerstudy to pay these awards within 21 days of the date on which we tell it 
that Mr H has accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest* 
on the sums due from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to provide the 
redress set out above at Putting things right.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 April 2023.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman