DRN-3921904
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited, trading as Very, lent to her 
irresponsibly
What happened
Miss B applied for a shopping account with Shop Direct in December 2018. She was 
accepted and given a credit limit of £250. This was increased in July 2019 to £450 and to 
£1,450 in November 2019.
Miss B says that Shop Direct shouldnt have increased her credit from £250. She says it 
didnt take account of her financial situation at the time and that it should have refused her 
credit. She says Shop Direct didnt check properly that it was affordable for her and that she 
has struggled with debt as a result.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint. She didnt think Shop Direct had done 
anything wrong in its lending decisions. 
Miss B disagreed. She told us that she had lost her job and become a full-time carer, which 
made things really hard for her. 
As Miss B did not agree the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible 
lending - including the key relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our 
website and Ive taken that into account when considered Miss Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion as our adjudicator. I dont think Shop 
Direct acted unfairly and lent to Miss B irresponsibly. Ill explain why Ive reached this 
conclusion.
Shop Direct needed to take reasonable steps to ensure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss B 
could afford to repay what she was being lent in a sustainable manner. These checks could 
take into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the 
repayment amount, Miss Bs borrowing history and her income and expenditure.
Shop Direct has provided a list of the checks it completed when opening Miss Bs account. It 
says these show that it was reasonable to lend to Miss B in the way that it did.
I can see from this list that Shop Direct saw that Miss B had no County Court Judgements 
(CCJs). It noted that she had a default on her credit file in the preceding 12 months and that 
she had been in arrears for eight months in the preceding two years  likely related to that 
default. But to balance this, Miss Bs existing available credit elsewhere was modest at a 
total of £700 and she was up to date with her other payments. The default sum had been for 
around £100. So, on balance, I think it was reasonable for Shop Direct to have allowed Miss 
B to open the account with the relatively low credit limit. 
  
In July 2019 Shop Direct increased Miss Bs credit limit to £450. Again, there was nothing in 
the checks Shop Direct completed to indicate that an increase of £200 would be 
unaffordable for Miss B. She had no arrears or CCJs and it was, by then, 17 months since 
her default. She had managed her account well with no late payments and she hadnt gone 
over her limit. So, again, I think Shop Direct did sufficient checks before it increased Miss Bs 
credit limit again.
In November 2019 Shop Direct increased Miss Bs credit limit by £1,000 to £1,450. This was 
a substantial amount and I think at this point it ought to have made further checks before it 
did this. From the information from its credit checks I can see that Miss Bs total borrowing 
had increased from around £880 in July 2019 to over £2,000. Miss B had a further three live 
credit accounts and her overall available credit had increased to £3,100. I think at this point 
Shop Direct should have verified Miss Bs income and expenditure.
 
I cant know for sure what Shop Direct would have found if it had done this. In the absence of 
any other information, we asked Miss B to provide a copy of her credit file and her bank 
statements for the months leading up to November 2019.
I can see from Miss Bs credit file that there was nothing of obvious concern. She hadnt 
missed any recent payments and she was meeting all of her credit obligations on time. Her 
bank statements showed that she was reliant on benefits  Miss B told us that she wasnt 
working because she was a carer. Having identified all Miss Bs essential outgoings, 
including her payments to other credit providers, payments to a family member, utilities, 
council tax and food Miss B had, on average, over £200 a month in disposable income. I 
think that was sufficient to allow Miss B to make sustainable repayments on her increased 
credit limit. For example, if Miss B had utilised the whole of her additional credit and paid off 
5% each month (which I consider would have allowed her to repay the credit in a reasonable 
amount of time) it would have cost her £50 a month.
I dont think there is evidence to suggest that Shop Direct missed anything in its checks, or 
that had Shop Direct done more appropriate checks it would have seen anything which 
ought reasonably have prevented it from lending to Miss B.
So, on balance, I think Shop Direct acted fairly by lending to Miss B in these circumstances 
and I dont think Miss B lost out as a result of anything Shop Direct did wrong.
I realise that Miss B did get into financial difficulty after November 2019 and is still 
experiencing difficulties. Miss B indicates that Shop Direct has not been helpful in assisting 
her to manage her debt because it has not shown her the forbearance she considers 
necessary. I havent looked at this matter as part of this complaint but if Miss B considers 
that Shop Direct hasnt acted fairly in the way it has dealt with her she should make a formal 
complaint to Shop Direct. If Miss B is not satisfied with Shop Directs response to that 
complaint, Miss B can bring a further complaint to this service about that matter. My final decision
For the reasons I have set out above I do not uphold Miss Bs complaint. It follows that Shop 
Direct Bank Limited, trading as Very, does not have to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 March 2023.
 
Sally Allbeury
Ombudsman