DRN-3514543
The complaint
Mrs K, as the trustee of the K Trust, complains that Zurich Assurance Ltd mis-sold a 
reviewable whole of life policy in 1991. And that subsequent advice to use the policy to 
protect a mortgage was unsuitable.
What happened
Mrs K took out a whole of life policy in 1991 with an initial sum assured of £38,000. The sum 
assured and premium were indexed to average earnings. The policy was written under trust 
in 1997 and Mrs Ks late husband was an additional trustee. The policy was sold to Mrs K by 
a provider that has since been acquired by Zurich. Any reference to Zurich can be taken as a 
reference to the provider that sold the policy.
In 1998 Mrs K converted the mortgage she had with her late husband from interest only to a 
repayment mortgage. At this time Mrs K increased the life cover on the policy to £86,530. 
The sum assured and the premium remained indexed linked.
Mrs K, as trustee of the K Trust, is represented by a claims management company (CMC). 
The CMC complained to Zurich that when the policy was sold, Mrs K had little or no 
understanding how investments worked. The CMC said Mrs Ks low income hadnt been 
taken into account, and when the policy was sold it was unsuitable for Mrs K. The CMC 
complained Zurich hadnt considered whether a joint life policy with Mrs Ks late husband 
would have been more suitable. The CMC said the level of cover was increased in 1998 to 
protect Mrs Ks mortgage, and that this was unsuitable advice.
Zurich thought Mrs K had a need for family life cover when the whole of life policy was 
recommended. They said Mrs K was provided with a full explanation of how the policy 
worked and her late husband was also present at the time of the sale. Zurich said the main 
purpose of the policy was family protection and it wasnt taken out for investment purposes. 
They also felt the policy was affordable and noted Mrs K has continued the policy for over 20 
years, and this supports there were no affordability concerns. With regards to the policy 
being used to protect a repayment mortgage, Zurich said when Mrs K changed the 
mortgage, an existing endowment remained in place for a further five years and, in any case, 
its reasonable the whole of life policy remained in place for family protection.
The CMC brought the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where one of our 
Investigators looked into things. The Investigator thought the policy hadnt been mis-sold as 
the limited information available from Zurich supported there was a need for family protection 
at the time, and that a whole of life policy wasnt an unsuitable recommendation. The 
Investigator noted the policy was later written under trust prior to Mrs K changing the 
repayment type of the mortgage, and that as the existing endowment policy continued to 
provide life cover for the mortgage, the whole of life policy was being used for family 
protection. The Investigator didnt consider Zurich had done anything significantly wrong.
The CMC, on behalf of Mrs K as trustee of the K Trust, didnt agree with the Investigator and 
asked that an Ombudsman decides the complaint. Its therefore been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs K as trustee of the K Trust will be disappointed, but for very much the 
same reasons as the Investigator, Ive decided Zurich havent done anything significantly 
wrong. I will now explain why, and address comments provided by the CMC.
Initial sale of the policy
The policy was sold in 1991. Zurich have only been able to supply limited documentation 
from the time of the sale. Although the CMC is disappointed this is the case, Im satisfied the 
documents are sufficient for me to make a decision based on what I think is likely to have 
happened.
Mrs K first met with Zurich in 1990 when the primary objective was to arrange a mortgage 
supported by an endowment policy. The 1990 review document provided shows Mrs K had 
an income of £9,200 per year and there was additional £18,300 per year from her late 
husband. The document confirms Mrs K and her late husband had three dependent children. 
In February 1991, Mrs K and her late husband met with Zurich again. The document Ive 
referred to above is annotated to this effect and the whole of life policy started shortly after 
this meeting. Although theres no fact-find or recommendation letter from the meeting in 
February 1991, there wasnt a requirement for one to be provided. I cant fairly establish why 
the level of cover was recommended, nor whether a joint life policy had been considered. 
However, it seems more likely than not Zurich highlighted a need for life cover as Mrs K had 
three dependents at the time. Based on the limited information available, Im satisfied there 
was a need for a policy for family protection. 
Although the CMC say a joint life policy would have been cheaper, I dont consider this 
would make it any more suitable. It may or may not have been cheaper, but regardless of 
their concerns the policy sold to Mrs K was unsuitable based on cost, Mrs K continued to 
make payments. And she has accepted the indexed cover and indexed premiums 
throughout the policy life. So, Ive decided it would be unfair and unreasonable for me to 
conclude cost was the key factor in Mrs K taking out a single policy. Instead, I consider its 
more likely Mrs K wanted cover in addition to that of her late husband so that their 
dependents received a higher payment should both parents die.
Ive noted the CMC says Mrs K had little or no understanding how investments worked. I 
dont consider this is a reason to say the policy was unsuitable. The primary reason for the 
policy was to provide life cover if Mrs K died. I agree theres an investment element to this 
policy, but it didnt need Mrs Ks day-to-day involvement in investment decisions. Mrs K and 
her late husband approached Zurich to obtain financial advice, so although she may not 
have had a great deal of investment experience, I consider it more likely than not Mrs K 
wanted to maximise the life cover. Zurichs recommendation of a whole of life policy with an 
investment element is not wholly unsuitable in these circumstances.
The 1998 increase in cover
By 1998, the life cover on Mrs Ks policy had increased to almost £52,000 and the premium 
to £36.75 per month. An updated short-form fact-find from this time supports Mrs K and her 
late husband had decided to switch their mortgage to capital and interest. The notes on the 
fact-find record Mrs K wanted to increase the life cover on her policy but intended to hold onto the existing endowment policy until she and her late husband had decided whether to 
surrender it. Mrs Ks income had increased to about £13,000 a year and the additional 
income from her late husband was about £19,000 a year.
I understand the concerns of the CMC that a whole of life is not normally suitable to protect a 
mortgage, but there are other important considerations in this case.
By the time Mrs K met with Zurich in 1998, the policy had already been written in trust. In my 
opinion this adds significant weight to the fact Mrs K intended the policy to first be used for 
family protection, and not solely to protect the mortgage. In 1998 Mrs K hadnt decided 
whether to surrender the endowment, and Zurich say the endowment policy was in place 
until 2003. Ive noted at least two of Mrs Ks children were still likely dependent at this time, 
so there was likely still a need for family protection. The mortgage debt would be reducing 
over the coming years as the balance reduced.
Mrs K increased the level of cover in 1998 to £86,530 and continued with the indexation 
option. The premium rose to £48.75 per month. I considered if this was affordable at the 
time, but Mrs K and her late husband indicated they had sufficient available income to meet 
the increase in premium. Im not persuaded a decreasing term assurance would have been 
a suitable option for Mrs K, as the CMC suggest. There was still life cover provided by the 
endowment policy for another five years or so. This would more likely have paid off the 
mortgage in full, so there was no need for any additional mortgage protection cover in 1998. 
In addition. Mrs K had the benefit of the life cover being paid outside of the estate, and the 
flexibility to surrender the endowment policy, or keep it, without worrying about there being a 
shortfall of cover for the mortgage.
The needs of Mrs K were made more complex by her decision to change the mortgage 
repayment type, and have the policy placed within a trust. But Ive decided the increase in 
cover for the whole of life policy at this time was a suitable option in the circumstances of this 
case as it seems more likely the whole of life policy remained primarily for family protection. 
My final decision
Ive decided that Zurich Assurance Ltd didnt do anything significantly wrong and I do not 
uphold the complaint made by Mrs K as trustee of the K Trust.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K as trustee of 
the K Trust to accept or reject my decision before 17 October 2022.
 
Paul Lawton
Ombudsman