DRN-1200284
 
The complaint
Mrs S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC recorded a CIFAS marker against her for fraud.
What happened
Mrs S had a bank account with Lloyds. In February 2018, following a large number of 
unsuccessful chargeback attempts by Mrs S, Lloyds closed her account and recorded a 
CIFAS marker against her. The reason given was fraudulent claim  chargeback. Mrs S 
complained that this had made it impossible for her to obtain credit, just when she was about 
to apply for a mortgage. She said she hadnt tried to do anything fraudulent, she had just not 
recognised some transactions so she had called the bank. She did not dispute that she 
owed the money. Lloyds said it hadnt done anything wrong, so she brought this complaint to 
our Service.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that it was not unreasonable of Lloyds 
to expect Mrs S to have recognised the transactions, so it had been entitled to record the 
COFAS marker. Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would completely understand if Mrs S had not recognised one or two transactions and had 
asked the bank about them, only to realise her mistake later on. But Mrs S actually raised 18 
chargeback claims between November 2017 and February 2018, a period of four months. 
That does seem excessive to me. So I can understand why Lloyds thought that this was not 
just 18 innocent mistakes, but was worth reporting to CIFAS. On balance, I think that was a 
reasonable thing for it to do. 
I could just stop there. But in one of the chargebacks she raised, which was for the deposit 
on a holiday booking with a travel agency, Mrs S wrote this in an email:
I have spoke to [the agency] in the past but have never decided to book anything, I 
have spoken to them and they said they are not refunding me. I have not ever signed 
anything, or ever told them to take any payment from my account.
In response to the chargeback, the agency provided clear evidence that Mrs S had booked a 
holiday for herself and her boyfriend (who is now her husband) and had paid a deposit. The 
booking had been made using Mrs Ss contact details, including her email address which 
was the same address she used to raise the chargeback. So its not surprising that Lloyds 
concluded that she had tried to mislead it. I agree with Lloydss decision.
 
My final decisionSo my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Richard Wood
Ombudsman