DRN-2778783
The complaint
Mr R complains that Revolut Limited (Revolut) blocked and closed his bank account, then 
returned the funds in the account to the original sources, rather than releasing them to him.
Mr R brings his complaint on behalf of his business, R Limited.
What happened
On 20 September 2019, Revolut blocked Mr Rs account, while it undertook a review. It 
didnt tell Mr R about the block or the review, and it didnt tell him why it had taken those 
actions when Mr R found out about them and asked. Revolut completed its review on 30 
October 2019. It wrote to Mr R, telling him it had closed his account and returned the funds 
in his account to their original sources.
Mr R complained. He said he couldnt pay his suppliers and he hadnt been able to recover 
£256 of the money Revolut had returned. Revolut rejected his complaint and said it couldnt 
disclose any details about the review. Mr R remained unhappy, so he brought his complaint 
to our service.
Our investigator felt Revolut hadnt done anything wrong in blocking and closing Mr Rs 
account. And that it was entitled to return the funds to their original sources.
Mr R didnt agree, so he asked for an ombudsman to review the matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Account block
All banks in the UK are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their 
legal and regulatory obligations. That sometimes means they need to restrict customers 
accounts while they carry out a review. 
So, in order to make an award in favour of Mr R, I would need to be satisfied that Revolut 
acted outside of its obligations or treated him unfairly. But, having looked at the evidence, 
Im satisfied that Revolut acted in line with its legal and regulatory obligations when it 
blocked Mr Rs account. And that it was entitled to do so under the account terms and 
conditions that govern the relationship between Revolut and Mr R.
Ive also reviewed the timeline to see if Revolut acted promptly or caused any unnecessary 
delays. I can see from the chat history that Mr R was unhappy with the vague responses he 
got from Revolut. And that he was frustrated with the time Revolut took to complete its 
review. But Revolut wasnt under a duty to disclose any details. And, having reviewed the 
action it took, Im satisfied it acted reasonably promptly in completing its investigation in light 
of the information it had to consider.
Account closure
A bank is entitled to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of that account.
The terms and conditions of the account in question  with which both Revolut and Mr R had 
to comply  say Revolut can close an account immediately and without notice, under certain 
circumstances.
Ive looked at the evidence Revolut has provided me to explain why it closed Mr Rs account. 
And Ive thought about how that sits against the terms of the account. Having done so, Im 
satisfied it was entitled to close Mr Rs account in the manner it did.
Account funds
The final issue for me to address is the funds Revolut returned from Mr Rs account, to the 
original sources. Mr R says he had to borrow money to cover costs he would have covered 
with the funds in his account. And that he hasnt been able to recover £256 of the sums 
Revolut returned. But Ive had to weigh that against Revoluts rights and obligations in 
relation to the funds.
So, Ive looked at the evidence Revolut sent our service to justify its decision to return the 
funds to sender, instead of to Mr R. And Ive thought about what Mr R has said about what 
he would have liked Revolut to do. Having considered all of the evidence supplied by both 
parties, I dont think Revolut acted unfairly when it returned the funds to their original source. 
Based on the evidence Revolut has shown our service, Im satisfied it acted reasonably in 
declining to return the finds to Mr R.
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint, and that I wont ask Revolut to compensate Mr R.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2021.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman