DRN-2946355
The complaint
 Mr B and Mrs S complain about a loan provided to them by Loans 2 Go Limited trading as 
Loans 2 Go, which they say were unaffordable.
 
What happened
  Loans 2 Go provided Mr B and Mrs S with a log book loan. The details of which are given in 
this table:
Taken Instalment Amount Instalments
18/04/2016 96.67 500 12 months
Mr B and Mrs S say they feel that Loans 2 Go have irresponsibly lent the money to them.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June 2021. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
Did L2G carry out proportionate checks?
I can see that Loans 2 Go asked Mr B and Mrs S about their income and expenditure. I can 
see that it says it verified the benefits that Mr B and Mrs S received each month and then 
made a note of their joint expenditure. 
I can see from an income and expenditure form that it completed at the time, that total 
amount of income received through benefits payments to them both came to around £1027. 
Loans 2 Go then says it assessed Mr B and Mrs Ss expenditure to be around £863. After 
the instalment amount for this loan is deducted, it would leave them jointly with about £67 
disposable income left for the month. 
Our adjudicator said that Loans 2 Go, after assessing Mr B and Mrs Ss joint disposable 
income should have seen that the loan repayments were not sustainable over the 12-month 
term of the loan and so didnt make a fair lending decision. I have looked at this and am 
currently minded to consider, that at the very least it should have carried out further checks 
to satisfy itself that Mr B and Mrs S could sustainably make the repayments when each one 
fell due. I make this conclusion after considering the length of the loan, the amount due to be 
repaid and the small amount of disposable income that Mr B and Mrs S had left after the 
loan repayment is deducted. I agree with our adjudicator when she says it wouldnt have 
taken too much unexpected spend for them to struggle to meet their commitments. So, I 
think Loans 2 Go should have carried out further checks on their expenditure payments to 
ensure the loan repayments were sustainable.
So, as I have concluded that Loans 2 Go needed to carry out further checks for the loan, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. 
What would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told Loans 2 Go that Mr B and Mrs S would 
have been unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Loans 2 Go was required to establish whether Mr B and Mrs S could make their loan 
repayments without experiencing significant adverse consequences  not just whether the 
loan payments were technically affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Ive carefully considered the information provided including reviewing bank statements that 
Mr B and Mrs S have provided for the weeks leading up to their application for the loan. 
Having done so, its clear Mr B and Mrs S wouldnt have been able to afford to repay the 
loan in a sustainable way. Mr B was gambling regularly and, in his circumstances, significant 
amounts of money at the time he applied for the loan. Mrs Ss bank statements showed five 
unpaid direct debits and an unpaid standing order only a few days before the loan 
application. She wasnt meeting her financial commitments and bills were not being paid. In 
these circumstances, it is apparent to me that Mr B and Mrs S were unlikely to have been 
able to repay the loan without borrowing further or experiencing financial difficulty. It is clear 
from what I have seen that Mr B and Mrs S were both having problems managing their 
finances. 
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have shown Loans 2 Go that Mr B and Mrs S would not have been able 
to sustainably repay this loan. So, Im satisfied that Loans 2 Gos failure to carry out 
proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing this loan to Mr B and Mrs S.
So, I am currently minded to conclude that Loans 2 Go needs to put things right for the 
reasons given above.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response 
to my provisional decision. Mr B responded and said he had no further points to add. 
Mrs S said she only had one further point and that was that L2G knew her history 
because her mother asked that it didnt lend to her again after the last loan was repaid 
back. L2G did not respond.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Mr B and Mrs S have not made any new points for me to respond to and L2G has not 
responded. So, as neither party has anything further to add that I feel I need to comment 
on or that will change the outcome of this complaint, I dont see any reason to depart from 
my findings within my provisional decision. With that being the case, I uphold Mr B and Mrs 
Ss complaint.  
Putting things right
  In line with this Services approach, Mr B and Mrs S shouldnt repay more than the capital 
amount they borrowed for the loan. With this in mind, Loans 2 Go should:add up the total amount of money Mr B and Mrs S received as a result of being given 
the loan. The payments Mr B and Mrs S made should be deducted from this amount. 
Any payments made after the total repaid exceeds the amount Mr B and Mrs S was 
given should be treated as overpayments and refunded to them;
add interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments from the date they were 
paid by Mr B and Mrs S to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information placed on Mr B and Mrs Ss credit file because of 
the loan;
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Loans 2 Go to take off tax from this interest. Loans 2 Go 
must give Mr B and Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
My final decision
 My final decision is that I uphold Mr B and Mrs Ss complaint and direct Loans2Go Limited 
to put things right as I have set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman