DRN-2348673
The complaint
 Ms H is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a conditional sale agreement with 
Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Santander Consumer Finance, was of an 
unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
 On 27 June 2018, Ms H was supplied with a used car through a conditional sale agreement 
with Santander. She paid a £1,500 deposit and the agreement was for £26,000 over 49 
months; with 48 monthly repayments of £471.66 and a final payment of £8,911. At the time, 
the car was just over three years old and had done 55,626 miles.
Ms H said she started having problems with the car within a week of taking possession of it  
the automatic transmission was juddering and jolting when changing gear. This was 
investigated by three different garages, between August 2018 and March 2019. And in 
March 2019 the supplying dealership replicated the problem with the car after an extensive 
test drive.
Ms H complained to Santander about the problems with the car, asking if she could reject it. 
But the dealership had agreed to replace the transmission, at no cost to Ms H, and 
Santander said this was a reasonable remedy in the circumstances. A reconditioned 
transmission was fitted but, in May 2019, Ms H complained that she was still experiencing 
the same issues.
Santander arranged for an independent engineer (the engineer) to inspect the car, and this 
inspection took place in July 2019. Ms H paid half of this inspection cost. The engineer said 
the transmission appeared to be operating normally, but identified two issues  a harsh gear 
engagement when selecting drive from reverse, which the engineer said was caused by Ms 
Hs driving style; and a fluctuation in gear selection at speed, which the engineer said was 
maybe a characteristic of the transmission. The engineer suggested further checks should 
be carried out.
Ms H arranged for the car to be inspected by an specialist in automatic transmissions (the 
specialist). This inspection took place in August 2009, and the specialist said there were 
problems with the transmission thatd been caused by it not being calibrated correctly. The 
specialist recommended the transmission was replaced. Because Santander wouldnt let Ms 
H reject the car, she brought this matter to us for investigation.
Our investigator said, because of the problems Ms H was experiencing with her car from the 
outset, she thought the fault with the transmission was present when the car was supplied to 
her. So she said the car wasnt of a satisfactory quality when it was supplied. And, based on 
the reports from the engineer and the specialist, she also thought the repair thatd been done 
by the dealership in April 2019 had failed to fix this issue. 
Ms H stopped using the car in May 2019 because she was concerned that continuing to 
drive it would cause more damage. And the investigator said the specialist had said this was 
likely to be the case. So the investigator thought Ms H should be allowed to reject the car 
and end the agreement with Santander. She said that Santander should also refund Ms Hs 
deposit and all of her payments from June 2019; reimburse her inspection costs and pay her 
£300 for the stress and inconvenience shed suffered. The investigator also said that 
Santander should pay interest on everything but the £300 payment.
Because Ms H had got a replacement car, to keep her mobile, thought she should also be 
reimbursed for her insurance and road tax from June 2019; the costs relating to transferring 
her personal number plate from this car to the other one; the costs of a replacing the battery 
because itd gone completely flat; the MOT costs; and recovery and other transport costs. 
Ms H also said the stress and anxiety caused by this situation resulted in her being signed 
off work; and the resulting deterioration on her health meant that a medical procedure she 
was to undertake was delayed. So she thought the £300 payment was inadequate and 
should be in the region of £2,000 to £3,000.
The investigator said that, given all of the circumstances, itd be fair for Santander to refund 
Ms H her insurance and MOT costs from June 2019, refund the cost of the new battery, and 
refund the recovery costs. But she didnt think that the road tax costs should be refunded, as 
Ms H couldve declared the car as being off road once she stopped using it, and no more 
road tax wouldve been payable. She also said Ms H wouldve incurred the number place 
transfer costs at the end of the agreement, so she didnt think these should be refunded. And 
she thought the stress and inconvenience payment also covered Ms Hs transport costs.
The investigator explained that we were unable to consider Santanders handling of Ms Hs 
complaint and that, although Ms H had chosen to obtain formal legal representation to deal 
with Santander, she was able to deal with matters herself. So Santander werent responsible 
for Ms Hs legal costs. The investigator also explained why this wasnt a clear-cut case and 
why Santander werent completely unreasonable in declining the claim. So, while she 
appreciated the additional stress the complaints process put on Ms H, she didnt think that 
the recommended £300 payment needed to be increased.
Santander said Ms H has complained about the same issue, despite having had two 
gearboxes in the car. And the dealership was only able to replicate the issue after several 
hours of testing and driving the vehicle in an abnormal manner  this was only done after 
the customer was unable to get a report from other garages. They also said that Ms H had 
the gearbox reset by another garage, which resets the gearboxs learning of the drivers 
patterns and driving style and so this couldve contributed to the issues the customer had.
Santander also said the engineer said the issue was a result of Ms Hs driving style. 
In reply the investigator said the transmission being replaced doesnt mean that an 
underlying fault cant still be present in the car. So she didnt think Santanders comments 
changed her view. She also explained the additional costs she thought Santander should 
pay Ms H.
Ms H accepted the investigators amended recommendations, but Santander didnt. They 
referred to the engineers comment that the transmission was operating normally and that a 
more relaxed gear selection method resolved the issue. So they consider this to be a 
problem with Ms Hs driving style and not a mechanical fault. And they asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Ms H was supplied with a car under a 
conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means 
were able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, 
Santander are responsible.  Whats satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. 
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless Santander can show otherwise. So, if I thought the car was 
faulty when Ms H took possession of it, and this made the car not of a satisfactory quality, 
itd be fair and reasonable to ask Santander to put this right.
Its not disputed that Ms H was having problems with the car from shortly after it was 
supplied to her, or that the dealership fitted a reconditioned transmission unit on 12 April 
2019 to try and fix this. But Ms H was still having problems with the car and Santander 
arranged for the engineer to inspect the car.
This inspection took place on 3 July 2019. This report is the main point of dispute, with 
Santander saying it shows the issues with the car were as a result of Ms Hs driving style, 
and not because of a mechanical issue. Having reviewed this report, I consider the important 
comments made by the engineer (in the opinion O and conclusion C sections) to be:
O1: During the road test of the vehicle we did not detect any evidence of any issues.
O3: We consider that the issues in respect of the selection between drive and 
reverse gear was most likely a characteristic of the transmission operation in the 
enthusiastic selection of the gear. A more relaxed gear selection method resolved the 
issue completely.
O4: We did note fluctuation in transmission gear selection at high speeds 
O5: The condition appeared to be a software issue  
O6: Clearly further checks would need to take place at a suitably equipped dealer 
O7: However, in other aspects the transmission was operating normally 
O8: More generally, the transmission was found to be operating normally.
O11: The reported slight double jerk was consistent, in our view, with drive or reverse 
being selected in a hasty manner 
O12: The condition identified with the transmission/software and the cyclic gear 
selection, is not uncommon on modern day transmissions 
C1: We would conclude the transmission appears to be operating normally.
C4: There were no other defects apparent with the transmission apart from an 
erraticness at high speed in the change, which appears from our perspective to be 
the result of software becoming overloaded Its clear to me that the engineer considered the issues Ms H was complaining about were 
as a result of her driving style (O3, O11). But the engineer also said there was an issue with 
the transmission (O12) at high speeds (O4, C4) which was because of a probable software 
fault (O5, C4). And it was recommended that a further inspection take place (O6).
As a result of this report, Ms H had the car inspected by a garage who specialised in 
automatic transmissions. This took place on 29 August 2019. The specialist said Its our 
opinion that the calibration data for the transmission is incorrect  as there is no calibration 
sticker on top of the transmission recalibration would be near on impossible, given the fact 
that the transmission has already been worked on we would have little idea if it was original 
or if any of the parts had been swapped out, is our opinion that we can only recommend a 
replacement transmission.
The investigator spoke to the specialist on 9 September 2020, to discuss the inspection of 
the car. In this call the specialist confirmed that transmissions have exact tolerances, and 
minute changes will change how they work. They thought that the problems Ms H was 
experiencing may be caused by the need to calibrate the transmission, as without this the 
gear shifts are wrong and bumpy and the car wouldnt be comfortable to drive.
Given this report and the subsequent phone conversation, Im satisfied that there was a fault 
with the reconditioned transmission fitted in April 2019, likely as a result of calibration. And 
the fact that this isnt what Ms H complained about, which may or may not be as a result of 
her driving style, doesnt affect this.
Ms H has said she had issues with the car from shortly after she took possession of this. 
And Ive seen that it went into different garages for inspection in October and November 
2018  within six months of when Ms H had the car. And this resulted in the dealership 
replacing the transmission in April 2019. Its my understanding that this replacement was 
done at the insistence of Santander, after Ms H had asked to reject the car. Given this, Im 
satisfied there was a fault with the car from when it was supplied, and this fault made the car 
of an unsatisfactory quality.
Where goods supplied are of an unsatisfactory quality, the CRA allows for one chance at 
repair. And by replacing the transmission this repair has taken place. For the reasons stated 
above, Im satisfied this repair has failed, and Ms H should now be allowed to reject the car.
Putting things right
 Ms H says she last used the car in late May 2019 and that she got a replacement car to 
keep her mobile. While I cant confirm exactly when the car was last used, looking at the 
mileage detailed in the inspections/ reports up until July 2019, and comparing this to the 
mileage showing on the MOT record for July 2019 and January 2021 (the July 2019 MOT 
expiry date was extended by six months because of the 2020 national lockdown), Im 
satisfied that Ms M most likely didnt use the car from June 2019 and was using the 
replacement car instead  which she also had to tax, insure and keep roadworthy.
As the reasons Ms M didnt use the car was as a result of the ongoing issues she was 
experiencing, then she should be refunded her direct costs relating to the car from June 
2019 onwards, with the exception of the road tax for the reasons given by the investigator. 
And this includes the cost of the MOT, and the replacement battery as the old battery had 
gone completely flat due to lack of use.Ms M has also suffered some distress and inconvenience as a result of what had happened. 
But its also the case that Santander have the right to reject her request to reject the car, and 
challenge this through our process. So, while the complaints process has added time and 
stress; Im only considering the issues Ms H initially had with the car, and what happened 
between the failed repair in April 2020 and when the specialist report said the transmission 
needed to be replaced in August 2020. And Im satisfied that the £300 recommended by the 
investigator is reasonable in these circumstances.
So, Santander should now arrange to do the following:
end the agreement with nothing further to pay.
collect the car at no cost to Ms H.
remove all record of the agreement from Ms Hs credit file.
refund the £1,500 deposit Ms H paid.
refund all the finance payments Ms H made since June 2019.
On receipt of evidence from Ms H, refund her:
oWhat she paid towards the independent engineers report.
oThe cost of the specialists report.
oThe cost of the new battery.
oThe costs of the MOTs in July 2019 and January 2021.
oThe costs of having the car recovered to the dealership.
oThe costs of her insurance for the car from June 2020 onwards.
pay 8% simple yearly interest* on the above, to be calculated from when Ms H made 
the payments to the date of the refund.
Pay Ms H an additional £300 to compensate her for the trouble and upset shes been 
caused.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Santander to deduct tax from the interest amount 
Santander should give Mr Bailey a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted If he 
asks for one. Mr Bailey can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
 For the reasons explained, I uphold Ms Hs complaint. Santander Consumer (UK) Plc 
trading as Santander Consumer Finance must follow my directions above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman