DRN-2767616
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Vida Homeloans Finance Limited (Vida Homeloans) wouldnt 
provide them with a new fixed rate even though they previously agreed to it. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs O have a mortgage with Vida Homeloans. Their fixed rate was due to expire in 
March 2020 and they wanted to secure a new one.
Mr O has explained that prior to the fixed rate expiring, he was unwell and unable to work 
which meant there were arrears on the mortgage. He said he worked hard to clear the 
arrears before the fixed rate expired so that he could take out a new one. 
Mr and Mrs O said that they were told on 16 March 2020 that they were able to take out a 
new fixed rate but on 19 March 2020, Vida Homeloans withdrew their products and told 
Mr and Mrs O they were unable to secure a new fixed rate.
Mr and Mrs O have said that their mortgage reverted to the standard variable rate (SVR) 
which meant their payments increased each month by £118.59. Mr and Mrs O wanted this 
amount refunded. They said its putting an enormous strain on their finances because of the 
increase and they would like the fixed rate product they believe was promised to them on 16 
March 2020.
They complained to Vida Homeloans who said due to the Covid -19 pandemic, they were not 
able to offer any new fixed rate products. Vida Homeloans said they were entitled to make a 
commercial decision to withdraw products from the market. They did agree that on 16 March 
2020 they could offer new products but then these products were withdrawn a few days 
later. 
Vida Homeloans confirmed that the additional amount of £118.59 is the difference between 
the old fixed rate and the SVR so no error has been made on their part, so they wouldnt 
refund the difference in the mortgage payment.
Mr and Mrs O disagreed with what Vida Homeloans said so they brought the complaint to 
our service where it was looked at by one of our investigators. Our investigator initially 
thought that Vida Homeloans should reduce the rate that Mr and Mrs O were on temporarily, 
until they were able to offer fixed rates. But after further information from Vida Homeloans, 
our investigator decided that Vida Homeloans didnt need to do anything further and should 
work with Mr and Mrs O to see what other forbearance options were available. 
Mr and Mrs O were not happy with what our investigator said and asked for the complaint to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Vida Homeloans is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and has to follow 
their rules. There is nothing in the FCA rules that says a lender has to offer a new interest 
rate to their customers once their existing deal expires. The rules say that a lender has to 
treat their customers fairly while taking into account their best interests; they have to 
communicate with them in a fair and not mis-leading way; they have to notify them of 
changes to their monthly payments and they shouldnt take advantage of customers who 
cant move their mortgages elsewhere by treating them differently to other customers with 
similar characteristics.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs O are struggling to maintain their mortgage payments whilst its 
on the SVR, but Vida Homeloans doesnt have a legal or regulatory obligation to offer them a 
new deal. I understand the frustration because a new rate was promised on the 16 March 
2020, but Vida Homeloans decided to withdraw their products from the market on 19 March 
2020. 
From the information that has been provided to me it looks like Mr and Mrs O made an 
enquiry on 16 March 2020, but no formal application was made, and no offer of the 
mortgage was provided by Vida Homeloans. I dont think Vida Homeloans had promised 
Mr and Mrs O a new rate; things were at an early stage and an application still needed to be 
made.
Due to the pandemic, Vida Homeloans took a commercial decision in the interests of the 
financial management of their business, to maintain all of their customers on the SVR once 
their products expire  until they are in a position to be able to offer new products. 
Vida Homeloans were not offering rates to any other customers either directly or through a 
broker. They also stopped lending to new customers. Im therefore satisfied that Vida 
Homeloans were not treating Mr and Mrs O any differently to any of their other customers.  
There were also no barriers put in place such as an early repayment charge, so if 
Mr and Mrs O wanted to move their mortgage, they would have been able to do this. Vida 
Homeloans was also unable to offer lending to new customers at this time either. In all the 
circumstances, I dont think Mr and Mrs O were treated unfairly when their mortgage 
reverted to the SVR  in line with the terms and conditions  at a point when Vida 
Homeloans wasnt offering new rates to any of their customers. 
In addition to this, Vida Homeloans have other options to help their customers who may be 
struggling financially  especially during the Covid pandemic. We would expect Vida 
Homeloans to work closely with Mr and Mrs O to agree a reasonable way forward with 
forbearance options if Mr and Mrs O are unable to maintain their monthly payments. 
However, I can see that on 11 March 2021, our investigator was contacted by Vida 
Homeloans who explained that from 1 March 2021, they were now offering products for 
consumers whose rates had expired. But they said that because Mr and Mrs O were in 
arrears, they would need to clear these first before they could agree to a new rate.
Mr and Mrs O have since said that a new product has been offered to them and accepted 
but this is something that should have been offered to them 14 months ago. They also want 
all their arrears payments refunded.
From the information that I have on file, I can see that Mr and Mrs O fell into arrears because 
they were not making their full monthly payments when they were on the SVR. They were 
able to maintain their payment as it was when it was on a fixed rate, but not with the 
additional increase.
I can also see that a payment holiday was agreed from April to July 2020 and again from 
August to October 2020.  During this time, Mr and Mrs O still made some payments to their 
account which cleared their historic arrears but have since fallen slightly behind as they were 
not able to make up what was now required on the SVR.
As Mr and Mrs O were struggling to maintain their full monthly payments, and said it was 
causing an enormous strain on them, Vida Homeloans agreed a payment holiday with them. 
This is what we would expect a lender to do given the current situation, so I think that Vida 
Homeloans has treated Mr and Mrs O fairly.Im satisfied that Vida Homeloans has treated Mr and Mrs O fairly and the arrears increased 
because the full contractual monthly payment was not being made. Vida Homeloans have 
not done anything wrong here so I will not be asking them to refund any payments to Mr and 
Mrs O.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
 
Maria Drury
Ombudsman