DRN-3211709
The complaint
Ms V is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires, (BM) 
handled her mortgage application.
What happened
I understand that Ms V was buying a new property. Her intention was for that property to be 
mortgage free. She was going to keep her existing property and take a mortgage on it. The 
existing property would be let out and the money raised through the mortgage would help 
fund the purchase of the new property. Ms V received financial and mortgage advice from a 
broker around this.
An application was made to BM for a mortgage to match these requirements in August 2020. 
BM initially declined the application. It said this was because, contrary to the mortgage 
application, Ms V hadnt yet begun receiving a retirement income and her income at the time 
was made up entirely of benefits, which meant the application was outside of its lending 
criteria. Ms V and her broker appealed this decision  explaining that she intended to draw 
funds from her pension in the near future, which would become part of her income.
BM referred the application to its underwriters. It asked for information around the pension 
income. And it also asked for a letter from Ms Vs solicitors confirming what her longer term 
financial arrangements were going to be.
This information was provided. But BM said that the letter from the solicitor wasnt in the 
format it required. So, it requested a replacement letter and set out what needed to be 
included. This was provided a few days later.
BM then reviewed the application and decided it was willing to lend. It issued a mortgage 
offer to Ms V on 17 September 2020. Just over a week later the broker informed BM that 
Ms V did not wish to go ahead with the mortgage.
Ms V complained to BM about how it had handled her application. She was unhappy with 
how it had communicated  in particular around the letter it asked for from the solicitor and it 
not having been clear what this needed to say from the outset. She also felt its decision to 
initially decline the application because her income was made up of state benefits was 
potentially discriminatory.
BM didnt think it had acted incorrectly in terms of how it had assessed the application, and 
Ms Vs income, against its lending criteria. It did acknowledge though that it hadnt initially 
been clear exactly what the letter it had asked for from Ms Vs solicitor needed to say. It 
noted that Ms V had said she hadnt incurred an extra cost for this. But it accepted it 
shouldve handled this better. So, it paid Ms V £50 for the inconvenience caused by this and 
a further £50 for the delay in addressing her complaint.
Ms V didnt think this offer went far enough so asked our service to consider her complaint.
One of our Investigators looked into the complaint. As BM had ultimately agreed to provide 
the requested mortgage, she felt it had fairly considered Ms Vs circumstances. And she 
thought the offer BM had already made, in respect of the inconvenience caused around the 
letter it had asked for from Ms Vs solicitors, was fair.
Ms V didnt agree with the Investigators opinion. She said the broker involved had not 
administered things well for her, but shed understood BM had agreed in principle to lend in 
May 2020. But when the mortgage was needed she was caused significant stress, there was 
no effective communication, shed faced the prospect of the purchase of her new property 
falling through and had been forced to fund the purchase using her pension, causing her a 
significant tax loss. So, she didnt think what BM had offered was fair, given the impact this 
had on her and asked for her complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, it has 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id start by saying Im only looking at the actions of BM here and whether it has done 
anything wrong. Ms V has mentioned things the broker has done but BM is not responsible 
for the brokers actions, so I wont be considering those here. Id also add we are not a 
regulator, and it is not our role to monitor BMs actions and processes on an ongoing basis. 
Rather our role is to consider the individual circumstances of a complaint and decide what 
we think is fair.
BM relied on the information provided to it within the application being accurate. I dont think 
it was unreasonable though for BM to have checked this information or for it to have sought 
clarification where there were potential inaccuracies.
Ms V has said she thinks BM acted unfairly when it initially declined her application and 
potentially discriminated against her as she was in receipt of benefits.
Id start by saying that it isnt for our service to decide if a business has discriminated against 
someone  that is a matter for a court. Rather Ive looked at whether BM has treated Ms V 
fairly - having regard for relevant laws and regulations.
Ms Vs mortgage application was submitted by her broker. Ive seen a copy of the 
information originally sent to BM and this didnt note any income being received through 
benefits. It only listed a retirement pension as income. Before agreeing to lend, BM needed 
to be satisfied that this application met its lending criteria. This involved asking for additional 
information to support what it had been told. Which I think is reasonable and something BM 
would always have needed to do. 
I can see it asked for details of Ms Vs pension income from the broker. And it was at that 
point the broker told BM that no pension income had yet been drawn and that Ms Vs current 
income was solely from benefits  information which was different to the application. I can 
see BM declined the application at that stage as it says its lending policy was not to agree 
new borrowing where income is made up solely of benefits.
I think BM should arguably have done more at that point. It has provided evidence of its 
lending policy where an applicants income is made up of benefits. And I appreciate, as a 
lender, it is entitled to set its own lending criteria. However, Id expect it to reasonably 
consider the individual circumstances of an application, because not to do so could lead to it 
treating someone unfairly.If BM had asked further questions at that stage about what type of benefits Ms V was in 
receipt of it couldve established more information about her income. Firstly, it wouldve had 
a better understanding of the benefits Ms V was receiving  in particular how long these had 
been and would be received for and if the amount was subject to change. So, it couldve 
better understood the source and reliability of this income. And in turn this wouldve likely led 
to further information being requested and provided about the retirement income Ms V was 
due to draw and how that would form part of her total income moving forward. And BM could 
therefore have considered her individual circumstances, and reached the lending decision it 
did, without having first rejected the application.
But the decision to decline the application was appealed anyway, with more details provided 
around Ms Vs income. This prompted BM to then ask for further information and evidence. 
And once that evidence was provided and assessed, BM decided it was willing to lend. So, 
the same position was ultimately reached - with BM agreeing to lend after reviewing further 
information.
So, BM did review Ms Vs specific circumstances, gathered information around income  
which I think it was fairly entitled to do  and decided it was willing to lend. With all that in 
mind, I think BM has ultimately considered Ms Vs application fairly.
Ive seen evidence that the full mortgage application was first submitted by Ms Vs broker in 
mid-August 2020, with a mortgage offer issued on 17 September 2020. So, it took just over a 
month to be considered and an offer made. I dont think this is unreasonable. In fact, from 
experience, this time frame is in fact shorter than applications might usually take, particularly 
considering the rather unusual circumstances at the time, with the uncertainty of the 
pandemic. So, I dont think BM has taken an unreasonable amount of time to consider the 
application. 
Ms V has mentioned understanding BM had agreed in principle to lend in May 2020. I 
havent seen a copy of the decision in principle she has mentioned. But what I would say is 
that a decision in principle isnt a firm agreement to lend. It is an indication, based on a high-
level review of limited information, of what a lender might be willing to lend, subject to a 
formal application being assessed.
Taking all of this into account, while I think BM potentially ought to have made further 
enquiries about Ms Vs circumstances initially, so couldve handled things better to begin 
with, it has reviewed her circumstances and agreed to lend within a fair amount of time.
Ms V has said she was unhappy with the communication from BM and feels it has a duty of 
care to provide clear information. I agree that BM should communicate clearly. But as the 
application was made via a broker, I wouldnt necessarily have expected BM to regularly 
update Ms V directly. 
From the information Ive been provided BM kept the broker reasonably informed of the 
progress of the application at each stage  not least by setting out what information was 
needed. And when Ms V contacted BM directly, it took on board her concerns, and agreed to 
re-assess the application. Which resulted in it agreeing to lend. 
Ms V has said the upset caused by the application, and how it was handled, led to her 
having to make alternative arrangements to complete her house purchase. As Ive explained 
though, I dont think BM has acted unreasonably in requiring additional information to decide 
if it was willing to lend. And I think this would always have been required, even if it had asked 
for this before the appeal was made. Lenders are expected to verify information about an 
application. So, this application, as is the case with most mortgage applications, would 
always have taken time while it was considered. And I havent seen anything to suggest that BM indicated otherwise. BM also ultimately agreed to lend, within a reasonable time scale. I 
havent seen anything to show that BM was told about the lending being required by a 
specific date. Nor that it committed to do so by a set date. And, as it has agreed to lend, I 
dont think I can reasonably hold it responsible for any costs Ms V incurred by using an 
alternative source of funding instead of taking up the mortgage offer.
BM has accepted that, when it asked for a letter from Ms Vs solicitors to confirm and outline 
her plans, it wasnt clear about some of the details that needed to be included. And that led 
to a further letter having to be provided. I dont think BM did anything wrong by asking for 
this letter. As Ive said, Im satisfied it was entitled to request additional information to satisfy 
itself that it was willing to lend. But I agree it wouldve been better if it had been clear straight 
away on how that letter should be formatted, which wouldve avoided the need for a second 
letter. 
I havent seen any evidence that this caused Ms V to incur an additional cost. I dont doubt it 
wouldve been inconvenient for her to have to make a further request for this. But in the 
circumstances, given the delay this caused to the application was short, I think the payment 
BM has already made to address the inconvenience caused is fair and reasonable. 
Ms V has said that the way BM handled the entire application has caused her significant 
distress which has impacted her health. And Im sorry to hear this. But for the reasons Ive 
explained, I think overall BM has dealt with the application reasonably. So, I wont be 
requiring it to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2022.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman