DRN-4459142
The complaint
Miss R complains about a debt that was acquired by Capquest Debt Recovery Limited.
 
What happened
Miss R opened a credit card in 2001 with a business Ill refer to as C that fell into arrears and 
was closed. In January 2013 Capquest took over administration of the account. A payment 
plan was subsequently agreed for Miss R to make repayments of £11.03 a month. Miss R 
maintained the payments, reducing the outstanding balance.
Capquest says it wrote to Miss R on 9 March 2023 and asked her to make contact to discuss 
the payment plan with an aim of reviewing her circumstances. When no response was 
received, Capquest says it sent a second letter on 23 March 2023 asking Miss R to contact it 
to discuss whether there was potential for the payment arrangement to be reviewed. 
Capquests letter advised that if no response was received by 5 April 2023 the account 
would be passed to solicitors acting on its behalf to commence legal action. On 6 April 2023 
Capquest wrote to Miss R again and said that as no contact had been received her account 
would be referred to its solicitors. 
On 14 April 2023 Miss R spoke with Capquest and raised a complaint explaining that she 
found its contact threatening. Miss R asked Capquest to provide a copy of the original credit 
agreement from C and it raised a request. 
Capquest issued a final response on 6 June 2023 and said it had sent Miss R two letters 
requesting contact to complete an income and expenditure assessment in order to review 
her payment plan but received no response. As a result, Capquest said it had followed the 
right process by instructing solicitors. Capquest agreed to leave the existing payment plan in 
place and said it had contacted C to raise a query regarding the credit agreement. Capquest 
denied Miss Rs request to write off the outstanding balance and invited her to go online to 
complete a review of the existing arrangement. 
Miss R referred her complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. During the 
investigation, a response from C was received advising Miss R to contact Capquest for 
information about her account. C also confirmed that a PPI refund it had made in relation to 
the credit card was made directly to Miss Rs representatives rather than being used to 
reduce the outstanding balance. Capquest later advised that whilst the account may not be 
enforceable (due to the lack of credit agreement) the debt still exists and can be collected. 
The investigator didnt ask Capquest to take further action to resolve Miss Rs complaint. 
They thought Capquest had reasonably asked Miss R to revisit the payment plan when it 
wrote to her in March 2023. Whilst the investigator noted Miss R had told us she didnt 
receive Capquests first two letters, they were satisfied the correspondence was sent as 
claimed. The investigator didnt agree that Capquest had acted unfairly by sending letters 
and advising the account could be referred to its solicitors. Whilst the investigator agreed 
Capquest hadnt shown whether the debt was enforceable, they felt it could still contact Miss 
R to discuss repayment options. 
Miss R asked to appeal so her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to assure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under.
In her submissions, Miss R said that a PPI complaint relating to her credit card with C had 
been upheld in her favour. C has confirmed that a refund was issued after Miss R 
complained and paid by cheque to a claims management company that was acting for her. 
So whilst I understand there was a PPI complaint C upheld, Im satisfied that didnt impact 
the outstanding balance of the debt held by Capquest. 
Capquest has explained Miss Rs existing payment plan had been in operation for several 
years and that information it found on her credit file indicated she mayve been able to 
increase payments. As a result, despite maintaining the existing payment plan, Capquest 
wrote to Miss R on two occasions in March 2023 and asked her to make contact to complete 
a review. Ive looked at Capquests records and letters sent. Whilst I understand Miss R may 
not have received them, Im satisfied the letters were sent to her as claimed by Capquest. 
Miss R received the 6 April 2023 letter from Capquest and called it. Miss R also raised a 
complaint and asked for supporting information like the credit agreement from C. Miss R also 
said she found Capquests correspondence to be unnecessarily threatening. Ive looked at 
the letters Capquest sent. I agree that the tone was serious and that Capquest advised 
failure to engage could lead to legal action. But I havent been persuaded that Capquest 
acted unfairly overall. 
Ultimately, Miss R had been making payments at the same level for several years. 
Businesses can ask a customer to revisit a payment arrangement and complete income and 
expenditure assessments to show whether the existing plan remains affordable. And 
Capquest has explained that because of information on Miss Rs credit file, it felt there 
mayve been a possibility for Miss Rs payments to increase  repaying the balance sooner. 
Im not persuaded it was unreasonable for Capquest to contact Miss R to request a review of 
the existing payment plan and her circumstances. 
After Miss R made contact, asked for a copy of her credit agreement with C and raised a 
complaint, Capquest agreed to leave the existing payment plan in place. It confirmed the 
account wasnt passed to its solicitors. C hasnt subsequently provided a copy of the credit 
agreement it had with Miss R to Capquest. I can see that Capquest has advised that whilst 
the debt may not be enforceable, its still outstanding. I havent seen anything that suggests 
the outstanding balance has been repaid. So Im not persuaded its unreasonable for 
Capquest to contact Miss R to discuss repayments, whether the debt is enforceable or not. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Miss R but as I havent been persuaded that Capquest acted 
unfairly in its contact with her Im not telling it to do anything else. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 January 2024.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman