DRN-3286835
The complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide Building Society wont refund the money he lost when he fell 
victim to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons: 
Im sorry to hear about the impact this incident has had on Mr C, particularly given 
the difficult circumstances he was in. That impact/loss was ultimately caused by the 
perpetrators of this cruel and sophisticated scam. But Ive considered whether any 
failures by Nationwide caused or contributed to the loss.
Im satisfied that Mr C isnt entitled to a refund from Nationwide under the Contingent 
Reimbursement Model code. This only covers transfers within the UK to accounts 
held by another person. Mr Cs representative says the recipient account was 
effectively controlled by the scammers. But its not, as requested, shown that the 
account was in another name  and Mr C told Nationwide at the time that it was his 
own Bitstamp account, which he had access to and control of. Regardless, as the 
disputed payments were international transfers, theyre not covered by the code. Ive 
gone on to consider Nationwides wider obligations when dealing with authorised 
push payment scams. 
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the account terms and 
conditions, Nationwide is expected to execute authorised payment instructions 
without undue delay. Its not disputed that Mr C was duped, but nor is it disputed that 
he requested these payments. So the starting position is that hes liable for the 
resultant loss.
But, as Mr Cs representative has pointed out, thats not an unfettered duty. There 
are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant rules, 
codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before deciding whether to 
make the payment. If Nationwide failed to do so adequately, causing a fraudulent 
loss, it might be fair to hold it liable.
Here, Nationwide did identify a fraud risk when Mr C made the first disputed 
payment. I think it was right to flag this for checking. At £102,000, it was a very 
significant payment, and out of keeping with how Mr C generally used his account. 
Ive therefore listened to the intervention call, to determine whether Nationwide 
responded appropriately to the risk it identified. In doing so, I was conscious that 
Mr C didnt have a history of making such large payments  and of the potential level 
of loss. 
Nationwide questioned Mr C about the payment and recipient account. It gave him 
warnings about the scam issues it was seeing involving cryptocurrency payments. 
That included specifically outlining concerns about cryptocurrency payments going to 
eastern Europe, as this was. And it explained about scenarios where scammers can 
trick customers into thinking they control an account, which is actually being 
manipulated by the scammers. Mr C maintained that the funds were going to his own 
Bitstamp account, which was very secure, and hed done his research to satisfy 
himself about this and what he was doing more generally, giving specific details 
about how the account security worked.
When questioned about what he intended to do with the funds after transferring them 
into the wallet, Mr C said they would remain in his Bitstamp account. Nationwide 
explained it was concerned about the amount he was investing, but Mr C said the 
money was an investment which could sit in his wallet and accumulate based on the 
value of the cryptocurrency. Nationwide warned that this type of investing is not 
guaranteed and is volatile  it can change quickly. It described it as a gamble. Mr C 
confirmed he was aware of, and comfortable with, this. Nationwide also completed a 
declaration with Mr C before processing the payment, including that customers were 
expected to be 100% honest.
Based on Mr Cs contact with Nationwide when reporting the scam, and on what his 
representative has told us, it seems he was coached on what to say. Theyve 
explained the funds werent staying in the account; they were being transferred on to 
the alleged trading platform. His representative says that he shouldnt be blamed for 
being tricked by the scammers. Im considering whether Nationwide is to blame. Im 
familiar with how convincing these scams to be, and with how and why consumers 
are tricked into giving cover stories. But its generally more difficult for banks to detect 
and prevent scams when their customer doesnt truthfully answer their questions. In 
the circumstances, I consider it reasonable for Nationwide to have relied on what it 
was told. 
On balance, Im satisfied Nationwide did enough to satisfy its duties before 
processing the payment. With hindsight, we know the funds went to a scammer. But 
what Im considering is  at the time, should it have realised Mr C was going to suffer 
financial harm from fraud? Nationwide could have refused outright to make the 
payment, but thats an extreme option, particularly given its starting duty to act on 
authorised payment instructions. I consider it reasonable that, instead, Nationwide 
question Mr C about the payment to assess the risk. I also consider it reasonable that 
Nationwide was reassured by Mr Cs answers and so processed the payment. He 
seemed knowledgeable and secure about what he was doing. Based on responses Mr C gave about the first payment, I consider it reasonable that 
Nationwide also processed the further authorised payments to Bitstamp, which I 
understand were ultimately lost to the scammers. Whilst Mr Cs representative thinks 
the initial fraud risk ought to have put Nationwide on notice that he was at risk of 
fraud and vulnerable, as set out above, I dont agree that it ought to have got that 
impression from the call. In any event, given how that first call went, I dont think 
further intervention would have uncovered the scam.
Nationwide didnt miss an opportunity to recover the loss either. I can see it notified 
the recipient bank promptly when Mr C reported the scam. But by then, the funds had 
been moved from the Bitstamp account onto the scammers, meaning there were no 
funds remaining that the recipient bank could return. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman