DRN-4251766
The complaint
Miss B complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) irresponsibly 
gave two credit accounts that she couldnt afford.
What happened
On 16 November 2013, Miss B applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. Miss B was 
given a £800 credit limit on a Littlewoods account. The credit limit was never increased. 
This account was a cash account and was not used with any credit. On 16 November 
2019 Miss B reapplied and the account was reopened with a credit limit of £400. 
On 9 November 2019, Miss B applied for a credit account with Shop Direct. Miss B was 
given a £500 credit limit on a Very account. The credit limit was never increased. 
In 2022, Miss B complained to Shop Direct to say that the accounts shouldnt have been 
opened for her because they werent affordable and that Shop Direct ought to have made 
a better effort to understand her financial circumstances before providing her with credit. 
Shop Direct disagreed and so Miss B brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator did not think the Littlewoods account should be upheld but did think the 
Very account should be upheld. Shop Direct disagreed. So, the complaint has been 
passed to an ombudsman for a review.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 3 July 2023, a section of 
which is included below, and forms part of, this decision. In my provisional decision I set out 
the reasons why I didnt agree with the adjudicators view and that it was my intention not to 
uphold Miss Bs complaint. I set out an extract below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, 
but Ill confine my comments to what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific 
point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. My remit is to 
take an overview and decide whats fair in the round.
Shop Direct will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website.
Miss Bs complaint is that Shop Direct made credit available that was unaffordable. Shop 
Direct has explained that it relied in part on information that Miss B provided at the time of 
application to assess affordability. They said they carried out credit searches in Miss Bs 
name to assess Miss Bs level of debt at the times of each lending decision and to 
understand how she had been managing that debt. With that information and using their 
own scoring metric, Shop Direct decided to agree to the two accounts in 2019. 
The Shop Direct checks showed that Miss B had only a modest amount of other borrowings 
compared to her declared income. So, the lending looked to be affordable and reasonable 
at the time. 
And I have noted that Miss Bs credit file was reasonably clean at the time of each loan 
application. When I say this, I mean that Miss Bs management of her existing credit showed 
no recent history of CCJs or defaults in the recent time. Shop Direct noted there had been 
some history of arrears over the preceding two years. But they thought the credit history 
was largely clean in the year before the lending decisions. I asked Miss B for her full credit 
file to see if that was so. Whilst Miss B was unable to provide a full credit file, she was able 
to provide some credit information. Nothing in her submissions undermined what Shop 
Direct told us they found at the time of the lending decisions. 
And so, I dont think that the information that Shop Direct had at the time of each of the 
lending decisions, would have led them to feel they ought to make more searching enquiries 
of Miss Bs financial situation. And in addition, the information that Shop Direct had 
presented to it and which it acquired, suggested that at the time the lending decisions were 
made, Miss B was affording her existing credit at that time and for much of the preceding 
year. So, Shop Direct were not put on notice of any reason not to agree any of the lending 
requests it agreed to from any of the above. 
Miss B has explained that she had a gambling habit at the time. But I have seen no 
evidence that Miss B told Shop Direct about her gambling habit. And, as discussed above, 
the gambling habit had not led Miss B to blemish her credit file at the time she applied for 
the loans. 
I have to look at the information that was available to Shop Direct at the time it made their 
lending decisions and not to use hindsight. Shop Direct was not made aware of the habit at 
the time the loans were made. And I have seen insufficient evidence that the other 
information that Shop Direct acquired or had presented to it at the time of the lending 
decisions, would have led them to think that they were remiss in not checking Miss Bs 
finances more closely. 
So, having considered all the submissions made in this case, I have seen insufficient 
evidence to think that the credit Shop Direct provided to Miss B was unreasonable. 
I know that Miss B will be disappointed with my decision, in itself and because she has 
invested time and energy in pursuing her complaint. But I want Miss B to know that I 
considered all the submissions made in this case. And having considered all the 
submissions in this case, particularly those concerning the time of the lending decisions, I 
have not found sufficient evidence to uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 17 July 2023. Shop Direct has acknowledged the provisional 
decision and has accepted the provisional findings. Miss B has not acknowledged receiving 
the provisional decision, made any further submission or asked for an extension to do so. I 
consider that both parties have had sufficient time to make a further submission, had they 
wished to. So, I am proceeding to my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that theres no new information for me to consider following my provisional decision, I 
have no reason to depart from those findings. And as Ive already set out my full reasons for 
thinking that this is a complaint that should not be upheld, I have nothing further to add. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 August 2023.
 
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman