DRN-3466945
The complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC charged him an early repayment charge (ERC) 
when he was unable to secure further borrowing to purchase the remaining share of his 
property.
 
What happened
In June 2020, Mr A approached Barclays to take out further borrowing to purchase the 
remaining share of his shared ownership property. 
Barclays gave Mr A an initial indication of the amount of further borrowing he could secure. 
Unfortunately, upon further review Barclays explained to Mr A that because he was currently 
furloughed the application couldnt proceed as it would need to be based on a reduced 
income which would not be sufficient. 
Mr A decided not to proceed with the application for further borrowing until he was back on 
full pay. However, he says that he had further discussions with Barclays about completing a 
product switch on his current mortgage. Mr A says Barclays told him to continue with the 
product switch as the bank could complete a fix and match allowing for any future further 
borrowing to be put on the same interest rate. 
Mr A says based on the conversations with Barclays he decided to proceed with the product 
switch and completed the process online. On 12 June 2020 Mr A took out a 2 year tracker 
interest rate product of 1.48% above the Bank of England Base Rate. An ERC was 
applicable until 31 May 2022.
Towards the end of August 2020, Mr A contacted Barclays as he had returned to his full 
salary and wanted to proceed with the application for further borrowing. Based off the 
payslips, Barclays provided Mr A with an approximate further borrowing figure of £81,500 
and explained this was subject to a full affordability assessment. In order to finalise the 
amount and complete an application, Barclays explained that further documentation would 
be needed and requested this from Mr A. 
Mr A provided all documentation by 28 September 2020 but unfortunately by the time this 
was done Barclays had changed its lending policy meaning Mr A could no longer borrow the 
desired amount. As a result, Mr A says he was forced to move mortgage providers and incur 
the ERC. Unhappy, Mr A raised a complaint. 
Barclays responded explaining that Mr As application had been declined due to a change in 
its lending policy  specifically that it had reduced the salary multiples used to calculate the 
amount Mr A could borrow. It apologised if Mr As expectations had been incorrectly set but 
explained an application is never guaranteed. It paid Mr A £150 for the length of time it had 
taken to respond to the complaint. 
Our Investigator considered the complaint and didnt think Barclays had acted fairly. They 
felt that Barclays had prompted Mr A to take out a new interest rate product and that it had a 
duty of care to explain the consequences  specifically that if Barclays couldnt provide the 
further borrowing and Mr A went elsewhere for a mortgage he would incur an ERC. 
Therefore, they recommended Barclays refund Mr A the ERC. 
Barclays disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans decision. It felt it hadnt prompted Mr A 
to take out a new interest rate and Mr A had decided to proceed with the product switch on a 
non-advised basis.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 16 March 2022 where I said:
At times Barclays may agree to provide a customer with further borrowing. This is never 
guaranteed and would be subject to the customer meeting Barclays current lending criteria 
and passing its affordability checks at the time. 
In this case, Barclays was unable to offer to lend Mr A the original amount it had indicated 
because its lending criteria had changed. Barclays had reduced the salary multiples it uses 
to calculate the amount Mr A could borrow, meaning that it could only offer to lend less. I 
appreciate this would have been disappointing for Mr A, but Barclays is allowed to set its 
own lending criteria and affordability checks, using its own commercial judgement, when 
deciding whether or not to lend to a customer. 
As Mr A could no longer borrow the amount he wanted from Barclays, he decided to redeem 
his mortgage and acquire borrowing elsewhere, incurring an ERC. Mr A says he only 
incurred an ERC because he was told by Barclays to continue with a product switch after his 
initial conversations about further borrowing  something which he feels he shouldnt have 
been told. 
Unfortunately, I havent been able to listen to the calls Mr A says he had with Barclays about 
the product switch, so I cant say with any certainty what was discussed. The emails 
between Mr A and Barclays indicate that a conversation might have taken place but they 
dont detail what was discussed, only that Barclays were offering to help with the application 
 which Mr A eventually completed online by himself on a non-advised basis. 
I have seen a copy of the mortgage offer sent to Mr A when applying for the new interest 
rate product. This clearly and prominently outlines that an ERC of 1% of the amount repaid 
would be charged if Mr A redeemed the mortgage before the 31 May 2022, so Im satisfied 
that Mr A was aware of the ERC before agreeing to the new product. I also note in the 
emails before Mr A took out the new interest rate product, Barclays made him aware that the 
maximum further borrowing it could offer would be subject to a full affordability and credit 
check. So, I think Mr A would have been aware that any application for further borrowing 
wasnt guaranteed and was subject to application. 
Taking into consideration that the mortgage offer outlined the ERC and the email 
correspondence Mr A had with Barclays, I think it more likely than not Mr A would have been 
aware that Barclays might not be able to offer him further borrowing for the full amount he 
needed  and that if he needed to move his mortgage elsewhere he would incur an ERC. 
Therefore, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to require Barclays to refund the ERC 
Mr A paid redeeming the mortgage  as I think Mr A was aware of the potential 
consequences when taking out the new fixed rate product. 
I can also see that Mr A had to pay for a valuation of the property, incurred solicitors costs 
and a Mortgage Exit Fee of £275 during this process. These are costs that Mr A would 
always have incurred so I dont think Barclays need to refund any of these either. 
I understand that Mr A has also raised concerns about the length of time the application took 
and that he thinks Barclays deliberately delayed it. Having reviewed the correspondence 
between Mr A and Barclays Ive seen nothing to suggest this was case.Barclays has paid Mr A £150 for the length of time it took them to respond to his complaint. I 
think this is reasonable and see no need to increase this offer of compensation in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further comments and evidence they wanted to raise 
by 30 March 2022. 
Barclays responded accepting my provisional decision. 
Mr A responded with some additional comments for consideration. He explained that he had 
only completed the product switch online because he was told by Barclays this was the best 
option for switch on match. Mr A also didnt feel it was fair he should be penalised for 
Barclays not recording the calls he had with it about the mortgage and queried why he didnt 
receive anything in writing following these conversations.  
Mr A questions why he was asked by Barclays to arrange a valuation and gather 
documentation if it had already changed its policy. He explained that he didnt think Barclays 
had followed the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Mortgage and Home Finance: Conduct 
of Business Sourcebook (MCOB)  specifically by not advising him of his rights in writing. He 
also raised concerns with regards to whether it was fair for him to pay the full ERC shortly 
after signing for the new mortgage, when Barclays had changed its policy. And he 
questioned why Barclays didnt advise him to secure the further borrowing with a second 
lender.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, in the circumstances I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to that 
which I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
In my provisional decision I set out that further borrowing is never guaranteed and that a 
customer would need to meet Barclays current lending criteria and pass its affordability 
checks at the time of the application. I explained that I felt it more likely that not Mr A would 
have been aware that Barclays might not be able to offer him further borrowing for the full 
amount he needed  and that if he needed to move his mortgage elsewhere he would incur 
an ERC.
Mr A has said that he only completed the product switch online because he was told by 
Barclays this was the best option for switch on match  what Mr A has previously referred 
to as fix and match. I dont doubt what Mr A has said but I dont think it affects the outcome 
of the complaint. When Mr A first contacted Barclays in June 2020, before the product 
switch, it explained to Mr A that the amount he could potentially borrow would be subject to a 
full affordability credit check. So, Im satisfied Mr A would have been aware that any request 
he made for further borrowing wouldnt be guaranteed. 
I appreciate that Mr A feels he is being penalised for Barclays not recording the calls he had 
with it. However, as explained, I think Mr A was provided with enough information (before he 
made the decision to secure a new product for his mortgage online) to understand that 
Barclays may not be able to offer him the full amount of further borrowing and that an ERC 
would be applicable if he repaid the mortgage early. So, whilst Barclays may not have 
provided something in writing following the calls, Im satisfied Mr A had enough information 
to make an informed decision before he decided to proceed with the new product. Ive reviewed the emails between Mr A and Barclays where he was asked to arrange a 
valuation and gather supporting documentation for his application. Barclays requested this 
information on or before 1 September 2020  which is three days before it changed its 
lending policy on 4 September 2020. In any case, the valuation and supporting documents 
would have always been needed for an application for further borrowing  specifically a 
valuation because as Mr A was intending to purchase the remaining share of his shared 
ownership property, any lender would need to know the value to determine the amount of 
further borrowing needed to repay the remaining share. 
Mr A has also said Barclays hasnt followed MCOB by not advising him of his rights in writing 
 specifically with regards to his phone conversations with Barclays, his right to cancel, and 
the benefits of either applying online or with an advisor for a new mortgage product. Ive 
seen a copy of the declaration that Mr A would have needed to have read and agreed to 
before arranging his new product. This clearly sets out he has a right to cancel his new 
product, but that he must do so no later than seven days from the date of the offer. It also 
directs him to read the mortgage offer which details all the key terms of the mortgage. 
Mr A submitted his application for a new product online. So, I dont think its unreasonable 
that Barclays didnt follow its conversation with Mr A up in writing  especially if he decided 
to proceed with the application online himself. I would expect Barclays to send a mortgage 
offer detailing the terms of the mortgage to Mr A, which it has done, and I can see this 
directs Mr A to contact Barclays if he wishes to discuss the offer document  which seems 
reasonable if Mr A had concerns or was unsure about the product.
Ultimately, the issue here is that Barclays changed its lending policy between the time Mr A 
secured a new product and when he applied for further borrowing. As explained, I appreciate 
this is disappointing for Mr A, but Barclays is allowed to set its own lending criteria, using its 
own commercial judgement, when deciding whether or no to lend to a customer. Its 
unfortunate Barclays made this decision after Mr A had decided to take a new mortgage 
product, but I cant say Barclays has acted unfairly in doing so or treated him any differently 
to any other customer.
I note that Mr A has raised concerns about whether it was fair for Barclays to charge him the 
full ERC shortly after signing for the new mortgage. Mr As mortgage offer clearly sets out 
under section 7 Early repayment when an ERC would be applicable and how much it would 
be. As Mr A decided to redeem his mortgage during the time the ERC was applicable, I dont 
think its unreasonable he pays this amount in line with the terms of his mortgage. 
As for Barclays not advising Mr A he could take further borrowing from a second lender, this 
is not something I would expect Barclays to advise him of. Barclays are not required to 
inform customers of other lenders and competitors that may be able to meet a customers 
request for further borrowing. If a customer requires advice about different options for raising 
funds with different lenders, they should seek independent financial advice.
As previously set out, Barclays has paid Mr A £150 for the length of time it took them to 
respond to his complaint. I think this is reasonable and see no need to increase this offer of 
compensation in the circumstances of this complaint. My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 June 2022.
 
Robert Woodhart
Ombudsman