DRN-2650816
The complaint
Miss W complains that Provident Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) wont 
backdate a default on her credit file relating to an instalment loan. She wants the default 
removed. 
What happened
Miss W took out an instalment loan for £1,500 from Satsuma in August 2017. This was to be 
repaid in 12 monthly instalments of £249. Miss W made the first two repayments, and then 
various payment arrangement plans were agreed for further repayments until Miss W missed 
one in March 2019. 
Satsuma said it wasnt able to then contact Miss W to make another arrangement and it 
registered a default in September 2019. When Miss W complained, it agreed that the default 
should have been dated from April 2019 and it changed this. But Miss W thought the default 
should be backdated to November 2017. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Satsuma 
had correctly moved the default from September 2019 to April 2019. So he thought it had 
recorded the correct date for the default and hadnt treated Miss W unfairly. 
Miss W replied that she thought the default should be dated from the point where shed first 
missed a scheduled repayment, November 2017. She said Satsuma hadnt told her that a 
default would be applied. She wanted it backdated or else removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Miss Ws frustration that shes now cleared this debt, but the default will 
remain on her credit record for some time and this will affect her financially. 
I can see from the account details that Miss W missed loan repayments from November 
2017 onwards. Miss W thought her default should have been recorded from this date. But I 
dont agree. Most credit providers wont issue a default for the first missed payment. I can 
see that Satsuma set up various arrangements to pay with Miss W after this date. When this 
is done, a default wouldnt be recorded unless the terms of the arrangement are broken. 
Miss W said that she made two partial repayments in December 2018 and February 2019, 
which I can see on the account. But the missed repayment in March 2019 was the sixth 
month missed since the loan was first taken out. Miss W disagrees that Satsuma then tried 
to contact her. But this doesnt change the fact that shed missed her repayment and broken 
the arrangement to pay. 
I think a business can register a default if the terms of an arrangement to pay are broken. I 
also think a business can record a default when between three and six repayments are 
missed. I can see that Satsuma warned Miss W in June 2018 with a default notice that a 
default may be recorded on her credit file. 
So Miss W had broken her arrangement to pay by not making a repayment in March 2019. 
Shed then missed six monthly repayments for her loan. Satsuma had issued her with a 
default notice. So I think Satsuma reasonably recorded the default in April 2019. Satsuma 
has a duty to record accurate information, so I dont require it to remove or change this 
default.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman