DRN-3280284
The complaint
Ms G complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to remove a notice of deposit on 
her property, preventing her securing an advantageous interest rate on a new equity release 
loan. 
What happened
Ms G says she approached a mortgage provider for an equity release loan (ERL), and an 
offer was issued to her in mid-November 2020. Ms G says when her solicitor commenced 
their legal formalities, it came to light that Barclays, despite having confirmed in writing to her 
in 2015 the notice of deposit had been removed, hadnt done so. Ms G says both herself and 
her solicitor attempted to contact Barclays to arrange for this notice to be removed, but 
experienced difficulties being able to deal with the correct department and this led to delays 
and as a result Ms G says her initial ERL offer expired and she had to accept a new offer at 
a higher interest rate. Ms G wants Barclays to compensate her for the extra interest she will 
have to pay over the term of the ERL, which she has estimated to be a sum of in excess of 
£9,000.
Barclays have accepted it should have released the notice of deposit over Ms Gs property 
back in 2015, when the borrowing was repaid and have apologised for that. Barclays says it 
only became aware of this issue when Ms Gs solicitor contacted them in early January 2021 
and sent the discharge papers to her solicitor around three weeks later. Barclays says it 
offered Ms G £300 for the fact it failed to remove the notice of deposit, the time it took to 
discharge this and the communication problems Ms G faced when she contacted them about 
this matter. 
Ms G wasnt happy with Barclays response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator felt that under Barclays account terms and conditions Ms G wasnt able to claim 
any costs incurred as a result of a loss of opportunity. The investigator felt the 
compensation offered by Barclays for the delays incurred in removing the notice of deposit, 
was fair and reasonable. 
Ms G didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
I sent both sides a provisional decision, where I said :
Ive considered all of the evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator, but for different 
reasons and I will now explain how I have come to my decision. 
I can understand it would have been upsetting for Ms G to have missed out on a beneficial 
ERL interest rate, as result of Barclays not having removed a notice of deposit on her 
property, even though she was informed back in March 2015 it had. 
The first thing to say here is Barclays have accepted it didnt take the correct steps back in 
2015 to remove the notice of deposit on Ms Gs property even though it wrote to Ms G at that 
time to say it had. I can see Barclays have apologised to Ms G for that error.
Ms Gs complaint centres around the financial impact this had, in particular as a direct result 
of this oversight and the subsequent time it took Barclays to then remove this notice of 
deposit, meant the interest rate she had secured with her new lender on an approved ERL, 
was no longer available. Ms G has provided evidence to this service she had an ERL 
approved on 17 November 2020 and that offer was only valid for 50 days, this is further 
supported by an email from her new lender when it confirms the offer on her subsequent 
revised ERL. From the information I have seen, this does show the revised offer is at the 
higher interest rate, Ms G describes. Ms G believes Barclays have been negligent and its 
actions have directly resulted in her missing out on a beneficial interest rate on the ERL she 
had previously secured with another lender. 
While I understand what Ms G is saying here, Im not fully persuaded by her argument. I say 
this because, while Barclays should have removed the notice of deposit from the Land 
Registry back in 2015, the first time it became aware of this, was when Ms Gs solicitor 
contacted them on 5 January 2021. This is important here, as given Ms G has confirmed to 
this service the offer she received for her new ERL was only valid for 50 days, as the offer 
was dated 17 November 2020, it would have meant, by my calculations, the offer expired on 
6 January 2021. The timing of this also appears to be verified in an email from the new 
lender dated 13 January 2021, confirming to Ms G her ERL offer had already expired. 
With that in mind, Barclays only having been informed of this one day before the expiry of 
Ms Gs ERL offer, werent ever likely to have been able to complete matters within the 
remaining 24 hours. While Ms G may not agree, even though an oversight was made back in 
2015, Barclays only became reasonably aware of this issue, one day before the expiry of the 
ERL offer and I take the view this wasnt sufficient time for it to correct matters, and by the 
time it did, the offer had unfortunately expired. 
Thats not to say Barclays havent made a mistake back in 2015, it did and arguably took a 
little longer to finally remove the notice of deposit than expected, but Barclays have 
apologised for that and offered £300 by way of compensation which I am satisfied is 
reasonable in the circumstances. Its not my role to penalise Barclays here for a genuine 
oversight made six years ago, and then only be given a short window of time to correct it  
what I would expect is for Barclays to apologise for that and pay appropriate compensation 
for the original mistake, and I am satisfied it did that here. 
I would suggest Ms G contacts Barclays, if she now wishes to accept its offer of £300 in 
compensation. 
While Ms G will be disappointed with my decision, I wont be asking anymore of Barclays.
Both Ms G and Barclays responded to my provisional decision, so the case has been 
passed back to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I gave both Ms G and Barclays until 17 February 2022 to accept or reject my provisional decision. Barclays have accepted my provisional decision, but Ms G did not agree and says 
the mistake Barclays made six years ago is the reason for the extra costs she has incurred, 
and Barclays should at least meet her half-way on these costs. 
While I understand the points Ms G has made here, the issue is that although a mistake was 
made by Barclays, when the notice of deposit wasnt correctly removed six years ago, it was 
only given a very short window of time to correct this, once it became aware of it. As I 
mentioned in my provisional decision, Ms Gs ERL offer, was due to expire the day following 
Barclays being told it needed to remove the notice of deposit, so it wasnt reasonable to 
expect them to have dealt with this in such a short period of time. 
Barclays have offered to pay Ms G £300 for the fact it initially made an error in not removing 
the notice of deposit, but its not my role to penalise businesses when genuine errors like this 
occur. What is important is actions are taken to put things right, but unfortunately here 
Barclays werent given enough time to do that, once the mistake had been highlighted to 
them, as I have previously explained. I suggest Ms G contacts Barclays if she now wishes to 
accept their offer. 
With this in mind, I cant say Ms Gs comments changes my original provisional decision, 
therefore I see no need to change or add to this, and so my final decision remains the same. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 February 2022.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman