The complaint
Mrs T complains about how AmTrust Europe Limited dealt with a claim she made for 
accidental damage to her furniture.
What happened
Mrs T purchased a coffee table, dining table and dining table chairs from a company that Ill 
refer to here as H. She also purchased a care and protection policy of insurance, which 
covered the cost of removing stains or repairing damage to her furniture caused by a sudden 
and unforeseen accident. This policy was underwritten by AmTrust.
On around 6 June 2019 Mrs T said her glass dining table sustained damage to the surface. 
She believed this had been caused by cutlery being placed on top. Mrs T also said some of 
the dining chair legs were wobbling, which she thought may have been due to a family 
member occasionally leaning back on the chairs.
On around 13 June 2019 Mrs T said her glass coffee table sustained damage to its table top. 
She thought the damage may have been caused by a family member putting plates on the 
coffee table surface. 
Mrs T contacted AmTrust to report the damage to her dining table, chairs and coffee table. It 
appointed a technician to inspect the damage she had reported to assist it in dealing with her 
claim. And it asked Mrs T to provide photographs of the damage to her furniture.
When the technician inspected Mrs Ts dining table they noted over 50 scratches to the 
glass surface. They felt this damage had been caused gradually by general use. So, 
AmTrust declined to cover this damage because it said the scratches werent consistent with 
a single, sudden incident of accidental damage. So they were excluded from Mrs Ts policy.
AmTrust also declined to settle Mrs Ts claim for damage to her dining chairs. It said 
wobbling legs were structure faults, which fell outside the scope of the policy. 
AmTrust accepted Mrs Ts claim for damage to her coffee table. But it wasnt able to obtain a 
replacement coffee table or repair it using replacement parts. So it offered her a cash 
settlement of £50 to live with the damage or £200 to enable her to replace the coffee table. It 
explained that if Mrs T accepted option one the policy would continue. However, if she chose 
to accept option two this would terminate her policy with AmTrust insofar as the coffee table 
was concerned.
Mrs T felt AmTrust hadnt assessed her furniture claims fairly. So she complained. But it 
maintained its position that structural and gradual damage fell outside the scope of her 
policy. So it didnt think it had made an error in declining her claims for damage to her dining 
table chairs or dining table. And it said the cash settlement offer it had made for her coffee 
DRN-1690795table was based on its original purchase price and the cost of any repairs had they been 
possible. It therefore didnt uphold her complaint.
Mrs T was dissatisfied with how AmTrust intended to resolve her claim. So she referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into what had happened but they didnt 
uphold Mrs Ts complaint. Overall, they thought AmTrust had acted fairly and didnt need to 
take any further action. Mrs T accepted our investigators view about her coffee table. 
However, she disagreed with their view regarding her dining table and chairs claim. So, she 
asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think AmTrust made a mistake, or treated Mrs T unfairly, such 
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully about everything she and 
AmTrust have said, Im afraid to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate Mrs T will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered all the 
information provided by Mrs T and AmTrust, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think 
is relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because 
Ive failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment 
on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Mrs Ts policy covers the furniture she purchased from H for the cost of removing stains or 
repairing damage caused by a sudden and unforeseen accident event. In order for a claim 
to be successful a policy holder would have to show that the damage theyre claiming for 
was caused in this way.
Theres no dispute that damage occurred to Mrs Ts dining table, coffee table and dining 
chairs. But theres a dispute between Mrs T, AmTrust and its appointed agents about the 
cause of the damage that occurred and the correct outcome of this claim. 
There are three parts to Mrs Ts complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with 
them separately. 
Dining table
In determining whether AmTrust acted fairly in declining Mrs Ts claim for damage to this 
item of furniture Ive considered the photographs taken by the technician during their 
furniture inspection, their opinion of the cause of damage and Mrs Ts account as to how she 
believes the damage was caused.
The photographs show extensive scratches to the glass surface of the dining table. I accept 
the technicians evidence that there were over 50 scratches present. And, while Mrs T says 
this damage was caused by cutlery being placed on top, I dont believe it was caused due to 
a sudden and unforeseen accidental event, which is what is required by her policy. 
Mrs T told our investigator her furniture was relatively new. She therefore disputes the view 
that the damage to her dining table has occurred over time. But, while I understand the point 
Mrs T is making here, Im persuaded that the damage she reported occurred gradually over the time the furniture was within her possession. And I think the extent of the damage is 
consistent with wear and tear while the table was in use. As this is excluded under the terms 
of Mrs Ts policy I cant fairly find AmTrust made an error in declining to cover this claim.
Dining table chairs
Theres no assessment of the damage Mrs T reported regarding her dining table chairs by 
the technician AmTrust appointed. So, like our investigator, Ive considered the damage 
reported to these items of furniture with Mrs Ts explanation of the cause of the damage and 
her policy terms in mind. 
Mrs T told AmTrust that she thought the chair legs were wobbling as a result of a family 
member occasionally leaning back on the chairs. Im satisfied this could reasonably explain 
why the chair legs were wobbling. But Im not persuaded damage caused in this way would 
have happened as a result of a single event. I think its more likely this happened over the 
period Mrs T owned her chairs. And Im satisfied that damage caused by leaning back on the 
dining table chairs could, over time, weaken the structure of the chairs causing structural 
damage. 
Structural faults fall outside the remit of the policy. And Ive already explained damage that 
happens gradually or over a sustained period of time is excluded from Mrs Ts policy. 
I can also see that any damage caused by lack of reasonable care, mishandling, abuse, 
neglect is excluded under the terms of the policy. And I think it could be argued that leaning 
backwards on a chair could fall within this exclusion clause.
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied the damage Mrs T reported wouldnt have been 
covered by her policy. It follows that AmTrust hasnt acted unfairly in declining to cover a 
claim for these items of furniture.
Coffee table
I can see Mrs T accepted our investigators view about how AmTrust dealt with her claim 
regarding her coffee table. But, for the sake of completeness Ill include my findings about 
this claim within this final decision.
I think, overall, AmTrust acted fairly in accepting Mrs Ts claim for damage to this item of 
furniture. The reported damage is consistent with plates being placed on the table surface. 
And, as the damage isnt extensive, Im satisfied its most likely due to a sudden, and 
unforeseen, accidental event.
AmTrust says its unable to replace Mrs Ts damaged coffee table because it isnt a furniture 
retailer or supplier. I think this comment is fair. Its also unable to repair the damaged item. 
So, its offered to resolve her claim by way of a cash settlement instead.
The terms of Mrs Ts policy permit AmTrust to use it discretion to offer a cash settlement in 
circumstances where it isnt able to replace a damaged item of furniture. Where it chooses to 
resolve a claim in this way its entitled to cancel the policy covering the damaged item and 
request forfeiture of the furniture if it wishes to.
Mrs T said she paid £250 for her coffee table. But I havent seen any evidence confirming 
the purchase price. And I can see AmTrust made enquiries with H before offering Mrs T 
£200 for her damaged coffee table. So, I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me that 
AmTrusts offer here was unfair.In this case AmTrust offered to pay Mrs T £50 and allow her to retain her coffee table. It said 
if she accepted this offer her policy would continue to run. I think this offer was reasonable  
taking into account the price of the coffee table. And Im satisfied that, in giving Mrs T two 
distinct options, AmTrust was acting fairly.
I realise Mrs T will be disappointed with this decision. But Im persuaded overall that 
AmTrust has dealt with her furniture claims fairly. It follows that I AmTrust wont be asking it 
to do anything further, This now brings to an end what we, in trying to resolve her dispute 
with AmTrust informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant help Mrs T any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman