DRN-3019602
The complaint
Mrs K complains that Vanquis Bank Limited incorrectly defaulted her credit card account and
reported this to the credit reference agencies. She also says that Vanquis has applied too
much interest to her account.  
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this case on 4 August 2021. I planned on coming to a 
different outcome to our investigator, and so I wanted to give both parties the chance to 
respond with anything additional theyd like me to consider before I came to my final decision 
on the matter. Both parties have now responded. 
I have copied my provisional decision below  it also forms part of this final decision.
Mrs K paid for Repayment Option Plan (ROP) with her Vanquis card, which should have
allowed her the option of freezing payments and interest on her credit card for up to two
years. Unfortunately, Mrs K had a serious accident which impacted her (amongst other
things) financially. Because of this, she asked Vanquis to implement the ROP. This was so
she didnt have to make repayments to the account, and that the account interest and
charges would be frozen. Mrs K asked for this to be done in October 2019  and as far as
she was aware, this had been actioned by Vanquis.
In December 2019, Mrs K and her husband applied to remortgage their property to
consolidate their borrowing and reduce their monthly outgoings. They also intended to
release some equity so they could make necessary changes to the property to
accommodate Mrs K more comfortably since her accident. But Mrs K says the application
was declined following a credit check. When Mrs K checked her credit file, she found that
Vanquis had registered a default against her in October 2019.
Mrs K says she wrote to Vanquis about this three times before getting a response. As far as
she was aware, her account should be frozen and shouldnt have defaulted. Vanquis
responded to say that it had received notification that she had applied for bankruptcy  and
so it defaulted the account, wrote off the outstanding balance and reported this information
to the credit reference agencies.
Mrs K responded to Vanquis to say that she hadnt been made bankrupt, and so she didnt
understand why Vanquis had defaulted the account. Vanquis responded to say that it had
made an error and that it actually hadnt received notification of bankruptcy. To put things
right, it agreed to remove the bankruptcy status and the default it had reported to the credit
reference agencies  it also offered her £150 to say sorry.
Mrs K tells us that since Vanquis reinstated her account, it has constantly sent her
correspondence demanding repayments of more than £1,000  as this is how much it said
the account was over the limit by. It has told her that she was over her agreed credit limit
because she hadnt made a payment since October 2019 and interest and charges had
been applied to the account. However, Mrs K says her account should have been frozen and
so no payment ought to be due. And her account shouldnt be showing as over the limit.
Mrs K says the consequences of Vanquiss actions have been severe. Shes said that as a
result, she wasnt able to remortgage her property, which has meant that she hasnt been
able to make the improvements to her home to help with her condition caused by the
accident  and the remortgage was to consolidate some of her other lending which would
have saved her around £2000 per month. Shes also said that the financial impact on her
has been significant and she nearly lost her home  and hasnt been able to afford basic
living costs.
Vanquis wrote to Mrs K again to say that it refunded all of the interest that had been applied
to her account since October 2019, when it should have frozen her account  it said that this
totalled £354.33. And it has increased its offer of compensation to £500.
When our investigator initially looked into things, he thought that Vanquis had been fair in its
offer of compensation and that it had refunded the interest it said it charged from October
2019. But Mrs K responded to say that when she asked for her account to be frozen back in
October 2019, the account was within the agreed credit limit. So Vanquis must have applied
more than £354.33 in charges and interest to the account, given that it was showing as over
the limit by more than £1000. And she didnt think that the £500 compensation was enough 
given that she needed to contact Vanquis on many occasions to rectify the issue. And that
she had been unable to remortgage her property as a result of the default showing on her
credit file.
Shortly after the investigator issued their initial view, Mrs K got in touch to say that Vanquis
had reapplied the default to her credit report. And this was noticed when she again went to
reapply to remortgage  and she says that she wasnt able to apply for the remortgage again
because of this default.
Our investigator went back and forth with Vanquis and later found that it had calculated that
refund of the interest and charges incorrectly. Vanquis had actually applied a total of
£1,398.82 in interest and charges to Mrs Ks account. Vanquis has now refunded these
charges as it realised that these shouldnt have been charged while the account should have
been frozen. And it has rectified the issue with the second default.
Mrs K remained unhappy with how Vanquis had resolved matters and so asked for a
decision on the matter.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I currently intend to uphold Mrs Ks complaint.
Since our investigator issued their view on this complaint, there no longer appears to be a
dispute between the parties about the facts of what happened and what should have
happened in this case. For example, both parties agree that Vanquis incorrectly defaulted
Mrs Ks account on two separate occasions and when it reinstated the account, it applied
interest and charges to the account when it shouldnt have.
So, its now up to me to decide if Vanquis has done enough to put things right for Mrs K. And
I dont currently think it has.
I can see that Vanquis has now refunded all interest and charges that were applied to the
account during the period from October 2019 when the account should have been frozen
under the ROP. So, Im satisfied that the account balance is now showing as it should havebeen had Vanquis not made the mistake in defaulting the account.
On 28 July 2020, Vanquis wrote to Mrs K to increase the level of compensation it was
offering for the error in defaulting the account from £150 to £500. It did this after reading an
email from Mrs K about how its mistake had impacted her.
Its clear Mrs K has been through a very difficult time since she had the accident. But I dont
think it would be fair of me to say that everything she has been through has been as a result
of Vanquiss mistake. Although I can appreciate that this has added a significant amount of
pressure and strain to her situation.
When Vanquis initially offered Mrs K £500 in compensation, I felt this was a fair amount to
compensate for the distress it had caused up until that point. At this time, Vanquis had put
things right for Mrs K and removed the default from her credit file. Ive read all the
information Mrs K has sent this service about how the default has impacted her  and I am
very sorry to learn of the situation she has found herself in. While I can appreciate that the
default would likely have affected her ability to be able to remortgage, I cant be certain that
this was the only reason for the remortgage being declined. I havent seen any information
that supports the exact reason for the declined mortgage application, and I am aware that
mortgage applications take into account a lot of different information and can be declined for
many reasons. So while I take on board that the default would likely affect the chances of
her getting the mortgage, I cant be certain that it was the only reason.
However, since Vanquis offered Mrs K £500 in compensation for what it did wrong, it has
again reported to credit reference agencies that the account was in a position of having
defaulted. This is despite the ROP still being in effect and payments remaining frozen. Mrs K
says this came at a time when she was hoping to apply for another remortgage  and she
says she couldnt do this because of the default showing again on her credit file. I appreciate
that Mrs K didnt actually apply for the remortgage again after seeing this default, but it has
impacted her decision and choice to be able to apply. I am fairly certain that the default
would have had some impact on how Mrs Ks creditworthiness was appearing to other
lenders, and so I can understand why she didnt go ahead with the application she wanted to
make. Based on what Ive seen, Mrs K has clearly gone into a lot of trouble to try and get the
default removed from her credit file  something that shouldnt have been up to her to do.
Vanquis has also sent Mrs K lots of communication about bringing her account up to date as
it was showing as over the limit. Vanquis has accepted that the account shouldnt have been
over the limit at all  and it was only the interest and charges it incorrectly applied which
caused this, when these shouldve been suspended due to Mrs Ks ROP. I can understand
how upsetting and distressing this type of communication must have been for Mrs K 
especially given her current financial position. And Mrs K had been right all along in that the
balance was incorrect  but it took a very long time for Vanquis to recognise this and put
things right, which I agree wouldve been particularly frustrating for Mrs K as the ROP, that
she pays for, was intended to avoid this type of distressing situation.
Its clear from everything Ive read and been told that Mrs K has spent a lot of time trying to
sort the situation out with Vanquis  firstly the incorrect default being applied, then the issue
with incorrect interest and charges being added to the account balance, and finally the
second default. Its clear that all of these things have caused Mrs K a great deal of distress
and shes suffered a lot of inconvenience as a result.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Vanquis should pay Mrs K a total of £1000 in
compensation for the trouble and upset its mistakes have caused Mrs K. This amount is
inclusive of the £500 Vanquis has already offered Mrs K. Mrs K should be able to decide if
shed prefer the money to be paid directly to her or to reduce the balance of the Vanquiscredit card account.
In addition to this, Vanquis should provide Mrs K with a letter confirming that the two defaults
were applied incorrectly and as a direct result of its mistake. Mrs K can then show this letter
to the mortgage lenders should they allow her to revisit her previous mortgage applications.
And Vanquis should ensure that any adverse information it has reported to the credit
reference agencies in relation to these mistakes is removed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party had any additional information they wanted me to consider. Because of this, I 
see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my provisional decision.  
Putting things right
To put things right for Mrs K, I order Vanquis to do the following:
Pay Mrs K a total of £1000 for the distress and inconvenience its mistakes has 
caused. If Vanquis has already paid Mrs K the £500 it previously offered her, then it 
can deduct this from the total amount. Mrs K will need to let either this service, or 
Vanquis know, if shed prefer the money to be paid directly to her or to reduce the 
balance of her Vanquis credit card account.
Vanquis need to provide Mrs K with a letter confirming that the two defaults
were applied incorrectly and as a direct result of its mistake. Mrs K can then show 
this letter to the mortgage lenders should they allow her to revisit her previous 
mortgage applications.
Vanquis need to ensure that any adverse information it has reported to the credit 
reference agencies in relation to these mistakes is removed.
  
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ks complaint. I order Vanquis Bank Limited to 
put things right for Mrs K by doing what Ive said above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 September 2021.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman