DRN-1950273
The complaint
Mr A complains that The Co-operative Bank plc hasnt enabled him to access his account 
online. 
What happened
Mr A had an account with Co-op. He says hes been unable to access his online banking. 
And, he says this is Co-ops fault.
Mr A says the problems started around October or November 2019. Each time he entered 
his security details he got a message saying there were technical difficulties. He contacted 
Co-op about this, but he says it failed to help him or to fix the problem. 
He says hes incurred costs visiting the branch to try to sort the matter out. He complained to 
Co-op.
Co-op investigated his complaint. It accepted that when Mr A phoned it about the problems 
he was having it couldve done more to assist him. It says it asked Mr A to provide it with 
screenshots of the message he was getting so that it could refer the problem to its IT 
department. But it says Mr A refused to do this. It apologised for the problems Mr A 
experienced and offered him £75 by way of compensation.
Co-op says it has now reset all of Mr As background information on its systems and if he 
contacts its customer service team it will try to get his online banking reset.
Mr A wasnt happy with this response. He says Co-op hasnt accepted that the problems he 
experienced are its fault. He also said hed spent £120 in travel costs visiting the branch to 
try to get it sorted out and he wants Co-op to reimburse him for this.
Our investigator looked into his complaint. He acknowledged that the problems Mr A had 
experienced must have been frustrating. He said Co-op shouldve told Mr A that when he 
entered the one-time password he needed to immediately reset his security information. It 
hadnt done that. 
But he thought Mr A couldve provided the information which Co-op requested. He said it 
wasnt unreasonable to have asked for copies of screenshots. He thought the offer of £75 
was fair and reasonable. And he didnt expect Co-op to reimburse travel costs when Mr A 
couldve contacted it by telephone. He thought Co-op had now reset his information on its 
systems and Mr A could contact its customer care team to get access to online banking 
again.
Mr A didnt agree. He said hed been to the branch and tried to log into his online banking 
using Co-ops own computers, but this hadnt worked either. He also said that the branch 
staff had offered to pay £5 towards his travel costs. Our investigator considered these points, 
but he didnt change his view. He thought £75 was fair and reasonable compensation for 
whatd happened. 
Because Mr A didnt agree the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id just point out that in this decision Im only dealing with the complaint Mr A 
raised in November 2019 after he had problems when he tried to access his online banking. 
Mr A has raised other issues hes experienced since then. Those matters need to be dealt 
with separately.
I can see that Mr A tried to access his online banking on 27 November 2019. It appears that 
he needed to reset his security credentials because his online access had been blocked. Co-
op says his access had been blocked because an incorrect password had been entered on 
three consecutive occasions on 25 November 2019.
Ive looked at the efforts Mr A made on 27 November and again on 28 November to access 
his online banking. I can see that he spent time on the telephone with Co-op; he sent 
messages via social media and he attended a branch on 28 November. Each time he 
contacted Co-op it wasnt able to resolve the problems he was having. 
I can understand how frustrating this must have been for Mr A. There was clearly a problem 
which was preventing him from accessing online banking. Having considered the matter, I 
dont think it was anything to do with the computer equipment Mr A was using. I say this 
because even when he used Co-ops own computers, he couldnt access his online banking. 
Co-op says that after he entered the one-time password it sent to him, he needed to reset 
his password immediately. But I think Mr A did try to do that and each time he got a 
message to say there were technical difficulties. So, there was clearly an underlying problem 
that needed to be resolved.
In these circumstances Id expect Co-op to have investigated the underlying problem and try 
to resolve the situation. But that didnt happen for some time. Mr A was in touch with Co-op 
several times during December and January. 
He received a final response letter from it at the end of January. But it was only after this that 
Co-op referred the matter to its IT department and reset all the background information for 
Mr As account on its system. Co-op says Mr A should now be able to complete the process 
of resetting his security credentials, but hell need to contact the customer service team to do 
that.
Ive thought about the length of time it took to try to resolve the problem. 
I can see Co-op asked Mr A to send it screenshots of the messages hed received about 
technical difficulties. It also said it would refer the problem to its IT department. It offered to 
do this on several occasions, early in the process. But Mr A declined.
Whilst I can understand how annoyed Mr A wouldve been at the problems he was 
experiencing I think Co-op was willing to refer the matter to its IT team at an early stage. 
And, for matters of this nature which require specialist IT involvement, I think Mr A shouldve 
tried to assist Co-op with its investigations. I dont think that asking him to send screenshots 
was an unreasonable request. If thatd happened, I think the matter wouldve been referred 
to the IT department. And, the problems may have been resolved earlier.Mr A says he still hasnt been able to access his online banking. But Co-op says hell need to 
contact its customer care team before he can reset his security credentials. I think its 
reasonable that he should have to do that given the issues that hes had. If he does 
experience any further issues, hell need to provide Co-op with full details so that it can 
immediately engage its IT team.
Ive also considered whether the lack of access to online banking meant that Mr A couldnt 
use his account. 
Mr A asked Co-op to start sending his statements on paper. He did this on 28 November. 
So, he was able to get his statements by post after this date. Co-op also says that Mr As 
account wasnt an online only account. It could still be accessed at a branch or through 
telephone banking. So, whilst the lack of access to online banking wouldve been 
inconvenient, I dont think it prevented Mr A from using his account.   
Mr A says he incurred considerable expense when he had to travel to a branch to try to 
resolve the situation. He says that, at the time, the branch staff offered him £5 towards his 
travel costs. Co-op says it wasnt aware of this, but it thinks the £75 its offered is fair and 
reasonable for the inconvenience hes experienced. It also says that he couldve dealt with 
the matter over the telephone and there was no need for him to go a branch.
It is the case that Mr A chose to go a branch to try to get assistance. I think he also wanted 
to be sure that the problem didnt lie with his own computer system. But that was his choice. 
He couldve contacted Co-op by telephone, and he couldve sent the screenshots to it. He 
chose not to do that. And, in these circumstances, I dont think its fair or reasonable to 
require Co-op to reimburse his travel costs.
So, having thought about everything here, I agree with our investigator that £75 is fair and 
reasonable compensation for what happened. I dont require Co-op to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about The Co-operative Bank 
plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2020.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman