DRN-4049287
The complaint
Mr B complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to give him assurances about the 
security of his account after he received a scam message from a third party. He also 
complains about the service provided by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr B had a current account with Nationwide. On 2 July 2021 he received an automated 
telephone message purportedly from an online retailer, which Ill refer to as A. The 
message stated that a third party was trying to access his account and make a payment 
using his debit card. Mr B says he was asked to make a selection from different options  
but he didnt do this and ended the call. He says he immediately phoned Nationwide and 
spoke to one of its branch managers. He says the manager did not identify herself.
During the telephone call Mr B says he explained what had happened when A called him. He 
said he was phoning to report this and the manager of the branch confirmed it was a scam. 
When he asked the manager to confirm that no money had been taken out of his account he 
says she asked him at least seven security questions. He became concerned about the 
amount of personal information he was being asked to divulge. When he queried this with 
the manager he says she was rude to him and when he told her he wanted to make a 
complaint he says she put the phone down.
Mr B telephoned Nationwide to complain about what happened. He explained to Nationwide 
that he thought there should be a better way of confirming his identity rather than asking him 
to provide so much personal data. He was also dissatisfied with how the manager of the 
branch had dealt with him. When he was speaking to Nationwide it informed him that his 
telephone number had been tagged to his account. Mr B said this had been done without his 
knowledge or consent and was a breach of data protection laws. He asked Nationwide to 
delete his telephone number from its records and send him a letter informing him of its 
response to his complaint.
Nationwide investigated Mr Bs complaint. It issued its final response letter on 18 August 
2021. It said it was unable to locate the call recording of Mr Bs conversation with its branch 
manager. It had spoken to the branch manager and her recollection of events was that she 
had given Mr B her personal details. She said Mr B was unwilling to complete the verification 
process and the call was terminated due to the nature of where the conversation was going 
without completing the verification process.
Nationwide said that during the subsequent call Mr Bs complaint had been logged but it was 
unable to remove his telephone number from its systems until the verification questions were 
answered. Hed declined to do that. Nationwide said it was required to confirm his personal 
details when hed telephoned it before it could proceed with his query. Nationwide provided 
him with a copy of its leaflet How Nationwide uses your information.
Mr B was not satisfied with this response. He phoned Nationwide. He says its complaint 
handler told him he had based his decision on three telephone recordings it held  but the 
complaint handler then said he had based his decision on two telephone calls and a 
statement from the branch manager. He didnt think this was fair because he hadnt been 
afforded an opportunity to challenge the branch managers statement.
He referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into his complaint. She 
thought the reason why Nationwide hadnt provided Mr B with information about his account 
was because it needed to complete its verification checks first. Those checks were required 
to protect his data. She thought this was fair and reasonable. She noted that Nationwide had 
subsequently recorded that Mr Bs communication preference was by letter and not by 
telephone. She didnt think it should have to do anything more to resolve his complaint.
Mr B was not satisfied with how his complaint had been dealt with. He requested further 
information from Nationwide. By this stage a new investigator had been allocated to his 
complaint by our service. The new investigator looked at everything again but he was also of 
the view that Nationwide hadnt done anything wrong when it asked Mr B to verify his 
identity. He also didnt think it was unreasonable for Nationwide to have made a note of his 
telephone number on its systems. He said that in a modern banking world Nationwide could 
use this information to help identify Mr B. He didnt think Nationwide should have to take any 
further action.
Mr B didnt agree. He thought his complaint had not been properly investigated. He said 
further information was needed. For example, he said that Nationwide had now given him 
information which confirmed that all telephone calls were recorded and could only be deleted 
by a manager. So, he believed the manager of the branch had deleted the telephone call 
hed made when he first tried to report the fraud to Nationwide.
Our service appointed a new investigator who looked into Mr Bs complaint again. But, he 
also didnt think Nationwide had done anything wrong.
Mr B remained dissatisfied about how our service had investigated his complaint. He asked 
for copies of the information Nationwide had provided to us. This was sent to Mr B and he 
has provided his comments on the information in that file. He specifically told us that he 
disagreed with the information made in the statement from the branch manager about the 
initial call hed made to Nationwide. He also thought some information was missing whilst 
other parts had been redacted. Further information was subsequently sent to Mr B in 
response to his data subject access request.
Because Mr B didnt agree with what our investigator said, the complaint was passed to me 
to decide. I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id just point out at the outset that Mr B has raised various issues about the conduct 
of the investigation carried out by our service. Hes also raised issues about 
Nationwides failure to respond to a data subject access request. In this decision, I 
wont be dealing with either of these concerns which will have to be dealt with 
separately. In this decision I will be dealing only with Mr Bs complaint about a 
telephone call he made to Nationwide on 2 July 2021.
Mr B feels that there are still things outstanding or that need further clarification 
before I issue a decision here. But Im satisfied, having reviewed all the available 
evidence and arguments that I have enough, at this stage, to give the parties to this 
complaint my thoughts about how I think this case should be resolved. And, in order to give both parties further opportunity to respond before I reach my final decision, 
Im issuing a provisional decision.
Mr B has raised several issues. Ill deal with each of these separately:
The call with Nationwide branch on 2 July 2021
Mr B called the branch to report the call hed received from A. I can understand why 
he was concerned about this call and why he decided to immediately contact his 
branch. There is no dispute that the branch manager told him the call hed received 
was a scam. There is also no dispute that Mr B then asked the branch manager to 
confirm that no money had left his account and that before providing this information 
the branch manager asked a series of security questions to verify Mr Bs identity.
It is not possible to be certain what words were used during this call because there 
was no call recording. Nationwide has confirmed to our service that calls to its 
branches are not recorded. Mr B does not accept this. He says Nationwide told him 
all calls are recorded and he believes the manager deleted the call. Ill comment on 
that further below.
Mr B disagrees with the managers statement about this call. That statement was 
taken from her as part of Nationwides internal investigation after Mr B logged his 
complaint. In her statement she set out the reasons why she says she terminated the 
call. Mr B disputes those reasons. He says she was rude to him and put the phone 
down when he complained.
Ive thought about what both parties have said here. Ive also looked at the leaflet 
How Nationwide uses your information. Nationwide sent Mr B a copy of this leaflet 
together with its final response letter. The information in the leaflet forms part of the 
terms and conditions for his account.
In the leaflet Nationwide states that it collects and uses personal information for 
various purposes including to check your identity and confirm that it is you. So I 
dont think Nationwide did anything wrong when it sought to verify Mr Bs identity 
before it responded to his specific question about whether thered been a transaction 
on his account.
Mr Bs issue is that he thinks the number of questions he was asked was excessive 
and he thinks there must be a better way of verifying his identity which doesnt 
require him to divulge his personal details over the telephone.
Its not a matter for our service to tell a business how it should verify the identity of its 
customers. Ive looked at Nationwides internal guidance on this matter  which for 
commercial and security reasons is a confidential document. Having done so, Im 
satisfied that Nationwide followed its own procedures when it asked Mr B a number 
of security questions and I dont think it treated him differently to how it treats its other 
customers when it asked him the security questions. So, Im not persuaded that the 
branch manager acted unfairly or unreasonably when she refused to provide 
information about transactions on Mr Bs account until he answered all of its security 
questions.
As mentioned above no recording of the call with the branch manager has been 
provided to our service. Ive thought about the reasons given by Nationwide for that. 
It says that the call was to one of its branches and not to one of its call centres. It 
says that calls to its branches are not recorded.Firstly, Id just comment that it is not unusual for a business not to record calls made 
to one of its branches. And Ive also noted that in its leaflet How Nationwide uses 
your information, Nationwide states that when a customer phones it may record 
some calls for training and quality purposes. (my underlining added for emphasis).
So, on balance, Im not persuaded that the call with the branch manager was 
recorded or that the manager subsequently deleted it in a bid to frustrate the 
investigation. Because there is no call recording I cannot be certain how the call 
ended. Ive read the branch managers statement and considered Mr Bs comments 
about that. Having done so, Im persuaded that the call did end abruptly. But I dont 
think that prevented Mr B from raising his complaint with Nationwide later that day or 
that hes been disadvantaged as a result.
Nationwide tagged Mr Bs telephone number to his account with it
Ive referred above to the leaflet How Nationwide uses your information. The leaflet 
is referred to in the terms and conditions for Mr Bs account and the information in the 
leaflet is incorporated into and forms part of those terms and conditions.
The leaflet includes details about how Nationwide collects and uses personal 
information about its customers. It also sets out how it manages that information and 
the purposes it can use it for. There is also information about what rights customers 
have regarding their personal information.
In the leaflet, Nationwide sets out that it can collect information from the customer 
himself and from various third parties. Nationwide has been able to collect 
information, in the ways described, about Mr Bs telephone number which it was then 
able to use, together with other information it held about him, to check and confirm 
his identity when he telephoned it. That is in line with how the leaflet says it will use 
his personal information. So, I dont think it did anything wrong when it did that. I also 
dont think it required Mr Bs explicit permission to collect and store this information 
for the purposes it used it for. Im satisfied that it collected and stored his telephone 
number in line with the terms and conditions for his account and used it for the 
purposes set out in those terms and conditions.
The leaflet also includes details about Mr Bs rights concerning his personal data. 
This included his right to request that data Nationwide held about him was erased. 
He asked Nationwide to erase his telephone number from its records during the call 
on 2 July 2021. Nationwide says it couldnt do that because it was unable to verify his 
identity. It says it will delete this information once Mr B has sent it his instructions and 
it has been able to confirm his identity. I think thats fair and reasonable.
Complaint handling
Mr B has complained about the way that Nationwide conducted its investigation into 
his complaint.
I understand that Mr B feels very strongly about this matter. But, under the rules 
which apply to our service, we cannot look into the part of his complaint which is 
solely about how Nationwide handled his complaint. Thats because complaint 
handling is not itself a regulated activity. It means I cant look into this part of Mr Bs 
complaint.
Having considered everything here, for the reasons set out above, Ive provisionally 
decided not to uphold this complaint.
My provisional decisionFor the reasons given above my provisional decision is that I do not intend to uphold 
this complaint about Nationwide Building Society.
Nationwide did not respond to my provisional decision.
Mr B did respond to my provisional decision. He said there had still not been a proper 
investigation into his complaint. He thought the investigation that had taken place was a 
fraud and scam.
So, I now have to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed Mr Bs response to my provisional decision. Although Mr B remains dissatisfied 
with how he says his complaint has been investigated, he hasnt provided any comments 
about the issues Ive dealt with in my provisional decision. He also hasnt provided any new 
or further information. So, theres nothing that persuades me to change my view about how 
this complaint should be resolved - as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given above I do not uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman