Page 1 of 3The complaint
Mr H complains that he was given unsuitable advice by Fiscale Financial Services Limited 
(Fiscale) to transfer deferred benefits from his Defined Benefit (DB) pension with
British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was closed to further benefit accrual from 31
March 2017.
In September 2016, Mr H contacted Fiscale for advice on his pension. Fiscale explained
they did not have the necessary permissions to advise Mr H on DB pension transfers
as this was a specialist area. However, they said they could refer his case to a financial 
advisor who had the necessary permissions to undertake this type of work. Mr H agreed and 
Fiscale emailed another firm, John Coldwell Pensions and Investments Limited (JC). It said:
I have a client who has deferred benefits within an occupational scheme. The CETV is
approximately £277,000 and the client is considering the possibility of a transfer. I have 
advised him that we do not have the relevant FCA permissions in order to undertake
work of this nature, and therefore it has been agreed that I will source a suitable IFA who
may be able to assist, i.e., yourself.
On the same day, Fiscale emailed Mr H and said:
Further to our recent meeting and telephone conversation, I can confirm that your details
have now been passed to John Coldwell of John Coldwell Pensions and Investments
Limited. John will be contacting you shortly to arrange a meeting
Mr H was subsequently advised by JC to transfer his DB benefits to a personal pension. 
After the transfer, Fiscale advised Mr H on his investments within his new pension plan. He 
was categorised as a cautious investor and he was recommend to invest in a cautious fund. 
Fiscale became the ongoing adviser on Mr Hs pension plan.
DRN-2949179Page 2 of 3Mr H complained both to Fiscale and JC in 2019 about the advice he received. He said both 
firms encouraged him to transfer. Fiscale rejected his complaint and said they didnt provide 
Mr H with any advice.
Mr H referred his complaint to this service. One of our investigators considered his complaint
but didnt uphold it. She didnt think Fiscale had given Mr H advice about the transfer and so 
they werent responsible for any losses he suffered in this respect.
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr H is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is JC. They were the firm who had the
relevant permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB 
scheme. Its worth remembering that Mr H could not have transferred his DB pension without 
JCs advice. And based on Mr Hs testimony and the documents Ive seen, Im satisfied it 
was clear to him that JC would provide him with the pension transfer advice and Fiscale with 
any subsequent investment advice if he transferred out of his DB scheme. 
Fiscale emailed Mr H informing him that they would not be providing pension transfer advice 
and that if he decided to transfer and later felt this wasnt in his best interest, any complaint 
would need to be against the pension transfer advice firm. Mr H thinks this is a sign that 
Fiscale might have been aware that advice to transfer was not suitable and anticipated 
complaints in future. However, where more than one firm is involved its reasonable for firms 
to make it clear to clients who is responsible for what service. I dont draw any adverse 
conclusions from this.
JC is in liquidation, so I cant consider the complaint against them. I carefully considered 
whether Fiscale should be held responsible for Mr Hs losses here in some form, however I 
dont think they should.
Mr Hs testimony is clear that he received the advice from JC. He mentions that Fiscale was 
very complementary of JC as the advisers had known each other for 20 years, however I 
havent seen evidence that Fiscale actually recommended Mr H to transfer. Of course 
Fiscale became the ongoing advisers on Mr Hs new pension and were charging ongoing 
advice fees. So they may have been hoping Mr H would transfer. Ive also considered the 
possibility that Fiscale inadvertently strayed into advice, even though I havent seen any 
evidence to say that this is what happened. However, even if they did, in my view none of 
their interactions with Mr H and possible failures in this regard ultimately caused the potential 
losses he suffered.
Mr Hs representatives say Fiscale and JC should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say Fiscale failed to act in Mr Hs best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
Fiscale did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr H not to transfer. I think there was nothing
generally wrong with referring Mr H on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB pension.
Mr Hs representatives say Fiscale referred a number of clients to JC and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likelyPage 3 of 3they referred customers to JC on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that JC would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not. And its acceptable for one firm to provide transfer advice and for another to provide 
investment advice.
Ive also considered Mr H remarks about a Facebook group hes a member of and where 
someone said Fiscale could process bulk requests so an early retirement age of 50 could be 
retained. He says this strongly suggests Fiscales default position was clearly in favour of 
transferring. 
However, I dont share Mr Hs concerns here. For members who wanted advice on a transfer 
and who had a protected retirement age of 50, the only way to retain this benefit after a 
transfer was to process several transfers from the same scheme at the same time. I dont 
think theres dispute that Fiscale and JC had an ongoing relationship and so if DB members 
were interested in transferring and had a protected retirement age it was reasonable to refer 
them to a pension transfer specialist together. I dont think this shows that Fiscales default 
position was in favour of transferring or that they expected everyone who was introduced to 
receive a positive recommendation from JC whether the advice was suitable or not. 
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on JC,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately JCs obligation to provide Mr H with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr H to transfer JC should, as the experts in this field, have
clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any
discussions with Fiscale would have likely made Mr H go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was JCs positive recommendation that caused Mr H to
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by the transfer. I dont think 
Mr Hs potential losses here are caused by Fiscales actions and so I dont consider it fair or 
reasonable to uphold this complaint.
For completeness, I also cant see that Fiscales investment recommendation was 
unsuitable. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2022.
Nina Walter
Ombudsman