DRN-2129045
The complaint
Mr S complains about the advice he was given by Canada Life Limited (Canada Life) to 
contract out of the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in 1991. He believes 
hes now financially worse off following that advice. 
What happened
Mr S met with an adviser from Albany Life (now part of Canada Life) in 1991. He was 
advised to contract out of SERPS using an appropriate personal pension. An application 
form was signed by Mr S on 13 March 1991, which noted that he was 39 years old with 
estimated earnings of £60,000 for that year. This meant his contributions could be paid from 
the 1990/1991 tax year. It was also noted that Mr Ss contributions would be invested into an 
equity fund. 
Canada Life later took over administration of the pension and contributions to the value of 
£13,774.81 were made to the plan until April 2006, when it was transferred to another 
provider.
In 2019 Mr S wrote to Canada Life with details of his pension plans making a compensation 
claim for contracted out policies where no advice was given to understand the implications of 
a lowered state pension.
Canada Life reviewed the circumstances and said the recommendation for Mr S to contract 
out of SERPS was suitable because his age and earnings at the time meant he was eligible 
and likely to be better off as a result. It also said he would have been given illustrations and 
brochures at the time which would have explained how the plan worked as well as issued 
warnings that the benefit he would receive wasnt guaranteed. 
Mr S wasnt happy with that outcome, so he brought his complaint to us making the following 
points:
The application was filled in by the adviser and he simply signed it. He said the start 
date on the form didnt correspond to when he signed it and the overall 
inconsistencies within the application form meant it shouldnt be considered as 
evidence. 
He assumed his earnings were too low for him to be contracted out of SERPS. He 
didnt accept Canada Lifes assertion that anyone earning over £2,392 would have 
benefited from contracting out.
Canada Life should have calculated how much state pension he would lose by 
contracting out  and should have advised him of that. 
He made an extra 7 years NI contributions than was necessary, which he thinks was 
unfair. 
One of our investigators looked into the matter and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
She said there wasnt enough evidence from the point of sale to show that Mr S was 
pressured into signing the required paperwork  or that he wasnt given enough information 
to make an informed decision. She thought that the advice to contract out was reasonable 
based on what was known about Mr Ss situation at the time. 
Mr S didnt agree. He made the following points:
His actual income for 1990/1991 was £13,078  substantially less than the £60,000 
that was given as an estimate for the year.  
He believed the policy to have been mis sold and thought the adviser was a con 
man paid by commission only.
He wasnt made aware that his state pension would be lower as a result of taking out 
the plan.
It wasnt reasonable to give the adviser the benefit of the doubt regarding blank 
documents being signed and filled in by the adviser later. He thought the investigator 
should have applied the principle of the balance of probability.
He didnt believe his earnings were sufficient to justify contracting out of SERPS.
He didnt receive any policy documents from Albany Life or from Canada Life.
He disagreed with the basis on which the lower earnings limit was used to justify 
contracting out.
He wanted his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman  so its been passed to me for 
review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done so I agree with the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I can see 
Mr S feels strongly about this matter and I have some sympathy for his position as he 
believes hes now worse off as a result of Canada Lifes advice. But I dont think the advice 
was unsuitable. I know this outcome will disappoint Mr S  so Ill explain my reasons. 
SERPS was an addition to the state pension built up by national insurance contributions. But 
it was possible to contract out of SERPS through an occupational pension scheme, or for 
those individuals without such access, through a personal pension. According to the 
information provided in the application form Mr S did belong to an occupational pension 
scheme but it was a contracted-out scheme  so if Mr S was to contract out of SERPS he 
needed to divert his national insurance contributions to a personal pension. 
In 1991 there wasnt a requirement for a provider to carry out a detailed fact find or provide a 
recommendation letter if it advised an individual to contract out of SERPS. The main factors 
that were used to determine whether someone was likely to be better off as a result of such 
advice were age, earnings and the investment horizon (time to retirement age). Mr S was 
under the pivotal age of 45 for men at the time of the advice, and had annual earnings above 
the relevant lower earnings limit. And Canada Life (Albany Life at the time) had set its own 
minimum qualifying salary threshold of £6,000 per annum, which Mr S exceeded. 
So, for those reasons, I dont think advice to contract out of SERPS could be considered 
unsuitable. And Im satisfied that  based on what was known at the time, the advice was 
appropriate and provided Mr S with a reasonable prospect of greater benefits at retirement. 
I can also see the recommendation was made to invest in the default equity fund. 
Given Mr Ss age and the length of time until his retirement (over 25 years) I think that was a 
reasonable fund choice to have recommended. Mr S says he doesnt accept that the lower earnings limit is an appropriate measure on 
which to base contracting out. He says its too low and wouldnt make it suitable for anyone 
to contract out. But these criteria were set at the time  and Canada Life went further by 
introducing its own minimum salary requirements. I know Mr S would like me to say that the 
income limits at the time were unfair but that wasnt Canada Lifes responsibility and we 
wouldnt normally interfere with the legitimate commercial decision it made to introduce its 
own minimum salary threshold. Mr Ss actual income from that year meant he satisfied the 
income requirement to contract out. 
Mr S has said that he wasnt told his state pension would be reduced as a result of 
contracting out of SERPS  or that hed be worse off. He says he wouldnt have agreed to go 
ahead if hed known that. However, having looked carefully at all the information Mr S was 
provided with at the time, I can find no evidence to show that Canada Life made any 
promises or guarantees about what hed receive in retirement. And Ive seen the declaration 
within the application form  directly above Mr Ss signature  which said, I understand that 
the benefits I can get from the state earnings related pension scheme will be reduced 
because of these payments of minimum contributions. So, I cant safely say Mr S wasnt 
made aware of the fact that he would get a lower SERPS benefit.
Mr S has cast doubt upon the information recorded in the application form as he says it was 
filled in by the adviser and he simply signed it. He says the inconsistency between the date 
he signed the form and the start date of the policy is testament to those inconsistencies. 
I should explain that applications to contract out of SERPS were made for an entire tax year. 
So, in Mr Ss case this meant that, although his application was dated 13 March 1991, it was 
for an application to contract out of SERPS for the 1990/1991 tax year  thats why the 
application form showed a start date of 6 April 1990, as that was the date contributions 
would be backdated from. And looking at the rest of the application form I cant see any 
other inconsistencies which would have affected Mr Ss eligibility to contract out of SERPS, 
So Ive concluded that the application process wasnt unfair. 
Mr S has suggested he was pressured into signing blank forms and thinks they should be 
struck out as evidence of his application. But while I dont dispute Mr Ss version of events, 
theres no evidence to suggest that Mr S was put under pressure, and he has accepted that 
he signed the forms which contained important declarations about having received 
documents and having been told about the possible loss of the state pension. These 
declarations were already populated within the form when he signed them, so they were 
available for Mr S to read and understand.
But, whatever Mr Ss position with regards to his overall pension income, I cant safely say 
its been affected by the suitability of the advice he received in 1991. I dont think the advice 
to contract out of SERPS was unsuitable and I havent seen that Canada Life made any 
guarantees about what Mr S might receive from the new plan. Its unfortunate if Mr S had 
higher expectations of what he might get from the plan, but I couldnt uphold a complaint that 
was purely about the performance of an investment unless I could safely say that that plan 
wasnt suitable  and in this case I think it was suitable.
My final decision
For the reasons that Ive given I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020.
 
Keith Lawrence
Ombudsman