DRN-3733745
The complaint
Mr H, who is a director of N, brings the complaint on Ns behalf. He complains that Starling 
Bank Limited (Starling) wont refund the money N lost in a scam. 
What happened
Mr H says that he wanted to buy a car for his business. He found an advert for a company Ill 
refer to as E. E said it had sold used cars since 2020 and was now offering cars owned by 
banks and leasing companies. Mr H found a car on Es website and agreed a price of £8,500 
plus £120 for delivery and £100 for documents. The cost was well below market value, but 
Mr H had no concerns about this as he was buying at auction and taking a risk about the 
quality of the car. Mr H checked Es website and looked up E at Companies House. He then 
paid E by bank transfer to the account details provided on the invoice on 14 June 2021. 
Delivery was expected in five to fourteen days.
After hed transferred the funds Mr H completed further checks and found that the legal 
owner of the car was a finance company. He contacted this company and was advised the 
car was subject to a lease agreement and wasnt for sale. Mr H contacted Starling via its app 
to report the scam on 16 June 2021. He is unhappy with Starlings decision not to reimburse 
him and with the time taken to reach its decision. Mr H has referred to the stress this caused 
him.
Starling say that it had sufficient fraud prevention measures in place and that Mr H didnt 
complete adequate checks before transferring the funds. It has contacted the bank that 
received Mr Hs funds but has not been able to recover any of Ns loss. As Mr H was 
unhappy with Starlings response, he brought a complaint to this service.
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that Starling refund 50% of 
Ns loss. He said that Starling and N should share the loss because the warning Starling 
provided wasnt effective and Mr H, on behalf of N, didnt complete enough checks to satisfy 
himself he was dealing with a legitimate company.  
Mr H accepted the investigators findings although he provided evidence that when he told 
Starling about the scam and provided a link to Es website the advisor said it looked genuine.  
Starling didnt agree though. It said it provided an effective warning so could choose not to 
reimburse N under the CRM Code. 
As the parties havent reached an agreement the complaint has been passed to me to issue 
a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point for my considerations is that, under the Payment Services Regulations 
2017 and the terms of his account, Mr H, on behalf of N, is liable for transactions hes carried 
out himself. But Starling are signatories to the CRM Code and also have a longstanding 
obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions which might 
indicate their customer is at risk of financial harm from fraud.
Theres no dispute here that Mr H was tricked into making the payment. But this isnt 
enough, in and of itself, for N to receive a refund under the CRM Code. The Code places a 
level of care on Mr H too. 
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams like this, in all but a limited number of circumstances 
and it is for Starling to establish that Mr H failed to meet his requisite level of care under one 
of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code. 
Under the CRM Code, a bank may choose not to reimburse a customer if it can establish 
that*: 
- The customer ignored what the CRM Code refers to as an Effective Warning by 
failing to take appropriate action in response to such an effective warning. 
- The customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for believing that: 
the payee was the person the Customer was expecting to pay; the payment was for 
genuine goods or services; and/or the person or business with whom they transacted 
was legitimate.
There are other exceptions that do not apply to this case. 
Did Mr H, on behalf of N, have a reasonable basis for belief when he made the payment?
Taking into account all of the circumstances of this case, I think the concerns Starling has 
raised about the legitimacy of the transaction Mr H made, are enough to support its position 
that it can choose to rely on an exception to reimbursement. I dont think Mr H had a 
reasonable basis for believing E was legitimate. Ill explain why.
I appreciate that E cloned a website of a genuine company and that its site looked legitimate 
to Mr H. But I still need to consider whether, after being reassured by this, Mr H ought 
reasonably to have had doubts and conducted some additional checks before proceeding.
The car Mr H wanted to purchase was advertised for sale at £8,500 and there was a charge 
of £120 to deliver the car to his address over 300 miles away. Having reviewed recognised 
industry trade guides that provide average car sale prices based on make, model, vehicle 
age and mileage, this price is considerably less than the amount comparable cars were 
being sold for at the time of the scam. The information I have seen suggests the typical 
market value for the car Mr H was buying was around double what he paid. 
I accept that Mr H considered that the price was good because the car was owned by a bank 
or leasing company. But I think Mr H should have been much more sceptical about why E 
would be willing to sell this car for so much less than its market value, particularly given the 
fact that a dealership also needs to make a profit on the sale.
In addition to this, Mr H was paying an individual and not E as a business. I think he ought to 
have been concerned about this, especially given that he could not view the car in person 
(given the distance between his home and where the car was located). Mr H did not question 
how or why the individual he was going to pay was connected to the dealership. Mr H 
explains that he had checked the dealership on Companies House so he was confident he 
was dealing with a legitimate company, but the person he was sending money to was not 
named as a director or a person with significant control.
I accept that Mr H undertook some checks, but he ultimately placed a lot of trust in 
strangers. I consider that Mr H ought to have had greater concerns about the deal and that, 
in turn, ought to have led to a greater degree of scrutiny on his part. Buying a car sight 
unseen at a considerable discount was always a big risk. 
It also seems to me that Mr H did have some concerns. Very soon after paying for the car, 
and before the expected delivery window, Mr H found out that the car was still leased. He 
then contacted the finance company, and this was when the scam became apparent. If Mr H 
had taken this step before making the payment, his loss could have been avoided. Overall, Im not persuaded Mr H had a reasonable basis to believe he was dealing with a 
genuine trader. This means that N isnt entitled to a full refund under the provisions of the 
CRM Code.  
Did Starling provide an effective warning?
Ive also thought about Starlings obligations under the CRM Code, what I consider to be 
good industry practice, as well as whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. The CRM Code requires Starling to provide an Effective Warning (that is a 
warning that meets certain criteria set out in the CRM Code). More generally, Starling had an 
obligation to be on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions in order (among 
other reasons) to try and protect its customer from financial harm from fraud.
Starling say Mr H ignored an effective warning. It says Mr H was presented with the following 
warning when he set E up as a new payee:
 Could this be part of a scam? Always verify who you are sending money to as you may 
not be able to recover these funds. A fraudster may tell you to ignore these warnings. Visit 
our website for scam advice. 
Starling say the relevant warning on its website said:
Purchase scams
Were all partial to a spot of shopping  but you should always be careful when youre using 
an online marketplace and not a recognised retailer. Fraudsters will sometimes advertise 
high value items such as designer watches, vehicles and games consoles/the latest tech on 
social media or online marketplaces  remember, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably 
is. You may also be pressured into making a payment quickly and advised that you are 
unable to make a payment by card or PayPal which offer more protection to the payer, You 
should always be cautious about sending money to an individual you havent met, for an 
item you havent seen  especially if the website doesnt offer payer protection or you are 
asked to bypass normal payment methods.
Starling also says that during the payment process Mr H was advised that Starling 
recommend he sees an item in person where possible and to read reviews. 
Im not persuaded that these warnings meet the requirements of an effective warning as set 
out in the CRM Code. The new payee warning required Mr H to leave the payment process 
and go to Starlings website in order to see the second warning and its unclear if this 
happened. But regardless, having reviewed the second warning from Starlings website, Im 
not satisfied that it is specific or impactful in Mr Hs circumstances. 
The warning starts by advising to take care when using an online marketplace rather than a 
recognised dealer. As Mr H wasnt buying from a marketplace and thought he was buying 
from a recognised retailer the warning wouldnt have resonated with him. The warning 
continues to discuss advertisements on social media and online marketplaces which arent 
relevant in this case. The only part of the warning that might have resonated with Mr H was 
the part that referred to sending money to someone hes not met for an item hes not seen. 
But the warning doesnt explain what steps to take, and as this is at the end of a lengthy 
warning it lacked impact. 
Overall, Im not persuaded that Starling provided Mr H with an effective warning and so think 
it should refund 50% of Ns loss. I also think that Starling should have recognised that the 
payment from Ns account was out of character given normal account activity and should 
have asked Mr H some questions about it. If Starling had done so, I consider it likely the 
scam would have been uncovered and the loss prevented as Starling should have provided 
information about the steps Mr H needed to take to avoid falling victim to this type of scam. 
But Mr H should also take some responsibility, for the reasons given above, so a 50% refund 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.Recovery of funds
I expect Starling to contact the bank that received Ns funds promptly to try to recover any 
funds that remain in the account. Mr H reported the scam to Starling on 16 June 2021, but 
Starling didnt contact the bank that received his funds until the morning of 18 June. Whilst I 
think Starling should have done so more quickly, Im satisfied that its delay hasnt had an 
impact on any possible recovery. This is because Ive seen evidence that confirms funds 
were removed before Mr H reported the scam. 
Service provided by Starling 
Mr H notified Starling that he was the victim of a scam on 16 June 2021, but Starling didnt 
provide its response until 20 October. This is well outside of the response times set out in 
the CRM Code and I cant see any reason for the delay. I appreciate the delay has had an 
impact on N as a small business and on Mr H personally. But a business cant suffer distress 
and inconvenience so I cant make an award to N. And N is a separate legal entity to Mr H 
so I cant make an award for any distress he has suffered. 
Overall
Whilst I sympathise with Mr H as hes clearly been the victim of a cruel scam, I consider that 
he should share responsibility for his loss with Starling. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I require Starling Bank Limited to:
- Refund £4,360;
- Pay interest on the above sum at the rate of 8% simple from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask N to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2022.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman