DRN-3137248
The complaint
Mr A complains as sole director of A, a limited company, that HDI Global SE has declined its
claim for water damage to its business premises, and voided the policy. 
What happened
Mr As father was the director of another limited company operating out of the same
premises. That company had County Court Judgments (CCJs) against it and Mr As father
had a personal CCJ against him. A was set up with Mr A as the sole director. The former
company was later dissolved in December 2020 following a winding up resolution in July
2019. A took over the lease of the premises and the trading name of the old company, and
continued to trade from those premises. In June 2019 A bought a commercial policy
underwritten by HDI.
In March 2020 A made a claim on the policy following the premises being damaged by water
leaking from the flat upstairs. HDI reviewed the claim and sent out its special investigator to
look at the circumstances. It found that Mr As father continued to work at the premises and
carried out the initial dealings with the claim. Mr A was a full time student.
HDI believed Mr As father to be playing a significant role in making decisions for A, likely
being a director in all but title. It said Mr A, when completing the insurance application for A,
had made a deliberate misrepresentation to avoid disclosure of the financial background of
his father, who would not have been accepted as a proposer by it, had the extent of his
involvement and his financial background been properly disclosed. It believed that Mr A had
limited knowledge of the business and was in any event a full time student.
As a consequence it said that Mr A was in breach of his duty to make a fair presentation of
the risk under the Insurance Act 2015. It voided the policy back to its start and declined the
claim. As it believed the breach was deliberate, it retained the premiums.
Mr A strongly denied that his father was involved in any decision making for the business.
He said hed purchased the assets from the liquidator from his own borrowings and had
taken over the lease of the premises. His father was an employee of the business only.
On referral to this service our investigator said that HDI had acted reasonably, and that it
was entitled to void the policy.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I thought that Mr A should be treated as an 
unsophisticated policyholder, and that I should apply the provisions of CIDRA (Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 to the case. I found that Mr A had 
answered the questions on the proposal form accurately. I also said that HDI had made 
assumptions about the business and the way it was run without investigating any further. I 
said that HDI should reinstate the policy, reconsider the claim, remove any record of the 
policy being voided and pay £150 compensation.
Mr A accepted my decision on behalf of A.
HDI didnt accept my decision. I shall go into more detail about its responses below. 
Essentially it argued that:
The company A, rather than Mr A, should be treated as a commercial policyholder under 
the Insurance Act 2015.
Even if Mr A should be treated as the policyholder under CIDRA, it is its view that Mr A 
made a misrepresentation under the terms of that Act.
There are issues of public policy if my decision stands. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I made the following provisional findings:
When we consider commercial policyholders, we also consider whether they should be
treated as an unsophisticated policyholder, and therefore as a consumer under the
Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). The evidence is
that Mr A took out the policy and gave all the answers to the questions in the application. In
my view, given his age and experience, hes unsophisticated so I think it fair to treat him as a
consumer.
Under CIDRA it is the duty of the consumer to take reasonable care not to make a
misrepresentation to the insurer. In respect of that I must take into account the questions
asked by the insurer, including where the prospective policyholder is asked to agree to
statements and how clear and specific they were. As a consumer Mr A couldnt reasonably
be expected to volunteer information outside of the questions or to know what sort of
information the insurer might want to know. Here the broker asked Mr A to agree (or not) to
the following statements in the application for the policy:
Neither the Proposer, nor any directors or partners in the business or in the name of any
other business which any of us had an interest have: -
been declared bankrupt or insolvent or as private individuals or in connection with any
business within the last ten years.
been disqualified from holding a directorship.
been the subject of a County Court Judgement (or the Scottish equivalents) in respect of
debt as private individuals or in connection with any business within the last six years.
been a director or partner in a business that has been the subject of a County Court
Judgement (or the Scottish equivalents) in respect of debt within the last six years.
been officers of a company that has been declared insolvent, or had a receiver or 
liquidator
appointed, or entered into arrangements with creditors in accordance with the Insolvency 
Act 1986 within the last ten years.
To each of those points Mr A was invited to answer yes or no, and to each he answered
no. And I think from the content of the statements that he could accurately answer no. It
was suggested by HDI that Mr As father was director in all but name, or a shadow director
of A. Its evidence for this is that Mr As father continued to work from the same premises andappeared to be involved in the decision making concerning the claim. And that Mr A had
limited knowledge of business and at the time was doing a full time university course. Mr A
said that he makes all the decisions, his father is a full time employee, and met with the loss
adjusters until he arrived.
Shadow director is quite a sophisticated legal concept, I think HDI made assumptions
without investigating Mr As responses any further. And I dont think the questions are clear
enough to expect Mr A to have had that in mind when answering them. So I dont think he
made a misrepresentation. As Ive said, as a consumer the duty of fair presentation of the
risk under the Insurance Act doesnt apply to him.
So I think that HDI should reinstate the policy and reconsider the claim and remove any
record of the policy being voided from all internal and external databases.
With regard to compensation, firstly I think HDI was entitled to investigate the circumstances
and did reach its final decision within three months of the claim, during the initial Covid
lockdown. As A is a limited company I cant award compensation for distress. However as
the sole director of that company I think Mr A suffered some inconvenience. So I propose to
award £150 compensation. 
In response HDI has set out the history of the matter and why it considered Mr As father to 
be a shadow director. It makes a number of broad assertions about Mr A and his 
knowledge of the business, particularly asserting that he knew he was a director of [A] by 
name only and the true controlling mind of [A] is [his father]. And that, because Mr As father 
ran the shop and had previously run the same business out of that shop, the latter couldnt 
be an employee but must be a shadow director. I pointed out in my provisional findings that 
HDI made assumptions without investigating the matter further. In particular it didnt 
investigate Mr As evidence that he provided the funds to buy the defunct businesss assets 
or that the arrangement was approved by solicitors. HDI has provided a transcript of the 
claim call with Mr A, but in my view nothing in that, without further investigation, bears out 
HDIs assumptions about the business.
As it didnt follow up these matters, and as it has voided the policy relying on the Insurance 
Act 2015 (not CIDRA, as I maintain it should), I shall concentrate on those issues. HDI 
asserts that:
The company A is the policyholder and should be regarded as sophisticated and 
therefore subject to the Insurance Act 
As a matter of law and public policy, I shouldnt regard a commercial policyholder as a 
consumer.
But even if CIDRA applies, Mr A still made a misrepresentation, entitling it to void the 
policy.
As a matter of public policy if my decision stands it will make it difficult for insurers to 
arrange commercial insurance.
Insurance Act
HDI says Ive relied on Mr As age and experience only in deciding hes an unsophisticated 
policyholder, when I should also take into account his knowledge based on the following:A is the policyholder. Whilst Mr A may be the sole registered director of A, by his own 
admission, he is reliant on his fathers knowledge and experience in the running of the 
business; 
Mr As father has owned and managed a business at the insured premises for over 23 
years, and would have completed a proposal form for a commercial insurance policy for 
his takeaway shop for at least 23 consecutive years; and
Mr A resides at his parents home and therefore has ready access to his fathers 
extensive knowledge and experience.
The policy was arranged through a broker who would have been able to apply the 
necessary knowledge and experience.
Again here HDI has made assumptions without investigating matters further. Being the 
proprietor of a takeaway shop doesnt necessarily mean that Mr As father had the 
necessary knowledge and experience of commercial insurance. And access to a broker 
again doesnt mean the broker was on hand to provide that advice. I note HDI has asked 
that I make enquiries of the broker about whether they arranged the previous policies. With 
respect that is something HDI should have done if it wanted to rely on it. So even taking 
these points into account I still think Mr A was an unsophisticated policyholder.
application of CIDRA
HDI believes that as a matter of law and public policy I shouldnt regard Mr A as being 
subject to CIDRA when the policyholder was A. It says there is no industry practice of 
applying the provisions of CIDRA to non-consumer insurance contracts. 
I dont accept this. Many small businesses are run with a single director being effectively the 
proprietor of that business. And it has been the practice of this service for many years under 
our fair and reasonable remit to decide whether small commercial policyholders should be 
regarded as consumers. This is the case whether or not the business is incorporated. If 
theres no industry practice of doing the same, insurers are generally well aware of our 
approach. Im not persuaded by HDIs arguments to treat Mr A as a sophisticated 
policyholder and still think that CIDRA applies. I set out here what it says nad my commnts:
Section 3(1) of CIDRA provides that whether or not a consumer has taken reasonable care 
not to make a misrepresentation is to be determined in the light of all the relevant 
circumstances. The relevant circumstances obviously includes the specific knowledge of 
[Mr A] when he completed the proposal form. 
The specific knowledge again refers to Mr As knowledge of his fathers circumstances. 
Again this makes assumptions, which were not followed up, that Mr A was a director of A in 
name only. Its clear from the telephone call with Mr A after the claim that the arrangement 
was approved by solicitors. So I question whether Mr A could have been expected to know 
that his fathers circumstances were relevant. 
Section 3(2)(e) of CIDRA provides that whether or not an agent (i.e. broker) was acting for 
the consumer needs to be taken into account in making a determination whether or not the 
consumer has taken reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. Your final decision 
should factor in that an agent (i.e. broker), was acting for [A]  Again this is something that hasnt been followed up. A broker doesnt necessarily act as an 
agent, and again I question whether the background of the father could have been 
considered to be relevant. 
Section 3(3) of CIDRA provides that the standard of care required is that of a reasonable 
consumer. A reasonable consumer (with the knowledge of [Mr A] when he completed the 
proposal form) would plainly understand that the financial questions on the proposal form 
were asking about the financial history of the business (i.e. the previous company) and 
anyone responsible for the management of the business (i.e. [Mr As father]). 
I set out the questions asked in my provisional findings above. Section 3(2) (c) of CIDRA 
sets out that I should take into account how clear, and how specific, the insurers questions 
were. The questions were I think clear and specific, but didnt ask about shadow directors, 
which I maintain is a concept the ordinary consumer would know nothing about. Mr A set out 
accurate responses to the questions put to him on the proposal form. I understand that HDI 
wanted to know about his fathers background, but its assertion that Mr A should have been 
expected to know this flies in the face of the whole concept of CIDRA. Which is that a 
consumer cant be expected to know what information an insurer requires without being 
asked a clear question about it.
Section 3(3) of CIDRA is subject to section (3)(5) of CIDRA, which states: A 
misrepresentation made dishonestly is always to be taken as showing lack of reasonable 
care.  
HDI maintains that Mr A made a dishonest misrepresentation. But I dont think he did on the 
evidence put to us by HDI. Again this is based on assumptions which it didnt follow up.
public policy
HDI maintains its concern over the inconsistency that would be created if I consider that this 
small business, with its years of experience and access to professional advisers, should fall 
under the CIDRA regime. This would mean that insurers will require two sets of proposal 
questions to satisfy the two regimes, and they wont know which proposers should answer 
which set of questions. And There is a greater likelihood of insurers treating their 
customers differently given the lack of clear separation between the two regimes. 
Again HDI has made an assumption that it is right. Given that insurers have long known 
about this services view as to whether someone should be treated as a consumer, I cant 
see any problem. And whether or not CIDRA or the Insurance Act apply we would still 
expect insurers to ask clear and specific questions to elicit the information they need to 
know. What HDI want to do in this case is to imply Mr A had the knowledge or access to that 
knowledge to know that he should have gone beyond the questions on the proposal form, 
but without providing the evidence to back that up.
Secondly HDI says I would effectively be sanctioning a proposers deliberate effort to 
deceive an insurer prior to the inception of an insurance policy. HDI may have wanted to 
know the information about the fathers former business, based on its assumption that the 
setting up of the new company was underhand. But again thats a statement which I dont 
believe HDI has provided sufficient evidence of. It could have made further investigations but 
chose not to. I dont consider that it has shown a deliberate attempt to deceive.
So I still stand by my provisional findings. HDI should reinstate the policy and reconsider the 
claim, I should make it clear that HDI relied on the Insurance Act in its voidance and final 
response. Whilst I have referred to the fact that it didnt carry out further investigations HDI wont be able going forwards to assert the need to make those further investigations, as they 
should have been done at the time. My provisional findings are now final and form part of 
this final decision.
   
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require HDI Global SE to:
reinstate the policy and to reconsider the claim.
remove any record of the policy being voided from all internal and external databases.
pay £150 compensation.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman