DRN-2583302
The complaint
 Mr S complains that Bank of Scotland plc (BofS) mis-sold him a term assurance plan with 
critical illness cover, as he believes it wasnt suitable for him. 
What happened
 In 2002 Mr S took out a Total Mortgage Protection (TMP) Plan with BofS when he was 
applying for a mortgage. The TMP was made up of three elements;
 
a) Payment Protection Insurance (PPI) to protect Mr Ss monthly mortgage payments 
for some time if he was made redundant or couldnt work because he was ill or had 
an accident
b) Critical illness  which would pay a lump sum if he was diagnosed with certain life 
limiting illnesses, and 
c) Term Life Assurance  which would pay out a lump sum if Mr S died whilst the policy 
was running.
Mr S complained about the sale of the PPI part of the plan some time ago and this service 
issued a final decision on this in May 2020. 
Mr S says neither the critical illness cover or the life assurance were needed but he was told 
he had to have them to get the mortgage he wanted.
Mr S complained to BofS but it didnt think it had mis-sold the policies.
Mr S asked us to review his complaint, and our adjudicator concluded that both policies were 
sold fairly. However he did think BofS should have sold Mr S decreasing term assurance 
(thats life cover which paid out less as the balance on his mortgage declined) rather than a 
policy that paid out the same amount throughout its lifetime.
He recommended BofS refund to Mr S the difference in premium between the two policies, 
and BofS says it will do this.
Mr S remains unhappy as he thinks the policies shouldnt have been sold at all. Ive been 
asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ss case. I have also taken account of the
law and good industry practice at the time the PPI policy was sold.
Where the evidence is incomplete or contradictory  as some of it is here  I make my
decision on the balance of probabilities, that is, what I consider most likely to have happened
given the evidence available and the wider circumstances.
Ive already said this service issued a final decision on Mr Ss complaint about his PPI policy 
in May 2020. So this decision is only about the life and critical illness policies he bought. And 
its also only about the period when he had a mortgage in his name only  so up to 2006.
The life and critical illness cover cost Mr S £13.24 a month and would have paid out up to 
£22,500 if hed made a successful claim. The cover was set up for 10 years, and matched 
the planned lifetime of his mortgage. 
Mr S says he had no need of this cover because he had generous work related benefits 
which included sick pay and a death in service payment. And he says he was told he must 
have it to get the mortgage.
The main questions I need to consider are:
- If BofS gave any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it
recommended was suitable for Mr Ss needs?
- Did BofS give Mr S the information he needed to decide whether to take out
the policy?
If there were shortcomings in the way BofS sold the policy, I need to consider whether Mr
S is worse off as a result; that is, whether he would have done something
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there had been no shortcomings.
The policies were sold to Mr S during a meeting with an adviser from BofS, who was
recommending a mortgage and insurance products.
I cant know for certain what was discussed between Mr S and BofS when they were 
discussing the mortgage and PPI. And, given the mortgage was repaid and the policies 
cancelled more than 15 years ago I wouldnt expect either party to have many records of that 
meeting. Thats unfortunate, but hasnt prevented me from deciding this complaint based on 
the information and evidence we do have. 
I can see from the records BofS does have, that it asked Mr S the sort of questions about his 
health that Id expect it to if it was selling life and critical illness cover, and recorded the 
answers. So it seems there was a discussion about the insurance Mr S bought. And from 
what we know about how BofS sold policies like this at the time its more likely than not that 
BofS made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it, despite what he 
now recalls. 
BofS said that, at the time of taking out this cover, Mr S was arranging a repayment 
mortgage. It said that although it was satisfied that taking out the cover was prudent in Mr 
Ss circumstances, it agreed with our adjudicator that a decreasing term assurance plan 
wouldve been more appropriate to match his repayment mortgage. It compared the cost of 
this with what Mr S had actually paid for his plan and offered to refund him the difference 
with interest. 
Our adjudicator thought that was a fair offer. Mr S didnt accept the findings. He said he 
hadnt needed any part of the TMP, including the life and critical illness cover.
Ive looked at what Mr S told us about his circumstances, and I think the policies were 
suitable for Mr S  with the proviso that the life cover should have been on a decreasing 
basis.
I say that because, although Mr S had some work related benefits, these policies would pay 
in addition to any benefits. The critical illness cover could have repaid his mortgage at what 
would be a very difficult time, leaving him with fewer financial issues and the knowledge that 
he no longer needed to meet mortgage repayments. The life cover would mean his estate would benefit from the full value of his property. Both of these are likely to have been of 
benefit to Mr S, even with his existing benefits.
Putting things right
BofS has acknowledged that a decreasing plan would have been a more appropriate 
recommendation for Mr S, when his objective for this plan was to provide protection for his 
repayment mortgage. This is because the amount of cover provided by a decreasing plan 
would gradually go down over the term in line with the outstanding capital owed on the 
repayment mortgage. And it has made an offer to refund the difference between the 
premiums Mr S paid towards his level term plan, and what he wouldve paid for a decreasing 
term plan. I think that offer is fair, so I wouldnt ask BofS to do more than it has, and I leave it 
with Mr S whether to accept BofSs offer.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman