DRN-3620294
The complaint
Ms C, represented by her partner Mr B, complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused 
to refund her for a transaction she said she didnt make.
What happened
On 29 April 2021, there was a debit for £129.99 to Ms Cs Barclays account. The debit was 
to an online app store. 
Ms C and her partner Mr B rang Barclays the same day, while the transaction was still 
pending. She said they needed money for rent and shopping straightaway. But Barclays said 
it couldnt raise a dispute while it was still pending. The adviser suggested she should get in 
touch with the online app store, and provided a phone number. Ms Cs partner Mr B asked to 
be added to Ms Cs account, but Barclays said it would only do that using proper processes, 
not just on a phone call.
Ms C and Mr B rang Barclays again on 10 May. Theyd contacted the online app store and 
had been told it would take 10 days to investigate, which didnt expire for another three days. 
Mr B told Barclays that he had Ms Cs card stored on the online app stores app on his 
phone. 
Barclays said that if it raised a dispute, the online app store would give the same response to 
Barclays as it would to Ms C. But Barclays did put a stop to prevent future transactions going 
to the same beneficiary. That was because the transaction was whats called a Continuous 
Payment Authority (CPA) so there could otherwise have been more transactions.
The online app store investigated and it replied to Mr B declining the claim. It said its 
specialist team had investigated, and based on its investigation it had refused a refund.
Ms C, represented by Mr B, complained to this service. Our adjudicator asked for more 
information, but Mr B said hed sent everything he had, and wasnt going through it again.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Ms Cs complaint. He noted that Mr B felt Ms Cs device had 
been hacked, and then used for the disputed transaction. The adjudicator had also seen that 
the online app store had decided that the transaction was genuine, not a fraud, and had 
refused a refund. The adjudicator thought it was likely that the transaction had been 
authorised by Ms C, so he wouldnt ask Barclays to refund it.
Mr B, on behalf of Ms C, didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He said 
it was disgusting, and the adjudicator had been wrong to accuse Ms C, because it was him, 
Mr B, it had happened to. He said the app had automatically taken money from the account, 
saying they were past the trial period, but they hadnt had the app. He also said the app had 
disappeared from the app stores site, so the app store had covered it up and said it was 
Barclays fault. Mr B said no-one would pay £129.99 for an app. He said hed see the 
adjudicator in court as hed made a decision based on invalid information. 
My provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision, I explained why Id come to the same conclusions as the 
adjudicator, but for slightly different reasons. So I issued a provisional decision, so that both 
sides could comment before the final decision, provided they did so by the set date.
Regulations
In the provisional decision, I explained that there are regulations which govern disputed 
transactions. The relevant regulations for Ms Cs disputed transaction are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt 
authorise the payments, and the customer is liable if they did authorise them. So, what 
determines whether or not Barclays has to refund Ms C is whether or not she authorised the 
payments.
Whether it makes any difference that the transaction was on Mr Bs phone
Ms Cs partner and representative, Mr B, said that he had Ms Cs card stored on his app on 
his phone, and that this disputed transaction happened to him. This was borne out by the 
app stores response being to him. He strongly emphasised that the adjudicator was wrong 
to say Ms C authorised the transaction. 
The Barclays account was in Ms Cs sole name. So Ive considered whether it makes any 
difference whether this happened to her, or to her partner.  
Authorisation doesnt have to be by the account holder in person. Its possible for a customer 
to give someone else authority to carry out transactions on their behalf, so that the customer 
would be liable for them, even if they didnt physically make them themselves or give their 
explicit authority for them. That means that a bank can hold a customer liable for any 
transactions that happened because they gave someone authority to act on their behalf. 
It's clear that Ms C authorised her partner to make payments generally, because shed 
allowed him to put her card on his app on his phone. So even though the account was in Ms 
Cs sole name, it doesnt make any difference whether Ms C, or her partner Mr B, authorised 
a transaction because there was apparent authority.
Who authorised the disputed transaction
The technical evidence provided by Barclays shows that the transaction was authorised on 
29 April 2021 using Ms Cs Barclays debit card. The evidence also shows that the merchant 
checked the address linked to the debit card and transaction, and the two matched. So any 
third party who carried out the transaction would have needed to know the postal address, 
as well as being able to access Mr Bs phone and hence Ms Cs debit card information. Mr B 
refused to provide any more information when the adjudicator asked him, so I had no 
information about his phone security or any potential compromise to that by a third party.
I considered whether it was likely that anyone other than Ms C or Mr B authorised the 
transaction. If it had been an unknown third party, I think its most unlikely that theyd have 
made just one transaction with the app store, and no other transactions. The normal pattern 
for a fraudster is to maximise their gain by carrying out multiple costly transactions within a 
very short space of time. That didnt happen here. Nor did Ms C or Mr B suggested that the 
phone and/or debit card had been lost or stolen. Taking all these factors into account, I considered it was more likely than not that the 
disputed transaction wasnt carried out by a third party, but was authorised by Mr B on 
apparent authority from the account holder Ms C. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr B, for Ms C, didnt accept the provisional decision. In summary, he said that:
- hed never said anything about being hacked, and it was the developer of the app 
whod taken the money from the account;
- neither he nor Ms C had authorised any purchases;
- somehow the app developer had gone through his linked email address;
- the developer would only have taken the money for one app and wouldnt have tried 
making repeated payments;
- neither he nor Ms C had noticed till they got paid;
- his email address might have been in a slightly different format;
- he said he was going to add information to his legal adviser to build his case against 
this service, on grounds of discrimination, and making decisions based on invalid 
information, and getting it wrong. He said he had a case against this service 
depending on our next action.
Barclays had nothing to add to the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What determines the outcome here is what the Regulations say, which I set out in the 
provisional decision. In general terms, Ms C is liable if she, or Mr B acting with her apparent 
authority, authorised the payment. Shes not liable if an unauthorised third party did so. Its 
the authorisation which matters, not whether a third party was a hacker or an unauthorised 
app developer.
If the transaction was carried out by someone other than Ms C or Mr B, I still consider its 
most unlikely that person would have stopped at one transaction. The normal pattern for 
anyone fraudulent whos prepared to take money without the account holders authority, is to 
keep taking money until the account is blocked. I dont agree with Mr B that app developers 
who had fraudulently taken money would be any different in this respect from the normal 
pattern of fraudsters.
In response to the provisional decision, Mr B raised for the first time that his email address 
might have been different. But the two email addresses hes provided arent, in practical 
terms, different.  Thats whether or not there was a dot in the address, and whether or not 
the email providers name is abbreviated or in full. So I dont consider this made any 
difference to what happened. 
So I still consider that what happened here was what I set out in my provisional decision  in 
other words, that it was more likely than not that the disputed transaction wasnt carried out 
by a third party, but was authorised by Mr B on apparent authority from the account holder 
Ms C.  
So I do not require Barclays to refund Ms Cs account.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2022.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman