DRN-2786486
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy with the customer service she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc when 
trying to sell some shares.
What happened
In late February 2020 Mrs T contacted HSBC as she was worried about the drop in value of 
some shares she held in a fund. Mrs Ts relationship manager was unavailable, so an 
appointment was made for a few days later in early March. 
At the agreed appointment time the relationship manager didnt make contact so Mrs T 
phoned HSBC to complain. HSBC took the complaint details and also gave her contact 
details and instructions so she could sell her shares if she wished without speaking to her 
relationship manager. This contact information was important as there was a time limit of 
3.30pm that day should Mrs T want to sell her shares due to an upcoming embargo on her 
fund which meant that any instructions couldnt be made after that time. 
HSBC looked into the complaint and acknowledged that the service had fallen short because 
the relationship manager didnt contact Mrs T as agreed. They also said Mrs T had been 
made aware of the upcoming embargo and how to sell her shares if she wished. Overall 
HSBC didnt uphold the complaint, but they did pay Mrs T £200 for customer service failures 
whilst they investigated the complaint.
Mrs T remained unhappy as the shares had fallen in value so brought her complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into what happened. Overall they thought 
HSBC acted fairly. Whilst acknowledging that the relationship manager didnt call when they 
should have, they thought HSBC explained about the embargo period, and provided contact 
details should Mrs T want to trade. Mrs T disagreed saying she was new to this type of 
investment and she had lost money, so the complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no doubt here that the HSBC relationship manager didnt call Mrs T at the agreed 
time. The issue for me to decide is whether I think that problem led to the financial loss 
which Mrs T says she has incurred. And considering all of the evidence, I dont think thats 
the case.
HSBC wrote to Mrs T several times in the months prior to March 2020 telling her about the 
changes to her fund which meant there would be an embargo that would stop any 
transactions for a period of time. Im satisfied the letters made clear what was happening, 
and the actions Mrs T should take if she wanted to trade before the embargo began.
When Mrs T spoke with HSBC she was given the contact information for who she needed to 
speak to if she wanted to make a trade, this is the same information which was contained in 
the letters. She was also reminded of the 3.30pm embargo that day. So whilst it wasnt good 
customer service for the relationship manager not to call as agreed, Im happy that HSBC 
made Mrs T aware of the actions she needed to take if she wanted to make a trade. 
HSBC say that had Mrs T spoken with her relationship manager they wouldve reiterated the 
long term nature of investments and wouldve also said they dont generally recommend 
withdrawals because of market volatility. HSBC say it most likely the relationship manger 
wouldve encouraged Mrs T to retain her investment. And I agree this is most likely the 
advice she wouldve been given.
Of course it is up to Mrs T whether or not she takes any advice she is given. Had Mrs T still 
wanted to sell the shares then she wouldve had to contact HSBC in the way she had been 
told in the letters she had been sent, and which had been confirmed in the telephone 
conversation. It wouldnt have been possible for her relationship manager to have taken 
action on her behalf.
Mrs T says that she has lost money because the value of her investment has decreased. 
Whilst its true the current value may be less than the day Mrs T says she wanted to sell, 
thats not to say that the situation might not change. I see that some of the losses have 
already been recovered as the value has increased. I must also take into consideration that 
this type of fund is a long term investment, and that Mrs T didnt take action to sell any of her 
shares when the embargo ended. 
Mrs T says she is an inexperienced investor and thought that the only way to sell was 
through her relationship manager. Ive no doubt Mrs T may have been unfamiliar with the 
processes required for selling shares. However Im satisfied that HSBC made it clear both in 
writing and over the telephone the actions Mrs T would need to take should she wish to 
trade and sell some of her shares. 
After carefully considering everything that happened Im satisfied the £200 HSBC has 
already paid Mrs T is fair compensation so I wont be asking them to take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 August 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman