DRN-2376116
The complaint
Mr V complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) didnt repair his blocked drain after 
reporting a blockage on three occasions.
What happened
Mr V had a home emergency policy with BG which covered him for repairs to plumbing and 
drains. The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them 
again here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr V cleared the blockage before BG attended on all three occasions, which is why it 
reported the drain was free-flowing. He thought he was being helpful, but BG couldnt 
repair a blockage thatd already been cleared. I think thats reasonable.
I think that if BG had responded to Mr V when he sent evidence of hard sediment 
inside his drain, this matter couldve been avoided. For that reason, I think its fair 
that BG pays Mr V what it wouldve cost it to repair the blocked drain in line with the 
policy terms and limit for gaining access. BG confirmed it wouldve cost £733.31. 
I think BGs refusal to pay third party invoices was fair because the policy provides 
for repair, and any re-routing work wouldnt have been covered, which BG told Mr V 
before work was done.
I think its fair that BG pays compensation of £100 by way of apology for not 
responding promptly to his evidence of an issue with his drain, but I wont be asking it 
to pay his suggested hourly rate for his time.
Overall, I think BGs initial response to Mr V was fair because it hadnt been given the 
opportunity to inspect an existing blockage. But, once Mr V provided evidence of work that 
wouldve been covered under his policy, it was slow to respond. So, I think its fair BG pays 
what it wouldve cost it, along with compensation of £100 for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Vs complaint and British 
Gas Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr V £733.31, which is what it wouldve cost it to complete the repair, and
pay Mr V £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused when it didnt respond 
to his evidence of a blockage and request for help.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman