DRN-3919075
The complaint
Mr F complains about Acromas Insurance Company Limiteds decision to decline a claim 
made under his car breakdown repair cover policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here. Mr F and Acromas can be assured Ive read and carefully considered all the 
information we have on file.
Mr F had car breakdown cover provided by a third party. As is usual with these policies, the 
insurer undertook to attend if the car broke down at the roadside, repair the car if possible 
and, if not, take it to a garage for repair.
As an add-on to this policy, Mr F also bought breakdown repair cover (also known as parts 
and garage cover) underwritten by Acromas.
The simple breakdown cover includes a minimal cost (up to £5) for any parts used at the 
roadside to repair the car. The cost of any parts above that limit is to be borne by the 
policyholder  including any costs of repair after the car is taken to the garage.
Adding the garage and parts cover (for which an extra premium is payable) means the 
customer can expect Acromas to cover the cost of the repairs (parts, labour and VAT)  at 
the roadside or at a garage - up to a maximum of £535.
Mr F took his car to a garage for a compression test, to - as he put it - assess the quality of 
the engine before he had other major works carried out on the car.
Whilst it was at the garage, the car wouldnt start. Tests then showed this was because of a 
fault with the instrument panel.
Mr F then made a claim to Acromas under his garage and parts policy for the cost of the 
repairs the garage subsequently carried out.
Acromas declined the claim. They said Mr F wasnt covered for repairs to faults identified 
during regular maintenance, an MOT or at the point of another repair.
Mr F wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Acromas. When they maintained their 
stance, he brought his complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Acromas had done anything wrong. 
Mr F disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F has breakdown cover with the third party  to provide roadside repairs and/or transport 
to a place where the car can be repaired.
His garage and parts policy with Acromas is an add-on to that, covering the costs of parts 
used to repair the car at the roadside or at the garage its taken to for repair. 
Its absolutely clear in the policy documents that the garage and parts policy only comes into 
effect if the customer has called for roadside assistance (under their breakdown cover).
Mr F didnt call for roadside assistance. He didnt need it. His car was already in a garage.
Hes said that hes being penalised for being honest. He could have rolled the car out of the 
garage on to the nearest roadside and then called for roadside assistance.
I have no doubt Mr F could have done that  and its possible no-one would be any the 
wiser. However, if he had, he would have been committing an offence  effectively stealing 
from Acromas, had they then paid for the repairs.
Im sure Mr F would agree that the fact you chose not to steal something when you had the 
opportunity doesnt entitle you to think that its unfair when you arent given that thing as a 
reward for not stealing it.
The fact is Mr Fs car was already in a garage. He had no need of roadside assistance. His 
breakdown cover didnt kick in  and neither therefore did his garage and parts cover with 
Acromas.
Even if we were to accept that the policy was engaged, Acromas have rightly pointed out 
that an exclusion  clearly stated in the policy terms  would apply. This says there is no 
cover if:
The fault has been identified to you as part of either regular maintenance, MOT or at 
the point of another repair.
Mr F says the fault wasnt identified to him when the garage were carrying out the 
compression test, because they didnt know what the exact problem was at the time.
Id suggest the fault was that the car wouldnt start. And Mr F himself tells us that the 
garage had identified that that was because of a fault in the instrument panel.
So, in short, Mr F was having other work carried out on the car at the time (it would be very 
odd to define that work as anything other than maintenance or repair). And the fault was 
identified as that work was being carried out. 
That being the case, the exclusion quoted above applies. There is nothing unclear, or 
inherently unfair, in that exclusion. And it was, or should have been, clear to Mr F when he 
bought the policy.
In summary, I cant reasonably conclude that Acromas have acted in any way unfairly or 
unreasonably towards Mr F in declining his claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman