DRN-3728521
The complaint
Mr G has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc failed to clear a cheque in time 
that he paid into his current account.
What happened
Mr G went into a Nat West branch at around 11am on 13 June 2022 to pay a cheque in for 
£5,000 that he had withdrawn from his building society account. He said that he understood 
from Nat Wests website that the funds would be available by 10am the next day. He says 
that the cashier also confirmed that hed be able to draw on it the following morning.
As it turned out, the cheque didnt clear in the morning. This meant that Mr G wasnt able to 
access the money to put a bet on a horse. The cheque did clear at 12.42pm, in advance of 
the 2.30pm race. But by that time Mr G was at work and unable to get to the bookmaker. He 
had to use his online gambling account instead. But that account has a daily deposit limit of 
£1,000, so that was the maximum he was able to bet. The horse won and Mr G received 
£166.66 in winnings. As he sees it as Nat Wests fault that he wasnt able to bet the full 
£5,000, he would like it to compensate him for the additional £666.64 that he would have 
won.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr G disagrees with the investigators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nat Wests website explains the cheque clearing cycle by giving the following example:
If you pay a cheque into your account on a Monday before 3.30pm (this is day one of the 
clearing cycle), you can expect to earn interest (if the account pays interest on credit 
balances) from Tuesday (which is day two of the clearing cycle). This is also the point at 
which this money will reduce the amount of your overdraft interest charged (if applicable).
Funds can be withdrawn from Tuesday (or earlier if you have a credit arrangement).
By the end of day two of the clearing cycle (i.e. Tuesday), the cheque is either paid or 
declined by the Drawers bank. Once it is paid it becomes cleared funds.
Mr G has interpreted this to mean that the funds can be withdrawn from the start of business 
on day two, or at least by 10am.
I take Mr Gs point that the wording could probably be clearer. But I also appreciate that Nat 
doesnt specify an exact time at which the funds will be available on day two because that 
can be at different times during the day.
Taken together with the final sentence about the funds being cleared by the end of day two if 
the cheque is paid, Im not persuaded that the website wording sets up an expectation that a 
cheque can be drawn on first thing in the morning on day two, only that it will become 
available by the end of the day if it hasnt bounced.
Mr G has said that, as it was a building society cheque (that was actually a Nat West 
cheque), then the funds should have been available immediately. It is the case that a 
building society cheque would not bounce. But that doesnt mean that it wouldnt still need to 
go through Nat Wests routine clearing process, in the same way as all other cheques.
Mr G says the cashier confirmed that the cheque would clear by 10am the following day. But 
hes also said that he made his decision to pay the cheque in on 13 June 2022 based on his 
understanding of the website wording and that, even if the cashier had told him there was no 
guarantee that the cheque would clear by the morning, it was too late for him to do anything 
differently by the time. So, he still wouldnt have been able to bet the full amount before 
going to work on 14 June 2022. As such, hes no worse off as a result of anything the 
cashier may have said to him.
Mr G has provided details of an online chat that he had with Nat West more recently. In it, 
the adviser does confirm that a cheque paid in on day one would be available at 10am on 
day two. I appreciate the point that Mr G is making. The adviser has clearly made a mistake 
in this instance and is demonstrating an unfamiliarity with the clearing cycle. But it doesnt 
follow that, just because this person made a mistake at a later time, that his complaint 
should be upheld. The issue Im looking at is whether there was any fault on the part of Nat 
West in relation to the events of 13 and 14 June 2022.
It must have been very disappointing for Mr G to miss out on putting his planned bet on. Ive 
thought very carefully about what Mr G has said. However, overall, Im satisfied that the 
website wording gives no indication that a cheque paid in before 3.30 is able to be drawn on 
first thing the next morning. As the cheque cleared at 12.42, in line with the stated clearing 
cycle, Im unable to conclude that Nat West did anything wrong.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 March 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman