DRN-3061765
The complaint
Mrs B isnt happy with the standard of service that she received from Barclays Bank UK PLC
regarding a chargeback claim that she made.
What happened
Mrs B purchased a sofa from a merchant online and paid £4,000 using her Barclays debit
card. However, Mrs B wasnt happy with the sofa as it wasnt as advertised. Mrs B tried to
obtain a refund from the merchant and from the online market place that had facilitated the
sale, but without success. So, she approached Barclays and asked them to submit a
chargeback claim.
Mrs B was told by Barclays that shed receive a chargeback claim form to complete and
return, but no form arrived. Mrs B called Barclays back and a new claim was logged on her
behalf. However, the merchant rejected the chargeback claim, so Barclays wrote to Mrs B
and requested further information from her that might allow them to challenge the rejection,
so long as a challenge was made within 30 days.
Barclays didnt receive any further information from Mrs B, so after over 60 days had
passed, they closed the claim as unsuccessful and wrote to Mrs B advising her as such. Mrs
B wasnt happy with this, especially as shed responded to Barclays request for further
information within a few days of receiving the request. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Bs complaint, but they confirmed that they had no record of any
further information provided by Mrs B and felt that theyd followed the chargeback claim
process correctly. Because of this, Barclays didnt uphold that aspect of Mrs Bs complaint.
However, Barclays did acknowledge that Mrs B had received a poor standard of service from
them surrounding the chargeback claim, and so they upheld Mrs Bs claim on that basis only
and made a payment of £500 to Mrs B to compensate her for any trouble or upset she may
have incurred.
Mrs B wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt that Mr B had been able to
demonstrate that shed sent the further information that Barclays requested to Barclays
within the required timescale, and that this information should most likely have led to Mrs Bs
chargeback claim being successful. Because of this, our investigator recommended that this
complaint be upheld in Mrs Bs favour and that Barclays should reimburse Mrs B the £4,000
cost of the sofa.
Barclays didnt agree with the recommendation put forward by the investigator, so the matter
was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 25 August 2021, as follows:
It isnt in dispute that the standard of service that Mrs B received from Barclays 
during the events being complained about was lower than Barclays would aspire to, 
and Barclays have made a payment of £500 to Mrs B to compensate her for this. 
Having reviewed all the information available to me, I feel that this compensation is a 
fair amount for that poor standard of service, and so I wont comment on this aspect 
of Mrs Bs complaint further.
In their review of this complaint, our investigator felt that it could be demonstrated 
that Mrs B had sent the additional information requested by Barclays to Barclays 
within the required timeframe, and that this information was such that it would, in all 
likelihood, have resulted in her chargeback claim being successful  if Barclays had 
challenged the claim and presented the new information that Mrs B had provided.
While I accept that it appears that Mrs B did send the further information to Barclays 
not long after it was requested, and that this information appears not to have been 
recognised and acted upon by Barclays, Im not convinced that this additional 
information would have necessarily led to the chargeback claim being successful.
One of the reasons I say this is because the chargeback claim was made on the 
basis that the sofa wasnt as described, with Mrs B contending that the sofa wasnt 
new, as shed been led to believe. But its notable that the description provided for 
the sofa on the online market place wasnt that of New, but rather that of New other 
- a description category which includes factory seconds and unused items with minor 
defects. And it seems to me that this would be the correct category for the sofa that 
Mrs B purchased.
Its also notable that the merchant themselves described the sofa as being as new 
and not as being new, which again appears to be the correct description for an older 
item that is in an excellent condition, such as the sofa that Mrs B bought.
Taking these points into consideration, I dont feel that the further information 
supplied by Mrs B to Barclays  which included photos which appear to suggest that 
the sofa was manufactured around 2007  would have necessarily resulted in a 
successful chargeback claim. Indeed, given the item descriptions as stated above, I 
consider it more likely than not that Mrs Bs chargeback claim wouldnt have been 
successful, and as such I cant fairly conclude that Barclays should be asked to 
reimburse the cost of the sofa to Mrs B as Mrs B would like here.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs B was wanting here, but it follows 
that my provisional decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint. 
Furthermore, given that Im satisfied that the £500 compensation that Barclays have 
already paid to Mrs B for the poor standard of service she received does represent a 
fair and reasonable resolution to that aspect of her complaint, my provisional decision 
also wont include any instructions for Barclays to take any further action at this time.
In my provisional decision letter, I gave both Mrs B and Barclays the opportunity to provide 
any comments or further information they might wish me to consider before I moved to a 
final decision. 
Mrs B did provide some further information for my review, including a statement of her 
position that the fact that the sofa didnt have an attached fire safety label meant that the 
sofa should never have been sold by the vendor in the first instance. Mrs B also noted that she had attempted to return the item within 14 days but that the vendor had delayed 
responding until after her statutory rights had expired. 
I can sympathise with Mrs B on both these points. However, it must be remembered that Mrs 
Bs complaint here is specifically against Barclays and is concerned with whether Barclays 
processed the chargeback claim that she made to them regarding her purchase of this sofa 
correctly. 
It also must be remembered that Mrs B submitted the chargeback claim on the basis that the 
item received wasnt as described by the seller. This means that it could never have been 
the case that the chargeback claim could have been successful based on the fire label not 
being attached or the vendor not responding to Mrs Bs initial attempts to return the sofa, 
because the chargeback claim wasnt raised on those terms. The chargeback claim could 
only ever have been successful on the basis that the sofa that Mrs B received wasnt as 
described by the seller.
And, while I appreciate that Mrs B may disagree, it remains my position  given that the 
vendor had initially rejected the chargeback claim and had stated that the sofa that Mrs B 
received was as had been described  that the further information that Mrs B sent to 
Barclays wouldnt in all likelihood have resulted in the chargeback claim being appealed 
successfully in Mrs Bs favour such that a reimbursement to Mrs B for the cost of the sofa 
under the chargeback claim would have been a likely result. 
I say this for the same reasons as Ive already outlined in my provisional decision, which are 
that the sofa wasnt described as new but rather was described as being as new and as 
New other. And, ultimately, I dont feel that the further information that Mrs B provided to 
Barclays demonstrates sufficiently that the descriptions of the item provided by the seller at 
the point of sale werent accurate to the degree necessary for the chargeback claim to have 
been overturned successfully in Mrs Bs favour.
Of course, Barclays didnt submit the further information it received from Mrs B to enable the 
chargeback claim to be appealed, but as I explained in my provisional decision, Im satisfied 
that the £500 compensation that Mrs B has already received from Barclays in acknowledged 
of the standard of service that she received already provides fair and reasonable 
compensation for the chargeback claim not being appealed by Barclays on her behalf.
In a general sense, I can sympathise with Mrs Bs position here, and I hope that shes able 
to resolve this issue to her satisfaction via alternative means. But within the limited 
parameters of this complaint, I dont feel that Barclays inactions have led to an unfair 
outcome regarding the result of the chargeback claim, and as such I dont feel that I can 
fairly or reasonably instruct them to reimburse the cost of the sofa to Mrs B as she would 
like.
It follows from this that my final decision will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Barclays to take any further action at this time. I hope that Mrs B will understand, 
given all that Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 November 2021.
 Paul Cooper
Ombudsman