DRN-2735106
The complaint
Ms G complains National Westminster Bank Plc wont refund disputed transactions she says 
she didnt make or authorise. She says NatWest didnt cancel her bank card and as a result 
money was fraudulently taken from her account. And that NatWest staff were rude and 
unhelpful when she tried to report what had happened. 
What happened
Ms G has a current account with NatWest. She says on 16 March 2020 her friend, who I will 
refer to as B, stole her purse which contained all her bank cards. And between 25 and 27 
March 2020 four transactions were made by B, totalling just over £220, from her account, 
which left her with no funds in her account.
Ms G says shed written her PIN inside her purse as she was suffering from memory 
problems at the time, so B wouldve been aware of the PIN for her bank card.
 
Ms G says that shed reported her card as stolen to NatWest and the police on 16 March 
2020, which she says she did by going into her local branch and phoning the bank. So, she 
says the bank should have cancelled her card which wouldve B from making the 
transactions. So, she wants NatWest to refund her the money she says B stole.
 
Ive summarised the transactions and key events below.
 
Date Time Type of transaction Amount
25/03/2020 Universal Credit Payment into Ms Gs 
account£222.48
25/03/2020 13:12:40 ATM withdrawal £100.00
25/03/2020 14:42:24 Point of sale (including £25 cashback) £34.50
25/03/2020 21:11:11 Online  declined as wrong expiry date 
input£7.99
26/03/2020 06:28:35 Automated recurring charge for 
broadband£17.99
27/03/2020 19:05 ATM withdrawal £70
03/04/2020 09:33:21 Card cancelled and new card 0751 
issued with new PIN
06/04/2020 Cash withdrawal in branch £220.00
16/04/2020 Compensation payment credit from 
NatWest£100
17/04/2020 Compensation payment credit from 
NatWest£270
Ms G says as a result of the disputed transactions she was left without any money with three 
children to support for more than three weeks, she couldnt pay for gas and electricity at her 
home and had to ask a friend for money to get by. She also explained that she has health 
problems and her daughter has a serious medical condition which were impacted as a result 
of her money being stolen and NatWest not cancelling her card.
Ms G says when she rang NatWest about what had happened, the staff were rude, 
unsympathetic and didnt care about her situation and her daughters health. She also says 
that when she went into a branch to find out what was happening with her account, staff 
verbally abused her and made a racist remark about her.
 
NatWest says it has no record of Ms G cancelling her bank card on 16 March 2020 and to 
date she hasnt provided them with a crime reference number. NatWest says the first time 
Ms G contacted the bank was on 3 April 2020, when she said shed lost her card ending 
2838. NatWest issued Ms G with a new card on 3 April 2020. It had no record of Ms G going 
into a branch or calling the bank prior to this.
As a result of the disputed transactions Ms Gs account was left without any funds, so the 
bank arranged for Ms G to go into branch on 6 April 2020 to make an emergency cash 
withdrawal of £220 as the funds which were taken were benefit payments. This took 
Ms Gs account overdrawn. But the bank waived any fees that wouldve been charged. 
NatWest declined to refund the disputed transactions. It said Ms G had been negligent by 
keeping her PIN number with her bank cards. The bank also said Ms G hadnt disputed a 
previous payment for broadband on her account.
NatWest said it couldnt locate some of the calls Ms G said shed had with staff in which she 
said staff were unsympathetic. However, as a gesture of goodwill it paid Ms G £100 for any 
poor service, she may have experienced. The bank accepted that it hadnt raised a fraud 
claim on 3 April 2020, when Ms G had reported that B had taken her card. So, it paid her a 
further £270 compensation.
 
Ms G disagreed with NatWests decision. She maintains she is a victim of fraud. And wants 
the bank to refund her money. So, she brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened.
Based on the evidence, in particular a phone call Ms G had with NatWest on 27 March 2020, 
during which Ms G confirmed shed made the £70 withdrawal, she was aware of the other 
transactions, and was still in possession of all her NatWest bank cards  including the one 
shed said had been stolen, the investigator thought Ms G had made the disputed 
transactions herself. So, he didnt recommend NatWest should refund the payments.
The investigator also said there wasnt enough evidence to say that bank staff had been 
rude to Ms G and had made a racist remark to her when shed gone into branch on 6 April 
2020 to make the £220 withdrawal. He thought that NatWest had done enough to put things 
right regarding the service it had provided. 
Ms G disagreed.  She said she has been the victim of fraud. And is still waiting for the bank 
to refund her £220 (the value of the disputed transactions). 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Ms G and NatWest have read the investigators view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of 
my decision. However, I can assure Ms G that Ive read the file, including her comments and 
evidence. 
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive and contradictory, I have to make a decision 
of the balance of probabilities  on what I consider to be more likely than not to have 
happened.
Generally speaking, if the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Ms G authorised 
the payments, NatWest is entitled to hold her liable. The relevant regulations, to this effect, 
are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 2017). Ms G says she didnt make 
the disputed transactions. She says her friend B stole her bank card and made the 
transactions. So, my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think 
Ms G authorised the transactions by making them herself.  
Firstly, having reviewed NatWests technical evidence, Im satisfied that Ms Gs Chip and 
PIN, and card details were used to make the disputed transactions. And that they were 
authenticated. But, the regulations relevant to this case say that this is not on its own enough 
to enable NatWest to hold Ms G liable for them. So, I also need to think about whether the 
evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Ms G consented to the transactions 
being made or whether she is the victim of fraud as shes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence, despite what Ms G has said, Im not persuaded that her 
friend B, stole her bank card and made the transactions. And Im satisfied that Ms G did 
consent to the transactions she is disputing. I say this because:
NatWests technical records show the transactions were made using Ms Gs genuine 
card and PIN
Theres no evidence that Ms G reported her bank card lost or stolen on 16 March 
2020. Ms G has provided inconsistent evidence about how she notified the bank 
about the loss of her bank card  - she said she called the bank, reported it online and 
sent a relative into branch to report things  but the bank has no record of Ms G 
doing so. I accept that mistakes do happen. But I thinks its unlikely that NatWest 
would fail to set up a fraud claim on three separate occasions  especially given Ms 
G had used three different methods to report her card lost
Ms G didnt provide the bank with details of the fraud report she says she made to 
the police regarding B stealing her bank card
The disputed transactions took place over a period of couple of days and were 
usually for small amounts, which is unusual for fraudulent activity. I dont think a 
fraudster would have continued using Ms Gs account details and card over a few 
days. Its more typical for the card to be used as quickly and for as much as possible. 
But this didnt happen. Its also unusual for a fraudster to wait 11 days to use a bank 
card that theyd stolen. As theyd run the risk of the card being cancelled
When Ms G rung NatWest on 27 March 2020, to find out why she had less money in 
her account than she thought, she told the bank that she was still in possession of all 
her NatWest bank cards  including the card used to make the disputed transactions 
 which contradicts what Ms G later told the bank. And what she told this service  
how could she still be in possession of her bank cards on 27 March 2020 if B had 
stolen it and her purse 11 days earlier?
During the call on 27 March 2020, Ms G didnt mention that any of her bank cards 
had been lost or stolen on 16 March 2020, or that shed already reported this to the 
bank. I find it unusual that Ms G didnt mention this during the call as it was relevant information  especially as she was calling to find out why there was less money in 
her account than she thought she had
The advisor went through the transactions with Ms G during the call and she 
confirmed that she had withdrawn £70 on 27 March  2020, and that shed made the 
£34.50 payment in a grocers shop, which she normally used. She also pointed out 
the £100 transaction before the advisor listed the transaction, which I find surprising if 
this had been made without her knowledge. So, it seems Ms G was aware of this 
withdrawal too and didnt tell the advisor she hadnt made the transaction. In fact, Ms 
G expressed no surprise or gave any indication that any of these payments hadnt 
been made by her
The only transaction Ms G disputed during the call was the £17.99  which had been 
a recurring payment for broadband services. But based on the evidence this appears 
to be a regular payment Ms G had been making from her account. And I note Ms G 
didnt want to report this as fraud  she didnt want to be put through to the fraud 
department when the advisor offered to do so, and she didnt go into branch the next 
day to raise the fraud claim as she told the advisor she would do
The advisor told Ms G that the broadband payment hadnt been able to be collected 
due to there being insufficient funds in Ms Gs account over previous months. Ive 
kept in mind that during the call Ms G told the advisor that she wanted to give her 
daughter £20, which is roughly the amount debited for the broadband payment. And 
she asked the advisor whether they could make an emergency payment for £20 into 
her account. So, it may well be that the reason Ms G was surprised she had less 
money in her account was due to this payment being able to be debited on this 
occasion, which left Ms G short and unable to give her daughter any money. 
So, when I weigh everything up, Im not satisfied theres evidence of fraud here. In my view, 
based on the evidence, the most likely explanation here is that Ms G made the disputed 
transactions herself. So, in the circumstances it wouldnt be fair for me to ask NatWest to 
refund Ms G the £222.49 she disputes. 
Ms G is also unhappy about the service she received from NatWest. She says that when she 
called the bank the advisor, she spoke to, was unsympathetic, rude, disinterested, and said 
that they didnt care about Ms Gs daughters health  which Ms G says took place around 
the time she went into branch to make the £220 withdrawal, on 6 April 2020. Ms G has also 
said that when she went into the branch to collect the £220, the staff made a racist comment 
towards her, didnt believe shed been a victim of fraud and came up to her face in an 
aggressive manner and shouted at her.
Ive listened to all the call recordings between Ms G and NatWest that are available which 
took place between 27 March and 21 April 2020.  And I dont agree that the call handlers 
were rude, dismissive or unhelpful to her. On the contrary, I found that they were polite, 
listened to Ms G and tried to be helpful in suggesting solutions to the issues she raised. And 
in one call on 30 March 2020, the advisor told Ms G that they did care about her situation 
and daughters health. 
Ive kept in mind that NatWest have told us that they cant find the call during which Ms G 
says the advisor told her he didnt care about her daughters health condition. Despite this 
NatWest has given Ms G the benefit of the doubt, apologised and paid Ms G compensation 
for any trouble and upset she suffered as a result of its poor service when handing her calls. 
I think thats reasonable and Im not going to ask them to do anything more to resolve this 
aspect of Ms Gs complaint.
 NatWest also accepts that is didnt set up a fraud complaint when Ms G called the bank on 3 
April 2020. The bank has apologised and paid Ms G £270 compensation for any trouble and 
upset she was caused.  Overall, I think NatWest has done enough to put things right. So, 
I think its offer is a fair and reasonable way to resolve this aspect of Ms Gs complaint. And, 
while I appreciate Ms G wont agree, I wont be asking it to do anything more
Ive next considered Ms Gs complaint about how she was treated when she went into 
branch. Of course, I cant be sure what happened when Ms G visited the branch as I wasnt 
there. Where theres a disagreement about what happened, I need to decide, based on the 
information I do have, whats most likely to have happened.
 
Ive looked at what Ms G has said about how she was treated in branch. And Ive looked at 
the statements from the branch staff about their interactions with Ms G on the day. The staff 
deny being rude to Ms G and say that it was in fact Ms G who was aggressive, shouting, and 
accusing the staff of being racist because they asked her to queue. They also say that due 
to the Covid government guidelines they spoke to Ms G from behind a screen at all times  
so dealt with Ms G from a distance, which I think is plausible. 
I know Ms G feels very strongly about the way she was treated by the branch staff. But with 
two conflicting accounts, and without knowing more, I cant say on the balance of 
probabilities that the branch staff were rude, or acted in a menacing way towards Ms G. In 
the absence of clear evidence, I cant conclude the NatWest did anything wrong. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont require National Westminster 
Bank Plc to do anything more to resolve Ms Gs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman