DRN-2725896
The complaint
Mr M says Gracombex Ltd trading as The Money Platform lent to him irresponsibly. He says 
this caused him spiralling levels of debt, stress and anxiety. 
What happened
This complaint is about eight payday loans The Money Platform provided to Mr M between 
July 2017 and December 2018
loandate 
startedamount 
borrowedmonthly 
instalmentsdate repaid
1 13/07/2017 £1,000 1 29/09/2017
significant break in lending
2 10/07/2018 £1,000 3 02/10/2018
3 16/10/2018 £1,000 3 21/12/2018
4 17/04/2019 £250 3 17/05/2019
5 24/05/2019 £1,000 3 09/08/2019
6 15/08/2019 £750 1 13/09/2019
7 19/09/2019 £1,000 3 13/12/2019
8 20/12/2019 £1,000 3 09/03/2020
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. He said that the repayment for loan 1 was a 
significant proportion of Mr Ms income so it should have looked further into his 
circumstances. Having done this it should have been evident to The Money Platform that Mr 
M was having problems managing his money. He also thought the business should have 
done more in depth checks before approving loan 5 with a similar outcome. And he said the 
lending pattern itself became harmful by loan 6. So, he thought that The Money Platform 
shouldnt have approved loan 1 and loans 5 to 8. 
Mr M agreed with what the adjudicator said. 
The Money Platform disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It said that: 
Loan 1 wasnt too high a proportion of Mr Ms monthly income, he was left with 
around £450 disposable income after making the repayments. 
It didnt think that Mr M was having problems managing his money at loan 5. He 
repaid this loan on time. 
The credit checks showed his outstanding other debt had reduced to zero over the 
later loans.
There were some breaks in the lending between loans 2 to 8. 
Loan 6 was for a smaller amount than previous loans. 
Consumers can borrow larger amounts and repay them with no fees early on, so they 
typically borrow the most they can. 
As no agreement has been reached the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about irresponsible lending - including all 
of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
The Money Platform needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. 
These checks could take into account a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that The Money Platform should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
And the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation might be 
an indication a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case. The industry regulator defines sustainable as being 
without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow 
to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint in part and have explained why below.
Mr M didnt disagree with our adjudicators opinion about loans 2 to 4. Because of this I dont 
think there is any ongoing disagreement about these loans. So, I wont be making a decision 
about this lending. But they were part of the borrowing relationship Mr M had with The 
Money Platform. So, they are something I will take into account when considering the other 
loans he took.
For loan 1 Mr M needed to repay around £1,400 the month after taking it. I think its 
reasonable to say this was a large proportion of Mr Ms income recorded income of £3,400. Even if what The Money platform recorded about Mr Ms circumstances was correct, this 
was a strong indication that he may struggle to repay the lending without further borrowing. 
So, I think The Money Platform couldve realised at that time that Mr M may have some 
more serious financial problems rather than just using this loan to help with a temporary 
cash flow problem. The Money Platform shouldve also become concerned about whether it 
knew enough about Mr Ms true financial situation.
I think that it wouldve been proportionate to fully review Mr Ms financial situation And I think 
that it needed to verify the information it found out where possible. This is to make sure Mr M 
was in position to make the repayments sustainably.
Mr M has provided some information about his financial circumstances which includes his 
bank statements and a recent copy of his credit report. I accept that this isnt exactly what 
The Money Platform wouldve seen at the time. But I think it wouldve found out similar 
information if it had made proportionate checks, so I think its reasonable to rely on it.
This shows that Mr M had a significant amount of other loans with other short term lenders 
and high cost credit providers. The total of the repayments to all his lending are high enough 
to say that he would need to borrow further to repay them. So, I dont think its reasonable to 
say that Mr M could sustainably afford to repay loan 1
Ive noted that there was a long break between loans 1 and 2 and some smaller break 
between loans 3 to 4. But I still think The Money Platform should have been making similar, 
more detailed, checks by loan 5. Mr M had been borrowing and repaying larger loans for not 
far short of a year from loan 2 (which was after a significant break). This is a long time to be 
using this type of credit. This again points to some serious financial problems.  
If The Money Platform had done proportionate checks, similar to those it should have done 
for loan 1, it would have seen that Mr Ms situation hadnt materially improved at loan 5. He 
was still borrowing and repaying significant amounts to other short-term lenders. 
And added to this, whist its not necessarily a reason to uphold the complaint on its own, I 
have seen that Mr M was spending a significant amount on gambling each month. This 
could, at times, be higher than his income. I think that if The Money Platform wouldve seen 
this, it wouldve also thought this was also good reason not to lend to Mr M for loans 1 and 5. 
I think that The Money Platform wouldve found out this information if it had made 
proportionate checks. And I think it wouldve seen Mr M wouldnt have been able repay the 
loans in a sustainable way. So, I think that The Money Platform shouldnt have given loans 1 
and 5 to Mr M and I think hes lost out as a result of this. So, Im upholding Mr Ms complaint 
about these loans.
I havent recreated individual, proportionate affordability checks for loans 6 to 8 because I 
dont think that it is necessary to do so. Ive looked at the overall pattern of The Money 
Platforms lending history with Mr M, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which The 
Money Platform should reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so The Money Platform should have realised that it shouldnt have 
provided any further loans. 
Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
At this point The Money Platform ought to have realised Mr M was not managing to 
repay his loans sustainably. Mr M had taken out five loans in just under a year from loan 2. The majority of these had three month terms. So, The Money Platform ought 
to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow further to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loans were leaving in his finances and that 
Mr Ms indebtedness was unsustainable. 
Mr Ms first loan in this chain (loan 2) was for £1,000 and loan 6 was for £750. 
Although this was a small reduction in the borrowing all of these loans were for 
significant amounts. And I havent seen any persuasive evidence that Mr M was 
borrowing the maximum he could and repaying the loans early. The Money Platform 
ought to have known that Mr M was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall 
in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
From loan 2 onwards Mr M was provided with a new loan within a relatively short 
time after he settled a previous one. I dont think the breaks in lending were long 
enough to start any new chains over loans 2 to 8, give the amounts he was 
borrowing. 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed. Loan 8 was taken out 
around a year and a half after loan 2. And it was for the same amount. Mr M had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to The Money Platform over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because The Money Platform continued to provide borrowing from 
loan 6 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number of loans and the length of time over which Mr M borrowed was likely to 
have had negative implications on his ability to access mainstream credit and so kept 
him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 6 to 8 and The Money Platform should put 
things right  
Putting things right
In deciding what redress The Money Platform should fairly pay in this case Ive thought 
about what might have happened had it not lent to Mr M as Ive outlined above. 
Clearly there are a great many possible, and all hypothetical, answers to that question. 
For example, having been declined this lending Mr M may have simply left matters there, not 
attempting to obtain the funds from elsewhere  particularly as a relationship existed 
between them and this particular lender which they may not have had with others. If this 
wasnt a viable option, they may have looked to borrow the funds from a friend or relative  
assuming that was even possible.
Or, they may have decided to approach a third-party lender with the same application, or 
indeed a different application (i.e. for more or less borrowing). But even if they had done 
that, the information that would have been available to such a lender and how they would (or 
ought to have) treated an application which may or may not have been the same is 
impossible to now accurately reconstruct. From what Ive seen in this case, I certainly dont 
think I can fairly conclude there was a real and substantial chance that a new lender would 
have been able to lend to Mr M in a compliant way at this time.
Having thought about all of these possibilities, Im not persuaded it would be fair or 
reasonable to conclude that Mr M would more likely than not have taken up any one of these options. So it wouldnt be fair to now reduce The Money Platforms liability in this case for 
what Im satisfied it has done wrong and should put right.
The Money Platform shouldnt have given Mr M loan 1 and loans 5 to 8.
A) The Money Platform should add together the total of the repayments made by Mr M 
towards interest, fees and charges on these loans, including payments made to a third party 
where applicable, but not including anything it has already refunded.
B) The Money Platform should calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments 
made by Mr M which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C) The Money Platform should pay Mr M the total of A plus B.
D) The Money Platform should remove any adverse information it has recorded on Mr Ms 
credit file in relation to loans 1 and 5. The overall pattern of Mr Ms borrowing for loans 6 to 8 
means any information recorded about them is adverse, so it should remove these loans 
entirely from Mr Ms credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires The Money Platform to deduct tax from this interest. The 
Money Platform should give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax The Money Platform 
has deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I partly uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Gracombex Ltd should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman