DRN-3674340
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited irresponsibly granted her a conditional sale 
agreement she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
In August 2019, Mrs M acquired a used car financed by a conditional sale agreement from 
Moneybarn. Mrs M paid a deposit of £400 and was required to make 59 monthly repayments 
of around £192. The total repayable under the agreement was around £11,744.
Mrs M says that Moneybarn didnt complete adequate affordability checks. She says if it had, 
it would have seen the agreement wasnt affordable. Moneybarn didnt agree. It said that it 
verified Mrs Ms income and used statistical database evidence to assess her non-
discretionary expenditure. It also carried out an automated credit reference agency check 
assessing Mrs Ms indebtedness and existing financial commitments, repayment history, 
including any arrears, and past defaulted accounts. It said its checks were proportionate and 
didnt suggest the agreement was unaffordable. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. She thought Moneybarn didnt 
act unfairly or unreasonably by approving the finance agreement.
Mrs M didnt agree and said at the time of her application she had two county court 
judgments and multiple accounts in default. She said other companies had turned her down 
for finance. Mrs M provided further details of her income and costs and says that the 
agreement wasnt affordable.
The case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we 
consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. So, 
I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
Moneybarn hasnt provided a copy of the credit check it completed although it has said its 
credit check results showed Mrs M had defaulted on a debt 26 months prior. Ive considered 
the information provided by Moneybarn and also relied on a copy of the credit file supplied 
by Mrs M. I think this gives a good indication of what Moneybarn would likely have seen. At 
the time of the application it shows that Mrs M had three county court judgements and while 
one was recorded in 2015 and another 2016, the most recent was recorded just over a year 
before her application, in May 2019. Mrs M also had accounts that were showing signs of 
delinquency in the year of her application, including a utility account which I think should 
have raised concerns. I think this ought to have indicated that Mrs M was likely to be 
struggling financially. It therefore would have been proportionate for Moneybarn to have got 
a more thorough understanding of Mrs Ms financial circumstances before lending.
Moneybarn included estimated income and expenses figures in its assessment. It says that it 
assessed information from credit reference agencies to validate Mrs Ms average income 
and obtained information from a third-party data source to assess average expenditure. This 
information was then detailed in Mrs Ms agreement for her to review and confirm. While I 
note the checks that took place, given the overall size of the borrowing, the term of the 
agreement, and Mrs Ms previous credit history, I think it would have been proportionate for 
Moneybarn to have verified her income and to have asked her about her specific expenses 
in order to ensure the lending was affordable.
Had Mrs Ms income been verified this would have shown Mrs Ms average monthly income 
to consist of earnings and benefits and total around £2,100. This is in line with the amount 
Moneybarn included in its assessment.
I cant be certain what Mrs M would have told Moneybarn had it asked about her regular 
expenditure. Given the size of the repayments compared to Mrs Ms income, I dont think 
Moneybarn needed to request bank statements, but in the absence of anything else, Ive 
placed significant weight on the information contained in Mrs Ms statements and the 
information she provided in response to our adjudicators view as an indication of what would 
most likely have been disclosed. 
Mrs Ms regular committed monthly expenditure at the time for her rent, utilities, childcare, 
travel and other such living expenses was around £1,400. This amount doesnt include food 
and toiletries etc and noting Mrs M had children to provide for I think her estimate of around 
£80 a week is reasonable for this and I can see from her statements she was taking cash out 
as well as making payments to supermarkets and similar stores. Adding this in gives total 
monthly expenses of around £1,800. This would leave around £300 of disposable income 
after her costs and as the monthly repayments were around £192, it appears to show the 
agreement was affordable to Mrs M. For this reason, Im not persuaded that Moneybarn 
acted unfairly in approving the finance. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman