DRN-3177805
The complaint
Mr C complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc is holding him responsible for payments on his 
credit card that he says he didnt make. 
What happened
Mr C disputes three payments made online to the same retailer which totalled £6,124. These 
show on his account statement dated 7 December 2020. Mr C says he didnt make these. 
He had reported that his mobile phone SIM wasnt working to his related service provider on 
3 December 2020 and had no use of his phone until 8 December 2020.
Sainsburys Bank said it wouldnt be refunding the money. It said that the payments were 
verified with a one-time passcode that was sent by text to Mr C. It didnt consider that the 
evidence provided from Mr C showed that his SIM had been swapped as he claimed. And it 
was waiting for information from the service provider to help clarify this. It didnt have any 
information from the retailer except the broad postcode area the goods were sent to.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld, and the payments refunded to 
the account with any interest or charges. And Mr C be paid eight per cent simple interest per 
annum on any repayments hed made. He should also be paid £250 for trouble and upset. 
She said that Sainsburys Bank hadnt provided audit logs to show the authentication of the 
payments and shed asked for this information several times. But she thought it likely that as 
the payments were made online these used the card information. And that the real issue was 
whether Mr C consented to and so authorised the payments. 
She said that Mr C had provided evidence from the service provider that he didnt have 
access to his phone between 3 and 8 December 2020. He had sent an email to a health club 
saying that his telephone consultation on 3 December 2020 would need to be on a different 
number as he couldnt access his phone. There were limited calls between the dates and 
these related to another company where he says his details were misused. This pattern was 
out of line with that of the previous calls. And the payments disputed are consistent with the 
actions of a fraudster who had been able to access his details. Sainsburys Bank said that 
the retailer had told it that the items were delivered within a broad London postcode but 
hadnt shown it had raised this further as would be expected. Although it disputed what the 
service provider had said it hadnt provided any evidence to support this and she said the 
service provider would normally be co-operative.
Mr C had told her Sainsburys Bank said it would refund the money. It hadnt provided call 
recordings, but the call notes show that this was mentioned. And hed been distressed by 
what happened, had called and emailed a number of times and not had a response so the 
payment of compensation was appropriate.
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree. It said that the call Mr C had with the service provider didnt 
say that a SIM swap had taken place. It didnt make sense for him to claim there was a SIM 
swap unless hed been told by his provider. When he contacted it on 3 December 2020 this 
would have confirmed a previous call to arrange the SIM swap and blocked his phone. And 
there is no information about any investigation by the service provider. It said it had 
contacted the service provider on multiple occasions having first been told that there was no 
account in Mr Cs name and doubting an original email he said had been sent to him. It 
thought that Mr C would limit calls if he was trying to show he didnt have access to his 
phone. It seemed like he was checking his voicemail which wouldnt be something a 
fraudster would do. A call was made to a different financial business during the period he 
said he couldnt use his phone and to the same number on 16 December 2020. And it didnt 
find the email to the health club persuasive. Sainsburys Bank said to our investigator that 
while I appreciate you feel there is a lack of evidence to corroborate our decision, there is 
no evidence provided to support his claim that fraud took place. It stated that Mr C had 
appeared defensive to it and unwilling to provide evidence. It maintained that Mr C made 
these payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I wont be able to say exactly what happened here and Im thinking about what is most likely 
applying a balance of probabilities test where the evidence is incomplete or unclear. I think 
that both Mr C and Sainsburys Bank have now had a reasonable period of time to provide 
all their evidence and submissions.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with card details. And if they werent authorised   
Mr C wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
Under these Payment Service Regulations and the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a consumer
is usually not liable for an unauthorised payment transaction, where the transaction
involves a distance contract. There are some exceptions known as excepted
contracts. If an unauthorised transaction involves an excepted contract the consumer can
become liable for it in certain circumstances.
I dont have an audit log for these payments. I understand from the information Ive seen that 
these were made on 5 December 2020. And that these were verified with a one-time 
passcode as part of additional checks. There isnt a dispute that Mr Cs card details were 
used, and Im satisfied its most likely that these payments were authenticated.
The issue is whether he consented to them or as he says an unknown third party gained 
access to his security information and phone and made them without his knowledge.
The payments were made online and didnt need the actual card. Mr C had used the card 
before, and I think it possible for someone to find out his details. The real question in this 
case is whether there is an explanation for how a one-time passcode sent to his phone 
number could have been intercepted.
I understand why Sainsburys Bank would want to see evidence of this. It had some doubts 
about whether an initial email Mr C said was from the service provider was genuine. And 
these were compounded when the service provider said it couldnt trace Mr Cs account 
based on his name and postcode. I dont know why that was because hes since obtained 
statements of his account. Hes also provided another email from the service provider in July 
2021 setting out again the report he made about his SIM not working on 3 December 2020, 
that he ordered a new one and contacted it on 8 December 2020 to reactivate it. Hes also 
provided a copy of a call recording of his discussion with the service providers fraud department about what happened. None of what he's provided is inconsistent with his 
explanation. I dont know for example why the service provider didnt identify an issue on 3 
December 2020. And I view the call as quite a natural one with the fraud department. Mr Cs 
position is that he didnt know on 3 December 2020 that there was a SIM swap. So, he 
wouldnt have reported it in this way.
In the light of what he has provided I think it was fairly down to Sainsburys Bank to support 
its assertions and suspicions with some evidence. I am unclear why its efforts have been 
unsuccessful or why as it says the retailer has provided limited co-operation and information. 
Although it considered there was some link between Mr C and the area where the items 
were delivered there is nothing in my view to substantiate that.
Mr C gave this service permission to obtain a recording of the call with the other financial 
business on 5 December 2020. But it couldnt provide a copy. So, I dont infer anything about 
him later contacting that business himself on 16 December 2020 once he knew about what 
had happened on his Sainsburys Bank account. I accept its possible he could have 
engineered the whole position as Sainsburys Bank says and restricted his calls  although 
still not well enough in its opinion. 
Ive balanced all these factors in making my decision. I think it most likely that Mr C didnt 
consent to and so authorise these payments. These werent excepted payments and were 
made online and so he isnt responsible for them. I agree with the suggested resolution of 
the investigator including the compensation given for the distress and the way his claim was 
handled. Having said that I want to clarify that as he did use his account for other payments 
the eight percent interest should only fairly apply if and when the reworked account was as a 
result in credit for any period. If not those repayments were reducing the balance on which 
interest was charged which was a benefit for him. Im not clear if any adverse information 
has been reported to any third party about these payments being thought first party fraud but 
that should be removed as a natural consequence of my findings
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require Sainsburys Bank Plc to:1) Refund these disputed payments and rework his card account to adjust for any 
charges and interest applied as a result.
2) Pay Mr C eight per cent simple interest per annum on the balance for any periods 
when the reworked account was in credit, if at all, as a result of excess repayments.
3) Pay Mr C £250 in compensation.
4) Remove any adverse information reported to any third party about these disputed 
payments to the account and his related payment history.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 January 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman