DRN-4152744
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC has treated them unfairly when they 
attempted to take out a new product rate with their mortgage.  
What happened
Mr and Mrs S completed an online rate switch application at the end of September 2022. 
Barclays sent a letter on 7 October 2022 which explained what Mr and Mrs S needed to do 
next to complete the rate switch, giving details about what needed to be signed and 
returned. It also gave the option to sign the document electronically using its DocuSign 
process.
Mr and Mrs S contacted Barclays in early November 2022 and said they hadnt heard 
anything since there initial application for a rate was made. Barclays said this would be 
looked into and passed on to the relevant team. On 17 November 2022 it resent the 
DocuSign information and this was sent a number of times via email with 15 chasers in total 
being sent up until 10 January 2023.
Mr and Mrs S say Mr S did receive an email from Barclays on 10 January 2023. He believed 
this said he had 30 days to sign the DocuSign pack to complete the rate switch application.  
Mr S signed this on 1 February but Mrs S hadnt received a link for her to complete the 
signature for herself.  When Mr and Mrs S spoke to Barclays about the link for Mrs S, they 
were told the application had been closed on 10 January 2023 and a new application would 
now need to be made.
Mr and Mrs S have said, it they were told they only had until 10 January 2023 to sign for the 
rate switch, they would have done this. But Barclays didnt give this deadline and they feel it 
should honour the initial rate offered.
Barclays didnt agree it needed to honour the rate. It said it had provided Mr and Mrs S with 
the information needed to enable them to complete the switch previously, with the letter sent 
on 7 October and 15 email chasers sent between 17 November 2022 and 10 January 2023. 
When these were not responded to, the application was closed down. It recognised the 
chaser received on 10 January could have caused some confusion when it said the 
documents would be available for 30 days to accept the rate switch from the date of the 
email. But this was an error as the application had already been closed at this point due to 
the earlier delays in the application being signed. To apologise for any confusion from this 
error, it made a payment of £75 to Mr and Mrs S.    
Our investigator didnt think Barclays needed to do anything else. He felt the letter sent in 
October 2022 was clear on what Mr and Mrs S needed to do if they wanted to accept the 
rate switch offer theyd applied for. When this wasnt responded to, nor the chaser emails 
sent after Mr and Mrs S had contacted Barclays, he didnt think it had acted unfairly when 
the application was closed. 
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree with our investigators opinion. They said they hadnt received the 
letter sent on 7 October 2022 and asked that the complaint be referred for decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint, for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mr and Mrs S will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why Ive made this decision.
Mr and Mrs S have said they didnt receive the letter from Barclays dated 7 October 2022 so 
they were not aware of the information set out within this. This letter explained that Barclays 
needed to receive a signed copy of the paperwork or DocuSign for the rate switch offer 
within 10 working days of the letters date. I dont think it would be fair to say an error was 
made with this letter by Barclays. The letter is addressed to the correct address for Mr and 
Mrs S and most post correctly addressed in the UK usually reaches its destination. However 
I accept that they say it wasnt received with Mr and Mrs S contacting Barclays in November 
2022 to explain theyd not heard from Barclays following their application being made. 
After Mr and Mrs S let Barclays know they hadnt heard anything following their initial 
application, Barclays sent a number of email chasers to request signatures from Mr and 
Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S havent said they didnt receive these chasers and the email address 
these were sent to match the email address on the email Mr S has spoken about receiving 
on 10 January 2023. In total Barclays sent 15 chasers to Mr and Mrs S asking for them to 
sign the mortgage documents and I think it is fair to say Barclays made a reasonable attempt 
to get their signatures before closing the application down.
The email Mr and Mrs S have spoken about receiving on 10 January 2023 was one of the 
chaser emails Ive referenced above. The subject of this email said:
Please act now  you need to e-sign your mortgage documents
The email didnt expressly say Mr S had 30 days to sign his documents, it instead explained 
the documents would be able to be accessed for 30 days from todays date (the date of the 
email being sent). I appreciate this may have caused some confusion but I dont think it 
meant Mr S had the time he thought he did to sign his documents. The email from its title, 
explained he needed to act now but Mr S did not sign this document until 1 February and it 
wasnt until this point he chased Barclays to see where the option for Mrs S was.  By this 
time the application had been closed after being extended well beyond the initial deadline 
which required the signed documents to be returned by mid October 2023.
Overall, I dont think Barclays acted unfairly when it said it couldnt extend the offer any 
further. Mr S didnt act on the email when it was received and signed this almost three weeks 
later, so he didnt act now. And Im satisfied the previous email chasers were sent to the 
correct email addresses for Mr and Mrs S. So I think they were provided with what they 
needed to sign the documents before the last email that has been focused on. With this in 
mind, I dont think Barclays has done anything wrong when not accepting to extend the rate. 
As Ive said previously, I do think the content of the email sent on 10 January 2023 could 
have caused some confusion, not least because the application had already been closed by 
this point. So there is a loss of expectation experienced by Mr and Mrs S when they felt this 
was still something available to them. I think Barclays has made an award that reflects the 
impact of this error and as the application deadline had been missed already, I see no 
reason to ask Barclays to go further with the resolution offered.  My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman