DRN-3982416
The complaint
Miss W complains about QIC Europe Ltds valuation of her car, following a claim on her 
motor insurance policy. She also complains about poor customer service when handling the 
claim. 
QIC are the underwriters of this policy, that is, the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns 
the actions of agents. As QIC have accepted they are accountable for the actions of the 
agents, in my decision, any reference to QIC includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
To summarise, in December 2020, Miss W took out motor insurance with QIC. In August 
2021 Miss W was involved in a non-fault accident. Initially, she sought to claim directly 
against the insurers for the third-party driver, but in October 2021 chose to claim on her own 
policy. 
Very shortly after the claim was submitted, QIC gave a desktop valuation for the car of 
£1000, a valuation with which Miss W did not agree.
Miss W provided significant information to QIC about the bespoke nature of her car, 
including adverts for similar models and information about the cost of parts sourced to 
modify the vehicle. Miss W was unhappy with the handling of the claim, saying QIC did not 
respond to her questions. She later complained.
QIC commissioned an assessors report, based on an inspection of the car. The engineer 
gave a pre-accident value (PAV) of £3000, but suggested a cash settlement. Miss W was 
initially offered the cash settlement, but in the final response letter (FRL) to her complaint in 
December 2021, QIC deemed the car a total loss and offered settlement at £3000 less £900 
salvage. 
Miss W remained unhappy, both with the valuation and with the service shed received. She 
brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. Our investigator didnt uphold 
her complaint. She thought the valuation was fair and that QIC had handled the claim 
promptly. 
Miss W remained dissatisfied. She subsequently provided a report valuing her car at £4450. 
QIC didnt accept this report as independent, as the assessor was not a member of the 
Institute of Automotive Engineer Assessors (IAEA). Our investigator maintained her view so 
Miss W asked for a final decision. 
Miss W later provided a second report  by an independent engineer who was a member of 
the IAEA - valuing her car at £4200.  
Having reviewed all the evidence, I was minded to uphold the complaint. So I wrote to both 
parties to set out my provisional thoughts. I invited QICs comments on Miss Ws second 
report and said:
Its accepted there are particular challenges in valuing older vehicles. All of the reports 
acknowledge that trade guides are unreliable due to the age of the car. 
From my review of the reports and the adverts provided by both parties, I note that the rarity 
of the car, limited sales listings, limited information available in some of the listings provided 
and bespoke nature of modified cars make it difficult to compare like for like on adverts. Its 
clear prices vary considerably, that a number of listings did not sell, or did not sell at first 
advertisement and that sold prices arent always easy to obtain. From the various adverts 
provided there appear to be significant listing/selling variations, such that its difficult to settle 
on a consistent value band. 
Looking at each report in turn, QICs initial desktop report offered a base value for the car of 
£1000 based on research, subject to provision of further documentation to assist in 
confirming specification, condition and history.  
I was pleased to see that QIC commissioned a further report before revising its settlement 
figure to £3000. This report was based on an inspection and research of available adverts. 
However, in terms of modifications, it appears relatively surface-level, listing only the 
performance exhaust manifold under extras fitted. The reports author does comment that: 
The early [models of this car] have a strong following, they are highly sought after 
and easy to upgrade the performance. Market values vary between pristine and 
standard models. I have placed the value midway between examples that were 
available at the time of my research.
   
Miss Ws first report was not accepted by QIC. I acknowledge the assessor was not a 
member of the IAEA. However, he demonstrates knowledge of the market for Japanese 
domestic cars, and understanding of the bespoke nature  both advantages and limitations - 
of Miss Ws particular vehicle. He gives a pre-accident market value of £4450. 
This author of Miss Ws second report confirms hes had sight of the three previous reports 
relevant to this complaint. His valuation rationale is clearly set out. He gives a conservative 
value for the base model, consistent with QICs original desktop report, but his overall 
valuation of £4200 takes into account the cars particular specification, giving an estimated 
second-hand value for the parts used to modify the car, many of which are rare and all of 
which were sourced by Miss W. I find this report persuasive. It presents as balanced and 
seems to me a fair and reasonable way to estimate the pre-accident market value of Miss 
Ws car, given the valuation challenges already detailed.
I acknowledge that this report was not available when QIC made its revised offer to Miss W. 
But it is credible evidence now available to assist me to determine whats fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint. Im also conscious that Miss W 
provided considerable information to QIC early on in the life of the claim. I think it was open 
to QIC to do more from the outset and adopt a bespoke approach, given the clear valuation 
challenges a car of this nature presents.  
So, placing weight on Miss Ws second report from, Im minded to uphold the complaint and 
require QIC to settle the claim using the pre-accident value of £4200. QIC would be entitled 
to deduct its salvage fee, should Miss W elect to retain the car. 8% simple interest would 
apply to the residual amount, from the date of QICs revised valuation of £3000 to the date of 
settlement. 
Im also minded to award some compensation for distress and inconvenience. I can see that 
Miss W has worked hard to engage with QIC to resolve her concerns and questions about the valuation. I think shes done more than would ordinarily be considered part and parcel of 
having to make an insurance claim and Im aware shes found the situation difficult and 
stressful. Overall, I think £200 fairly acknowledges the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Additionally, upon production of evidence of outlay, Im also minded to require QIC to cover 
the cost of both reports obtained by Miss W. Both reports have aided understanding of the 
issue central in this complaint and I consider them to be pivotal in coming to a decision thats 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So to summarise, Im presently intending to direct QIC to:
Settle the claim at the PAV of £4200, less salvage fee, should Miss W elect to keep 
the car. 
Add 8% simple interest per year to the residual balance, from the date of revised 
£3000 offer to the date of settlement.
Pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Reimburse the cost of the reports Miss W commissioned, upon receipt of evidence of 
outlay.
I wrote a similar email to Miss W and invited both parties to contact me with any further 
comments or evidence by 20 February 2023. I indicated that unless any new information 
changed my mind, my final decision would likely be along the lines set out above. 
Miss W responded, saying she accepted my provisional thoughts. She also said she 
intended to keep the car and had been told the salvage fee would be 30%. Miss W provided 
evidence of the cost of her reports, which totalled £550. This was shared with QIC.
Having reviewed matters, QIC responded, saying it:
agreed to increase the PAV to £4200, less £1260 salvage, should Miss W wish to 
retain her car
agreed to pay £200 compensation
provided an amount on which and a date from which interest should be paid
considered the cost of one of Miss Ws reports to be excessive at £400 and proposed 
paying 50% as a maximum.
I thank both parties for their responses and now consider it appropriate to issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional thoughts, 
and for the same reasons. 
I was pleased that QIC accepted a settlement figure of £4200, less salvage which it 
confirmed would be £1260. Im also grateful for the agreement to pay £200 compensation for 
distress and inconvenience.QIC indicated it would apply interest to the £1200 difference between the valuations. I took 
this to mean the difference between the valuations of £3000 and £4200, before salvage was 
deducted. In fairness to QIC, I can see it may have interpreted my words in a way I didnt 
intend. To clarify, 8% simple interest per year should be added to the net figure paid to Miss 
W, that is, the settlement figure of £4200 less the salvage value of £1260. In other words, 
should Miss W keep the car as she has said she intends to, the balance of £2940. 
QIC also gave a date from which interest would start of 22 December 2022. Its not clear to 
me why this date was selected. And it gave a suggested interest payment until 22 February 
2023.  
Our approach to awarding interest is well-documented. Miss W did not accept QICs offer to 
settle her claim and has been without funds to repair her car since. I dont think QIC treated 
Miss W fairly in valuing her car, so its appropriate that interest should be paid from the date 
of QICs revised PAV offer of £3000  that is, from its FRL dated 9 December 2021  until 
the date of settlement. 
I acknowledge QICs concern about the cost of Miss Ws first report. However, the cost of 
reports does vary and this was the outlay Miss W incurred in her efforts to challenge QICs 
position and make out her case. So I think its fair that the full cost for both reports of £550 is 
reimbursed. Ive thought about whether interest should be added to that reimbursement. But 
have decided against this, as Im satisfied the outcome of the complaint as a whole is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances.   
Putting things right
To put things right, QIC should:
settle the claim at the PAV of £4200, less salvage fee of £1260, should Miss W retain 
the car
add 8% simple interest* per year to the net settlement figure paid to Miss W, from 9 
December 2021 until the date of settlement of the claim 
reimburse Miss W £550 for the cost of the reports she commissioned
pay £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
*If QIC Europe Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should also give Miss 
W a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct QIC Europe Ltd to put things right 
as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 Jo Chilvers
Ombudsman