DRN-3285871
The complaint
A company, which Ill refer to as G, complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly turned down 
its business interruption insurance claim. 
Mr G, who is a director of G, brings the complaint on its behalf. 
What happened
G held an insurance policy with Allianz that included business interruption cover. G told 
Allianz that it would like to claim on the policy after its business was impacted by Covid-19 
and the Governments response to the pandemic. 
Allianz said Gs claim was not covered under the policy. It said that the interruption to Gs 
business had been caused by Government regulations rather than because of damage or a 
notifiable disease at Gs premises. Allianz said that a policy exclusion to which G had 
referred  about business premises being closed by law  did not apply to Gs claim as it 
related to loss of licence to sell alcohol. G had not suggested it had lost its licence. 
Unhappy with Allianzs response, G brought its complaint to our service. G said its policy 
covered business interruption, where the closure of the business was required by law 
regardless of the underlying reason that the legal requirement was put into place. G had had 
no option but to comply with the law. 
Our investigator looked into Gs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld as he didnt 
think the policy provided cover for the circumstances of its claim. 
G asked for an ombudsmans decision. G explained why it remained of the view that the 
policy covered its claim. G also referred to Corbin v King Ltd v AXA Insurance UK PLC 
[2022] EWHC 409 (Comm) (Corbin and King) as it thought this meant its claim should be 
paid. G said the policy covered closure or restrictions placed on the premises, and so it said 
its claim should succeed. Our investigator explained why he did not consider this case 
changed the outcome of Gs case.
Mr G said that he would like to speak to the ombudsman during the final review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has set out Gs complaint clearly in his correspondence both with Allianz and our 
investigator. Ive read all the correspondence and I have enough information to reach my 
findings. So, I dont need to speak with Mr G to decide this complaint. 
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions have had an 
impact on Gs business. However, I wont be upholding its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a busines, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if Allianz has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Gs claim. 
Premises closure or restrictions 
The most relevant part of this extension covers loss resulting from business interruption or 
interference in consequence of: 
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice of or with the approval 
of the Medical Officer of Health for the Public Authority as a result of a Notifiable 
Human Disease occurring at the Premises
For this to provide cover for Gs claim, the closure or restrictions placed on the premises 
would need to be as a result of a notifiable human disease occurring at the premises. The 
policys definition of a notifiable human disease would include Covid-19. 
Widespread testing wasnt available at the start of the pandemic, and the Government 
advised people to avoid using health services if they were displaying symptoms of Covid-19, 
save for emergencies. Its therefore rare that a claimant will be able to produce a positive 
test result from that period. And to treat that as a requirement to demonstrate a case on the 
premises would, in my view, be unfair. 
Its therefore necessary to take a more pragmatic approach, and to consider whether other 
evidence can be provided that supports, on the balance of probabilities, that Covid-19 
occurred at the insured premises prior to closure. As with any insurance claim, the burden of 
proof initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy 
covers.
G has not suggested or provided any evidence to show that Covid-19 occurred at its 
premises. Therefore, I dont think that I can fairly conclude that G has shown its more likely 
than not that Covid-19 occurred at its premises. 
G has argued that the policy covers his claim because of an exclusion on page 35 which 
says: 
g any loss arising from the Premises 
i being closed for any period which is not required by law
ii not being maintained in a sanitary condition or satisfactory state of repair
G says, in summary:
Throughout the business interruption section of the policy (section 2) there are 
exclusions, under the title Exclusions in a grey shaded box. But the exclusions dont 
exclusively relate to the topic on that page. G has given an example of this by 
referring to the exclusion on page 34; Exclusion 2 includes there not being cover for 
loss due to distortion or corruption of information on computer systems, other record 
systems or software. G points out that there is no other reference to those topics on 
that page, whereas Exclusion 1 refers directly to item 4 on the same page 
(Accidental Failure of Public Supply).  The exclusions on page 35, again in a grey shaded box, refer to licensing issues, 
which are printed from page 34 to page 35. But the exclusions set out above  g i 
and g ii have no reference to licensing issues. Gs point is that the placement of 
exclusions on the page is not necessarily associated with the points being made on 
the same page. G says that it is reasonable that the application of exclusion g is 
implicit on the policy as a whole.  
The exclusion says Allianz is not liable for any loss from the premises being closed 
for any period which is not required by law. G was required to close by law, and 
therefore its claim is covered under the policy, regardless of the reason it was 
required to close.
Allianz has responded to these points and has said, in summary:
The exclusions to which G refers on page 35 of the policy fall under the policys Loss 
of Licence extension. This includes cover for loss of, revocation of or refusal to 
renew a Licence as set out in the policy terms. (Licence is defined in the policy and 
relates to premises which have been licensed to sell alcohol). 
G has not suggested any issues relating to any loss of licence; rather, its losses are 
due to the closure of its premises by the Government due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
Allianz says it is clear the exclusions on page 35 relate to the licensing section of the 
policy. 
The exclusion quoted by G sets out what Allianz is not liable for, being any loss for a 
period of closure not required by law. It does not follow that this means that Allianz 
will cover the opposite, where closure has been required by law. The policy sets out 
the cover being provided, and the policy wording does not provide cover for general 
closure due to a government directive. 
Ive carefully considered Gs points, but I do not consider the exclusion to which it refers 
means that Allianz must fairly pay its claim. 
An insurance policy sets out the cover that is being provided, and as Ive already said the 
burden of proof initially rests with the policyholder to show that they have suffered a loss 
which the policy covers. 
Where the policyholder has shown that they have suffered a loss which the policy covers, 
the burden of proof shifts to the insurer to show why a claim is not covered under the policy 
terms.
The insurer will use exclusion clauses to set out the restrictions on the cover being provided 
by the insurer. In other words, the exclusion will narrow the scope of the cover that is being 
provided by the insurer. 
G has not shown that it has suffered a loss which the policy covers. That being so, it has not 
been necessary for Allianz to rely on a policy exclusion to turn down the claim. 
G has essentially argued that the exclusion on page 35 g i (as quoted above) applies to the 
policy generally and also implies that any closure of its premises required by law must be 
covered under the policy. I dont agree that an exclusion clause can be used to define the 
cover that is being provided under the policy in the way that G suggests.
I consider that it is reasonably clear that the exclusions listed in the grey box on page 35 
relate to the Business Interruption sections Additional Cover for Loss of Licence. The page is headed Section 2 - Busines Interruption continued. The list of exclusions 
immediately follows the cover available for Loss of Licence, are set out under a to h and 
all except g relate to licensing matters. 
In any event, it is not necessary for a section specific exclusion to refer specifically to the 
section of cover for the exclusion to apply. So I dont consider the example G gives of the 
exclusions on page 34 makes any difference; Allianz is entitled to limit the cover by way of 
specific exclusions.   
Denial of access
This extension covers loss resulting from business interruption or interference in 
consequence of:
Damage from the Insured Perils to property within a one mile radius of the Premises 
which shall prevent or hinder the use of or access to the Insured's Premises whether 
or not there has been Damage to the Premises or Property of the Insured but 
excluding the property of any supply undertaking from which the Insured obtains 
electricity gas water or telecommunications services subject to a maximum of 
£100,000 for any one loss 
The policy defines damage as Loss destruction of or damage to the Property insured. 
For this extension to provide cover the interruption to Gs business would need to be due to 
damage, as defined in the policy, to property within a one mile radius. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the interruption to Gs business was due to damage to property 
within a one mile radius that hindered the use of or access to Gs premises, so this extension 
doesnt cover its claim. 
G has referred to the judgment in Corbin and King, but I dont think the judgment impacts Gs 
claim. Thats because the clause in Gs policy is different from that which was considered by 
the court, and in Gs case there is a requirement for there to have been damage to property 
in order for the policy to provide cover.
I recognise this isnt the outcome G was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I cant fairly require Allianz to pay Gs claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2022.
 
Amanda Maycock
Ombudsman