DRN-1779012
The complaint
Mr I has complained about The Prudential Assurance Company Limited. He says that he 
was wrongly advised to transfer out of an occupational pension.
What happened
Prudential upheld Mr Is complaint and accepted the advice to transfer wasnt suitable for 
him. It offered compensation. Mr I didnt believe the calculations of his losses were correct. 
Prudential had calculated redress at £151,126 and offered this sum along with £4,000 
towards the cost of financial advice. Mr I took advice and says that he was told the redress 
should be over £360,000. 
Mr I highlighted specific areas where he felt the calculation was defective. Prudential 
responded, but Mr I wasnt satisfied and so he referred the complaint to this service.
An investigator considered the complaint. She explained the role of this service and said that 
we are not a calculation checking service. Although we can check for any obvious errors 
within the calculations, we dont have access to actuarial input on these calculations which 
are complex. 
However, having considered Prudentials calculations, the investigator didnt see any 
obvious errors. She explained that this service would expect Prudential to calculate the 
redress using the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) rules and October 2017 guidance. 
This appeared to have been done and there was no evidence that Prudential had completed 
the loss calculation incorrectly.
Mr I didnt agree and said there were points outstanding. He asked for a decision from an 
ombudsman. Mr I prepared submissions for the ombudsman which were shared with 
Prudential. It responded, but Mr I still felt there were points which hadnt been addressed. It 
seems that there was further correspondence between Mr I and Prudential which this service 
wasnt party to. This led to Prudential making a revised calculation of loss and the redress 
offered increased to over £270,000. 
Mr I accepted this offer along with a payment of £4,000 towards the cost of financial advice.
Mr I asked that an ombudsman should still consider the complaint. He explained that he had 
spent over 1000 hours on more than 80 pieces of correspondence to achieve this outcome.
Prudential said that it was normal to request that information is checked, when this is 
incorrect, or there is new information the calculation will be updated. The regulators 
guidance had been followed, and it didnt believe there is any requirement to pay 
compensation to a consumer for the time they spend on their own case. The redress had 
also been increased by £4,000 to cover advice fees. 
The investigator reiterated that calculations like these are complex and this service doesnt 
offer a checking service. Its not unusual for a calculation of this magnitude to require 
revisions.
The investigator also noted that Mr I had accepted Prudentials offer in full and final 
settlement, including an offer for the cost of advice. Therefore, she didnt think that it would 
be fair or reasonable for this service to make any further award. The complaint has, in effect, 
been settled and concluded.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator. This service cannot offer a calculation checking service for 
pension loss calculations like this one. We dont have access to actuarial services. Its also 
true that calculations like this are often revised. This can happen for several reasons, but 
especially when actual data replaces data that has relied on assumptions. Mr I has clearly 
been astute and ensured the his SERPS position was taken into account as well as the 
correct information on any early retirement factors. But equally, these are factors which often 
would require some input from the pension holder.
But the fundamental point here is that after the investigator gave a view, Mr I corresponded 
directly with Prudential and then agreed a settlement of his complaint. Its clear from the 
forms of acceptance that Mr I signed that the settlement was full and final. It also included 
a payment towards the cost of advice.
As I understand things, Mr I doesnt ask that his pension losses or the calculations are 
reconsidered by this service in this decision, but he asks for some award to recognise the 
time hes spent on the issue. I do acknowledge that he must have spent a lot of time on this, 
but its also true that calculations like this do require input from the consumer and will often 
need to be revised. It would be rare for the calculation to be right first time. I dont think 
Prudential can necessarily be criticised for that. 
However, it seems to me that Mr I has reached a final settlement with Prudential. A 
concluded agreement has been reached. I dont think it would be fair or reasonable if I were 
to reopen the complaint and consider whether there should be any further award. I think 
Prudential was entitled to consider that this matter was closed when Mr I accepted its offer.
I do appreciate and recognise that Mr I will have spent time on this complaint, and I dont 
want to underestimate that. He does seem to have had a great deal of success in the efforts 
hes made, but Im not minded to make an award for the reasons Ive given.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2021.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman