DRN-4052977
The complaint
Miss L complains that London Community Credit Union Limited took £239 from her savings 
account for loan repayments. She wants this sum refunded.
What happened
In May 2018 Miss L took out a loan for £1500 with LCCU. Her first direct debit payment was 
due on 1 June 2018. LCCU says that the direct debit payment failed and was returned 
unpaid. Following this, LCCU says there were successive direct debits followed by failed 
direct debits, culminating in a transfer of £239 from Miss Ls savings account on 14 August 
2020 to cover missed payments.
Miss L complained to LCCU but it didnt respond so she complained to this service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. He said that LCCU had failed to provide any evidence 
to show that it transferred money from Miss Ls savings account fairly, because it hadnt 
provided any calculations of the arrears and hadnt provided the terms and conditions of 
Miss Ls account.
LCCU replied to the investigators view and said  that the terms and conditions of the loan 
agreement stated that savings are held as security for the loan, and that if the member 
misses a payment the savings account will be used to offset the outstanding balance or the 
arrears.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed all of the information that LCCU has provided. It says that since taking out the 
loan, Miss L has had direct debits returned on the following dates:
1 June 2018
14 August 2019
16 March 2020
15 June 2020
LCCU says that of these failed direct debits, some were remedied by later payments, leaving 
arrears in respect of the failed direct debits dated 1 June 2018, 14 August 2019 and 15 June 
2020.
LCCU says that it transferred the sum of £239 from Miss Ls savings account to the loan 
account on 14 August 2020.
In Miss Ls previous complaint to this service regarding her loan account, LCCU relied on the 
terms and conditions of the account and said that when  a loan balance becomes 
immediately repayable, it can apply any of the borrowers other deposits or savings towards 
repayment of the amount due.
In this complaint, LCCU has said that the terms and conditions of the loan agreement state 
that savings are held as security for the loan and that in the event that a loan payment is 
missed, the savings will be used to offset the outstanding balance or arrears.
LCCU hasnt provided a copy of the terms and conditions of the loan account to this service. 
It isnt clear whether the terms and conditions give LCCU a general right of offset in the 
event of a missed payment, or whether funds can only be transferred from other accounts in 
the event that the loan balance becomes immediately repayable. I havent been provided 
with evidence to show whether the account was defaulted or not. So, I cant be certain of 
exactly what the terms and conditions allow LCCU to do and whether the account was 
defaulted  and if so, whether it was fairly defaulted.
Further, if LCCUs terms and conditions say that it can offset money held in other accounts 
in the event that a loan payment is missed, it isnt clear why LCCU didnt offset funds when 
Miss Ls directs debits failed in June 2018 and August 2019.
Based on the information Ive seen, Im not persuaded that LCCU has acted fairly here. 
LCCU hasnt provided the terms and conditions it relies on and has given conflicting 
accounts of what the terms and conditions allow it to do and in what circumstances.
Im therefore upholding the complaint. LCCU must repay £239 to Miss L.
Putting things right
To put things right, London Community Credit Union Limited must refund £239 to Miss L.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. LCCU must take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 September 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman