DRN-2780402
The complaint
Mr C complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard was irresponsible when 
it increased the limit on his credit card account.
What happened
Mr C has a credit card account with Barclaycard. In January 2014, Barclaycard increased 
the credit limit from £800 to £1,600. In September 2014, the credit limit was increased again 
to £3,100.
Mr C says that Barclaycard shouldnt have increased the credit limit in September 2014. He 
complained to Barclaycard in July 2020, saying that it had acted irresponsibly by doing so. 
He said that his spending levels on the card were very high at the time and he had only been 
making minimum payments to the account. He said that Barclaycard should have known that 
he wouldnt be able to repay the balance within a reasonable amount of time. 
Mr C also said that Barclaycard didnt check his credit file properly. If it had, he said it would 
have seen that he had other debts and was struggling with his finances. He said he was 
having to borrow more money every month to pay his existing debt. He said that Barclaycard 
made his financial position worse by increasing his credit limit. And that he had to sell his 
family home in 2019 to pay off debt, causing him a great deal of distress. Mr C asked 
Barclaycard to refund all the interest and charges which he had paid on the account and 
remove any late payment or default markers from his credit file.
Barclaycard said it had acted in line with the terms and conditions of Mr Cs account as well 
as all appropriate guidelines when increasing the credit limit. So it wasnt prepared to refund 
the interest and charges.
Mr C wasnt happy with Barclaycards response, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator thought that Barclaycard had acted reasonably and didnt ask it to do 
anything. But Mr C didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are industry rules and best practice guidelines which apply to credit limit increases for 
credit cards. In line with these, Id expect a business to assess a customers creditworthiness 
and consider how their financial situation may be adversely affected before significantly 
increasing their credit limit.
Barclaycard says that, before it increased Mr Cs credit limit, it looked at his account history 
as well as information from the credit reference agencies. It says it also assessed this 
information against its lending criteria and carried out its own credit scoring assessment. 
From the information Ive seen, Im satisfied that Barclaycard made these checks and I think 
they were appropriate checks to make. Ill now consider whether Barclaycards decision to 
go ahead with the credit limit increase was reasonable, based on the information it obtained 
from these checks.
Barclaycards records show that the credit reference agency data showed no defaults or late 
payments at the time. Barclaycard also carried out its own assessment of the likelihood of Mr 
C defaulting. This produced a very low score, indicating that he wasnt likely to default on the 
new limit. 
Mr Cs Barclaycard statements show that he had been managing his account well. In May 
2014, he had paid off his balance in full. After that, he hardly used the card until August 2014 
and the spending that month was within the credit limit. In early September 2014, Mr C made 
some large payments to his account, clearing the balance and putting the account in credit.
In light of this information, I think it was reasonable for Barclaycard to conclude that the new 
credit limit would be affordable for Mr C. I understand that some of the payments to the 
account may have been balance transfers. But I dont think that changes the fact that the 
overall picture from Barclaycards checks was that the increase would be affordable. I 
havent seen anything which I think should have stopped Barclaycard from increasing the 
limit. The information available didnt indicate that Mr C was at risk of financial difficulties. 
So, I think Barclaycards decision to increase the credit limit was reasonable.
The best practice guidelines say that a business should give the customer 30 days notice of 
a credit limit increase and give the customer the option of rejecting the increase. Barclaycard 
says it did so here and I havent seen anything which makes me doubt this. 
Mr Cs statement dated October 2014 contained the following message: Your credit limit 
has been changed. Your new credit limit is £3,100.00. Should you need to discuss this 
change, please call Customer Services. Barclaycard says that customers can contact it at 
any time to reduce their credit limit. It says that Mr C didnt contact it to discuss or opt out of 
the credit limit increase. From the available information, Im satisfied thats the case. So I 
dont think Barclaycard had any reason not to apply the credit limit increase, having carried 
out its checks and decided that it was affordable for Mr C.
I understand that Mr Cs financial position has worsened since the credit limit was increased 
and I sympathise with his situation. But what Ive got to decide is whether Barclaycard acted 
fairly and reasonably when it increased the credit limit in September 2014, based on the 
information available at the time. From what Ive seen, I think it did. Anything which 
happened after that wasnt information which was available to Barclaycard when it increased 
the credit limit. Im sorry to disappoint Mr C, but Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do 
anything here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman