DRN-4430651
The complaint
Miss M has complained about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC handled transactions she 
says she didnt make or otherwise authorise.
What happened
Cash totalling £17,000 was withdrawn from Miss Ms Barclays accounts at two branches, 
verified using photo ID and her mobile banking app.
Miss M explained that she was abroad and this wasnt her; someone had taken control of 
her account with her phone provider and installed her app on another phone. Barclays 
blocked the account to secure it, refunded the disputed withdrawals, and investigated. They 
confirmed that the refund would be permanent.
Miss M complained. She felt Barclays should have blocked the withdrawals. She accused 
them of corruption. She was unhappy they couldnt tell her exactly how the fraudster had 
stolen her identity, and was unhappy they temporarily blocked her account. She wants 
£100,000 compensation for distress, for Barclays to face greater accountability, and for 
Barclays processes to change.
Barclays explained theyd done what they could, and offered her £250 compensation.
Our investigator looked into things independently and found Barclays offer to be fair. Miss M 
didnt agree, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, I understand that Miss M was the victim of a crime here, and that the fraudster caused 
her a great deal of distress, for which she has my sympathy. Im grateful to her for being 
open and candid with us about how this matter made her feel.
I need to explain that were not the regulator  thats the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). 
So were not here to regulate Barclays or their processes, and I cannot make Barclays 
change their processes across the board. We are also not here to punish businesses or to 
issue fines. Were here to resolve individual disputes, as a faster, free, and more informal 
alternative to the courts. So I am not best placed to comment on Miss Ms suggestions on 
how she thinks the financial system should change. She can contact the FCA if she wishes. 
And if Miss M would like the case to be looked at more formally, as a court would, she has 
the right to reject my decision and take Barclays to court.
I do appreciate Miss Ms arguments for why Barclays should have blocked these 
withdrawals. The starting position in law is that banks are expected to process payments 
which theyre authorised to make. And here, to the bank it would have looked like the 
withdrawals were authorised. The fraudster was able to verify themselves using Miss Ms 
photo ID, and her mobile app, which they had registered with her genuine mobile number 
using her own previous genuine device, and which they were able to log in to. And while 
I appreciate Miss M feels otherwise, a drivers licence is very much an acceptable form of 
photo ID. So I can see why Barclays let these withdrawals go ahead. 
But even if I accept that Barclays were definitely wrong to let the withdrawals go through  
for example, because of a discrepancy in the signature provided as Miss M suggested  
I should reiterate that my role is to put things right for Miss M individually, not to punish 
Barclays or to change the way they work. So my first concern would be that they refunded 
Miss M in good time, which Barclays did here. My second is that she was compensated for 
the time she was without her money, which we usually do by adding simple interest for the 
period the money was missing, at the rate of 8% simple per year. This is the same rate the 
courts use in similar situations. Here, Miss M was without her money for a few days, so this 
compensatory interest would come to about £15, which is more than covered by the £250 
which Barclays have already offered.
I understand that Miss M found it inconvenient to have her account temporarily blocked 
when she reported the fraud. But it was both right and expected for Barclays to add the block 
here. A fraudster had Miss Ms photo ID, and had taken over her banking app. So Barclays 
needed to block her account to prevent any further unauthorised access while they secured 
it. The block was not left in place for an overly long or unreasonable time. I find that Barclays 
followed good industry practice by securing Miss Ms account.
I also understand why Miss M wanted Barclays to tell her how the fraudster had stolen her 
identity. But aside from some of the security and data protection issues involved, theres only 
so much Barclays could know. Common identity theft techniques are carried out without any 
involvement of the bank. For example, here the fraudsters may have searched Miss Ms bins 
for thrown-away documents, intercepted post, sent her phishing contact that looked genuine, 
hacked her account with her phone provider, scoured her social media, and so on. Barclays 
are not a police force; they cannot carry out a detailed criminal investigation into the 
fraudster, and couldnt realistically say for certain how they stole Miss Ms identity.
Similarly, while Miss M suggested that Barclays own staff may have been involved in the 
fraud, as noted above there was no necessity for any staff involvement at all. This 
suggestion bears a very serious accusation, and Ive found no evidence which shows or 
substantiates that Barclays own staff were complicit.
As mentioned above, my first concern was that Miss M didnt lose out financially here. And 
I can see that Barclays secured her account and refunded her in full in good time. Next, Ive 
considered her non-financial losses  i.e. the distress she suffered.Of course, being targeted by fraudsters is hugely stressful, and it cant have been any easier 
if Miss M was also away at the time. Again, she has my sympathy. I do need to keep in mind 
that it was the fraudster who committed the fraud. So its the fraudster who is primarily 
responsible for the fraud, and who really owes Miss M the bulk of the damages. Even if 
Barclays had done everything they were supposed to, and even if theyd blocked the 
withdrawals outright, it would still have been highly distressing for Miss M to be targeted by 
criminals like this, she would still have faced a sense of anxiety about how theyd followed 
her, her account would still need to have been blocked while Barclays took the proper 
precautions, she would still need to have spent time talking to Barclays, she would still need 
to have re-set up her account access, and the matter would still have significantly impacted 
her time away. So theres only so much of Miss Ms stress which I can fairly attribute to 
Barclays, rather than the fraudster.
When a business gets things wrong, we often tell them to pay compensation, to recognise 
their mistake and the impact it had. Here, I understand that Miss M felt she spent too much 
time on the phone and had to ask for updates, and I understand she had some initial trouble 
getting her account running again. Ive also kept in mind that its the fraudster who was 
primarily responsible for Miss Ms distress, and that Barclays dealt with the matter in good 
time, refunded the money in full, apologised for what happened, and offered Miss M support 
for her mental health. I appreciate Miss M feels Barclays should face more accountability, as 
she puts it. But as I explained before, were not the regulator and are not here to issue fines 
or to punish businesses. I also note that Barclays did refund the £17,000 to Miss M out of 
their own pockets, so Miss M can be assured that Barclays did suffer a significant loss here. 
We have guidelines about what levels of compensation to award, and I need to be consistent 
with those. Taking into account what Barclays were responsible for and the impact Barclays 
actions had, I find that their offer of £250 compensation is fair to put things right here.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I find that Barclays Bank UK PLC have already made a fair 
offer to resolve Miss Ms complaint. I do not make any further award.
This final decision marks the end of our services consideration of the case.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2023.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman