DRN-4177686
The complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct (first direct) wont refund him 
the money hes lost after he fell victim to a scam. 
What happened
Mr K was expecting to complete a purchase of a property. He told us the aimed completion 
date was 1 August 2022. 
On 19 July 2022, Mr K received an email from whom he believed to be his solicitor asking 
him to make a deposit payment. Unknown to Mr K at the time, there had been a breach in 
his solicitors data security. As a result, Mr K, unfortunately received emails from fraudsters 
who were impersonating his solicitors. 
Mr K made a payment of £12,588 on 19 July 2022 to an account belonging to the fraudsters. 
Mr K received an email from the solicitors to advise of a data breach and following this he 
called the solicitor. It was at this point, Mr K realised hed fallen victim to a scam. 
Mr K reported the scam to first direct on 21 July 2022. first direct is a signatory of the 
Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code which requires 
firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) 
scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances.
first direct assessed what had happened against the provisions of the CRM Code. It said 
sufficient fraud warnings were in place when Mr K sent the payment and it considered Mr K 
was liable for the money hed lost as it felt he could have taken more caution and carried out 
further checks before sending the payment. first direct say it contacted the beneficiary bank 
(the bank to which the payment was made) but no funds remained. 
Unhappy with first directs response Mr K referred the complaint to this service. Mr K 
accepted he couldve done things differently with the benefit of hindsight but felt first direct 
hadnt done enough to protect him. 
An Investigator looked into Mr Ks complaint and upheld it. Overall, she felt Mr K had fallen 
victim to a sophisticated scam, hadnt acted without a reasonable basis for belief and hadnt 
ignored an Effective Warning (as she concluded first direct hadnt provided one).
first direct didnt agree with the Investigators view and provided a detailed response which 
Ive summarised below:
It maintains that the warning Mr K saw when making the payment was an effective 
warning under the CRM Code. It adds that initial sentences of the warning clearly 
advised Mr K to take care, advised emails can be intercepted and told him to check 
the payment details with the solicitor in person or by phone. 
first direct added that the warning also stated customers could visit its fraud centre 
and a link was provided to the further guidance before proceeding.
first direct say there were clear red flags within the email communication, such as, 
grammatical and spelling errors which youd not expect from an official solicitor. It 
also considered the request for a deposit increase ought to have been a red flag and 
that the calculation of the requested amount was wrong.
The investigator explained why she was still of the view the complaint should be upheld.
As an agreement hasnt been reached the complaint has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is at the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt 
because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual 
point or argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to 
do this. This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the 
courts.
Having carefully considered everything Ive seen and been told, Im satisfied that:
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, first direct should have refunded the money Mr K 
lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to reimbursement apply in 
the circumstances of this case.
- Im also satisfied, for reasons Ill explain later in this decision, first direct should pay 
Mr K 8% simple interest from the date the bank declined the payment under the CRM 
Code to the date of settlement.
As Ive said above, the CRM Code requires payment service providers to reimburse 
customers who have been the victims of authorised push payment (APP) scams, in all but 
limited circumstances. If first direct declines to reimburse its customer in full, it is for 
first direct to establish that one, or more, of the listed exceptions set out in the CRM Code 
itself.
 
Those exceptions are: 
where in all the circumstances, the customer made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for believing that: the payee was the person the customer was 
expecting to pay, the payment was for genuine goods or services, and/or that the 
person or business with whom they transacted with was legitimate; or
the customer ignored an effective warning by failing to take appropriate steps in 
response to that warning.
There are further exceptions within the CRM, but none of these are applicable here.
When assessing whether it can establish these things, a Firm must consider whether they 
would have had a material effect on preventing the APP scam.After having carefully considered all of first directs submissions, Im satisfied that it has not 
shown that Mr K made the payment without a reasonable basis for believing that he was 
making a payment to his solicitor or that he ignored an effective scam warning. I will go on to 
explain why I have reached this finding.
Did Mr K have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payment?
Ive thought about whether in all the circumstances of the payment, in particular the
characteristics of Mr K and the complexity and sophistication of the scam, Mr K made the 
payment without a reasonable basis for believing the payment was legitimate. 
Mr K fell victim to a classic email intercept scam  typically sophisticated and hard to detect.  
Mr K has explained that the aimed completion date for the property he was looking to buy 
was the beginning of August 2022. When reporting the scam to first direct, Mr K commented 
in this call that it had been a number of years since hed brought a property but that he 
recalled hed paid a deposit then. I dont find the fraudsters email requesting a deposit, which 
for all intents and purposes was well timed to when Mr K was expecting to complete on the 
property purchase would have been unexpected. I find this is further supported by Mr Ks 
comments in the scam reporting call with first direct where he said the request for the 
deposit payment didnt seem out of the ordinary given his previous experience. 
Here the fraudsters email address was identical to that of the genuine solicitor and so there 
was nothing to alert Mr K to the fact he was dealing with someone other than his solicitor.
first direct says there were clear red flags within the emails Mr K received  namely, 
grammatical and spelling errors which it says youd not expect to be in official solicitor 
emails. I dont agree. People dont want or expect to be scammed as they 
are going about their daily business. I note within the reporting call with first direct Mr K, with 
the benefit of hindsight, may have commented about the language of the emails he received. 
But Im not persuaded that any oddities within the emails were so apparent that it ought to 
have raised flags that Mr K was at risk of a scam. The emails came from the same email 
address as Mr Ks solicitor, so I consider it reasonable Mr K was convinced he was liaising 
with his solicitor. Even if I consider that Mr K did miss an opportunity to check the details 
were genuine with the solicitor, Im satisfied this is because Mr K, at the time, was under the 
spell that he was liaising with his solicitor. 
first direct has provided further comments about the emails requesting a deposit increase 
and the calculations of the amounts quoted not being correct. It considers this ought to have 
made Mr K stop and think. I dont find this point changes my conclusions. I say this because 
these emails came after Mr K had made the payment of £12,588. I acknowledge he received 
further emails telling him that he couldnt proceed with a 10% deposit and that he was asked 
to make a further payment, but he didnt do so. The red flags first direct refers to in relation 
to this specific point came after the payment had been sent, and so I dont find they ought to 
have raised concern with Mr K that he was at risk of a scam or that this ought to have fairly 
and reasonably impacted his basis for belief when making the payment  as this came after 
the payment in question. 
Mr K questioned, by email, the payment details he was given with whom he believed at the 
time was his solicitor. The fraudsters replied to Mr K explaining that the account details 
provided was for a client care account that it used to received payments when it has fund 
lodgement issues with its client account. On balance, Im not persuaded the response Mr K 
received, which was received promptly following his enquiry, ought to have caused him 
concern. Ive reached this finding, when thinking about the response Mr K received, 
alongside other factors present at the time, such as, the email address being identical to the 
genuine email address for his solicitor, the signature within the emails showed the correct contact details, (albeit its likely the name of the staff member on the email wasnt 
genuine/correct), and that the correct property address was referred to. In addition, when 
making the payment Mr K received a confirmation of payee match. 
With all the above in mind, Im not persuaded that Mr K ought to have been more sceptical of 
the situation. Im satisfied Mr K fell victim to a sophisticated scam. 
Did Mr K ignore an effective warning?
first direct say Mr K chose the payment purpose as Making a large purchase and was 
provided with a warning. In this case Im satisfied that the requirements of the effective 
warning exception were not met. 
I do note first directs strength of feelings about the warning it says Mr K saw when making 
the payment and, why it maintains this was an effective warning under the CRM Code. 
In summary, but not limited to, first direct has highlighted that the start of the warning says 
fraudsters can intercept emails or invoices and alter account details. It adds that the 
warning says to double check where you are sending the money to by contacting the seller 
or solicitor in person or using a trusted number. It accepted the remainder of the warning 
which went on to highlight safe account scams wasnt relevant but maintains that the start of 
the warning was. 
Ive thought carefully about what first direct has said on this point, but here, Mr K thought he 
was liaising with his genuine solicitor (albeit it was a fraudster), so I dont think this would 
have made Mr K pause for thought. The warning, in my view, doesnt bring to life the most 
common feature of this type of scam and what this might feel like. Whilst it does say 
fraudsters can intercept emails or invoices it doesnt bring this to life  that is, that the 
fraudster is able to convincingly impersonate a recognised contact by email (such as a client, 
solicitor or tradesman), by intercepting a chain of emails, or sending an email from an email 
address which is the same as, or almost identical to, the genuine email address. 
Mr K says he wasnt aware emails could be intercepted and, in this case, it later become 
known that there was a data breach at his genuine solicitors. Here, Mr K received an email 
from an email address which was the same as the genuine email address. 
I accept the warning sets out that Mr K should contact the seller or his solicitor in person or 
using a number he trusts. But Mr K was abroad, in a different time zone, at the time he 
received the intercepted email. I also note when Mr K reported the scam with first direct he 
informed the agent that while he had spoken by phone once or twice with the solicitor he 
communicated mainly by email. Having thought carefully, Im not persuaded this part of the 
warning would have hit home to the average consumer when they already think theyre 
liaising with their solicitor  when, as Ive said, the warning didnt explain what email 
interception looked like in reality.  I also dont think Mr K was given sufficient information to 
understand why speaking directly to his solicitor was so important to preventing a loss to this 
type of scam.
While I recognise first direct feels strongly that it provided an effective warning which met the 
criteria in SF1(2), overall, I dont think the warning it provided was sufficiently specific or 
impactful to break the spell of the type of scam Mr K fell victim to. In turn, I can understand 
why Mr K, when liaising with whom he believed to be his solicitor, who was using an identical 
email address and in my view, with no other obvious red flags to the communication, would 
move past it.  
Could first direct have done anything else to prevent the scam?Finally, Ive thought about whether, moving away from the CRM Code, first direct couldve
done anything else to prevent Mr K falling victim to the scam.
In this particular case, I dont find the payment Mr K made was so unusual or remarkable in 
appearance in comparison to previous account activity that it ought to have prompted first 
direct to have made enquiries to challenge the purpose of the payment before processing it.
The relevance of this finding impacts the interest award I make. As I dont find the payment 
ought to have put first direct on notice that Mr K might be at risk of financial harm from fraud 
and so, I dont think it ought to have made enquiries before allowing it to be processed, I find 
first direct should pay Mr K interest on the redress that is payable as a result of it falling short 
in its obligations, from the date it decided not to refund him under the CRM Code. 
Conclusions
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied first direct should have reimbursed Mr K 
under the provisions of the CRM Code. Im not satisfied first direct established Mr K ignored 
an effective warning or that he made the payment without a reasonable basis for belief that 
he was paying his solicitor. 
Putting things right
I uphold Mr Ks complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first direct and instruct it to: 
- Refund Mr K the money hes lost to the scam, being £12,588 and;
- Pay interest at 8% simple per annum on that amount, from the date the bank decided 
not to refund Mr K under the CRM Code until the date of settlement*. 
* If first direct considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mr K how much its taken off. It should also give Mr K a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so Mr K can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc, trading as first 
direct. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 September 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman