DRN-3391022
The complaint
Mrs D and Mr D complain about AWP P&C SAs (AWP) decision to decline their claim 
under their home emergency insurance.   
What happened
Mrs D and Mr D say they noticed a leak coming from their toilet and reported this to AWP. 
An engineer then attended the same day and, because further parts were required, they 
attended again over a week later to complete the repairs. During the second visit, the 
engineer explained there was a hairline crack running through the cistern so a new one 
would be required. Mrs D and Mr D say they contacted AWP and were informed a new 
cistern wouldnt be covered under the policy as they had another working toilet. So, Mrs D 
and Mr D complained. 
AWP responded and explained this type of damage would fall under maintenance which 
isnt covered. AWP accepted they hadnt delivered their expected customer service 
standards and offered £25 as a gesture of goodwill. Mrs D and Mr D then arranged for a 
plumber to replace the cistern at a cost of £350.11 but feel AWP should refund this as a 
cracked cistern isnt part of general household maintenance checks.  
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs D and Mr D. She thought AWP should refund   
Mrs D and Mr D the costs theyd incurred together with 8% simple interest. She also 
recommended they pay the £25 offered. AWP havent responded so the matter has come to 
me for a decision.   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. 
I think its important to stress Ive made my decision based on the information I have. I can 
see our investigator has provided AWP with details of the complaint being made against 
them and allowed them a number of opportunities to provide information. Its important that 
we get an account from all parties in order to consider the complaint fully. In this case, while 
AWP havent provided any information to our service, Im satisfied weve taken sufficient 
steps, and given sufficient time, to enable them to respond. 
I must be fair to both parties and dont feel its reasonable, in this case, for Mrs D and Mr D 
to have to continue waiting for an answer to their complaint.   
Theres no dispute here that the original leak was an insured event which was covered under 
the policy terms and conditions. The dispute here relates to the hairline crack in the cistern 
and whether this should be covered by AWP. I can see, in their complaint response, AWP 
refer to a section of the policy which says This policy does not cover normal day-to-day 
property maintenance such as attention to items which tend to gradually wear over a period 
of time, or need periodic attention. Mrs D and Mr D say theyd never noticed a crack in the 
cistern previously and dont understand how a crack couldve happened. Mr D says it 
mightve been broken by the engineer when carrying out the repairs. He says, although he 
cant be absolutely certain, he does believe this likely caused the damage.  
Given that AWP havent provided any information, Ive carefully considered the information I 
do have to decide what I think is more likely to have happened than not. I havent seen any 
evidence which suggests Mrs D and Mr D reported the cracked cistern to AWP when first 
making their claim. Had the cistern been cracked, I believe they wouldve reported this at the 
time. Im further persuaded that the cistern wasnt cracked prior to the engineers first visit 
because AWPs complaint response says the engineer needed to order further parts. I 
believe this could only have been determined by the engineer if theyd carried out a detailed 
inspection of the toilet. And, that being the case, I believe, on the balance of probabilities, its 
more likely than not, had the hairline crack been present during the first visit, the engineer 
wouldve noted this and mentioned this to Mrs D and Mr D. So, I believe this rules out the 
possibility that the cistern was already cracked prior to the first visit. 
Given that the repairs couldnt be completed during the first visit as further parts were 
required, I think its unlikely the crack occurred between the engineers two visits. I havent 
seen any information which suggests the toilet was in a usable condition after the first visit 
so, that being the case, its not something Mrs D and Mr D wouldve used while waiting for 
the engineer to return. So, I think its fair to rule out the possibility the damage occurred in 
between the two visits. AWP say the damage to the cistern was only mentioned by the 
engineer when they fitted the new parts during the second visit  this is also consistent with 
Mrs D and Mr Ds testimony. AWP havent provided any information such as claim notes or 
inspection reports following the engineers visits. This mightve helped establish the condition 
of the toilet during the visits  or provided evidence to disprove the damage occurred during 
the second visit. So, given that the engineer was working on the toilet and this appears to be 
the first time the crack was noticed, I believe this damage was caused by the engineer. I 
think its important to also make the point that, despite several requests, AWP havent 
provided any information to suggest this wasnt the case.
Mr D has provided invoices which show the costs he incurred in replacing the cistern amount 
to £350.11 so, given what Ive said above, AWP should reimburse this to Mrs D and Mr D. I 
acknowledge AWPs point about damage to the cistern falling under maintenance, which 
isnt covered under the policy. But, I havent concluded the £350.11 should be reimbursed 
under any terms and conditions of the policy  rather, its for damage which has been 
caused by AWPs engineer while carrying out repairs under the policy. I can see AWP have 
also offered to pay £25 to Mrs D and Mr D  and I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.  
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that AWPs engineer caused damage while carrying out repairs. So, AWP 
should reimburse Mrs D and Mr D the £350.11 theyve paid for the cistern to be replaced 
together with 8% interest per year simple from the date they paid, until the date of 
settlement. AWP should also pay Mrs D and Mr D compensation of £25. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. AWP P&C SA must: 
Reimburse the £350.11 paid by Mrs D and Mr D for replacing the cistern;  Pay simple interest on this amount at the rate of 8% a year* from the date they paid 
until the date of settlement; and 
Pay £25 compensation to Mrs D and Mr D, if they havent done so already. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP P&C SA to take off tax from this interest. AWP 
P&C SA must give Mrs D and Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they 
ask for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman