DRN-3103298
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Great Lakes Insurance SE hasnt provided them with a refund 
of premiums for a single trip travel insurance policy they held.
What happened
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 7 February 2022  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained why I didnt think Great Lakes had acted reasonably 
and fairly in how it deal with Mrs and Mrs Ds complaint. And I outlined the reasons why I 
was minded to uphold it. I said:
What happened
Mr and Mrs D took out a single trip travel insurance policy on 1 November 2019 for an 
extended holiday which was due to take place from 14 February until 7 June 2020. They 
paid a total of £656.05 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which included 
Insurance Premium Tax (IPT) and cover for some medical conditions they declared.
In March 2020, Mr and Mrs Ds holiday destination went into lockdown. And, while they 
were there, the UK government advice to tourists changed to the extent that on 23 March 
2020 it was strongly advising all UK citizens to return home.
On 25 March 2020 Mr and Mrs D contacted Great Lakes to explain that they were 
overseas and self-isolating within a national lockdown. They queried whether they would 
continue to be insured if they did not follow UK government guidance to return to the UK 
as they said they felt safe self-isolating where they were.
Great Lakes initially informed Mr and Mrs D that, if they were delayed in returning to the 
UK, it would extend their cover. But during the same call it subsequently said that, as UK 
citizens were being advised to return home, Mr and Mrs D would be required to follow that 
guidance. It stated that because their return date wasnt until June it would be best to 
speak to their travel provider to seek advice and then call Great Lakes with an update.
Mr and Mrs D were also told that if the UK government advice was to return home and 
they decide to stay irrespective of that guidance then Great Lakes wouldnt cover them. It 
told Mr and Mrs D that there may be emergency flights available to repatriate people back 
to the K
and that theyd need to check if such measures were available with their travel provider.
Mr and Mrs D chose not to take up an emergency flight back to the UK after checking with 
their travel provider. So, they remained where they were beyond the end of their policy. 
They say that from 25 March 2020 onwards they believed that there were uninsured as a 
result of the telephone discussion theyd had with Great Lakes that day.
Mr and Mrs D contacted Great Lakes to complain about the service theyd received and to 
request a partial refund of their insurance premium. They thought Great Lakes should 
issue a refund of the premium theyd paid, which took into the account that they hadnt 
been insured from 25 March 2020 onwards.
When Great Lakes responded to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint it didnt uphold it. It said they 
werent entitled to a refund and explained that their policy had never been cancelled. So, 
their cover had been continuous from when the policy was incepted. It also stated that, 
under the terms of the policy, cover would have been extended automatically if Mr and 
Mrs D hadnt been able to travel home on their scheduled return date due to 
circumstances beyond their control. It therefore didnt think it had made an error.
Being dissatisfied with Great Lakes response to their complaint, Mr and Mrs D referred it 
to our service. Our investigator initially didnt recommend upholding this complaint 
because they werent persuaded the policy had been invalidated as a result of Mr and 
Mrs Ds decision to remain overseas contrary to UK government guidance.
When Mr and Mrs D responded to our investigators view, they made our service aware 
that repatriation flights had been offered to them, which theyd chosen not to take up. In 
view of this, our investigator stated Mr and Mrs D werent following UK government advice. 
And, because of this, they were persuaded that Mr and Mrs D wouldnt have been insured 
for the remainder of their stay overseas. They recommended upholding this complaint and 
directed Great Lakes to refund Mr and Mrs D on a pro-rata basis from 25 March 2020 until 
the end of their policy.
Mr and Mrs D agreed with our investigators view of their complaint. But Great Lakes 
didnt. Ive been asked to decide what is a fair and reasonable way of resolving their 
concerns.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs D and Great Lakes have said. Having done 
so, Im intending to uphold this complaint in part. However, my reasons for doing so are 
different to those our investigator stated in their view. For this reason, and in the interests 
of fairness, I am issuing a provisional decision.
Industry rules and guidance
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are 
contained in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr and Mrs D held have a cooling off period 
of 14 days for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is 
called the right to cancel.
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as 
long as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained.
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in 
accordance with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a 
proportion of the policys exposure that relates to the time on risk).
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that relates 
to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is material 
unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate method. The 
sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount commensurate to the risk 
incurred.
Mr and Mrs D didnt cancel their travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry 
rules, even if Mr and Mrs D had cancelled the policy within 14 days, they wouldnt be 
entitled to a full refund of the premium paid. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk 
of them cancelling their holiday for reasons that were covered under the policy during that 
time.
The policy terms and conditions
The policy terms and conditions say:
You have a right to cancel up to 14 days of the date you receive:
The policy document at the start of your insurance;
The renewal policy documentation for subsequent periods of insurance.
Should you decide to exercise this cancellation right, you will be entitled to a refund of 
the premium provided that you have not started a trip to which the insurance applies 
and you have not made or intend to make a claim.
Following the expiry of your 14 day cancellation period you continue to have the right to 
cancel your policy at any time during its term by contacting us, but no refund of the 
premium will be available.
As this policy wasnt cancelled within the 14 day cancellation period, there is no 
requirement under the contract for the insurer to offer a refund.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint  and whether it would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart 
from industry rules and the terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ds contract because of 
the exceptional and extraordinary circumstances surrounding Covid-19.
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. As a result of the UK government advice, Mr and Mrs D 
contacted Great Lakes on 25 March 2020 to reassure themselves as to whether theyd be 
covered if they chose to remain overseas contrary to UK government guidance for UK 
citizens to return home. Ive listened to the telephone recording Great Lakes has provided 
of the relevant call.
Its a relatively brief call lasting around 6 minutes and its clear Mr and Mrs D are confused 
by the guidance theyre being given by Great Lakes.As I set out in the background to this complaint, Great Lakes told Mr and Mrs D during the 
call in question that if the UK government were advising UK citizens to come home and 
they decide to stay irrespective of that guidance then it wouldnt cover them. It said if the 
government advises you to come home, you need to come home. If you just decide out of 
your own back to stay, we wont cover you.
At the time that Mr and Mrs D contacted Great Lakes the UK government guidance was 
for all UK citizens to return home. Based on this, and the statement that Great Lakes 
made to Mr and Mrs D, I think it would be fair to say their cover ended on the date they 
were told theyd have no further cover if they stayed abroad.
So, after 25 March 2020, it seems clear that Great Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr 
and/or Mrs Ds insurance policy.
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr and Mrs 
D with a pro-rata refund of the premium they paid for their single trip travel insurance 
policy from this date until the date the policy was due to end.
To resolve this complaint, I think Great Lakes should refund Mr and Mrs D for the cost of 
their unused cover from 25 March 2020 to the date the policy was due to end. It should 
also provide a calculation illustration to our service in response to my provisional decision 
showing how it has arrived at the refund amount.
In my provisional decision, I invited both parties to respond with any additional information 
they wanted me to consider before I made my final decision, which is our service's last word 
on the matter.
Mr and Mrs D responded confirming they agreed with my provisional decision and had 
nothing further to add. 
When Great Lakes responded, it provided a calculation outlining what it thought the value of 
the refund should be. It confirmed that the policy of insurance taken out by Mr and Mrs D 
had been 219 days in length. And it stated that theyd been on cover for 144 days prior to 25 
March 2020. Great Lakes did not put forward any counter arguments in relation to the 
comments I made about cover ending on 25 March 2020.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision, I think its fair and reasonable to make a finding that 
Mr and Mrs Ds insurance cover with Great Lakes ended on 25 March 2020 based on the 
information it had provided to them while they were abroad. Great Lakes hasnt put forward 
any counter arguments it wishes me to consider about this issue. So, I see no reason to 
depart from the provisional finding I made as to when Mr and Mrs Ds cover effectively 
ended.
Great Lakes provided a calculation to our service following my provisional decision, which it 
says recognises that 25 March 2020 is the date that cover ceased under the policy. Having 
carefully checked this calculation, I can see Great Lakes has correctly taken into account the 
number of days Mr and Mrs D werent on risk after 25 March 2020. Great Lakes has shown our service that the daily cost of insurance for Mr and Mrs D, had 
the policy run its full term, would have been £2.99. And it has offered to refund them 
£224.25, which Im satisfied equates to 75 days on unused cover from 25 March 2020 until 
the date the policy would have ended had it run its full term. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, Im persuaded that the refund offered by Great 
Lakes is correct and in line with the way in which I said I intended to resolve this complaint in 
my provisional decision.
Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, my final decision is that it would be reasonable and fair for Great 
Lakes to issue a refund to Mr and Mrs D in the sum of £224.25.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To resolve the complaint that Mr and Mrs D 
brought to our service, Great Lakes Insurance SE should put things right in the way Ive 
outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman