DRN-2718200
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as T complains about delays in obtaining a Bounce Back Loan 
from National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
Ts directors, Mr and Mrs M, bring the complaint on the companys behalf.
What happened
T banked with NatWest and applied to it for a Bounce Back Loan in May 2020. 
NatWest initially declined Ts application. Mr and Mrs M appealed, but the bank maintained 
its position. They complained to NatWest and sought an explanation for its decision. In its 
response, NatWest said that while the Bounce Back Loan application process differed from 
standard credit applications, it was still required to undertake certain checks  and as Ts 
application had failed those checks, it had been declined.
Mr and Mrs M referred the matter to both their MP and to us. They were particularly 
concerned that the banks decision was down to adverse credit information on their personal 
credit files that was added by NatWest some years ago and which they believed to be 
incorrect. They didnt think this was fair, especially bearing in mind that the Bounce Back 
Loan was a government-backed initiative.
While the complaint was with us, NatWest reviewed Ts application afresh and approved it. 
So T successfully drew down a Bounce Back Loan in October 2020.
While T ultimately received the loan, Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy at the time and 
trouble this had taken to arrange  and they still didnt know why the initial application was 
unsuccessful. They also said that while awaiting the loan, theyd had to use Mr Ms personal 
pension to cover their living costs.
One of our investigators reviewed Ts complaint but didnt think NatWest had done anything 
wrong. In summary, she said:
The application had failed checks that NatWest was required to carry out under the 
rules of the Loan Scheme. Looking at the information on which NatWest had based 
its decision to decline the original application, she thought it had acted reasonably. 
NatWest changed its decision following a change in the the way it reviewed the 
application. The first application had been automatically declined, but the second had 
been manually reviewed and that had led the bank to reach a different decision.
NatWest wasnt obliged to share any more information about its original decision that 
it already had  but Mr and Mrs M could contact agencies that hold information about 
them, like Experian and CIFAS, if they wished to know more. 
As Mr and Mrs Ms concerns about the information on their personal credit files 
related to a mortgage account held in their personal names, we couldnt consider that 
within this complaint brought by T. 
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept our investigators view. Mrs M said that NatWest only reversed 
its decision in light of their MPs involvement and the subsequent referral to a senior 
manager at the bank  not due to a manual review. She also said that theyd experienced 
problems in obtaining additional borrowing by way of a Top-Up loan, with the bank initially 
declining this request before overturning it following the senior managers involvement. 
So with no resolution, the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for largely the 
same reasons. Ill explain why. 
Under the rules of the Bounce Back Loan Scheme, NatWest was required to undertake 
certain checks on Ts application, including Know Your Customer, anti-money laundering 
and anti-fraud checks. Ts initial application failed those checks, so it was declined. Having 
reviewed the information on which this decision was based, I think it was reasonable.
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs M retain concerns over this original decision. While the 
subsequent change in decision was positive, its understandably led them to further query 
the banks initial stance  and theyve not been given any detail as to how the bank 
differentiated the two applications. Im afraid I cant share much more detail than NatWest 
has already disclosed on this, particularly as information about how banks reach such 
decisions are subject to some legitimate confidentiality. 
As our investigator explained, Mr and Mrs M do have the option of contacting agencies that 
hold information about them which may help them to understand the banks decision. But I 
can reassure Mr and Mrs M that it wasnt due to anything relating to their personal mortgage 
account. I know they remain concerned about how that account was handled, which is rightly 
being considered under a separate complaint. 
NatWest has explained that the second application was successful following a manual 
review. In response to Mr and Mrs Ms appeal, and possibly the involvement of their MP, 
NatWest agreed to review the application again and did so manually. Through that route, it 
had more latitude than was applied through its automated process under which the first 
application was assessed. This led it to a different decision. However, that doesnt render the 
first decision wrong or unfair. It is reasonable for banks to use automated systems to assess 
loan applications, but they have discretion to undertake manual assessments too and may 
override their initial response.
So while I understand that it took T more time and trouble than Mr and Mrs M wouldve liked 
to obtain a Bounce Back Loan, I dont think this is due to any error or unfairness on 
NatWests part. Lastly, I should add that Ive noted what Mr and Mrs M have said about problems when 
arranging a Top-Up loan. As those issues arose subsequent to this complaint, weve not 
investigated them  so it wouldnt be right for me to address them here. If Mr and Mrs M 
retain concerns about this matter, they would need to be referred to NatWest in the first 
instance so it has the opportunity to investigate and, if appropriate, put things right. Mr and 
Mrs M can let our investigator know if theyd like our help in taking that forward.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Ben Jennings
Ombudsman