DRN-1975636
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A are unhappy with the service they received when they applied to Bank of 
Ireland (UK) Plc for a new preferential mortgage rate.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A had a buy-to-let (BTL) mortgage with Bank of Ireland and the preferential 
mortgage rate ran until 30 November 2019 at which time it would move to the standard 
variable rate (SVR).
Mr and Mrs As mortgage broker submitted this application on 14 November 2019 for a new 
preferential mortgage product. The new product had a fee of £1,495 that needed to be paid 
before the rate change could be finalised.
A mortgage offer was issued on 21 November. Mr and Mrs A signed and returned (online) 
their acceptance that evening so it was with Bank of Ireland for 22 November.
As the fee hadnt been paid Bank of Ireland sent a reminder to the broker on 26 November. 
It still wasnt paid and then Mr and Mrs As mortgage moved to the SVR on 1 December.
On 11 December Mr and Mrs A noticed a much higher mortgage payment had been taken 
than they expected and they were told what had happened. Mr and Mrs A paid the fee so the 
transfer could take effect from 1 January and a complaint was raised.
Our investigator said Bank of Ireland hadnt done anything wrong. Mr and Mrs A said they 
wanted to continue with the complaint and so the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I trust Mr and Mrs A wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint in the 
way that I have. Ours is an informal dispute resolution service, and Ive concentrated on 
what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Bank of Ireland received the application on 14 November and issued the formal offer on 
21 November. Its said the normal turnaround time is five working days  and that seems a 
reasonable timeframe  and this application met that. So, I cant say Bank of Ireland did 
anything wrong in issuing the formal offer on 21 November.
The covering letter with the offer said
If you want to accept this offer you need to send us:
The whole signature copy of the Offer Acceptance signed and dated by all borrowers, 
together with any supporting information and/or payment we have requested.
You need to pay the following fee(s) before we can complete your rate switch. Please 
call us with your card details.
 Product Fee £1,495.00
Completion may be delayed if we do not receive all of the items we've asked you for.
The offer explained the deadlines:
If we receive your acceptance and all additional items requested
before the 19th then we will start charging interest at the new interest rate with effect 
from the 1st of the following month;
on or after the 19th we may still process the change to your interest rate so that it is 
effective from the 1st of the following month but we cannot guarantee to do this and 
the new rate may not apply until the 1st day of the month after the following month.
And said subject to payment of all fees. We will not process the change to a new interest 
rate until we receive payment.
Bank of Ireland sent a message to Mr and Mrs As broker on 26 November which said it had 
received the signed acceptance, but the fee was still outstanding. It said the fee could either 
be paid over the phone or by cheque.
The broker replied on 11 December to say that Mr and Mrs A would be calling to pay the fee. 
He said the rate should be backdated as the mortgage had been charged on the SVR for 
December. He said Mr and Mrs A had no indication that they needed to call to pay the fee 
and he hadnt seen the message until hed logged into the application when Mr and Mrs A 
had queried the higher payment.
Mr and Mrs A say the broker took their card details when he did the application and assured 
them hed pay the fees, and as theyd heard nothing further they assumed it had been done. 
They say the broker didnt pay the fees due to complexities in Bank of Irelands systems. But 
it wasnt a complex system, the fees could be paid either by sending a cheque to Bank of 
Ireland or by a simple call being made to the number provided to pay by card. 
It doesnt make sense that there was a system issue and/or complexity that stopped the 
broker paying the fee as surely if that had happened he would have immediately contacted 
Mr and Mrs A to tell them of the problem so they could make the payment themselves. There 
werent any system errors and complexity that stopped the fee being paid, it just seems no 
attempt was made to do so.
I can only order a business does something to resolve a complaint if I think it did something 
wrong and Im therefore upholding the complaint. As Bank of Ireland did nothing wrong Im 
not upholding this complaint and so I cant order it to backdate the rate change.
Mr and Mrs A have mentioned making a complaint to their broker. If Mr and Mrs A still feel their mortgage broker didnt act appropriately then thats a matter theyd need to raise with 
the broker themselves. Unfortunately, thats not a complaint we could then consider if they 
remained unhappy as the advising on (and arranging of) BTL mortgages by a broker isnt a 
regulated activity and so doesnt fall within our remit.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr and Mrs A to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2020. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman