DRN-2929121
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that they were mis-sold a guaranteed capital bond by The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). 
What happened
In 2004, Mr and Mrs M were advised to invest £20,000 in the bond with a fixed term of five 
and a half years. In 2010 the bond matured, and Mr and Mrs M received £20,335.20. In 
2020, they complained via a claims management company (CMC) that the bond had been 
mis-sold. The CMC said they were advised to invest at the wrong time, as it was too soon 
after their daughter had sadly passed away. As inexperienced investors, they were advised 
to take too much risk. 
In response to the complaint RBS said the complaint had been brought too late for our 
service to consider it. An investigator at our service considered whether we had jurisdiction 
and found we did, as the complaint had been brought in time, and RBS agreed. The 
investigator went on to find the bond had a guarantee of returning at least the capital 
invested, plus potential growth, depending on how the FTSE 100 index performed. She felt 
the bond had been mis-sold because Mr and Mrs M had invested too much of their money 
with the risk of no growth. She felt they were not prepared to take risk and ought to have 
been told about fixed rate bonds. The investigator recommended that RBS calculate the 
return Mr and Mrs M could have achieved using an interest rate of 4.7%, as this was the sort 
of rate available for long term fixed rate bonds in the market at that time. 
RBS disagreed, saying that Mr and Mrs M had sufficient disposable income to counteract the 
risk of no growth on the bond. They had investment experience, having previously 
experienced loss in investments. Cash ISAs had been discussed and discounted by Mr and 
Mrs M, as they wanted the potential of better returns than those available in deposit 
accounts. There was no requirement for an adviser to discuss products that were available 
without advice over the counter, and that were at a lower risk profile than agreed. The lack 
of diversification was discussed with Mr and Mrs M at the sale, and they went ahead 
regardless. 
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From the information that was recorded at the time of the sale, I can see that Mr and Mrs M 
had £30,000 in cash accounts earning 2% interest annually. In addition, they had around 
£11,600 in stocks and shares ISAs. Of the £30,000 in cash, they were advised to invest 
£20,000 into the bond. Mr M was retired, and Mrs M was working but planning on retiring in 
around five years time. They had joint monthly income of £1,450 of which £560 was 
disposable. 
Mr and Mrs M had previously invested some of the money that was held as cash, but had 
withdrawn from that investment when it lost money. I agree that this indicates they had some 
investment experience in that they had experienced a poorly performing investment. 
However, given that the previous investment decisions had been made with advice, I dont 
think Mr and Mrs M were experienced or knowledgeable enough to make independent 
investment decisions.
Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk was recorded as being level two out of five options, and this 
was defined as:
I understand the relationship that exists between risk and reward. My aim is to achieve 
greater returns over the longer-term than interest paying accounts and I am therefore 
prepared to accept the risk of possibly losing some of my money and to see some 
fluctuations in value  
The adviser noted that Mr and Mrs M were not willing to take any risk with their capital, 
though they were aware that exposure to equities can give greater growth potential than 
theyd experience in deposit accounts. Given their recent experience with loss, I dont think 
they were willing to accept the risk of losing some of their money. So, I dont think the level 
two description accurately reflects their attitude to risk. I think its likely that Mr and Mrs Ms 
attitude to risk sat somewhere in between the definition for level two and level one  which 
was defined as:
I am not prepared to take any risk with my capital and realise that this may not safeguard 
my investments against inflation
As Mr and Mrs M wanted their money to earn more than it was earning in their current 
account, their aims didnt fit with level one either. I think what is clear, is that Mr and Mrs M 
werent willing to risk any of the money. So, I think Mr and Mrs M were advised to invest too 
much. Of their life savings, around 25% was at what RBS have called a medium level of risk 
in their ISAs, and 50% was invested into this bond. While they did have some disposable 
income, I think 75% was too much money for Mr and Mrs M to have exposed to the mixture 
of loss in the ISAs and the possibility of no return in this bond. I appreciate they were aware 
of this mixture  but that doesnt make the advice suitable. 
Given that was the situation, Im surprised the adviser didnt fully explain the risks particular 
to the investment in the bond. Inflation risk wasnt explained by the adviser, so I cant be 
sure that Mr and Mrs M understood that their money could be worth less, in real terms, at the 
end of the term. Nor did the adviser set out how much Mr and Mrs M might get back if they 
needed to access the money early  other than to say they may get back less than they 
invested. This is not addressed clearly in either of the two information leaflets Ive been 
provided with. 
Also, I think the adviser was more positive about the ability of the bond to achieve the 
maximum return than they reasonably ought to have been. The bond provided a guarantee 
of returning at least the amount invested provided it remained invested for the full term. The 
closing level of the FTSE 100 index would be measured daily over the last twelve months 
and an average calculated. If that average was more than 5.3% above the starting level, 
then Mr and Mrs M would receive a return on top of their initial investment. The total return 
would be capped at 150% of the initial investment.
The suitability letter does say that other products were discussed  but they were discounted 
in favour of the potential for growth that the bond provided. It says: I explained the benefits of the Guaranteed Income Bond. You felt that the fixed rate of 
return on this product, while attractive compared to deposits and giving greater minimum 
benefits, did not give as much potential for growth as the guaranteed capital bond.
Given the comparison with the rates of return available elsewhere I think the adviser must 
have been positive about the potential for the bond to reach the maximum return. The 150% 
maximum return was higher than other fixed rates available and so naturally would have 
been attractive to Mr and Mrs M. One of the leaflets does state that it would require very 
favourable investment conditions for the maximum to be achieved. However, given their 
relative inexperience with investing, without further detail from the adviser, I dont think Mr 
and Mrs M would have been able to comprehend quite how favourable conditions would 
have needed to be. 
Ive carefully considered the two information leaflets and the suitability letter and having 
done so, I dont think it was fair to give Mr and Mrs M the impression that the maximum of 
150% return was likely to occur. Based on the figures in the illustration within one of the 
leaflets, which accounts for charges, this would have required the FTSE 100 to grow around 
12% per year. The starting point of the FTSE 100 index when Mr and Mrs M invested was 
around 4500. For the 150% return to be available, it would have needed to grow by 66% to 
around 7200 by the end date. It would need to have been at least that high for some time, in 
order to account for the averaging over the last year. While this wasnt impossible, I think 
more context could have been given in order to manage Mr and Mrs Ms expectations. For 
instance, by 2004 the FTSE 100 index had only ever been above 6,500 for a period over 
1999/2000  and it had not previously gone over 7,000. This is not something I would expect 
Mr and Mrs M to understand without expert help. 
Effectively this means that if anything other than incredibly strong stock market growth 
occurred, they wouldnt receive close to the maximum amount available. Comparatively, 
there were a lot of scenarios that would have led them to receive just receive their initial 
deposit back, or a relatively low annualised rate of return. Again, the adviser didnt explain 
the probability of those scenarios to Mr and Mrs M.  
I dont think the documents, including the suitability letter, were clear enough about the 
likelihood of a return from this product, especially compared with others on the market at the 
time. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs M were able to make an informed decision about whether 
to invest. If the adviser had given more explanation about the likelihood of growth from the 
bond, I dont think Mr and Mrs M would have chosen to invest in it, over the other products 
discussed, given their very cautious attitude to risk. 
Mr and Mrs M had expressed a desire to beat deposit rates and had the ability to tie their 
money up for the longer term. There were fixed term products available on the market that 
could have beaten deposit rates by more than double, without the added risk of nil return. 
Having looked at what was available at the time, compared with the mid-point possible return 
on the bond of 125%, there were many products available that would have given a higher 
compounded rate of return. 
So overall, I think the advice to invest was unsuitable. Mr and Mrs M were advised to place 
too much of their savings into a product that had the risk of no return, especially given they 
had more than 25% at risk already. In addition, I dont think they were given enough clear 
fair and not misleading information to make a fully informed choice. I think Mr and Mrs M 
would have invested differently had things been explained more clearly. 
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr and Mrs M as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been given 
unsuitable advice. 
I take the view that Mr and Mrs M would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what they would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair and reasonable given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives when they 
invested. 
What should RBS do?
To compensate Mr and Mrs M fairly, RBS must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs M's investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
RBS should also pay interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any 
interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
Guaranteed 
Capital 
Bondmatured 4.7%date of 
investmentdate of 
maturity8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, RBS should 
use the interest rate Ive set out, which was around the rate available for five-year fixed rate 
bonds in 2004. That rate should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.  
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because: 
Mr and Mrs M wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risking any of their 
capital. 
The average rate for five-year fixed rate bonds from 2004 would be a fair measure 
given Mr and Mrs M's circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr and 
Mrs M would have invested only in a five-year fixed rate bond. It is the sort of 
investment return a consumer who was willing to lock their capital away for a period, 
could have obtained with little risk to their capital.The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should provide details of its calculation to Mr and Mrs M in a 
clear, simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2021.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman