DRN-3171322
The complaint
Mr F complains about Astrenska Insurance Limiteds handling of his Home Emergency 
Insurance claim
All references to Astrenska also include its agents
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr F has strong views about what has happened, and he has provided several 
submissions to support the complaint. I want to assure him Ive read and considered 
everything hes said carefully. 
But my findings focus on what I consider to be the central issues, and not all the points 
raised. This isnt meant as a discourtesy. But the purpose of my decision isnt to address 
every single point the parties have raised or to answer every question asked. My role is to 
consider the evidence presented by Mr F, and by Astrenska, to reach what I think is a fair 
and reasonable decision based on the facts of the case.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Astrenska declined Mr Fs claim as the leak reported was not internal and only 
happened when facilities were being used
Mr F is unhappy as Astrenska initially accepted his claim, only to later refer to an 
exclusion and decline it
I can see the leak relating to an external pipe was discussed during Mr Fs initial call 
to Astrenska in March 2021. I do think Astrenska had an opportunity here to better 
manage Mr Fs expectations the issue could be excluded from cover
But its also reasonable Astrenska would want to investigate an issue before deciding 
to decline a claim, though I would expect this to be done promptly. And I can see this 
was the case
Its not unusual for an engineer not to be able to communicate about cover on site. 
But again, I would expect Astrenska to have acted swiftly when it received a report 
back from the engineer  and Im satisfied this was the case. Mr F was informed the 
claim was excluded in less 48 hours from initiating the claim
I understand Mr Fs view and his concerns. But having looked at everything available, 
I dont think Astrenska have acted unreasonably. So I wont be asking it to take any 
further action
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Fs complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 December 2021.
 
Michael Baronti
Ombudsman