DRN-3874522
The complaint
Miss A complains that because Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank refused her 
application to remove a borrower from the mortgage that she moved her mortgage to a new 
lender incurring an early repayment charge (ERC) and other costs.
What happened
Miss A had a joint mortgage and wanted the property and mortgage in her sole name 
following the breakdown of her relationship with the joint borrower. Miss A and her partner 
separated in January 2020 and signed a separation agreement in January 2021. Miss A was 
told that this would be all be straightforward as long as she passed an affordability 
assessment and had a separation agreement with her ex-partner. Miss A was assured of 
this several times in conversations with bank staff during 2020 and that looking at her 
income it was likely she would pass an affordability assessment. After Miss A organised the 
separation agreement Danske Bank asked her to go through an application, but Danske 
refused the application as it said that there a change in its lending criteria and a sole 
mortgage was no longer affordable.
Miss A complained and Danske replied in March 2021 to say that between May 2020 and 
January 2021 there had been a change in the banks lending criteria which meant that it 
couldnt approve the lending to Miss A in her sole name. In our investigators revised 
opinion, he didnt recommend that this complaint should be upheld as he didnt consider that 
Danske Bank had done anything wrong. Miss A disagreed saying in summary that she was 
repeated misinformed by the bank costing her thousands of pounds.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This was a joint mortgage. Generally, we require both parties to the mortgage to consent to 
a complaint being brought to our service. However, I can make an exception where the 
issues complained of have only had an effect on one customer, in this case Miss A. Im 
satisfied that I am able to consider this complaint brought by Miss A alone, looking only at 
the issues as they relate to her.
Miss A wanted to transfer the property into her sole name and avoid paying the ERC by a 
transfer of equity application to Danske Bank, but she has been unable to do it, had to 
remortgage elsewhere, paid an ERC and paid a solicitor for a separation agreement that she 
considers unnecessary. 
If I deal firstly with the separation agreement. Danske says that the bank requests that a 
customer obtains legal guidance when a party to a joint mortgage is removed and looks for a 
document on file showing the settlement agreement between the parties. Thats not unusual. 
Ive seen that being asked for in other transfer of equity applications. There were joint 
owners to the property and one owner was losing his legal interest in the property, so I dont 
consider it unusual for Danske Bank requesting sight of a legal document to record that and 
that a former party to the mortgage has no longer any interest in the property. That would be 
security for the bank. If there was no legal record of it, presumably the former legal owner 
could try and establish an interest in the property prior to the banks which had released him 
from the mortgage. I can understand why the bank might want to avoid the risk of that 
happening. It would also seem to me to be useful to Miss A confirming her sole ownership of 
the property and the price at which she acquired it from her former partner. So, I dont 
consider that this was an onerous or unnecessary request that Danske Bank made.
There is an issue that Miss A appears to have been confused as to what process she was 
going through. It was a transfer of equity application and as the mortgage was being 
transferred from a joint mortgage to another, a mortgage offer would have been issued in 
Miss As sole name if it was accepted by the bank. I agree there is a degree of complexity 
about this but looking at the tape transcripts of the phone calls I believe that it was made 
clear  despite the talk of transfer of equity, remortgage or mortgage  that in order for this to 
take place there would be an application process and that Miss A would have to meet 
Danske Banks affordability assessment.
Miss A was assured at various times that she was meeting Danske Banks affordability but 
when it came to the actual application, it was refused on affordability grounds. Danske Bank 
says that its lending criteria changed and gives reasons for it. Its not unusual for lending 
criteria to change and an acceptable level of income at one time may not be enough at 
another time depending on the banks appetite for risk. Miss A was always made aware that 
she would have to go through an application process and was never given a guarantee that 
it would be successful. Unfortunately, Miss A was unsuccessful here. But banks are 
commercial entities and allowed to amend their lending criteria in accordance with their 
commercial objectives. So, I cant fault the bank for doing that. 
I can understand Miss As disappointment with Danske Bank and the financial cost to her. 
Besides other costs, she had to pay an ERC but thats something she agreed to pay if she 
redeemed the mortgage early. My role here is to decide if the bank did anything wrong and I 
dont believe that it did. The initial conversations she had with Danske told her that when the 
time came to apply she would face an affordability assessment which was correct and that in 
a transfer of equity application Danske would want a legal document showing the separation 
arrangement between the joint owners and joint mortgage holders. I consider both those 
requirements reasonable. The application failed, because in accordance with Santanders 
lending criteria at the time of application, the bank considered that the mortgage she wanted 
which previously had been supported by two earners was unaffordable for one. The bank 
has shown how it came to that decision and it seems fairly arrived at even if it differed from 
what Miss A had expected. So, for the reasons set out above I dont believe that the bank 
did anything wrong and I cant fairly uphold this complaint.
  
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman