DRN-4178964
The complaint
Mr D complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc trading as Barclaycard provided him with 
incorrect information and allowed payments to be taken from his credit card account after 
hed reported his card as lost. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. 
In January 2022 Mr D called Barclaycard to report his credit card as lost. During the call the 
agent takes him through the process to order a replacement card. The following exchange 
also takes place:
Agent: If you have any recurring transactions or subscriptions that you pay with your 
Barclaycard, we need to remind you to tell the merchant the new card details when 
they arrive.
Mr D: Ok, I have one from Sky, they actually take the money, do I have to inform 
them of the new card?
Agent: Yes, yes please when your new card arrives you need to call the merchant 
and let them know your new card details.
Mr D: Ok, so if they send the amount over to Barclaycard, dont they link the cards 
together if you can see what I mean?
Agent: When its a replacement yes, when its been lost stolen or details 
compromised, not. Ok, so best thing to do is give them the new details
Mr D: Ill have to let them know then.
Mr D says he never shared his new card details with any merchants, but Mr Ds February 
2022 statement showed his usual payment to Sky on the eighth of the month. There is a 
further charge to Sky recorded on the March 2022 statement along with payments towards 
insurance policies in June 2022. 
Mr D sent numerous letters to Barclaycard. He believes Barclaycard acted illegally by 
making charges against his credit card when he hadnt shared the new details with any 
merchants. When Mr D didnt make payments towards his account, Barclaycard took steps 
which included reducing Mr Ds credit limit and defaulting the account. The outstanding debt 
of around £130 was passed to a debt recovery company. 
Mr D complained to Barclaycard who maintained their position and the matter was referred 
to our service. One of our Investigators didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. 
She accepted Mr D had been given incorrect information during the call when he reported 
his card lost. But she didnt think Barclaycard needed to do anything further or that, beyond 
providing incorrect information during a call, theyd treated him unfairly. Mr D disagrees and 
has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our Investigator and for largely the same 
reasons. 
Mr D has made some detailed submissions in support of his complaint. Ive read and 
considered all hes sent in, but I dont intend to respond in similar detail. So, if I dont mention 
a particular point, it isnt because I havent seen or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I 
need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a 
reflection of the informal nature of our service. 
The evidence is compelling that the transactions Mr D is disputing were longstanding 
subscriptions / recurring payments (some of which go back to 2008). Barclaycard say they 
didnt share the details of Mr Ds new card with any merchants but that they would have 
obtained them through Visas Account Updater scheme (VAU). The VAU is a scheme 
through which a merchant can obtain updated account information from Visa following 
certain situations such as a replacement card being sent to a cardholder by the issuer 
(Barclaycard in this case). Mr Ds own submissions also include that he was testing 
Barclaycards very clear instructions that NO payments would be allowed through on my old 
card. This suggests that rather than not wanting to make the payments, he wanted to test 
whether Barclaycard had given him the correct information. 
I dont think Barclaycard acted unreasonably when treating the payments in question as 
authorised. The evidence supports that Mr D had previously authorised the merchants to 
take recurring payments against his Barclaycard. The long history of payments to the same 
merchants supports this. And whilst I agree Barclaycards agent misadvised him that he 
would need to update the merchants for payments to continue, this doesnt change my mind 
about whether Barclaycard can hold him liable for these payments. 
Im also not persuaded that Barclaycard acted unfairly by reducing Mr Ds credit limit when 
he stopped making the minimum required payment towards his account  the terms of the 
account allow them to do this. I also dont think that Barclaycard subsequently defaulting the 
account and passing it to a debt recovery agent was unfair. I can see that Barclaycard 
followed the correct process before doing so. Mr D says he holds significant funds with 
Barclays as a whole and is a premier accountholder, so Im not persuaded he would have 
been unable to make the minimum payments towards the approximately £130 debt. It was 
his decision to stop making his contractual payments that resulted in the default.
Mr D says that the debt recovery agent has since closed its file and returned the debt to 
Barclaycard he believes this supports his position. Ive considered this but I dont agree. The 
debt recovery agent doing so doesnt indicate the debt is invalid, it just shows that it has 
been passed back to Barclaycard. 
As Ive said above, I acknowledge there was one instance of incorrect information being 
provided. But overall, considering all the interaction throughout the circumstances relevant to 
this complaint, I dont think Barclaycard provided poor service such that a compensation award is appropriate. And so Im not going to require them to do anything further. I would 
encourage Mr D to discuss his options in relation to any outstanding debt with Barclaycard.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman