DRN-4497952
The complaint
Mr A complains that PayrNet Limited closed his account and sent money that had been paid 
into his account back to source. Mr A wants the money returned to him and compensation.
Mr A held a Rizq branded account  who provided services on behalf of PayrNet. 
What happened
PayrNet has advised that its relationship with Rizq has broken down, which has led to 
difficulties obtaining and providing information to this service regarding this complaint.
For ease of reading, Ill refer to Rizq in this decision. 
Mr A has said that he used his Rizq account to receive DWP payments and money from his 
family. Hes explained that in early 2021, he sent £470 to his girlfriends bank account, and 
following this transaction Rizq  blocked and closed his account. 
Mr A says that his girlfriends bank, which I will refer to as B, returned the £470 to Rizq. But 
when Rizq closed his account, it never returned the money in his account, which he says 
was around £500 and included the £470 that he had sent to his girlfriends account.
Rizq reviewed Mr As account after it had received a fraud report from B concerning funds 
which had been paid into Mr As account and then transferred to Mr As girlfriend. B said that 
their customer had been the victim of a scam and that several payments into Mr As account  
amounting to around just under £500 had been made fraudulently.  Bs customer said they 
had ordered clothing from Mr A via a well know social media website and hadnt received 
anything after shed sent money to Mr As Rizq account between 5 and 13 December 2020.
 
Rizq didnt question Mr A about the money that had been paid into his account by bank Bs 
customer. It sent the balance of Mr As account back to source. Mr A complained to Rizq and 
asked it to return his balance to him. In response, Rizq said it suspected Mr A had 
committed fraud and they hadnt done anything wrong when it sent the money back to 
source. It also said that it had blocked and closed Mr As account in line with the terms and 
conditions of his account. Unhappy with this response Mr A brought his complaint to our 
service where one of our investigators looked into it. 
Mr A said that Rizqs actions had caused him a lot of trouble and upset. He said that the had 
to use food banks and borrow money from others to get by. He said the whole situation took 
a toll on his mental health and left him feeling depressed. He wants Rizq to refund him the 
money that he says was in his account when it was closed and pay him compensation.
The investigator asked Rizq to provide more information about why it hadnt returned the 
money to Mr A. But it didnt provide anything further. Based on the limited amount of 
information Rizq had provided, the investigator didnt think Rizq had treated Mr A fairly when 
it returned the money to source. To put things right she said Rizq should refund the money 
that had been paid into his account, pay him 8% interest for loss of use of the funds and 
£150 compensation for the trouble and upset the matter had caused him. 
Mr A agreed. Rizq disagreed and said it was complying with its legal and regulatory 
obligations when it returned the money that had been paid into Mr As account back to 
source. And had closed his account in line with the terms and conditions.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide.
 
Due to the limited amount of information that had been provided. Prior to issuing my decision 
I asked Rizq and Mr A for some more information. I asked Rizq to provide a copy of the 
fraud report it had received from bank B and the Mr As account statements. I asked Mr A to 
provide evidence of his account balance and entitlement to the money paid into his account. 
I also asked him if he received payments for goods he sold and how he knew the individual 
(Bs customer) who had sent him the payments in December 2020.
 
In response, Rizq provided a copy of the fraud report and a spreadsheet showing approved 
and declined transactions on Mr As account between December 2020 and 14 April 2021. 
Mr A said that he wasnt involved in selling anything and had already provided evidence of 
the money he had in the account. He said that the person who had sent the payments was 
his girlfriends aunt and provided a contact number for the investigator to call. The 
investigator tried to call the number Mr A provided but it was unavailable.
As no agreement could be reached the complaint came to me to decide. After reviewing all 
the evidence and arguments I issued a provisional decision in which I said the following:
Where there is a dispute about what happened  as there is here, and the evidence is 
incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, we reach our conclusions on the basis of what we 
consider is most likely to have happened having considered the available evidence and 
wider circumstances.
Account review and closure
Rizq are strictly regulated and must take certain actions in order to meet their legal and 
regulatory obligations. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect 
persons from financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime. Theyre also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of new and existing relationships. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict customers accounts  either in full or partially while they carry out their 
review and ask its customer for information. The terms of Mr As account also permit Rizq to 
restrict an account. This means Rizq is entitled to block and review an account at any time.
Having looked at all the evidence, including the information Rizq and Mr A has now provided 
to this service, I dont believe it was unreasonable in the circumstances for Rizq to block 
Mr As account. Fraud is a serious matter, and one way financial businesses and banks can 
help to tackle fraudulent payments is by restricting accounts when allegedly fraudulent 
payments are received into them. And thats what happened here.
Rizq has explained that this was its standard procedure, and I accept that it was. Thats in 
line with what most financial businesses would do in the same situation. It also enabled Rizq 
to consider how best to react to the report it had received from bank B and what Mr A told 
them about the payment he made to his girlfriend. Im also satisfied that in doing so Rizq 
were complying with its legal and regulatory obligations. So, whilst I accept, that Rizqs 
actions caused Mr A inconvenience when it blocked his account, I cant say it did anything 
wrong and treated him unfairly in doing so. I then turn to Rizqs decision to close Mr As account. Rizq have relied on the terms and 
conditions when closing the account. The terms explain that it can close the account 
immediately. Having looked at all the evidence, including how Mr A was operating his 
account, in my view that was reasonable. So, it was entitled to close the account as it has 
already done.
The crux of Mr As complaint is that he wants Rizq to refund him the money that was paid 
into his account, that he then sent to his girlfriend, along with any other money that was in 
his account. Due to the breakdown of the relationship between Rizq and PayrNet 
unfortunately theres only limited information available to evidence what happened regarding 
the money.
From looking at a screenshot of an email dated 14 January 2021, that Mr As girlfriend 
received from her bank, Mr A appears to have sent the payments he received from bank Bs 
customer to his girlfriend. Once it was notified of the fraud report, her bank then sent the 
payments back to a central account at Rizq who have then returned the money back to bank 
B.
Rizq has provided the fraud report it received about the money that was paid into Mr As 
account and a spreadsheet showing transactions on his account. It has also provided a 
screen shot showing money was returned to source. Mr A has said he cant provide anything 
showing his entitlement to the money that was paid into his account and sent to his girlfriend. 
He also hasnt been able to show exactly what money he had in his account at the time. In 
response to questions asked by the investigator, he said he wasnt a seller and the person 
who sent him the money was his girlfriends aunt. And hes provided a phone number for us 
to call check this information.
Based on the fraud report received from bank B, the money paid into Mr As account 
appears to have been made up of eight payments that were sent to Mr As account between 
6 December 2020 and 13 December 2020. The report shows that bank Bs customer is 
aware of Mr As name  his first name and surname, and states that Mr A instructed her to 
make payments into his Rizq account instead of another account for shoes and clothing she 
ordered from Mr A via a social media website. The report also states that bank Bs customer 
is no relation to the beneficiary  Mr A, which I find odd given what Mr A has said about his 
relationship with the person he says sent him the money  that it was his girlfriends aunt. I 
note too that the investigator rung the telephone number Mr A provided for his girlfriends 
aunt, but this was unobtainable. So, the investigator hasnt been able to verify Mr As 
explanation. 
Mr A has said he isnt a seller when the investigator asked him. But this is contrary to what 
the fraud report states was the reason Mr A received the payments from bank Bs customer. 
I note too that Mr A hasnt offered any other explanation for why he received the payments 
from bank Bs customer. Despite being asked by the investigator, hes not provided any 
evidence to support his entitlement to the money that was paid into his account  which 
includes the money he sent to his girlfriend.  I can understand that this would be difficult 
given the time that has now elapsed, which is why I requested the investigator to ask Mr A 
some more questions. But the investigator hasnt been able to verify what Mr A has told us 
via the phone number he provided. This makes it very difficult for me to place much weight 
on what hes said. Without any evidence to show that Mr A was entitled to the money he 
sent to his girlfriend, I do not find I can fairly ask Rizq to refund the money to Mr A.   
Rizq sent the funds back to source. This ensures the funds are sent back to the correct 
person. Based on the evidence Ive now seen, when I weigh everything up, I agree that this 
was the right action in the circumstances. So, I cant say Rizq has treated Mr A unfairly in 
doing so and I wont be asking Rizq to refund this money to Mr A.  
Our investigator asked Mr A to provide more details about how much money was in his 
account when it was closed  he said he had around £500 in his account at the time, which 
included the returned money. Unfortunately, Mr A wasnt able to provide any evidence of 
what his balance was at the time. Rizq has also not provided any information about Mr As 
closing balance. Without any evidence, of what exactly was in Mr As account at the time 
and his entitlement to any funds in the account, it is difficult for me to say Rizq has done 
anything wrong by not returning Mr As balance to him. So, I dont consider that I can fairly 
direct Rizq to return any money, to Mr A.
In summary, I understand that this will be disappointing for Mr A but given the above I dont 
consider Rizq needs to do anything.
Neither Mr A nor Rizq responded to the provisional decision.
Now both sides have had an opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or evidence for me to consider I see no 
reason to depart from my findings set out in my provisional decision.
In summary, I recognise how strongly Mr A feels about whats happened, and I dont doubt it 
was a frustrating and upsetting time. So, I realise he will be disappointed by my decision. But 
I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings. I remain of the view that this 
complaint should not be upheld for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, which are 
repeated above and form part of this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2024.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman