DRN-2873054
The complaint
Mr A complains about the invoice for damages that he received from Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited at the end of his car hire agreement.
What happened
Mr A says that, when the car was collected from his home, the inspector commented that it 
was in outstanding condition. So he was surprised to receive an invoice for damages of 
£1,653.68, plus an excess mileage charge of £713.66. Mr A told Mercedes-Benz hed paid 
the mileage charge but would not pay for anything else, other than £85 for the left-hand rear 
alloy wheel.
Mercedes-Benz reviewed its invoice and the inspection. It agreed to remove the following 
charges:
Door left hand front dented £90.00
Tyre left hand front 0mm £175.67
But it did not agree to remove the remaining charges, so Mr A referred his complain to us.
Our investigator initially concluded that some further charges should be removed. But 
Mercedes-Benz provided some photographs which our investigator thought fairly supported 
the damage reported except for the cut to the right-hand front door pad. He thought this 
charge of £567.01 should be removed.
Mercedes-Benz didnt agree saying, in summary, that this damage would not have been
caused during the brief drive to the second inspection.
My provisional decision
I didnt think Mr A should have to pay for the cut to the door pad and for the literature pack 
and that these charges of £682.01 should be removed from the invoice. I explained the 
reasons for my provisional decision as follows:
Excess mileage charge
Mr A says he is not complaining about the excess mileage charge and that hes paid 
it. Mercedes-Benz told us that Mr A had paid £682.34, but the excess mileage charge 
on the invoice is £594.72 plus VAT of £118.94, making a total of £713.66. Its not 
clear to me whether Mr A has paid the full amount. Im satisfied that the charge has 
been correctly calculated, based on the recorded mileage on collection of 26,608, 
and that Mercedes-Benz can reasonably require Mr A to pay any balance he owes.
Charges for damage
I can understand why Mr A was surprised to receive the invoice for damages as the 
first inspector told him he thought the car was in good condition. But Mr A would have 
been aware that the car would be subject to a second inspection. As the first 
inspection was carried out in poor inspection conditions - it was raining heavily  its 
not surprising that the second inspection found evidence of damage that the first 
inspection had missed.
The terms and conditions of the hire contract say:
You must return the vehicle together with everything supplied with the vehicle to us 
at your own expense (in accordance with the Vehicle Return Standards.) If you fail to 
take reasonable care of the vehicle you will have to pay our costs of repairing and/or 
refurbishing the vehicle.
Im satisfied that Mercedes-Benzs vehicle return standards are line with the BVRLAs 
fair wear and tear guidelines. Ive considered each of the items to decide whether I 
think they are outside of the vehicle return standards and whether I think its fair for 
Mercedes-Benz to charge for them.
To ensure both parties are clear what Im minded to conclude, I will list each item in 
the order it appears on the invoice and as its described on the invoice:
B post right hand dented - £70
Im satisfied this damage is in excess of the fair wear and tear guidelines and that it 
has been fairly charged.
C post left hand dented - £90
Im satisfied this damage is in excess of the fair wear and tear guidelines and that it 
has been fairly charged.
C post right hand dented - £260
Im satisfied this damage is in excess of the fair wear and tear guidelines and that it 
has been fairly charged.
Door left hand front dented - £90
When Mr A complained to Mercedes-Benz, it agreed to remove this charge. I think 
that is fair.
Door pad right hand front cut - £567.01
The second inspection found damage to the interior of the car. But the weather 
conditions during the first inspection should not have prevented an inspection of the 
interior of the car. I think the first inspection should reasonably have identified this 
damage if it was present. I agree with our investigator that the failure to identify this 
damage during the first inspection means I cant conclude with certainty that it was 
damage caused by Mr A. Its possible the damage was caused after the car had 
been collected from him. So I dont think Mr A should have to pay this charge.
Literature pack - £115.00
The literature pack was found to be missing during the first inspection. I can see that 
the vehicle return standards requires the handbook to be returned when the car is 
collected. But Mr A told us that the inspector said he could post it and then he wouldnt be charged. Mercedes-Benz has acknowledged that Mr A returned the 
literature pack. Ive no reason to disbelieve what he says he was told, and I think in 
the circumstances here  he posted the pack very shortly after the inspection date  
that it wouldnt be fair to charge him for it being missing.
Tyre left hand front 0mm - £175.67
When Mr A complained to Mercedes-Benz, it agreed to remove this charge. I think 
that is fair.
Wheel LHF alloy damage - £115.00
Im satisfied this damage is in excess of the fair wear and tear guidelines and that it 
has been fairly charged.
Wheel LHR alloy damage - £85.00
Mr A told Mercedes-Benz he accepted this charge, so it is not in dispute.
Wheel RHF alloy damage - £85.00
Im satisfied this damage is in excess of the fair wear and tear guidelines and that it 
has been fairly charged.
Mr A responded to say, in summary that:
Mercedes-Benz had agreed to reduce the mileage charge because there were some 
miles on the clock when the car was dropped at his house at the start of the hire 
agreement.
Mr A wanted to draw my attention to the condition of the car during the second 
inspection  it was covered with mud and the fuel tank was empty.
Mercedes-Benz did not provide any additional information or evidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has provided additional information about the excess mileage charge. From what hes 
said  and taking into account that Mercedes-Benz hasnt commented on the excess 
mileage charge in its submissions to us  I think Mr A has paid the full amount he owes.
I note what Mr A says about the condition of the car by the time of the second inspection. 
But Id taken that into account in arriving at my provisional decision and I think what Id 
decided remains fair in the circumstances here. 
My final decision
Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited should remove the charges for the cut to the 
door pad and the literature pack, reducing its invoice by a further £682.01.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 July 2021. 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman