DRN-1633590
 
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with how Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) handled his car insurance claim. 
He says he struggled to get in touch with Aviva, and that it delayed his car repairs.
What happened
Around March 2017, Mr C notified a claim on his car insurance policy. He said another driver 
hit and damaged his stationary car when turning in a car park. Aviva contacted the third 
partys insurer (TPI)  but it denied its driver was responsible for the accident. 
Mr C raised several complaints about how Aviva handled the claim. In July 2017, it awarded 
£250 for a delay starting the process towards issuing legal proceedings. It then gave Mr C 
£75 for communication issues in August 2017. And it paid £250 compensation in 
January 2018  at which point it said it was instructing solicitors to pursue legal action 
against the TPI. These complaints werent referred to our service. 
Around May 2018, Aviva told Mr C it couldnt pursue legal action further as the only cost to 
recover was £85.99 for his damaged car seat. It said he could either repay it for the seat, to 
avoid a fault claim (i.e. one in which Aviva hadnt been able to recover all its costs) being 
reported  or he might want to claim for his car damages. Around October 2018, Mr C 
indicated that he might claim for these. He said that, due to the terms of his car finance 
agreement, the repairs would need to be done at a garage approved by his car 
manufacturer. Aviva didnt have any approved repairers near Mr C meeting this criterion. He 
queried whether he could use his own garage. Aviva emailed him about this. Then in 
March 2019, he booked the repairs through Aviva for the following month. But he cancelled 
the appointment around one week in advance. 
Around August 2019, Mr C tried to contact Aviva again. He said he hadnt been able to get 
the repairs done previously due to personal problems  but now wanted to do so. He 
couldnt get through to Aviva, so raised a complaint. It offered £30 compensation for the 
difficulties hed had, which it said were caused by a high volume of incoming calls. But it also 
said the garage had tried to contact him via email and call without getting a response. It 
subsequently helped him book the repairs. I understand these were completed in late 2019. 
Mr C didnt think all his points had been responded to. He went back to Aviva and asked why 
it had delayed the repairs by many months. Aviva told him to refer the matter to our service if 
he was still unhappy  which he did. Our investigator didnt think Aviva had caused 
significant delays. And she thought £30 compensation was adequate for the delay and 
communication issues in August 2019. Mr C queried why legal action hadnt been taken 
sooner. An investigator pointed out that hed been told why Aviva wasnt taking legal action 
in May 2018. They also pointed out that Aviva had control over how to settle the claim.  
As Mr C didnt accept this view, the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
August 2019 contact
Ill firstly address this issue  as its what triggered Mr C to raise his complaint to Aviva. 
Aviva acknowledges it was experiencing high call volumes around the time Mr C tried to get 
in touch. Its already offered £30 compensation for this. So, the key question is whether 
thats enough to address the impact on Mr C.
From what Mr C has told us, I agree that he suffered moderate inconvenience and upset due 
to Avivas limited phone availability. For example, he spent time and effort trying to get in 
touch  which would have been frustrating for him. He also reports than an advisor he spoke 
to was rude, and that he was transferred between departments. 
Once Mr C raised his concerns, Aviva called him to apologise and rebook the repairs. He 
asked about using his own garage, so it requested estimates  and chased him up when 
these werent received. Its final response in September 2019 explained what Mr C could do 
to book the repairs  but that these would be cancelled if he didnt get in touch. The following 
month, Mr C responded to Aviva and the repairs were rebooked. 
Overall, whilst its clear the communication issue had an impact on Mr C, Im satisfied 
Avivas response helped mitigate this. I understand the repairers werent available 
immediately in August 2019, but I cant reasonably say it was an error that the garage was 
booked up. And Aviva did engage with Mr C to resolve the situation. In all the circumstances, 
Im satisfied £30 is a fair reflection of the impact the communication delay had on Mr C.
Wider repair delays
Im not looking holistically at the claim. Mr C had previous complaints which Aviva paid 
compensation on and which he didnt refer on to our service. But I have considered whether 
Aviva unreasonably delayed the repairs  as Mr C says this could have been arranged 
earlier if Aviva had handled things better.
One query Mr C had was why it took the TPI so long to admit liability. I understand this may 
have affected his decision about whether to claim for repairs. But Aviva isnt responsible for 
the TPIs actions or delays. And it was pursuing the TPI for settlement  which I understand 
was ultimately agreed. So, I dont consider Aviva to be at fault for this. 
Hes also queried why litigation wasnt pursued. I appreciate why he wanted Aviva to do this. 
But the policy terms do make it clear that Aviva has control over how to conduct and settle 
the claim. From term three of the General Conditions:  
If we want to we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our 
own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy. We shall have 
full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim
When solicitors were instructed, the only outlay to recover was £85.99 for the damaged car 
seat. This fell under the cost threshold for taking legal action. On this basis, I consider it 
reasonable not to pursue litigation  given the likely legal costs this would have involved. 
And it does appear that Mr C was updated about this decision in May 2018. Hes queried 
why he wasnt updated about liability. But it seems he was told he could either repay the car 
seat amount to avoid a fault claim, or pursue his car damages. And Aviva needed his agreement on how to proceed. On balance, Im satisfied Aviva acted reasonably to facilitate 
the repairs. But it couldnt proceed without Mr C agreement/involvement. 
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr C. But, for the reasons given above, Im not 
persuaded Aviva should increase the compensation or take further action.  
My final decision
Aviva Insurance Limited has already made an offer to pay £30 to settle the complaint and I 
think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Aviva should pay Mr C £30 compensation if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 August 2020.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman