DRN-2547686
The complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) declined a transaction 
whilst Mr J was in the supermarket. 
This complaint involves a joint account, but Mr J is leading the complaint so I will mostly refer 
to him throughout my decision. 
What happened
On 9 October 2020 Mr J attempted to make a payment in a supermarket for £18.11. This 
was declined. Mr J tried three more times, but the payment continued to be declined. He 
rang Halifax whilst in the supermarket and it told him the first payment had been approved 
and so the issue wasnt at its end. However, the supermarket continued to tell Mr J that the 
payment wasnt successful, therefore he couldnt have the shopping.
Mr J said he paid for his shopping with a different card in the end. But this was only after he 
was in the shop for a long period of time, whilst his children were waiting for him in the car 
getting cold. 
Mr J also explained that the £18.11 was pending for several days afterwards.
Mr J complained to Halifax. Halifax said it hadnt made an error as the payment had been 
correctly approved at its end. However, it acknowledged the service Mr J received when he 
called to raise the issue fell below what it would expect. As a result, it paid Mr J £50 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused and £40 to cover his call costs. 
Mr J remained unhappy so referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. She was satisfied Halifax wasnt responsible for Mr Js payment being 
declined. She said it was most likely a technical fault at the supermarkets end. Based on this 
she didnt think Halifax should pay any compensation for this and was happy that what it had 
already paid for the customer service issues was fair. 
Mr J disagreed. He feels Halifax should be responsible for making sure its customers 
payments are processed correctly and is frustrated no one can give him a guarantee the 
situation wont happen again. Mr J doesnt feel the £90 Halifax paid reflects the 
inconvenience caused to him and his children at the supermarket that day. 
Because Mr J disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Declined transaction 
I appreciate Mr Js strength of feeling about what happened. Its clear he was 
inconvenienced whilst in the supermarket and most importantly to him, his children suffered 
as a result. My decision is in no way meant to belittle this. However, Im afraid I dont believe 
Halifax made an error on this occasion and as a result, I wont be asking it to do anything 
more on this point. 
There are multiple parties involved when a card payment is processed. It is broken down as 
below:
1) The cardholder presents their card to the merchant for payment. 
2) The merchant uses their card machine to submit details of the transaction to their 
acquiring bank, or the banks processor.
3) The acquiring bank (or its processor) captures that information and routes it through 
the relevant card network (VISA/Mastercard).
4) The cardholders bank receives the information and makes the decision on whether to 
approve the transaction or not  this can be based on whether there is enough 
money in the customer account for example.
5) The cardholders bank sends a response code back through the appropriate network 
(VISA/Mastercard) to the acquiring bank (or its processor).
6) The response code is then passed onto the merchant and the transaction will appear 
as approved or declined on the card machine. 
This is a lengthy chain, but in reality, it takes a matter of seconds for the above to happen  
all whilst the customer is standing at the till. 
Taking the above into account, Ive looked to see whether Halifax completed its part of the 
process, which is to approve the transaction. From the audit report provided by Halifax, I can 
see that Mr Js payment of £18.11 was approved. The subsequent attempts were declined 
due to insufficient funds in the account. 
We cant know for sure where the glitch in the above chain occurred, but from what Ive 
seen, it doesnt seem likely it was with Halifax. It approved Mr Js payment, and this is 
strengthened further by the fact it didnt approve the subsequent ones due to their being 
insufficient funds in the account. This suggests to me its systems were working as they 
should at the time. So, the glitch couldve occurred in this message making its way back 
through the card network and the merchants acquiring bank, back to the merchant. 
Mr Js payment was pending for several days after this. The next part of the payment 
process would be for the merchant, through their acquiring bank (or its processor) and the 
card network, to claim the payment. So, until this is completed the payment will stay as 
pending with the cardholders bank. In Mr Js case, because there had been a glitch, rather 
than the payment clearing as would usually happen with a successful payment, it stayed 
pending because the merchant didnt claim the payment. Ultimately this was the glitch 
working itself out, as it wouldve been incorrect for the merchant to claim the payment. 
Taking this into consideration, Im satisfied the fact the payment remained pending for a few 
days was not an error on Halifaxs part.  
I appreciate this may seem wholly unsatisfactory to Mr J as he was impacted by what was 
essentially a computer glitch. No one can guarantee this situation wont happen again, but 
hopefully Mr J can take some comfort from the fact this had never happened to him before 
this particular incident and hasnt happened since  so it is a rarity. Unfortunately, we face certain inconveniences in everyday life. I understand Mr J wants 
someone to blame for what happened, but Im afraid given the evidence, it wouldnt be fair 
for me to hold Halifax responsible and ask it to compensate Mr J for his inconvenience on 
this occasion. 
Customer service 
Halifax has admitted it didnt provide the best service to Mr J when he called to query why 
his transaction had been declined. It has acknowledged Mr J was given conflicting 
information and spent longer than necessary on the phone. 
I can see Halifax paid Mr J £50 compensation for this and made sure his call costs were 
covered by crediting him with a further £40. I think this is fair and reasonable for the service 
failings here. 
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Js complaint against Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax). 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 March 2021.
 
Sarah Brimacombe
Ombudsman