DRN-4289935
The complaint
Mr S complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt refund money he lost in a scam.
What happened
What Mr S says:
Mr S is represented by a third-party claims firm, but I will refer to him as the complainant.
In June 2022, he made contact with a person through a popular online dating website  I will 
refer to her as A.  He exchanged frequent messages with A and began to trust her. After a 
while, A said she was an experienced trader in crypto investments and introduced him to the 
idea of also investing in crypto. Mr S opened an account with the online crypto website 
(which I will call B) - but alongside a scamming exchange platform.
A encouraged Mr S to make several investments and coached him as to how to do it each 
time. The payments were:
Date Payment Amount
25 August 2022 Online - international payment to Estonia £8,727.33
31 August 2022 Online - international payment to Estonia £43,734.01
1 September 2022 Online - international payment to Estonia £44,329.94
2 September 2022 Online - international payment to Estonia £44,238.31
6 September 2022 Online - international payment to Estonia £50,000
6 September 2022 Online - international payment to Estonia £43,919.75
26 September 2022 Refund credit (£99.54)
28 September 2022 Refund credit (£909.55)
Total Loss £233,940.25
Mr S said he could see the investments via the website of B, and that they were growing in 
value.
Mr S then wanted to make a withdrawal but was told by A that he needed to pay tax of 
USD89,000. At that point, Mr S became suspicious and questioned A about why that was. 
She blocked him from all contact. Mr S then realised he was the victim of a romance/ 
investment scam. He said HSBC asked questions about the payments on 31 August 2022 
and 1 September 2022, but they werent probing questions and HSBC shouldve done more 
to protect him.
Mr S said HSBC didnt question the subsequent payments made on 2 September 2022 and 
6 September 2022  and shouldve done. If HSBC had done so, the scam wouldve been 
uncovered and his money protected. The payments were highly unusual and shouldve 
triggered intervention each time.
Mr S says he has lost his entire life savings and is now struggling to pay bills. His mental 
health has suffered, he has lost sleep, and is anxious about all interactions online  for fear 
of being scammed again. He feels shame and embarrassment at what happened. He 
contacted HSBC on 12 September 2022 to report the scam. He says HSBC should refund 
the money hes lost.
What HSBC said:
HSBC didnt refund the payments. They said Mr S had authorised them and theyd been 
made in accordance with his instructions. HSBC said Mr S should get in touch with the 
beneficiary bank to try to recover the money.
Our investigation so far:
Mr S brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it and said:
- He listened to the calls between HSBC and Mr S on 31 August 2022, 1 September 
2022, and 2 September 2022  about those payments. He said HSBC asked Mr S 
many questions about the payments, including the purpose, where the payment was 
going to, who set up the account with B, who had access to the account, if previous 
payments had been successfully received and several questions based on the 
involvement of any third parties. Mr S answered all questions and this led to HSBC to 
provide warnings based on those answers. During the three calls, Mr S said on many 
occasions that no third party was involved and that he was making the payments on 
his own free will.
- On the further two payments on 6 September 2022 -  these werent questioned by 
HSBC. If HSBC had intervened, our investigator was satisfied that Mr S wouldve 
gone ahead anyway  such was the spell he was under with A and based on Mr As 
responses to HSBC in the earlier calls.
- HSBC had tried to recover the money and contacted the beneficiary banks but could 
only recover £1,009.12  but the rest had been removed.
Mr S didnt accept what our investigator had said. He argued that HSBCs questions didnt 
go far enough  given that the investment was into crypto. He said that with further 
questioning, he would have revealed he had been advised by a third party (A); that he hadnt 
done enough research; that he hadnt taken third party advice; and that he had been given 
access to a third-party scamming platform.
Mr S said these were all signs of a scam  which HSBC shouldve been alert to.
Mr S asked that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman  and so it has come to me to 
make a final decision.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that Mr S has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that he 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr S didnt intend for 
the money to go to a scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance. 
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider HSBC should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
The Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) doesnt 
apply in this case. That is because it applies to online payments made to a UK beneficiary 
and in this case, the payments were made to an overseas account. 
I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr S when 
he made the payment, or whether they should have done more than they did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
I considered whether the payments made by Mr S were sufficiently unusual for them to have 
been questioned by HSBC  given his normal account activity.
I looked at Mr S account statements.
I can see that he made several large payments prior to the payments in question:
- December 2021: £5,525; £2,000.
- May 2022: £10,000.
- July 2022: £10,000; £10,000; £10,000; £2,108.
Payment - £8,247.33: The first payment to B in August 2022 was therefore not out of 
character for Mr S. 
I would also say that as theres a balance to be struck: HSBC has obligations to be alert to 
fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, but they cant be involved in every transaction as this would cause unnecessary disruption to legitimate payments. So  
Im persuaded that for this payment, HSBC didnt need to intervene.
Payments £43,734.01, £44,329.94, £44,238.31: I then considered the next three payments. 
These were for significantly larger amounts, were to an overseas account, and in a currency 
(euros). So  HSBC were right to refer them, which is what they did.
The crux of this complaint comes down to the calls made by HSBC regarding these three 
payments. Each time, HSBC contacted Mr S to discuss them. I listened to the calls closely.
30 August 2022  £43,734.01: HSBCs fraud team contacted Mr S by text and he called 
back. The following questions were asked, and Mr S responses are shown:
Did you process the payments yourself?.. Mr S: yes.
Whats the purpose of the payment? Mr S:  Investments.
Has anyone else have access to your account with B? Mr S:  No.
Payment to Estonia seems odd Mr S : Yes - the company is in Ireland, but bank account 
in Estonia.
Did you manually enter the account number etc?. Mr S: already saved from first 
payment.
Have you seen any scam warnings about this company?  Mr S: No, Ive seen none.
Will you make any more payments to B?  Mr S: Maybe, if I see the opportunity to make 
more money.
Did you receive any calls from anyone asking you to make the payment?  Mr S: No.
Did a third party ask you to make the payment?.Mr S: No.
Has anyone asked you how to answer our questions? Mr S: No.
HSBC then read out a scam warning: criminals are using sophisticated investment scams to 
get unsuspecting people to hand over money, using convincing websites and marketing 
material. These can seem legitimate and persons appear knowledgeable. HSBC may not be 
able to recover money if it turns out to be a scamare you satisfied this is an authentic 
request or do you need more time to consider?
Mr S answered: No, this is absolutely an authentic request, no third party is involved, just 
me. Im already in profit, yes its my own risk, and I understand the purpose of the call.
1 September 2022  £44,329.94: HSBCs fraud team called Mr S. The same questions were 
asked  and Mr S answers were the same. He also said, these are the same questions and 
my answers are the same. He said the process was a waste of time. HSBC read out the 
same scam warning as for the second payment. Mr S said yes, accepted (that the loss 
wouldnt be HSBCs)Im fineyes OK, please release the payment.
2 September 2022  £44,238.31: HSBC called Mr S. The questions and Mr S answers were 
similar, but I quote some here.
HSBC: why are you making the payment? Mr S: Investmentmarkets.How did you find out about B?:..Mr S:Online, everything done by meno third party 
involved here.
Who opened the account, you or third party? Mr S: Me.
How have you researched crypto investments?. Mr S:  Online, but a fair bit of 
researchits all straightforward
Why invest in crypto?.Mr S:  Higher returns.
What proof do you have it is legitimate?.Mr S: all online, I can see my funds in my 
wallet.
Any calls from third parties?.Mr S: No.
Did anyone advise or instruct you to make the payments (twice)?Mr S:  No (twice).
How did you get the account details? Mr S: emails.
Emails can be intercepted(repeats question)Mr S: they are genuine emails, Ive done 
the research.
Have you sought independent advice Mr S: No.
Are you confident to go ahead?Mr S:  yes, absolutely.
HSBC then read out the scam warning as for the other two calls. Mr S said Yes, I 
understand, I take responsibilityI dont need any more time on this, please release the 
payment.
Mr S also said, it is possible there will be further payments, please release it.
Ive considered the questions put by HSBC and Mr S answers. Im satisfied that HSBC did 
ask proportionate and relevant questions. And addressing the further points made by Mr S  
he did state each time he hadnt been advised by a third party; he was confident that he had 
done a lot of his own research; and he said he had obtained the payment details himself and 
not from a third party. I also noted from the tone of Mr S responses  that he was confident 
that he was doing the right thing, and in fact he became frustrated by HSBCs questions. He 
said he knew what he was doing.
Therefore, HSBC acted reasonably regarding the second, third and fourth payments.
Payments - £50,000, £43,919.75: I went on to consider the fifth and sixth payments. These 
werent identified by HSBC as needing a call with Mr S  as the payments were following the 
same pattern as before. So I need to consider what wouldve likely happened had HSBC 
called Mr S about them. And I think its more likely than not he wouldve gone ahead. I say 
that because:
- he was very confident in his responses in the three calls Ive described. So - its likely his 
responses wouldve been the same.
- he said in the earlier calls that HSBCs questions, and answers, were the same  and was 
frustrated. I think its likely the same thing wouldve played out again.
- He referred in the earlier calls to making further investments of the same type  so it was 
his plan to do so.- I saw the messages between himself and A. Its clear he was completely under her spell by 
that time. In the messages, I could see that on 5 September 2022, in response to As 
message about a further investment, Mr S said he was looking forward to it.
So  Im persuaded that Mr S wouldve gone ahead and made the final two payments, even 
if HSBC had called him about them.
Therefore, I think HSBC acted reasonably and I dont consider they should refund any of the 
money to Mr S.
Recovery:
We expect firms to quickly attempt to recover funds from recipient banks when a scam takes
place. I looked at whether HSBC took the necessary steps in contacting the bank that 
received the funds  in an effort to recover the lost funds. I can see HSBC contacted the 
bank on 12 September 2022  the day that Mr S reported the scam. So  that was 
reasonable. Unfortunately, its the case that where an overseas bank is involved, the 
chances of recovery are lower than for a UK bank. And here, a small amount was refunded, 
but after that, the bank concerned said there were no other funds to send back. 
Im sorry Mr S has had to contact us in these circumstances. I accept hes been the victim of 
a cruel scam, but I cant reasonably hold HSBC responsible for his loss.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman