DRN-3471653
The complaint
Mr L complains that Santander UK Plc withdrew access to his online banking facility. 
What happened
Mr L has an account with Santander and has told us he has used an internet dongle to 
access his online banking facility for around six years. In November 2020 Mr L complained 
to Santander after he was unable to access online banking. 
Santander sent Mr L two responses to his complaint and explained that issues with multiple 
IP addresses being used when accessing online banking were causing the problem. 
Santander said the problem was linked to Mr Ls use of an internet dongle. Santander said 
that on one particular day Mr Ls IP address had changed 12 times. Santander 
recommended other ways to access the internet that provided a stable IP address. 
Santander apologised for any inconvenience caused, but didnt uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
An investigator at this service looked into Mr Ls complaint. They thought Santander had 
dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mr L asked to appeal 
and said Santander shouldve notified him of changes to its security process. As Mr L didnt 
accept the investigators view his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr L accessed his online banking using the same method for several years. But 
Santander has told us it updated its security and verification processes. In its final response 
to Mr L, Santander confirmed it verifies a customers IP address and that the way Mr Ls 
internet dongle works means thats not possible. I appreciate that has an impact for Mr L, but 
I have to balance that against Santanders need to protect customer accounts and improve 
the security of its online banking facility. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr l but I havent been persuaded that Santander has treated him 
unfairly. I know Mr L feels Santander shouldve told him about the security changes before 
they came into effect. But businesses regularly update their procedures and the way the 
operate. Its not always practical for a business to give advance notice. And whilst I 
understand this change impacted Mr L, Im not persuaded Santander acted unfairly when by 
updating its systems without notice. 
After Mr L raised his complaint, Santander explained what had happened and why he was 
unable to access online banking. Santander also gave details of other ways Mr L could 
access his account and options for accessing internet banking from a stable IP address. I 
can also see Santander apologised for any inconvenience caused to Mr L. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr L as I can see the change in systems has caused some 
inconvenience. But, for the reasons Ive given above, I havent found the changes were 
unfair. Im satisfied Santanders apology and final responses are a fair way to deal with Mr 
Ls complaint. As Im satisfied Santander has dealt with Mr Ls complaint fairly Im not telling 
it to take further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman