DRN-1236856
 
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr B says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive read and considered all the evidence on the file, but Ill confine my comments to what I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to 
consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is 
the right outcome in the wider context. 
Where the evidence is incomplete (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance 
of probabilities  in other words, on what I consider is most likely to have happened given 
the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having considered all the submissions in this case, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold 
because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it. I say this because from what we know about how these policies were sold Mr 
B would have had to select the cover to get it. Mr B thinks he didnt agree to the 
cover but he does recall signing a prepopulated form during a meeting. So its most 
likely he signed for it at that time. Ive also considered that the PPI shows on Mr Bs 
statements. So, if he hadnt agreed to the PPI at the time, I think hed have raised 
this with RBS sooner than he did. In any event, on balance, I think Mr B should have 
understood he had agreed to the policy and that it was something he could have 
declined, although I can understand why he cant remember this now, many years 
later. 
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  such as details of how much the policy would cost. But based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it seems he was eligible for the policy 
and it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions from or limits to the 
PPI cover. And Ive considered that whilst Mr Bs initial sick pay was good, I note that 
it dropped significantly after six months. And Mr B told us that he had no savings or 
any other means he could have relied on. This policy could have paid out for up to 12 
months if Mr B was too ill to work for a long time, or if Mr B lost his job. So as the 
policy would have paid out for longer than Mr Bs employer would have paid him sick pay at his full rate of pay, I think the policy would have been useful to him if 
something went wrong. 
 
So, I dont think better information about the PPI and its cost would have put Mr B off taking 
out the cover. This means I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So RBS doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr B paid for it. But RBS has already paid back to Mr B some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint against The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Douglas Sayers
Ombudsman