DRN-4225636
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr S complain about how UKI Bank General Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a 
claim under their home insurance policy for damage to their property from a leak. 
UKI use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to UKI includes 
these agents.
What happened
In March 2023 Mrs M and Mr S contacted UKI to tell them about a water leak in their 
property, from the kitchen. Theyd noticed the walls were wet from the middle of February, 
but thought it was due to condensation. They contacted the home emergency team who sent 
an engineer to the property, but they couldnt identify the course of the leak (though they 
thought it might be an underground leak). Mrs M and Mr S were able to temporarily stop the 
leak by having the water supply re-routed (but this meant the loss of the supply to their 
shower room).
 
UKI appointed a surveyor (B) to inspect the damage, which they did a few days later. B 
concluded the damage was longstanding and couldnt have occurred in the timescale Mrs M 
and Mr S said. And they hadnt taken reasonable action to mitigate the damage (which 
would have been visible). Photographs showed blistered paintwork, which had also flaked off 
the walls. Other areas of the wall showed rust and skirting boards were rotten and blown. 
Because they thought the damage longstanding, UKI said it more than likely pre-dated Mrs 
M and Mr S taking out the policy (December 2022). UKI concluded the damage had 
occurred gradually, so wouldnt be covered under the policy. So, they declined the claim.
Mrs M and Mr S challenged UKIs decision, saying they initially thought (and were told by a 
local plumber) the issues were due to condensation. They said theyd engaged a local 
plumber (at UKIs suggestion) who started to excavate the kitchen floor to identify the source 
of the leak. He re-routed the water supply, which cut it to the shower room. So, theyd taken 
appropriate action to identify the source of the leak and thought UKI should accept the claim.
UKI treated the challenge as a complaint, but they didnt uphold it, confirming their decision 
to decline the claim on the grounds theyd set out.
Mrs M and Mr S then complained to this service. They said the leak occurred in the period 
covered by their policy with UKI and they hadnt been treated fairly. The leak had caused 
damage to the kitchen walls, some of the kitchen units and the floor between the kitchen and 
lounge. They said the surveyor who visited the property told them the damage also extended 
to the lounge. The incident had caused them a lot of stress and theyd had to take time off 
work to deal with the incident. They wanted UKI to accept their claim and repair the damage 
from the leak. They also wanted an assessment of how extensive the damage was to the 
property. They also wanted their shower room fixed.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding UKI hadnt acted fairly in applying the 
exclusion to decline the claim. He thought the source and nature of the leak (out of sight and 
underground) meant it likely Mrs M and Mr S wouldnt have been aware of the extent of the 
damage being caused by the leak. Theyd also taken steps in engaging a local plumber to 
attend. And while there were sign of wear in the property, this didnt negate the fact there 
had been damage caused by an insured event (the leak) which the investigator thought UKI 
should be liable for (as well as the costs of trace and access). But as the policy didnt include 
cover for issues with pipes, tanks, appliances or heating systems, the investigator couldnt 
say UKI should consider any such costs (a permanent repair to the affected pipework at the 
property). 
UKI disagreed with the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They said the photographs of the damage to the walls and skirting board were 
taken as Mrs M and Mr S were claiming they were damaged by the leak  not wear and tear. 
And the affected areas were visible and so wouldnt have gone unnoticed by Mrs M and Mr 
S (in the period when they say they were first noticed). On the balance of probabilities, it was 
far more likely the damage would have been visible when the policy was taken out (not just 
from the middle of February). The onus was on Mrs M and Mr S to show their claim was 
valid (and take steps to prevent further damage).
UKI also questioned the pipework being re-routed by the plumber engaged by Mrs M and Mr 
S (rather than the leak detected) which brought into question whether there was a leak.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether UKI have acted fairly towards Mrs M and Mr S.
The key issue in the complaint is whether UKI acted fairly in declining Mrs M and Mr Ms 
claim. In declining the claim, UKI have cited three reasons (though they are linked). First, the 
nature and extent of the damage is such that it is likely to have been longstanding and as 
such, pre-dates the inception of the policy in December 2022. Second, linked to this, the 
damage would have occurred gradually (not in the timescale indicated by what Mrs M and 
Mr S have set out, from the middle of February). The policy includes an exclusion for 
damage that occurs gradually. Third, Mrs M and Mr S didnt take action to mitigate the 
damage caused, which would also be an exclusion under the policy. 
Mrs M and Mr S say they took steps when they first noticed the damage, by engaging a local 
plumber when they noticed the issue with the kitchen walls. And subsequently when they 
engaged a plumber to identify the cause of the noise they heard coming from behind an 
appliance. The plumber effected a re-routing of the pipework to temporarily stop the leak.
On the first issue, UKIs initial decline of the claim was based on Bs report (and their own 
review of the report and the circumstances of the incident). Ive looked at the report. The 
overall conclusions in the report are:
Escape of water under the floor, this has been ongoing for some time and insured 
has failed to mitigate the loss.
The beading to the plaster has begun to rust.
The wall next to the back door and the lounge wall that backs onto the kitchen comes 
long term leak which would be noticeable as the paint and plaster has begun to 
blister, and the skirting board is rotten and begun to break up, but insured said only 
aware of this two days ago.Policyholder disputes the decline.
advised damage would be noticeable and has got a lot worse, the insured would 
have known of a leak when walls began to stain but insured has left this, as policy is 
only three months old, the claim could be pre-inception.
Taking this with UKIs second point, the policy doesnt cover damage that happens 
gradually, the Ive also considered the relevant policy terms and conditions. The policy 
booklet states (under a heading This policy doesnt cover):
X Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Any damage caused gradually.
The policy terms and conditions also make it clear damage that occurred before the policy 
started isnt covered. Under the section Other policy conditions theres a section Losses not 
covered which includes:
X We dont cover any pre-existing loss or damage that happened before your cover 
started.
I think the exclusion is clear, so the question becomes one of whether the damage from the 
leak was (as B concluded) longstanding, so pre-dating the policy being taken out in 
December 2022. Ive considered this point carefully, together with the information and 
evidence available. B say the nature of the damage (such as blistering paintwork and rotten 
skirting boards) couldnt have happened in the timescale set out by Mrs M and Mr S (that 
they first noticed the wet walls in mid-February). Ive noted Bs conclusion above states the 
claim (the damage) could (my emphasis) be pre-inception. Theres a similar comment in 
UKIs case notes that the damage suggest a long-term issue and potentially pre-inception. 
The use of qualifying adjectives suggests theres uncertainty as to the exact start of the leak. 
The nature of a leak  particularly one thats underground, as is the indication in this case, 
including Bs report  is that it can take time for the effects (damage) to become apparent. 
And even when it does, it can be ascribed to other causes  such as here where it was 
initially thought the issue was condensation, not a leak. It was only when Mrs M and Mr S 
heard a noise from behind a washing machine, did they suspect a leak (and engaged a 
plumber to try and identify the source of the leak).
UKI say the onus is on Mrs M and Mr S to show the claim was valid. However, because UKI 
applied exclusions to decline the claim (for damage that occurred gradually and occurred 
before the policy inception) the onus is on them to show the exclusions apply. The evidence 
available, including that from the plumber engaged by Mrs M and Mr S and in Bs report, 
indicate there was a leak and it was underground. The photographs also support this. So its 
reasonable to conclude there was an escape of water, an insured peril under the policy. 
That being the case, the issue is whether UKI have fairly applied the exclusions. Taking 
them in turn, they say the damage is likely to have occurred pre-inception of the policy. 
However, as Ive set out, the use of qualifying adjectives indicates this is only a possibility. 
As the onus is on UKI to show it was the case, I dont think relying on could or potential is 
sufficient to show the damage (or leak) occurred (or started) pre-inception.
It follows that UKI also havent done enough to show the exclusion for damage caused 
gradually was fairly applied to decline the claim. On the third point, that Mrs M and Mr S didnt take reasonable action to mitigate the damage 
(which would have been visible) the policy General Conditions include a heading Preventing 
Loss which states:
You must take reasonable care to prevent loss, injury or liability, damage or 
accidents to the buildings and contents covered under this policy
Ive considered what Mrs M and Mr S have told us about the sequence of events. They 
engaged a plumber initially to inspect the issue with the kitchen walls and were advised the 
issue could be condensation. So they took steps to mitigate this [potential] cause. But it was 
only when they heard a noise from behind an appliance they contacted the home emergency 
service to follow up the issue. The indications are the engineer couldnt identify the source of 
the leak (but thought it might be underground). They recommended the trace and access 
team inspect the property to try and identify the leak (and UKI appointed a contractor to do 
so). Mrs M and Mr S engaged their own plumber (at UKIs suggestion) who started to 
excavate the kitchen but thought the leak likely to be further in the kitchen.
Taken together, I think Mrs M and Mr S acted reasonably in engaging appropriate support to 
identify the source of the issues (the cause of the leak and the damage). For example, 
contacting the home emergency service. And having pipework re-routed to temporarily stop 
the leak (and further damage) was reasonable in the circumstances where it wasnt clear 
what the source of the leak was, pending further investigation. It doesnt  as UKI said in 
their response to our investigators view  bring into question whether there was a leak. 
So, Ive concluded Mrs M and Mr S acted reasonably to mitigate the damage being caused 
by the leak.
Taking all these points into account, Ive concluded UKI havent acted fairly in declining Mrs 
M and Mr Ms claim.
Having reached this conclusion, Ive considered what I think UKI need to do to put things 
right.
As Ive concluded UKI havent acted fairly in declining Mrs M and Mr Ss claim, they should 
reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. This should 
include, as appropriate, any trace and access to determine the source of the leak under the 
relevant terms and conditions of the policy.
Ive also considered what Mrs M and Mr S have told us about the stress theyve suffered 
from what has happened. As Ive concluded UKI unfairly declined the claim, Mrs M and Mr S 
have suffered distress and inconvenience. Considering the circumstances of the case, I think 
£150 compensation for distress and inconvenience would be fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ss complaint. I 
require UK Insurance Limited to:
Reassess the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. This 
should include, as appropriate, any trace and access to determine the source of the 
leak under the relevant terms and conditions of the policy.
Pay Mrs M and Mr S £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience.
UK Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mrs M and Mr S accept my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 September 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman