DRN-3340711
The complaint
Ms R complains, in summary, about the customer service provided by Everyday Lending 
Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, (ELL), in respect of a loan provided to her by ELL.
What happened
ELL provided Ms R with a loan for £15,000 in August 2018. She received £11,395.69 from 
the loan and the balance of the loan proceeds was used to repay an earlier loan shed had 
with ELL. The loan was to be repaid by 48 monthly payments of £474.16. Ms R made weekly 
payments of £118.54 until around November 2019, although some of these payments were 
paid late from October 2018. Ms R then made reduced payments from January 2020 and 
paid £160 per month from May 2020. ELL then sent Ms R a default notice dated 2 July 2020.
In November 2020, Ms R phoned ELL and asked about the current balance outstanding. 
She was initially told that the balance was £12,289.14, but this was then changed to 
£4,193.53. She was concerned to be told in January 2021 that she owed ELL £12,289.14 
which was contrary to what shed been told two months earlier. Ms R believes that the 
correct balance was £4,193.53 and that no mistake had been made. Ms R wants her loan 
balance reduced to reflect the lower balance figure of around £4,000. This is the first aspect 
of Ms Rs complaint.
Ms R was then concerned to be told that ELLs local branch office wasnt dealing with her 
account and it gave her another phone number to contact it which wasnt answered. She 
complained to her local branch office about this. She was unhappy about the way ELLs 
employees spoke to her. This is the second aspect of Ms Rs complaint.
Ms R also said that she had agreed a repayment arrangement with ELL in which she would 
pay £160 per month to repay a balance of £4,193.53 (as at November 2020). It was 
important to her that she had a repayment plan which would provide her with certainty that 
her loan would be repaid within a fixed amount of time. She planned on working for a further 
four years and she wanted the loan to be paid off within this time. She said that a repayment 
plan had been devised for her which was discussed at length and authorised by ELLs 
management. She said she wouldnt take the loan to a debt management plan organisation 
as she had agreed a repayment plan. But ELL appeared to dispute in a phone conversation 
with her in January 2021 that she had an agreed repayment plan with it. This is the third 
aspect of her complaint.
In its final response letter, ELL said that it had listened to a recording of the call in  
November 2020 and said that it had made an error in saying that the loan balance was 
£4,193.53, and it offered Ms R £200 compensation. ELL hadnt said anything about the other 
aspects of her complaint in its final response letter.
ELL then provided a response to one of Ms Rs other complaint issues about her repayment 
plan. ELL said that whilst Ms R made two payments of £160, she didnt provide the required 
bank statements to support its income and expenditure review.  Therefore, as the account 
was not formally rescheduled with the reduced monthly payment, it remained in arrears and 
notice of arrears letters were sent to Ms R. The account subsequently defaulted and it sent a 
default notice letter to Ms R. ELL had kept Ms R informed of the arrears and balance on the 
account during this time and evidenced this with letters to her.
Our investigators view
The investigator said that ELL didnt need to take any further action. She noted that ELL had 
said in its final response letter that it had made a mistake in providing a balance figure of 
£4,193.53 in November 2020, and it offered Ms R £200 compensation. She said that she felt 
this was fair as the wrong balance figure was given to Ms R. The investigator had seen 
ELLs system notes that showed the balance of the loan to be £11,809.14 on                      
26 March 2021. Although giving Ms R the wrong balance figure had caused confusion, she 
wasnt going to ask ELL to reduce the balance to £4,193.53.
With regard to the repayment plan, the investigator noted that Mrs R had said she had an  
arrangement with ELL to pay £160 a month. The investigator said that she didnt think it 
would be fair for ELL to reduce the loan balance by over £7,000, simply because it had 
made a mistake in what it had told her over the phone.
With regard to Ms Rs complaint about being spoken to rudely by ELLs employee on the 
phone, the investigator had listened to the call, and she thought the call handler could have 
delivered better service to Ms R. The investigator said that the call could have been handled 
better and compensation should be paid to Ms R for this. The investigator also said that the 
compensation of £200 offered by ELL in its final response letter was fair to cover both the 
first and third aspects of Ms Rs complaint.
Ms R disagreed and she responded to say, in summary, that:-
- ELL hadnt made a mistake about the loan balance figure being £4,193.53. 
- Her complaint was the grossly unprofessional way shed been treated by ELL. In 
January 2021, following phone calls with ELL, she felt bullied and unprofessionally 
handled by the two individuals who managed her loan account. 
- She had contacted ELL to inform it of the financial difficulties she was experiencing and 
shed adjusted her payments with their agreement. 
- Her repayment plan was put together by ELLs employee after consultation with his 
peers, instead of her referring the matter to a debt management plan company. Shed 
had many conversations about the plan with ELL. Ms R had followed the repayment 
plan terms that were discussed at the start of the arrangement. 
- In January 2021 shed phoned ELL as arranged to be told her file was no longer with the 
local branch and ELL told her to call a non-existent number. When she complained to 
ELLs head office, she found out that she had to instead speak to the local branch office. 
- ELL then told her that there was no repayment arrangement, that she still had a 11 year 
loan and there were no recorded messages that dealt with her salient points. 
- She had spoken to ELLs head office staff twice before January 2021, to bring to their 
attention the statements shed received from them which did not reflect the discussions 
regarding the payment plan shed believed had been set up.
As this complaint hadnt been resolved informally, it was passed to me, as an ombudsman, 
to review and resolve. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Ms R
and to ELL on 18 January 2022. I summarise my findings:I noted that where information was conflicting or incomplete, I needed to make my decision 
on the balance of probabilities, which was what Id done here.
I said there appeared to be three main aspects to Ms Rs complaint, and I would deal with 
these separately.
The provision of an incorrect balance figure in a phone call in November 2020
In its final response letter, ELL said that:-
I have listened to the call from 20th November 2020, in which the adviser firstly provides 
you with the balance at the time as being £12,289.14, however, he then asks you to bear 
with him whilst he checks this, as you are questioning this amount. He then states that the 
balance is £4,193.53, and says he was giving you the overall balance in the first instance. 
Unfortunately, this is not the case and the outstanding balance was incorrectly given to you. 
May I apologise for this error and would like to compensate you for £200.00 for the distress 
caused. As of todays date the balance on your account is £11,969.14.
So, Id noted that ELL had accepted that an error had been made and that it offered to 
compensate Ms R by paying her £200 compensation for the distress caused. Id noted that 
Ms R didnt believe that ELL had made an error. 
When the investigator provided her view, she hadnt been provided with a recording of the 
phone call in November 2020 in which the two different balance figures were provided to   
Ms R. I asked the investigator to ask ELL again for a recording of the call. ELL provided the 
call recording which Id carefully listened to and summarised as follows:-
Ms R had called ELL to tell it her loan repayment for that month wouldnt be made on the 
due date but would be paid late. Ms R asked ELL if it was adding interest to her account as 
shed been told when she agreed the repayment arrangement that the balance would be 
paid within four to five years. ELL said that Ms R wouldnt pay more than the contractual 
amount. ELL then said that the current arrears were £12,289.14. If Ms R regularly paid £160 
per month, this was £1,920 each year. Ms R said that this would mean paying for another 12 
years. ELL said that Ms R had agreed the repayment arrangement with ELLs head office. 
ELL then said that £12,289.14 was the overall balance on the account and calculated that 
the balance left to pay was £4,193.53 because the account had been frozen. ELL said that 
the loan finished in August 2022. So, Ms R only had another two years left to pay. Ms R said 
that she wished she had recorded the call and she was relieved. ELL said it was recording 
the call and that Ms R could always amend her repayment. Ms R said she would write down 
the balance left to pay when she called to make her next repayment.
Its clear to me that ELL did cause Ms R confusion in the call by giving her two very different 
balance amounts, three different descriptions of those amounts and by confusing her over 
the dates by which the loan would be repaid. The higher figure of £12,289.14 was first 
described as current arrears and then as the overall balance. The second lower figure of 
£4,193.53 was described as the actual balance left to pay. I also thought ELL could have 
corrected Ms Rs calculation of 12 years left to pay £12,289.14 if she repaid £160 per month. 
It didnt respond to her incorrect calculation at the time. On the basis of ELLs higher figure, I 
could see that the loan would be repaid in just under six and a half years. ELL then told her 
that the loan would end in August 2022 which was the loan termination date in the loan 
agreement, and it didnt correct this for Ms R at the time.
I could see that Ms R would have been caused confusion by ELLs several errors during the 
call. And as ELL had confused Ms R by the terms it used and by giving her different balance amounts and loan repayment dates (and not just the balance amounts which it referred to in 
its final response letter), I thought it should pay Ms R a compensation amount of £250. 
Id also noted that Ms R wanted the loan balance reduced to reflect the lower figure given in 
the call. But I could see that subsequent communications from ELL referred to the correct 
balance figure (based on the higher figure). I have listened to recordings of eight calls 
between the parties and there was no reference to the balance repayable being around 
£4,000 in those calls. Id also noted that the annual loan statement sent to Ms R dated               
3 August 2020 showed the total future payments to be £12,769.14. So, I could see that shed 
received relatively recent information in writing about her loan balance before the call. I was 
satisfied that ELL had made an error in its calculations during the call. And, I didnt propose 
to ask ELL to amend the loan balance to reflect the lower figure Ms R was given in the call.
I also thought that it would be helpful for ELL to assist with Ms Rs current understanding of 
the balance left to pay and the loan repayment date. So, Id said that ELL should provide   
Ms R with a letter within 14 days of the date of the final decision in this complaint to show 
firstly the total balance left to pay as at that date and secondly the repayment date for the 
final loan repayment on the basis that Ms R pays regular monthly payments of £160 from the 
date of the letter.
The phone calls in January 2021
Ms R had complained about the customer service shed received from ELL during certain 
phone calls with it in January 2021. Shed said shed felt bullied and unprofessionally 
handled. ELL had provided this Service with the recordings of six phone calls which 
appeared to have occurred in January 2021, although the exact dates hadnt been provided. 
Id listened to these recordings.  
I could firstly see that Ms R was caused confusion by being told that her account wasnt 
being dealt with at her local branch as in the past, but that it was being dealt with by ELLs 
head office. When Mrs R rang the phone number, she was given for ELLs head office, she 
said she was made aware that she should speak to her local branch and was left hanging 
on. She again spoke to her local branch who told her she would be told where her account 
was being dealt with the following week. Ms R had wanted to discuss certain issues about 
her account, but ELLs employee gave the impression that he didnt want to discuss these at 
that time. So, Ms R rang another number which appeared to be ELLs sales team. She was 
then put through to collections, who ultimately suggested she be put through to complaints. I 
could see that Ms R was frustrated by being passed between departments without knowing 
who was dealing with her account and without being able to resolve her various queries. 
I could also see that Ms R was unhappy at the way that one of ELLs employees had 
handled one call with her. I shall refer to the employee as F. Ms R had phoned ELL to 
provide information about future payments to bring her account back up to date as she had 
missed two payments. She also said she was getting letters from ELL and wanted to know 
who had sent them to her. Ms R also wanted to know who was dealing with her account and 
wanted an update on her account since shed been provided with a balance in         
November 2020. F said he would tell her this information when she phoned to make a 
payment the following week. 
Ms R then told F that what hed said was totally contrary to what shed previously been told 
in November 2020. She also said she was disappointed in the way shed been spoken to by 
F. I could see that F had showed frustration that Ms R wasnt being entirely clear, and hed 
told her that hed spent enough time on her account over the years. He went on to provide  
information about her payment record. But I thought F was rather blunt towards Ms R and he 
seemed reluctant to deal with her other issues at that time and said he would speak to her when she phoned the following week to make her payment. I appreciated that F didnt 
appear to know who was handling the account but I thought it was possible that he could 
have told Ms F the account balance at the time or offered to provide written information 
about this shortly after the call. 
I didnt think ELL had provided satisfactory customer service here. Ms R was unhappy at the 
way shed been spoken to . She was being left in the dark for a further week about who was 
handling her account, what her account balance was and for her further queries to be dealt 
with. She was also concerned that F had said that she didnt have a payment arrangement 
(see below). Her concerns were demonstrated as she then went on to contact ELLs head 
office to complain about Fs conduct and to ask it to put something on her file about her 
conversation with F. 
Ms R later made another call to the branch office to speak to another of ELLs employees. I 
shall refer to the employee as G. It was G who had provided her with an incorrect balance 
figure during the phone call in November 2020 referred to above. She was seeking an 
explanation about the balance figures provided to her at that time. G said that he didnt 
remember what hed said but he told Ms R there was a principal balance and an overall 
balance. I didnt think that would have provided Ms R with the clarity she was seeking, and it 
would only have confused her more. Ms R wanted ELLs head office to listen to the 
November 2020 call recording. I could see that G had said that he would raise a complaint 
on  Ms Rs behalf about her balance query.
Overall, I could see that Ms R was provided with confusing information and in part unhelpful 
and discourteous responses in some of her phone calls with ELL in January 2021. I also 
thought it ought to have been clear to ELL from Ms Rs recent payment record and 
explanations as to possible future payments that Ms R was experiencing financial difficulties. 
And I thought ELL ought to have been more positive and sympathetic overall in its dealings 
with Ms R. So, I thought it would be appropriate for ELL to pay Ms R £175 compensation for 
the distress caused to her as a result of the confusion caused by ELL in some of her phone 
conversations with it in January 2021.
The repayment arrangement
Id noted that Ms R had said that she had a repayment arrangement with ELL to pay it £160 
per month and that shed been caused confusion in January 2021 by ELL telling her in a 
phone call that she didnt have an arrangement with it as she hadnt maintained it properly.
I could see from ELLs contact notes that it had asked Ms R for information about her income 
and expenditure in January/February 2020 and there was a note on 7 February 2020 that 
her income and expenditure came out at £160. A further note on 5 March 2020 said that the 
branch needed to see Ms Rs bank statements to validate her income and expenditure. 
There is a further note in April 2020 which referred to a payment of £40 per week and 
another note on 4 May 2020 said that Ms R had said she could commit to £160 per month. 
Id also seen a letter from ELL to Ms R dated 31 May 2020 which said:-
It appears from our records that you have not kept to the terms of our without prejudice
arrangement and as advised, we are now reverting to the original contractual terms that 
were agreed with you.
But Id also seen a later note dated 12 August 2020 on the contact notes which said:- 
Customer called in querying her default letter, advised cust arrangement of £160 is in place 
so therefore debt will not be passed on to a third party debt collections agencyI could see that Ms R had paid £160 each month from May 2020 to November 2020, 
although her November 2020 payment was returned. And shed phoned ELL after that to tell 
it when she would make her £160 payment. So, I thought this demonstrated that Ms R 
thought that she had a repayment arrangement to keep to. 
There were no further notes on the contact notes prior to January 2021 to show that Ms R 
had been told the repayment plan had been cancelled prior to her conversations in            
January 2021. Overall, I could see that Ms R was concerned to be told that she no longer 
had a repayment arrangement in January 2021. 
Id asked the investigator to ask ELL for its understanding of the repayment plan and any 
terms of that plan. ELL responded to say that there was a current arrangement for £160 per 
month. But it also said that no formal payment plan was set up as Ms R was unable to 
provide her bank statements. So, the loan account hadnt been formally rescheduled. ELL 
also said that as the account had defaulted, it was up to Ms R to decide how much she could 
afford to pay back each month particularly as the payment plan of £160 was never 
formalised. ELL said that £160 was the amount that Ms R had said she would pay.
I could see that Ms R was caused confusion by being told by ELL in January 2021 that she 
didnt have a repayment arrangement when it appeared that there was at the very least an 
informal arrangement in place, and shed been told by ELL in August 2020 that there was an 
arrangement. So, I thought ELL should pay Ms R £75 compensation for the confusion 
caused to Ms R. I also said that ELL should provide Ms R with a letter within 14 days of the 
date of the final decision in this complaint to show details of its current understanding of the 
informal payment arrangement. 
Id also noted from ELLs phone calls and notes that Ms R had been suffering financial 
difficulties. I didnt know Ms Rs current financial position. But Id said that if she was 
currently suffering financial difficulties, I would remind ELL of its obligations to treat Ms R 
sympathetically and positively if she was having difficulties repaying the loan.
So, for the reasons set out above, I didnt think ELL provided satisfactory customer service 
to Ms R and subject to any further representations by Ms R or ELL, I intended to uphold    
Ms Rs complaint in part and say that ELL should put things right as shown below.
Putting things right  what ELL needs to do
To settle Ms Rs complaint, ELL should do the following:
1. Pay Ms R a total of £500 compensation.
2. Provide a letter to Ms R within 14 days of the date of the final decision to show firstly 
the total loan balance left to pay as at that date, secondly the repayment date for the 
final loan repayment on the basis that Ms R pays regular monthly payments of £160 
from the date of the letter and thirdly details of its current (at the date of the letter) 
understanding of the informal repayment arrangement.
ELL hasnt provided a response to my provisional decision.
Ms R responded to my provisional decision to say, in summary, that: 
- She would not have made reduced payments without the knowledge of the two 
managers at ELLs branch office It was due to a change in circumstances and they were 
informed.
- The branch manager told her the repayment plan figure per month would be £160 which had been approved by his manager. She was told its repayment plan would not damage 
her credit record and would stop the interest.
- She was given permission to have a payment break and was told her account was up to 
date. And there was no reason why she could not take a break. 
- She disagreed with ELL's findings in its final response letter and there were 
inconsistencies between what took place and what the letter said. She disagreed there 
had been a mistake made with regard to the provision of a figure for her loan balance. 
- She hasnt worked since 25 August 2021 and might have to revert to a debt charity for 
help with managing her finances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good industry
practice at the time.
Im firstly sorry to hear about Ms Rs financial problems and note that she may need help 
managing her finances. I have asked our investigator to send her information about debt 
advice organisations. If appropriate, I would encourage her to discuss her circumstances 
with ELL to find a mutually agreeable and affordable repayment arrangement. And I would 
remind ELL of its responsibility to treat Ms R positively and sympathetically in those 
discussions.
Ms R has provided some further comments in response to my provisional decision, and 
some further information after that. Although I have only summarised above what Ms R said, 
I can reassure her that I have read each of her comments carefully. Ive also raised some of 
the points with ELL and shall refer to its responses below.
I note Ms Rs comments about her repayment plan. ELL said that Ms R had provided 
information to it about her income and expenditure on 7 February 2020. ELLs contact notes 
refer to this and also refer to Ms R providing a 30 days bank statement which verified what 
shed said about her income and expenditure. It appears from ELLs contact notes that a 
repayment amount of £160 per month was calculated based on the information Ms R 
provided to the lender. Ms R has since told us that it was her decision to make the 
repayment of £160 and she asked to see a statement of her payments around this time. I 
asked the investigator to send Ms R a statement which showed her payments.
I note Ms Rs comments about interest being stopped. I can see that ELL told Ms R that she 
wouldnt pay any more than the total contractual amount which was £22,759.68. ELL also 
told this Service that interest was frozen on 28 June 2020. At that time, ELLs records show 
that Ms R owed it £12,929.14. I understand that Ms R disputes this figure, but this is the 
balance figure on 28 June 2020 I have seen on a running account balance weve received 
from ELL.
I can see Ms R has paid ELL £1,120 since interest was frozen. The current balance 
outstanding is £11,809.14. Ive asked the investigator to send Ms R an up to date loan 
statement to show this. This is the amount left after deducting the total amount Ms R has 
paid since June 2020 of £1,120 from the amount of £12,929.14 which was due on 28 June 
2020 (the date that interest was frozen). I can see from the running account balance that no 
interest has been added to Ms Rs account after 28 June 2020.I note Ms R disagrees with ELLs findings concerning the provision of the loan balance of 
£4,193.53 to her in a phone call in November 2020, which it said was an error. I have again 
raised this with ELL and it again said that an error had been made and that this amount
wouldnt have even covered the unpaid balance of the loan amount outstanding at the time 
of the call. I can see from the running account balance that the actual amount outstanding on 
Ms Rs account at the time of the call was £12,289.14. For the reasons Ive set out in some 
detail above, Im satisfied that ELL had made an error during the call. 
So, after carefully considering what Ms R has said in her responses to my provisional 
decision, Im not persuaded that the information Ms R has provided should lead me to depart 
from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. It follows that Im still upholding 
her complaint in part and that ELL should put things right as set out below. 
I appreciate this may be a disappointing outcome for Ms R, but I hope setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Everyday Lending Limited, trading as Everyday Loans, to:-
 
1. Pay Ms R a total of £500 compensation; and
2. Provide a letter to Ms R within 14 days of the date of this final decision to show 
firstly the total loan balance left to pay as at that date, secondly the repayment 
date for the final loan repayment on the basis that Ms R pays regular monthly 
payments of £160 from the date of the letter and thirdly details of its current (at 
the date of the letter) understanding of the informal repayment arrangement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 March 2022. 
Roslyn Rawson
Ombudsman