DRN-2197364
The complaint
Mrs W complains that the Co-Operative Bank Plc are holding her liable for eight cash 
withdrawals made with her debit card which she told us she didnt make or authorise.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, I wont repeat it
again here, instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision and will only give a very
brief overview.
Mrs W contacted the Bank to report unrecognised transactions on her account. She said she 
thought she had been a victim of fraud, possibly by having her card cloned by persons 
unknown. The Co-Ops systems have confirmed that between 26 May and 5 June 2020, 
Mrs W had amounts of cash taken from her account using her debit card at the counter of 
her local post office. These transactions were as follows:
Transaction date Transaction time Statement date Amount
24 May 2020 3.10pm 26 May 2020 £200.00
28 May 2020 9.56am 28 May 2020 £200.00
30 May 2020 2.11pm 1 June 2020 £150.00
31 May 2020 12.40pm 1 June 2020 £150.00
1 June 2020 1.19pm 1 June 2020 £155.00
2 June 2020 12.03pm 2 June 2020 £100.00
4 June 2020 12.20pm 4 June 2020 £100.00
5 June 2020 10.31am 5 June 2020 £80.00
Mrs W says she regularly made transactions at her post office but didnt make or authorise 
the transactions listed above. She said that her card had been in her possession over this 
whole period. And that she hadnt shared her PIN number with a third party.
When Mrs W disputed the transactions, the Co-Op investigated. The Co-Op responded in 
June 2020 by telephone call and letter. They said that they didnt accept Mrs Ws 
explanation that shed been a victim of fraud. They said her card had been used by means of 
the chip and PIN function and they couldnt explain how a third party could have made these 
transactions. So, they ultimately held Mrs W responsible for them.
Because Mrs W was unhappy with this decision, she referred her complaint to our service. In 
September 2020, one of our investigators gave her view. She thought that Mrs Ws 
complaint shouldnt be upheld and that the Co-Op didnt need to take any action. Because 
they could confirm that the withdrawals concerned had been genuine chip and PIN 
transactions and it wasnt possible that Mrs Ws card had been cloned as she suggested. 
Our investigator also pointed out that all the disputed transactions had been carried out in 
the same geographical location and within the same time frame. This suggested that Mrs W 
had made the cash withdrawals herself or had given both the debit card and PIN to a third 
party who had done so.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint for essentially the same reasons as our
investigator. Let me explain why.
Generally, the Co-Op can only hold Mrs W liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that she authorised them. From what Ive seen, Im 
satisfied by the electronic evidence that the Co-Op have provided - here chip and PIN 
records - that Mrs Ws own card was used to authenticate the disputed transactions. But the 
regulations relevant to this type of payment say that isnt enough, on its own, to show that 
Mrs W authorised the transactions.
So, Ive gone on to consider whether or not Mrs W authorised the transactions. On balance, I 
agree with the Co-Op that the evidence supports the proposition that this is more likely than 
not to be the case. I say that for the following reasons:
All cash withdrawals at the Post Office counter are chip and PIN transactions. A 
customer must put their debit card in the terminal, confirm the amount being 
requested and then enter their PIN before the cashier will hand over the money.
Mrs W has confirmed that she was in possession of her card throughout this period.
Mrs W has also confirmed that on certain dates, she used her card for genuine 
purchase transactions within minutes either side of some in dispute. On 28 May 
2020, for example, there was a genuine purchase transaction at 9.48am, then 
another at 9.54am. Then two minutes after that there is a disputed transaction at 
9.56am. Then one minute after that, another genuine cash withdrawal at 9.57am at 
the same Post Office. And all of these, excepting the first which was contactless, 
were transacted using the chip and PIN function. So, I cant reasonably conclude that 
someone unknown to Mrs W couldve obtained her card after she made her purchase 
at 9.54am to withdraw £200 and be able to return the card without her knowing it had 
been missing so she could make a cash withdrawal a minute later.
Cloning the chip of a card, if this is even possible, certainly isnt something that can 
easily be done. I dont think this is the explanation for what has happened here. Even 
if someone had been able to clone the card (which I dont accept), it is highly unlikely 
that they then chose to use the cloned card in the same locations and within 
minutes of Mrs W making her own transactions using her genuine card. 
Ive considered whether the card and PIN were used by a third party. On balance, I 
find this very unlikely as, firstly, someone would have had to remove her card and 
return it to Mrs W each time it was used without her knowledge, repeatedly between 
24 May and 5 June 2020. And, I think its very unlikely that someone could have 
done this, particularly within such short periods of time, without her having noticed.
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me how Mrs Ws PIN number might have 
been compromised. Shes told us that nobody else had access to it and said she had 
no unusual calls, or visits at that time. I also think its particularly unlikely that anyone 
could have guessed the PIN correctly on the first attempt.
Ive considered whether someone could have observed Mrs W using her PIN when 
she last used it on 22 May 2020. But as the first disputed transaction didnt happen 
until two days later, Im not persuaded this was the case here.
And even if Mrs W had been observed making one of her genuine transactions, and 
her PIN seen by someone else, it doesnt explain how her card could have been 
taken and replaced without her noticing.I note that Mrs W said she asked for an increased overdraft as she knew she was 
close to her limit. So, she knew there was money in her account available to 
withdraw after shed received these funds. And as no one made any balance enquiry 
between 24 and 30 May 2020 only Mrs W and her partner were aware of this.
All the disputed transactions were well below the accounts daily withdrawal limit of 
£500. This pattern doesnt suggest they were the actions of someone trying to 
access as much money as quickly as possible which is the behaviour Id typically 
expect of a fraudster.
Finally, there was still money available in Mrs Ws account after the date of the last 
disputed transaction. So, Im not persuaded that these were the actions of an 
opportunist whod gained access to the card and returned it each time because I 
wouldve expected to see all the available money being withdrawn.
Given that Mrs W also informed the police about her transactions, that her account of her 
losses has been consistent throughout, and the fact she subsequently contacted the Co-Op 
to tell them she recognised one transaction shed originally reported as fraudulent, Im 
satisfied she is an honest person. But for all the reasons Ive set out above, Im not 
convinced that someone made these transactions without Mrs Ws knowledge or 
authorisation. I think its quite possible that Mrs W has a genuine, but mistaken belief that 
she didnt authorise the transactions.
I cant say with 100% certainty what happened in relation to the transactions Mrs W 
disputes. But my role is to decide whether the Co-Ops decision to hold Mrs W liable for 
them was fair and reasonable. And based on the available evidence, I think that it was.
So, I think the Co-Ops decision not to refund the transactions is fair and Im not going to tell 
them they need to do more to resolve her complaint. Because on balance, I think its more 
likely than not that Mrs W authorised the transactions. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2020.
 
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman