DRN-3557878
The complaint
Mr E complains that ReAssure Limited (ReAssure) will not honour the Guaranteed Minimum 
Pension (GMP) he had been previously quoted, and will only pay him a lesser amount.
What happened
Mr E had a personal pension held with Legal & General (L&G). This was a Section 32 Buy 
Out plan and came about when he transferred the benefits away from a previous employers 
occupational pension scheme (OPS). 
As a result of a business acquisition, Mr Es personal pension was transferred from L&G to 
ReAssure. But before the transfer, in November 2018 and July 2020 Mr E received letters 
from L&G stating that his GMP at his 65th birthday would be worth £7,287.14 per year.
On 10 September 2021 ReAssure told him his GMP at his 65th birthday would be £6,716.84. 
As this differed from the amount hed previously been quoted by L&G Mr E asked for 
confirmation in writing. 
In November 2021 ReAssure wrote to Mr E and confirmed his GMP would be £6,716.84 per 
year. It said it had confirmed the amount due with HMRC, and it explained the discrepancy 
had come about by L&G mistakenly using an additional year in its calculations.
Mr E complained to ReAssure, stating it should honour the amount hed been previously 
given by L&G. In its final response letter ReAssure acknowledged and apologised for the 
delay in providing the confirmation of the GMP he was due, and recognised that L&G had 
made a mistake in its calculations. But it confirmed the GMP ReAssure had subsequently 
quoted was correct. In recognition of the distress and inconvenience hed been caused by 
L&Gs error, and the delays in providing him with the valuation, ReAssure offered Mr E a 
total of £350 compensation.
Mr E remained dissatisfied so brought the complaint to our service. But having considered 
everything our Investigator didnt think ReAssure needed to do anything more. He thought 
that although L&G had made an error in its calculation of Mr Es GMP, it wouldnt be fair to 
insist that ReAssure pay him this amount as he was never entitled to it. And he also thought 
ReAssures offer of £350 compensation was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
But Mr E didnt agree. He said he was not being treated fairly, as statements given to him by 
L&G were unequivocal and gave him a guarantee of income. And this guarantee should not 
be broken. As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the findings of the investigator, for broadly the same reasons. 
Im satisfied that ReAssure dont need to do anything more. Ill explain. 
Firstly, I think it will be helpful to explain what a GMP is and how it works.
State Earning Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) was a top-up to the basic state pension 
payable at the consumers state pension age. This meant that in addition to their basic state 
pension, consumers would also receive a SERPS pension at retirement. A consumer 
qualified for SERPS by being employed, and the benefits were built up by National 
Insurance contributions (NIC) made by both the consumer and their employer. So the 
amount of SERPS was dependent on the consumers earnings.
But some occupational schemes (OPS), such as Mr Es previous employers scheme, chose 
to opt-out of SERPS. So instead of building up an additional state pension, additional 
benefits could be built up by redirecting some of their NIC to the OPS. But in order to do this, 
the OPS would have to agree to pay the employee a minimum level of benefits at the state 
pension age. This was known as the GMP and was to ensure a consumer didnt lose out as 
a result of the scheme being contracted out of SERPS.
When Mr E transferred the benefits away from his OPS, the new provider, L&G, was obliged 
to agree to pay Mr E an annual pension of at least the GMP when he reached 65 years old, 
irrespective of the value of his pension fund when he took the benefits. So L&G, and now 
ReAssure, were obliged to honour the GMP.
When ReAssure investigated why the GMP it had calculated was significantly less than Mr E 
had been quoted by L&G, it found that L&G had counted an additional year of non-SERPS 
contributions in its calculations. ReAssure contacted HMRC to confirm the correct GMP, and 
it agreed the figure ReAssure had quoted Mr E was correct.
So on balance, Im satisfied that the GMP of £6,716.84 quoted by ReAssure was correct, 
and L&G had made an error in the figure it told Mr E in 2018 and 2020. But what I need to 
decide, is if I think ReAssure have acted fairly in refusing to honour the incorrect figure 
quoted by L&G. And I think it has been fair.
The role of our service is to identify if any errors have occurred. And where one or more has 
been identified, we aim to put the consumer back in the position they wouldve been if the 
error hadnt happened, whilst being fair to all those involved.
It is clear that an error has occurred here. L&G has made a mistake in its calculation, and 
quoted Mr E an inflated GMP. But this was an error, and Mr E was never entitled to this 
inflated amount. He was always only entitled to a GMP of £6,716.84, so if I were to require 
ReAssure to honour the erroneously inflated figure, Id be putting Mr E into a significantly 
better position than he wouldve been in had the error not occurred.  And whilst I can 
understand why Mr E feels hes entitled to this, I cannot agree that this is a fair outcome.
Mr E hasnt lost out financially, but he has suffered a loss of expectation. I can quite 
understand the distress hes felt when first being told that his pension income was to be 
significantly less than what hed been led to believe, and then this being exacerbated by 
delays in being told the correct figure and an explanation for the error. So I agree Mr E 
should be paid some compensation to reflect the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused.  But having considered the circumstances, I think the offer of £350 made by 
ReAssure is fair and reasonable and in line with what our Service would expect, so I dont 
think ReAssure need to do anything more here. 
My final decision
As a result of all of the above, I do not require ReAssure Limited to do anything more in 
relation to this complaint, but it should pay Mr E the £350 compensation it has previously offered if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman