DRN-3874016
The complaint
Mrs C says Scottish Friendly Assurance Society Limited (Scottish Friendly) hasnt provided 
her with proper redress for mis-selling her a Free Standing Additional Voluntary Contribution 
(FSAVC) pension plan in 1993. 
Mrs C is represented by It IS Your Money Ltd (IIYM).
What happened
Theres no dispute about the background to this case. Following a complaint from Mrs C, 
Scottish Friendly accepted that, based on the evidence available, in 1993 it shouldve 
advised Mrs C to make additional contributions to her employers defined benefit (DB) 
scheme. Instead it had recommended she take out an FSAVC.
On 23 June 2022, Scottish Friendly sent a letter to Mrs Cs representative outlining its 
redress approach and calculations. It presented her with two options for taking the 
compensation:
- Option 1: Augmentation of the plan - units added to the plan with a total bid value of 
£4189.84; or 
- Option 2: Cash sum payable of £3,561.36.
IIYM asserted that the offer Scottish Friendly made was unfair. It said:
The business has concluded that the consumer should have started purchasing added 
years in 1994 and had she done so, she could have purchased 6 years and 232 days. This 
is a notional figure. What has complicated the calculation is that in 2008, the consumer did 
start an added years contract with the NHS but it is our opinion that because she started this 
later than she should have, it was not as cost effective. In other words, she was paying a 
high price for the years that she was now buying.
The business are trying to limit their liability by over complicating and offset some of the 
additional years she has actually bought against the notional value of the years she should 
have bought with the FSAVC contribution.
To put things right for the poor advice the business gave, we feel, they should be paying the 
consumer the notional value of the added years she could have bought with the FSAVC 
contribution. We believe that the added years she actually bought from 2008 onwards are 
actually unconnected to the 1993 mis-selling claim.
Any award they make is simply a notional value and therefore it would not be a case of her 
being in excess of maximum service
Conversely, although Scottish Friendly recognised that Mrs Cs circumstances were more 
complicated than in some cases, it believed its redress proposal to be fair.
An Investigator considered Mrs Cs case. He didnt uphold it. He thought the firms 
calculations were in line with what the regulator required. IIYM disagreed. As both parties 
couldnt agree with the Investigators view, Mrs Cs case has been passed to me to review 
afresh and to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the matters complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
I should note, this Service isnt a checking service. We dont employ actuaries to review 
redress calculations. However, Ive considered the information we do have and Id note the 
calculation appears in line with the relevant guidelines. This includes taking into account Mrs 
C bought added years herself from 2008. And Ive not seen anything which makes me think 
there is something obviously wrong with the approach taken.
I give weight to Scottish Friends position because it sought an assessment from an 
independent actuarial professional service. This agent produced a detailed analysis. IIYM 
hasnt provided the same level of evidence. It hasnt done enough to demonstrate the 
proposal on redress is unreasonable or incorrect.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out, Im not upholding Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman