DRN-2634647
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited unfairly defaulted her account.
What happened
Mrs C took out a car hire purchase with a business that I will call F. When Mrs C was made 
redundant, she asked F if she could end the agreement early and return the car. 
Mrs C says she knew she would need to pay the outstanding balance over time but 
understood that a voluntary termination marker would be placed on her credit file. Mrs C 
says she always made payments on time so was unhappy to find a default and not a 
voluntary termination marker on her credit file.
The investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Cs complaint be upheld. He said that as Mrs C 
didnt pay the outstanding balance in time, it was reasonable of Link to default her account.
Mrs C doesnt agree with the investigators recommendation. She says F didnt ask her to 
repay the outstanding balance within 28 days as it was aware of her circumstances. Mrs C 
says she didnt receive a letter telling her about the default.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs C previously complained to this service about F but after we confirmed that Link applied 
the default, Mrs C made a new complaint about Link. My decision only deals with Mrs Cs 
complaint as it relates to Link. However, I have had to consider information from the earlier 
complaint in order to decide whether Link has done anything wrong.
I appreciate that Mrs C says she didnt receive a letter telling her a default would be applied 
to her account but from the evidence Ive seen, F sent two letters in July 2017 informing her 
of its intention to register default information if the outstanding balance wasnt paid by mid-
August 2017. 
There are also contact notes from F which say that it told Mrs C about the date for payment 
of the balance. And that F would send Mrs Cs account to Link if she hadnt paid the 
outstanding balance in time. The notice of assignment that Link sent to Mrs C in August 
2017 also explained that her hire purchase agreement was terminated as a result of her 
default. So, I cant reasonably find Mrs C hadnt been told about the default.
Once Link took over the outstanding account from F and Mrs C hadnt paid the remaining 
balance in full, I dont find it was wrong to apply the default. 
I dont underestimate the impact the default will have on Mrs Cs ability to obtain credit in the 
future, but I havent found that Link made a mistake. This means I dont require it to make 
any amendments to her credit file.
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2021.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman