DRN-3433544
The complaint
Mr and Mrs D complaint that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) has turned down a cancellation 
claim they made on a travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs D have travel insurance as a benefit of an account with their building society.
In 2019, Mr and Mrs D booked a trip abroad to a country Ill call N. They were due to travel 
between 2 August and 5 September 2020. The trip was intended to celebrate a family 
birthday. Mr and Mrs D paid their travel agent the deposit for their trip.
However, as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, Mr and Mrs Ds trip was deferred until 18 
August 2021. Due to ongoing restrictions though, it appeared the trip might need to be 
deferred again until August 2022. And Mr and Mrs D would need to pay the balance of the 
trip to the travel agent. As the family birthday had passed in 2020 and as Mr and Mrs D say 
their health had declined, they cancelled the trip and made a claim on their policy for their 
lost deposit costs.
UKI turned down the claim. It said that during a call with one of its claims handlers, Mr and 
Mrs D had told it that they no longer wanted to go to N and planned to travel to another 
country instead. So it concluded that Mr and Mrs Ds trip had been cancelled because they 
no longer wanted to travel to N. UKI said that cancellation for this reason was specifically 
excluded by the policy terms.
Mr and Mrs D were unhappy with UKIs decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint.
Our investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs Ds complaint should be upheld. She acknowledged 
that the terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy did cover the Foreign, Commonwealth & 
Development Office (FCDO) advising against all but essential travel to a policyholders 
destination within 28 days of their departure. 
But in this case, she thought the reason Mr and Mrs D had cancelled the trip was because 
they didnt want to put their lives on hold by further postponing it until the following year. And 
theyd indicated that they had other travel plans. Theyd also told UKI that Mr D would find 
the trip to N physically demanding. While the investigator acknowledged why Mr and Mrs D 
wouldve wanted to cancel the trip, she didnt think their reasons for doing so were covered 
by the policy terms. And she noted that the policy terms specifically excluded a 
policyholders disinclination to travel. So she didnt think UKI had acted unfairly by 
concluding that Mr and Mrs Ds claim wasnt covered.
Mr and Mrs D disagreed. They said they were disappointed, but they felt theyd had no 
option but to cancel in order that their lives could be taken off-hold. It wasnt that theyd 
specifically wanted to travel to another country, but theyd had other plans, all of which had 
been put on hold while the travel agent messed them around. Theyd hoped UKI would take 
a more understanding approach, rather than applying the letter of the law. They couldnt 
provide medical evidence of Mr Ds decline in health and Mrs D had also developed a health 
condition. The prime reason for travel had been for a milestone family birthday and Covid-19 
had prevented this celebration. Mr D also told us that hed found UKI unhelpful when hed 
made a claim abroad a few years previously.
The complaints been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs D, I think it was fair for UKI to turn 
down their claim and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the 
terms of Mr and Mrs Ds policy and the circumstances of their claim, to decide whether UKI 
treated them fairly.
Ive first turned to consider the policy terms and conditions, as these form the basis of their 
contract with UKI. The policy provides cover for a policyholders unused trip costs if they 
have to cancel their trip because of one of the listed, specific insured events UKI has 
chosen to cover. I think the following of those specified events could be relevant to Mr and 
Mrs Ds claim:
Death, illness or injury: the death, serious injury or illness of any insured person, your 
travelling companion, a close relative, a colleague or anyone outside your home area that 
you had planned to stay with.
FCO travel advice All but essential travel: in the 28 days before your trip start date the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office advise against All but essential travel to your destination. 
The advice must have come into force after you opened your account, or booked your trip 
whichever is later.
Natural disaster: you are unable to use your pre-booked and pre-paid accommodation due to 
the immediately surrounding area being badly affected by a natural disaster..
The policy also sets out a specific list of events which UKI has chosen to exclude from cover. 
One of these is:
Any claim due to you not wanting to travel.
Theres no dispute that Mr and Mrs D were unable to take their original planned trip to N in 
August 2020 as a result of global travel restrictions resulting from the unprecedented and 
unforeseen circumstances surrounding Covid-19. These restrictions included FCDO advice 
against all but essential travel. Its also common ground that Mr and Mrs D agreed with their 
travel agent that theyd transfer their booking to the following year and travel in August 2021. 
This meant that they didnt suffer any financial loss for the cost of their deposit in 2020.
It's also clear that during 2021, many global border restrictions remained in place worldwide. 
And so I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Ds travel agent offered them a further chance to 
transfer their booking to 2022. Had they taken up this option, again, thered have been no 
financial loss of their deposit costs. Instead though, Mr and Mrs D chose to cancel the 
holiday.Like the investigator, Ive listened carefully to the call between Mr D and one of UKIs claims 
handlers. In brief, during the call, Mr D explained that he and Mrs D couldnt keep putting 
their lives on hold waiting for the trip. He said that the tour would be physically demanding 
and he told the claims handler about surgery hed previously undergone which could make 
the trip difficult. And he said that he and Mrs D had plans to travel to another country at 
broadly the same time the rescheduled trip to N would take place. 
The claims handler told Mr D that if he could provide medical evidence which showed hed 
be unfit to take the planned trip, he could obtain this and send it onto the claims team. I think 
this was a reasonable suggestion from the claims handler, as cancellation due to a 
policyholders illness or injury is something the policy covers. So if UKI could be satisfied that 
Mr Ds health would leave him unfit to travel as planned, this is something it couldve 
considered further. However, Mr and Mrs D havent been able to provide such medical 
evidence. And so I dont think UKI acted unreasonably when it concluded that they hadnt 
shown Mr D wouldnt have been fit to take the trip to N.
It's apparent too that when Mr and Mrs D opted to cancel the trip rather than to further defer 
it, it was significantly more than 28 days before their departure date wouldve been in 2022. 
And at that point, it wouldve been too early to tell if any travel restrictions would still apply in 
over a years time which would prevent the trip from taking place. Or whether a natural 
disaster would prevent them from making use of their pre-booked accommodation.  In these 
particular circumstances then, I dont think I could fairly or reasonably direct UKI to step 
away from a strict interpretation of the policy terms on these points.
Mr D told the claims handler that the main reason for the cancellation of the trip was 
because he and Mrs D couldnt continue to put their lives on hold any longer and that they 
had other plans. While I entirely understand their position, this simply isnt something which 
is covered by the cancellation section of the policy. I dont think UKI acted unfairly when it 
concluded that there was no insured event, at that time, which was preventing Mr and Mrs D 
from travelling to N in 2022. And I think it was reasonable for it to conclude that the main 
reason Mr and Mrs D cancelled their trip was because they no longer wanted to travel to N. 
As Ive set out above, this is specifically excluded by the policy terms.
Overall, despite my natural sympathy with Mr and Mrs Ds position, I find that UKI handled 
their claim fairly. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds upon which I could direct 
UKI to cover their cancellation costs.My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman