DRN-2888447
The complaint
Mrs O complains about the advice given to her late husband Mr O by the On-Line 
Partnership Limited in respect of a family pension trust (FPT). To resolve the complaint she 
wants a refund of all charges and a fee-free transfer the plan to a lower cost provider.
Mrs O is represented in his complaint by her son Mr O1, who has lasting power of attorney 
(LPA). He is also a trustee of the FPT and the executor of his fathers estate. 
The advice was given by Colin Hookey Investment Consultants Limited which is an 
authorised representative of the On-Line Partnership Limited (OLP) which is responsible 
for answering the complaint. For ease of reading Ive just referred to OLP in the decision. 
What happened
In 2008 aged 74 Mr O took advice from OLP in respect of his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with provider J valued at around £137,600. Legislation at the time required 
pension benefits to be secured by age 75. Mr Os SIPP only gave him the option of an 
alternatively secured pension, an annuity or to transfer to another provider.
OLP recommended the fund be transferred to provider R and used to set up a FPT. The 
initial investment in February 2009 of £112,697 provided Mr O with income guaranteed for 
ten years, initially £11,313 per year, which would increase in line with inflation if the fund 
growth allowed. Mrs O made a notional contribution of £100 and was entitled to 100% of the 
death benefits. Their two children, Mr O1 and his sister, also made contributions of £500 
each, enabling them to continue with the FPT after their parents death, if they wished. The 
arrangement required regular actuarial reviews at least every three years, to assess its 
viability. Following the first review in February 2012 the fund value had fallen to £76,054 so 
Mr Os annual income was reduced to £7,608. 
Mr O sadly died in July 2012 at which point Mrs O became the beneficiary of the plan, then 
valued at £71,515. The benefits could be taken in a number of ways. Mrs O chose option B 
Continuation of Payment of Members Scheme Benefit under Guarantee which meant she 
was entitled to the same annual income (initially £7,608) as Mr O for the remainder of the 
ten-year guarantee period, subject to the same conditions. Mr O1 was appointed a trustee to 
the FPT in September 2012. 
Mr O1 was concerned at the level of charges on the R product and wanted to move the 
plan to a lower cost provider, but OLP said this wasnt possible until after February 2019 
when the guarantee period expired. 
Mr O1 worried that by then the fund would be so eroded it may not be sufficient to meet the 
payments. Theyd incur substantial fees whether they remained in or exited the scheme, as 
the cost of facilitating the transfer would be £1,200 or 4.3% of the fund, which by June 2019 
had reduced to around £27,644. The family believes the annual fees are excessive and 
disproportionate for the size of the fund. 
Mr O1 raised his concerns with the OLP advisor in 2015 and 2016 but didnt receive a 
satisfactory response. Correspondence continued over the years until Mr O1 made a formal 
complaint in June 2019. OLP rejected the complaint saying Mrs O had understood the option 
she chose in 2012 following her husbands death, and the complaint was therefore time-
barred. 
Mr O1 complained to this service in September 2019 and one of our investigators looked into 
it. He thought the complaint had been made in time, as Mr O1 had expressed dissatisfaction 
within six years of Mrs O becoming a beneficiary in 2012. So he then went on to consider the 
merits of the complaint. He understood the concerns about the fund not being sufficient to 
meet the income payments but explained the guarantee related to the term not the level of 
income, which was reviewed regularly by an actuary and could be reduced. He said in 2015 
the OLP advisor had arranged for there to be no more reviews until the end of the guarantee 
period. And that following changes in pension legislation Mrs O had the option of moving to a 
dependents flexi-access drawdown plan. He couldnt comment on the fees, provided they 
were charged in line with the agreement. The plan had been set up in 2008 to meet Mr Os 
circumstances at age 75 and he couldnt say it wasnt suitable. So overall he didnt uphold 
the complaint and so didnt require OLP to refund any charges or permit Mrs O to transfer 
the plan to another provider free of charge.
Mr O1 disagreed saying the guarantee period made no sense if the level of income wasnt 
guaranteed. So he believed the family had been given misleading advice. As agreement 
couldnt be reached its been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Was the complaint made in time?
Before I go on to consider the merits of a complaint I must first be satisfied we have the legal 
powers to do so. In other words, that the complaint falls within our jurisdiction. In this 
complaint OLP says the complaint was brought too late as it was raised in 2019 which is 
more than six years since the event took place and more than three years since Mrs O 
wouldve known she had cause to complain. The investigator said OLPs records referred to 
correspondence from Mr O1 about the level of fees and the wish to transfer between 2012 
and 2015. And that hed effectively raised the complaint by expressing dissatisfaction in his 
letter of 20 July 2016 which he felt OLP should have considered to be a complaint at the 
time. 
The rules this service must follow are set by the Financial Conduct Authority and are known 
as the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules. DISP rule 2.8.2(2) says that where a business 
doesnt consent to us looking at a complaint we cant consider it if its been brought;
more than six years after the event complained of; or, if later
more than three years after the consumer knew, or ought reasonably to have been 
aware, they had cause to complain
Unless the complaint was referred to the respondent business or to the Ombudsman service 
within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some other record of the complaint 
having been received.  The record only has to be of the dissatisfaction being raised, the 
business doesnt need to have responded to the complaint formally.
I can see Mr O1 wrote to R in 2013 asking for a breakdown of fees, which was provided. 
There might be an implied dissatisfaction with the level of fees, but I cant consider this to 
stop the clock in terms of a complaint against OLP. Mr O1 told our investigator he initially made his complaint to OLP by phone in early 2015 which was responded to by letter dated 3 
June 2015. It seems this letters main purpose was to provide the accounts for the pension 
scheme for the year to April 2015, but the advisor does go on to respond to some points 
raised by Mr O1. 
One paragraph reads Firstly they (meaning the scheme actuaries) are not going to require 
any more of those expensive reviews to be carried out until the end of the guarantee period 
which is 12 February 2019.  And goes on .I persuaded them it was  little wrong to 
charge £2-£3,000 for the scheme as it is at the moment  my bold emphasis. 
I think this supports Mr O1s position that hed raised concerns about the level of fees 
eroding the fund. The letter then goes on to set out some options open to Mrs O after the 
guarantee period. It also explained that (at that time) the legislation didnt allow a scheme 
pension to be transferred.
Ive also looked at Mr O1s letter to OLP dated 20 July 2016 in which he wrote I am very 
concerned to see that the value of the fund has fallen by nearly £11,000 over the past year 
despite my mother only having received benefits of £7,608. This seems to have been 
caused by the continuing high level of administration fees and adverse investment 
performance. Mr O1 doesnt say he wants the letter to be treated as a formal complaint. But 
he didnt need to, as the DISP rules define a complaint as:
any oral or written expression of dissatisfaction, whether justified or not, from, or on behalf 
of, a person about the provision of, or failure to provide, a financial service which alleges that 
the complainant has suffered (or may suffer) financial loss, material distress or material 
inconvenience
Like the investigator I think when Mr O1 used the phrase very concerned and mentioned 
the fall in the value of the fund due to what he described as the high level of fees he was 
expressing dissatisfaction and OLP had a record of him doing so as they provided us with a 
copy of Mr O1s letter. So Im satisfied Mr O1 raised a complaint within six years of the event 
being complained about which is when Mrs O claimed benefits in 2012. Mrs O is a 
consumer, the firm is regulated, and the complaint relates to a regulated activity performed 
in the UK. In my view the complaint is therefore within the jurisdiction of this service and we 
can consider the merits. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Have Mrs O and the estate of Mr O been treated unfairly?
Having decided the complaint was made in time, Ive considered all the available evidence 
and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
A FPT is a Scheme Pension a type of private pension scheme, independently established 
for the benefit of its members. The suitability letter from 2008 when Mr O needed to decide 
what to do about his pension at age 75 explained that he could use the funds from his SIPP 
to purchase an annuity, which could also have a guarantee period and allow for a spouse 
pension. 
But an annuity offers no flexibility whereas a FPT provides a more streamlined process on 
the members death and gave access to options not available under Mr Os SIPP. The funds 
were invested in line with Mr Os attitude to risk (ATR) which was assessed as on the 
cautious side of balanced.Although Mr O1 and his sister made small contributions the FPT was set up primarily for the 
benefit of Mr O (and Mrs O after his death). The level of income derived from the fund value, 
anticipated investment performance and an actuarys view of Mr Os life expectancy based 
on his age, gender (permitted at the time) and state of health. 
In February 2009 the fund value of £112,697 was deemed sufficient to provide income for a 
guaranteed ten-year period, initially set at £11,313. To ensure it continued to meet its 
objectives the FPT was subject to regular reviews, at least every three years, after which the 
level of income may be reduced to ensure the fund sustained income for at least the ten-
year guarantee period, as set out in the suitability letter. By the first review in 2012 Mr O had 
received three years income and the fund value had reduced to £76,054, so the annual 
income was reduced to £7,608. 
Mrs O was named to receive 100% of the death benefits, and as Mr O passed away within 
the guarantee period, she was entitled to the same level of income as hed received for the 
remaining guarantee period, rather than receive a reduced (typically 50%) spouse pension. 
As far as I can see the FPT met Mr Os requirements while he was alive and provided an 
income for Mrs O following his death, as he wished. 
Fees and charges 
OLP charged Mr O an advice fee of just over £4,125 which was deducted from the initial 
fund value. The ongoing fees were set out in Rs client agreement which Mr O signed on 10 
October 2008. In addition to the initial establishment fees of £1,100 plus £105 per member, 
there were annual administration fees comprising a trustee fee of £260 plus £755 per 
member (i.e x four) which is £3,280 per year, and a three-year review fee of £180 per 
member (£720). And if the benefits were transferred out the fee would be £245 per member 
for cash or £600 per member for in specie. The agreement states the annual fees will rise 
each year in line with INAE (Index of National Average Earnings, a measure of inflation), 
additional fees are reviewed every January and all fees are subject to VAT. The fees are 
fixed amounts rather than levied as a percentage of the fund value and are reviewed 
annually which was set out at the time of the advice and agreed to by Mr O. 
I understand Mr O1 wanted to transfer the remaining fund to a lower cost provider, but this 
wasnt possible within the guarantee period. Wed consider it unfair if the provider withdrew a 
guarantee, so it would also be unfair to expect them to allow the fund to be transferred to 
another provider within that period. And as OLP explained it mightve proved difficult to find 
an alternative provider which would accept a transfer of a scheme with guarantees. Since 
the changes to pension legislation in 2015 Mrs O can switch to a flexi-access drawdown plan 
but any withdrawals would be taxed at her marginal rate of 40%. And the transfer would be 
subject to the fees as set out above. 
Mr O1 feels its unfair theyll pay what he considers to be excessive fees whether they 
transfer or remain. Unless investment performance outweighs them, the deduction of fees 
will have the effect of eroding the fund value. This service doesnt have the power to set fees 
or determine whether they are excessive, so long as they were clear and not mis-leading. 
While I appreciate nobody likes paying fees, as far as I can see the charges are in line with 
the agreement.
Income and guarantee period
When the FPT started the fund of £112,697 was considered sufficient to provide income for 
at least ten years, initially of £11,313 per year, more than one tenth of the fund value. The 
income payments could theoretically rise with inflation if investment performance allowed. Mr O risk appetite was quite cautious which is likely to limit investment performance, so the 
growth wasnt sufficient to allow for indexing. Assumptions about investment performance 
might have been reasonable at the time, bearing in mind Bank of England base rate was 
then around 5.5% but has reduced significantly over time (below 1% since 2016). 
At the point of the first actuarial review in February 2009 Mr O had received three years 
income (around £33,939) so the fund would inevitably be significantly depleted, even if 
investment performance exceeded the charges. The report showed the value had reduced to 
£76,054, which wouldnt support the same level of income for a further seven years, which is 
why it was reduced to £7,608. The actuary advised the scheme trustees take advice 
annually to ensure the level of income remains affordable in view of investment 
performance, in addition to the formal reviews every three years. 
I understand Mr O1s point about the guarantee period being meaningless as the income 
amount wasnt guaranteed. But I think if Mr O had wished to secure a guaranteed level of 
income for ten years, its likely to have been initially set far lower than £11,313, so Mr O 
wouldve received less income from the fund while he was alive. 
Following Mr Os death in 2012 OLP reviewed Mrs Os circumstances including her assets, 
income, lifetime mortgage and state pension. She was a higher rate taxpayer. 
Mrs O was given these options in respect of income the FPT: 
A. Lump Sum Death Benefit whereby Mrs O could take the entire balance of the fund in 
cash (£71,715), but thered have been a 55% tax charge meaning shed only receive 
£32,272;
B. Continuation of Payment of Members Scheme Pension under Guarantee providing 
an annual pension of 7,608;
C. Death Benefits as Dependants Scheme Pension, an annual pension of 5,459
D. Death Benefits as Dependants Capped Drawdown, an initial amount of up to4,733;
E. Lifetime Annuity.
Mrs O, helped by her family members, chose option B which meant she was entitled to the 
same annual income as Mr O. Mrs O was made aware the plan was subject to regular 
reviews and that these could reduce the level of income. This was set out in the declaration 
Mrs O signed on 3 September 2019, which contained ten bullet points, one of which read 
Future income must be reviewed at least every 3 years and the revised income level set by 
the Actuary must be accepted. So I think Mrs O knew when she first started receiving 
income from the plan that it could be revised if the actuary determined it necessary, so I 
cant say she was treated unfairly. 
Summary
As he approached age 75 Mr O had to make a decision about his SIPP which he couldnt 
have continued. OLP has admitted a FPT was relatively expensive but weighed this against 
the benefits for Mr O and Mrs O. Mr O couldve made other arrangements, although these 
wouldve been more limited than whats available since 2015 pension freedom legislation. 
But Ive seen nothing to show the establishment of a FPT was inherently unsuitable to meet 
his objectives, or that he was unhappy with it. 
As Mr O was already relatively elderly at the time of the advice, with a younger wife it was 
reasonable to suggest a ten-year guarantee period to ensure Mrs O received a level of 
income in excess of the spouse pension should Mr O pass away within ten years. It was 
made clear to Mr O and later to Mrs O that the plan was subject to regular reviews at least every three years. And as the annual income was initially set relatively high its not 
unexpected that this would reduce over time, particularly if investment performance didnt 
meet initial expectations. 
So while I understand Mr O1 will remain unhappy I dont uphold this complaint and make no 
award. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr O 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 February 2022.
 
Sarah Milne
Ombudsman