DRN-1437368
The complaint
Mr M complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc sent letters to his previous address despite 
having been informed of his change of address. Hes also unhappy it wrote to him after hed 
been declared bankrupt.
What happened
Mr M held an account with Capital One, which he opened in March 2013. On 23 February 
2017 Capital One received a letter from a company regarding a Trust Deed relating to Mr M. 
This letter contained a different address for Mr M than the one Capital One had registered.
On 28 February 2017 Mr M informed Capital One that the address it had registered for him 
was his ex-partners address where he was no longer living. He provided it with his new 
address and asked it to communicate with him there instead. However, later than day 
Capital One reviewed the letter it had received on 23 February 2017. And it wrote to Mr M at 
his previous address in error to ask him to contact it to confirm his address details. On 24 
November 2018 Capital One wrote to Mr M, again at his former address, to ask him to 
update his address. It said this was an automated letter.
In July 2019 Mr M was made bankrupt. Some of the debt that was written off in Mr Ms 
bankruptcy proceedings related to what he owed Capital One. So, on 2 September 2019, a 
company that had dealt with Mr Ms bankruptcy proceedings wrote to Capital One to inform it 
of his financial circumstances. In its correspondence this company referred to Mr M living at 
an address which didnt match the address on Capital Ones records. So, on 7 September 
2019, Capital One wrote to Mr M to at the address provided to it on 2 September. And it 
asked him to confirm his address.
On receiving this correspondence Mr M contacted Capital One. He was unhappy it had 
contacted him about his account in circumstances where it was aware he had been made 
bankrupt and he wanted to know how it had obtained his new address. During this telephone 
call Mr M learned that Capital One had written to his ex-partners address in error on around 
28 February 2017 and 24 November 2018. 
After Capital One investigated Mr Ms concerns it accepted it had made mistakes in writing 
to him at his previous address in 2017 and 2018. It apologised for its errors. But it said it its 
letter to Mr M on 7 September 2019 had been sent correctly because it had been made 
aware of a new address for him, which it needed to verify.  
Being dissatisfied with Capital Ones response to his complaint Mr M referred it to our 
service. Our investigator empathised with Mr M but thought Capital One had dealt with his 
complaint fairly and they didnt think it needed to do anything. But Mr M disagreed and asked 
for an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.The first part of Mr Ms complaint is about Capital One sending him correspondence to his 
previous address. So, Ill focus on this issue first.
Capital One accepts it sent correspondence to Mr Ms previous address on around 28 
February 2017 and 24 November 2018 in error. I understand that this would cause Mr M to 
have concerns. Its an address he used to share with his ex-partner and hes told our service 
hes worried his ex-partner has been provided with sensitive and confidential information 
relating to his finances. So, I can see why hes unhappy.
I appreciate that Mr M feels that, in sending correspondence to his previous address, Capital 
One breached data protection. But Mr M would have to raise any concerns regarding a 
breach of data protection with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). This is because 
the ICO is better placed than this service to look at an organisations handling of personal 
data. Its not our role to decide whether a breach of data protection has taken place. So, I 
wont be commenting on this part of Mr Ms complaint as this issue falls outside of our 
jurisdiction.
However, having seen the correspondence Capital One sent to Mr Ms former address in 
error, I wish to reassure him that it doesnt contain any account sensitive information. So, no 
information relating to Mr Ms finances has been shared with his ex-partner. I hope this puts 
Mr Ms mind at ease.
Ill turn now to the second part of Mr Ms complaint, which is that Capital One contacted him 
following his bankruptcy. I can see that hes raised concerns about how Capital One 
obtained his new address as he hasnt shared it with Capital One.
Ive seen the letter Capital One sent Mr M, which is dated 7 September 2019. Its addressed 
to him at the address Capital One was given by the company that wrote to it on 2 September 
2019. And it asked Mr M to confirm his address. 
I appreciate that Mr M may have been frustrated to receive correspondence from Capital 
One following his bankruptcy. But, the letter he received doesnt make a demand for 
payment as Capital One was already aware Mr M had been declared bankrupt. And, bearing 
in mind Capital One had been made aware of a new address for Mr M, I think it was 
reasonable for it to want to verify his address. This is Capital Ones procedure, which its 
entitled to set and follow.  So, I cant fairly find it made a mistake in writing to Mr M in the 
overall circumstances of this complaint.
As I think Capital One has dealt with Mr Ms complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any 
further action. I realise Mr M will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings to an end 
what we, in trying to resolve his dispute with Capital One informally, can do for him. Im sorry 
we cant help Mr M any further with this.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2020.
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman