DRN-1310692
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the way Highway Insurance Company Limited handled his claim 
to repair his motorhome under his motor policy following an accident. 
What happened
 After Mr T made to his claim to Highway, it asked one of its approved repairers to look at the 
damage to Mr Ts motorhome and give an estimate of the costs to repair it. 
That repairers estimate was £5,349.  Highway then asked its own engineer to review it. 
He reduced the estimate of the costs of the repair to £2,034 as he was of the view it 
that the entire side of the motorhome wouldnt need to be sprayed. He said the side 
panel of Mr Ts motorhome was discoloured prior the accident from general wear 
and tear, and on that basis it wouldnt be right for Highway to fund the cost of re-
spraying the whole motorhome given the repaired side panel wouldnt match the rest 
of the vehicle. 
On that basis Highways engineer decided it couldnt authorise the estimate for the 
repair of Mr Ts motorhome. So Mr T was offered a cash settlement in lieu of the 
repairs of £,034 plus VAT and it waived payment of his excess of £200. 
Mr T obtained his own estimate which said the repairs would cost £4,307.83 to 
include respraying the side of the motorhome. So he didnt think what Highway paid 
as enough and he complained. Highway wouldnt change its stance so he brought 
his complaint to us.
The investigator was of the view that Highway hadnt done anything wrong. Mr T 
disagreed so his complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why.
I do appreciate and understand how frustrated Mr T is about this as its a cherished 
motorhome. However my role and the role of this service is to assess whether Highway 
adhered properly to the terms and conditions of its policy. 
As the investigator explained Mr Ts policy says the following:
We will do the following: Entirely at our discretion and subject to payment of 
the policy  excess, arrange to..
.b) pay you the cost of replacing or repairing the damaged parts, including 
their fitting, or
And more crucially it says:
Not pay the whole cost of any repair or replacement that leaves the vehicle in 
a better condition than before the loss or damage (you will pay part of the cost 
of the repair or replacement).
This is not an unusual term in a motor policy and appears in virtually all of them. In 
insurance law there is no entitlement to whats called betterment. That means 
youre not entitled to have your claim make you better off than before the accident. 
Its clear Mr Ts motorhome wasnt new and as such it would have sustained normal 
wear and tear. And I also appreciate the colour in the panels is in the fibreglass. As 
such it appears the colour in the fibre glass has faded or deteriorated with age. That 
wouldnt be unusual either. 
However Highways duty of repair under this policy is merely to pay the costs of the 
damaged section. Sadly for Mr T that means one panel of his motorhome will look 
different to the rest. In cases like that its industry standard to pay cash in lieu of 
repairs so that Mr T has the cash to repair the actual damage. Highway has no 
obligation to make good any wear and tear issues. No motor policy does. Thats for 
Mr T to deal with. 
So I consider Highway hasnt done anything wrong under the terms and conditions of its 
policy. 
My final decision
 So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman