DRN-3318887
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the service shes received from Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as 
Legal and General (Fairmead) when she made a subsidence claim under her insurance 
policy.
What happened
In September 2016 Ms H reported cracks and damage to her property to Fairmead, the 
provider of her home insurance policy.
Fairmead appointed specialists to investigate the cause of the cracking and damage. 
Investigations were carried out, which included analysis of the ground, and it was 
determined that clay shrinkage subsidence was causing the property to move and crack.
As Ms H had only been insured with Fairmead for a short time, they attempted to identify her 
previous insurer, to request a contribution towards the claim. This took some time, and in 
November 2017 Ms Hs previous insurer agreed to contribute.
Fairmead believed the subsidence was due to vegetation owned by the local authority, and 
wanted it removed in order to mitigate further movement to Ms Hs property. Following 
correspondence, the local authority didnt agree that Fairmead had demonstrated their 
vegetation was the cause and asked for monitoring to take place.
Monitoring was carried out however the local authority didnt agree to remove vegetation. 
They said sufficient evidence hadnt been provided by Fairmead in support of their request. 
A repair method was proposed which Ms H didnt agree with. She wanted the property to be 
underpinned and arranged her own survey. 
Fairmead obtained further root samples and mitigation was again started with the local 
authority, requesting vegetation removal, along with further monitoring.
The claim is currently still ongoing, and Fairmead are yet to receive confirmation from the 
local authority whether the vegetation will be removed. Consequently, Fairmead are unable 
to confirm the repair method or commence works until this time, as it will be dependent on 
whether the vegetation is removed.
Ms H raised several complaints during the course of her claim about Fairmeads handling of 
it and the delays. As she remained unhappy, she approached this service.
One of our investigators looked into things and upheld the complaint. He acknowledged that 
Fairmead had paid a total of £350 compensation for the service Ms H had received, but he 
didnt think that was enough. He said there had been avoidable delays of around three years 
caused by Fairmead as a result of how the claim had been handled, and this led to Ms H 
suffering distress and inconvenience over a prolonged period. He also thought that the 
service Ms H had received, including a lack of updates on the claim, had been poor. So, he 
recommended Fairmead should pay a further £1,500 in addition to the £350 theyd already 
offered.
Due to the poor communication Ms H had received throughout the claim, our investigator 
also said Fairmead should provide monthly updates to Ms H going forward about what was 
happening with her claim, and a timeline of proposed actions and next steps. He also noted 
that Fairmead had their own concerns that they didnt have recent monitoring results, which 
the local authority might ask for. Therefore, he said they should complete monitoring of the 
property (which had already started in the interim) to pre-empt the results being requested 
by the local authority in support of Fairmeads latest request for vegetation removal.
Fairmead agreed with all the recommendations except for the level of compensation. They 
thought £1,000 (including the £350 already offered) was a fairer amount.
Ms H also didnt agree overall. Ms H said she thought Fairmead wouldnt comply and would 
push for a repair method she doesnt think will be effective, after theyve received an 
updated position from the local authority.
Our investigator explained to Ms H that as the claim was ongoing, and the local authority 
decision wasnt yet known but would impact on the type of repair, he said he couldnt 
recommend a specific repair type at this stage. But he also said that once the claim has 
moved on and the local authority position is known, if Ms H is unhappy with the proposed 
repairs, we may be able to look at this as a separate new complaint.
As an agreement couldnt be reached overall, an ombudsman was asked for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where Ive referenced actions by Fairmead, Im also referring to other agents appointed by, 
and acting on behalf of, Fairmead during the claim.
Firstly, its important I outline here that at this stage Im not going to direct Fairmead on the 
specific type of repair that needs to be carried out in the future. This is because it depends 
on the local authority agreeing to vegetation and root removal which impacts on the type of 
repair required. And as the local authority decision isnt yet known as the claim is still 
ongoing, the final repair method hasnt yet been decided either, albeit there have been some 
initial discussions. But, as outlined by our investigator, when that point is reached and if 
Ms H remains unhappy with the proposed repair method, we may be able to look at that as a 
separate new complaint.Subsidence claims, due to their nature, can take some time to investigate and carry out 
repairs. This is for a number of reasons, which can cause the process to be relatively long. 
For example, trees causing subsidence can be owned by other parties, and an insurer cant 
then remove them without requesting agreement or permission. And often detailed evidence 
is required to support that request. As subsidence can cause a property to crack and move 
over a period of time, including based on seasonal changes, its not unusual for monitoring 
to be carried out, over an extended period of time, in order to determine whether a property 
is still moving or has settled before repairs are carried out.
However, having said that, although generally its not unusual for subsidence claims to take 
some time, Ms Hs claim was first raised in September 2016 when cracking was noticed, and 
remedial works still havent been completed - over five years later. Generally, this does 
appear to be a long period of time for a subsidence claim to still be ongoing without repairs 
being started.
Im considering whats happened during this time, including whether Fairmead has caused 
any avoidable delays and whether theyve acted fairly and reasonably in all the 
circumstances. But as the claim duration is prolonged and over five years, I dont intend to 
comment on every event, or action, individually. I dont mean this as a discourtesy to either 
party, but they are already aware of the full claim history. So instead, Ill focus on events 
which I think are important in reaching a final decision which is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Having said that, Id like to reassure both parties that Ive considered all the information 
theyve provided when reaching my final decision.
The claim was first raised in September 2016. Specialist reports were completed after this 
including soil samples and a report by an arborist to determine the cause of the subsidence. 
These reports and investigations were completed by February 2017. At that time, the 
damage to Ms Hs property was said to be slight. Monitoring was concluded as not required, 
and vegetation owned by the local authority was believed to be the cause of the subsidence.
I dont think the claim handling by Fairmead up to that time was unreasonable or delayed, 
and things progressed as I wouldve expected them to. However, its a further five years 
since that point, the local authority negotiations havent yet been finalised, and repairs still 
havent been completed.
Ive looked at whats happened and there do appear to have been a number of avoidable 
delays during the course of the claim, and actions or claim handling by Fairmead which have 
caused those days. Ill expand on some of these points below. The information provided by 
Fairmead also indicates they already recognise delays in the claim, and they offered a total 
of £350 compensation. Ill consider if, in all the circumstances, that amount is fair. 
As I said, between the claim being raised and the reports being completed in February 2017, 
I think the claim was handled reasonably in terms of progressing. During this period, 
Fairmead identified that Ms H had made some previous insurance claims, which they 
werent aware of. This needed consideration whether it would have any impact on Ms Hs 
policy and/or the claim. It was confirmed by October 2016 that it wouldnt, and the claim 
could continue as normal. I dont think this specifically impacted on the length of the claim or 
caused any delays.
But, at the time of the claim in 2016, Ms H had only been insured with Fairmead for a few 
months. As subsidence can take time to occur, in specific circumstances a previous insurer 
may pay a contribution toward the claim and repairs alongside the current insurer. This is 
due to the Association of British Insurers (ABI) domestic subsidence agreement. This agreement was in place at the time of Ms Hs claim. And the agreement outlines which 
insurer is responsible for dealing with and settling a claim and at what point, and whether 
any contribution is due from a previous insurer. And during consideration of this, I think 
Fairmead caused avoidable delays in the claim. Ill explain why.
Fairmead carried out a Claims and Underwriting Exchange (CUE) check at the time Ms H 
made the claim. CUE is a database of information which may be relevant to other insurers 
and can show events such as previous claims and policy cancellations. This check is how 
Fairmead identified the previous undisclosed claims that Ive mentioned above. This also 
outlined Ms Hs previous insurer (for several years) was a company Ill call insurer Z. 
Fairmead attempted to contact Ms H to clarify and obtain a policy number for Z so they could 
see if Z would contribute toward the claim under the ABI subsidence agreement. But I can 
see from the file notes that they had issues reaching Ms H.
It does seem that some of these calls were made outside hours when Ms H was available, 
which Fairmead were already aware of, but letters and emails were also sent and messages 
were left. However, these werent returned by Ms H. But, although there were issues with 
reaching Ms H, Fairmeads own internal communication shows they recognised this wasnt 
chased frequently enough and overall was chased for far too long before considering other 
steps.
But, Fairmead were already aware that, on balance, the insurer was Z from the earlier CUE 
check. Whilst there was a gap between policies, it doesnt show any other company insuring 
Ms H for that time. So, this indicates, on balance, that it was likely the same insurer 
Fairmead had already identified. Albeit that when it was eventually confirmed as Z, several 
months later, they did say the policy was in joint names, and so they had difficulty locating it 
at first.
However, during this time of trying to identify the previous insurer and confirming a 
contribution, there was no other action on the claim. No monitoring was completed as it was 
deemed this wasnt needed, but despite this, repairs also werent completed either. And it 
took more than eight months from when all reports had been completed in February 2017 
before confirmation of a contribution was agreed with insurer Z. It wasnt until internal referral 
that resulted in Fairmead identifying the delays this was causing, and how the lack of 
chasing was prolonging matters, that they actually considered next possible steps, and the 
claim remained essentially on hold during this time. 
So, the focus during this period appears to be solely Fairmead trying to secure pre-
agreement to a contribution from Ms Hs previous insurer, rather than, or even alongside, 
actually moving her claim forward. All investigations had been carried out prior to this, and 
reports obtained, and no monitoring was being carried out, but no repairs were completed 
either. Fairmead were always going to need to deal with the claim either way, and later 
recover the contribution from the other insurer, or be responsible for all of it if there was no 
recourse to the previous insurer. So it seems the delays here were solely due to Fairmead 
focussing on seeking a contribution, to the detriment of Ms Hs claim actually moving 
forward, which didnt happen until this was then completed in November 2017 - over a year 
after the claim was first raised.
This wasnt the only area where I think delays in the claim couldve been avoided though. 
The original soil reports said the subsidence cause was likely to be local authority owned 
vegetation. However, the report also said that roots were not identified at that time and the 
opinion it was local authority vegetation was based on proximity to the damage. And 
monitoring was deemed unnecessary at that time.I think Fairmead shouldve obtained additional root and soil samples at the time. Those they 
had completed werent conclusive in implicating the local authority vegetation. But Fairmead 
still intended to use these alone to evidence to the local authority that their vegetation was 
causing the subsidence. Inevitably the local authority didnt agree this was sufficient 
evidence. Instead it wasnt until the request had been rejected by the local authority that 
Fairmead sought further samples, several years later, before reattempting to obtain 
agreement from the local authority (which still hasnt been agreed). If comprehensive 
samples were taken at the time, then this couldve been provided to the local authority at a 
much earlier stage for consideration, rather than providing poor samples, for the local 
authority to then reject. Inevitably this has caused an avoidable delay in the claim.
In addition to this, its also not unusual for monitoring to be carried out and used as part of 
the evidence (including root samples) to present to third parties, such as a local authority, if 
holding them responsible and attempting to obtain agreement for vegetation to be removed. 
Here though, despite the poor-quality root samples at the outset, which didnt implicate the 
local authority vegetation, monitoring also was said to be not required at the time.
It wouldve been foreseeable that the local authority would require evidence implicating their 
vegetation from Fairmead. Given subsidence claims can be lengthy, and agreeing with third 
parties to remove vegetation can take time and negotiation, I think it wouldve been 
reasonable for Fairmead to carry out further monitoring much sooner (along with additional 
root samples), and whilst they were looking into other aspects, such as the previous insurer.
Instead, monitoring didnt start until November 2017, over a year into the claim and this was 
following an internal review. And following this first internal review, it was a further three 
months before this was then arranged, following another internal review again highlighting 
the necessity. Monitoring then ran for more than 18 months. So, I think there were avoidable 
delays caused by Fairmead here both as a result of the poor-quality root samples and lack of 
monitoring and it then being completed later than it ought to have been. Added to this, as 
Ive mentioned, focussing solely on obtaining insurer Zs contribution. This has caused 
overall avoidable delays in the claim duration.
In addition to these key delays, looking at whats happened, the communication between 
Fairmead and the local authority took time. I can also see that some of the delays were due 
to Fairmead and the local authority being unable to agree a mutually convenient time to 
carry out a joint site visit. And when a site visit was then arranged between Fairmead and 
the local authority, this wasnt productive as access wasnt arranged by Fairmead. So, I do 
think there were also avoidable delays here caused by Fairmead. But having said that, they 
werent solely responsible for all these delays.
Due to the lack of evidence being obtained in the early stages, and the consequent rejection 
of Fairmeads request by the local authority, the claim effectively had to restart. New 
monitoring, new root reports and evidence have been presented to the local authority for 
consideration, which adds to the delays and was due to insufficient evidence being obtained 
and provided earlier in the claim. And this is in addition to the early stages lack of action on 
the claim when Fairmead was attempting to secure a contribution from the previous insurer. 
So, having looked at whats happened overall, in my view on balance, there is a delay period 
of approximately three years.
Having a claim ongoing for so long has understandably been both distressing and 
inconvenient for Ms H, and her property has continued to subside and cracks have 
worsened during this time. Shes explained that due to the cracks her home has been cold 
and suffering with damp issues. And this has affected her on a daily basis, worsening over 
the last five years since the claim was first made. As Ive noted above, subsidence claims can take time by their very nature, so it wouldve 
always taken some time to resolve. But as Ive also outlined above, here I think Fairmeads 
claim handling and actions have resulted in it being avoidably delayed beyond a timescale 
reasonably expected, in the region of approximately three years. 
Throughout the claim I dont think the communication from Fairmead has been reasonable. 
Its clear from the information provided that Fairmead needed to be repeatedly chased for 
updates on the claim, and continually asked to outline next steps and when any action would 
be happening. So not only has it been delayed, but Ms H hasnt been given any clear next 
steps about whats happening and has had to continually chase Fairmead for information.
Our investigator recommended that Fairmead should give Ms H monthly updates on the 
claim and provide details and an outline of next steps. Fairmead agreed with this part of our 
investigators recommendation. Given the communication so far in the claim, I think this 
approach would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Fairmead has offered Ms H £350 compensation. Given the length of time the claim has 
avoidably taken, which on balance I believe Fairmead is responsible for, and the service 
Ms H has received overall, I dont think this amount is enough. Having taken everything into 
account, I believe a further £1,500 in addition to the £350 offered, is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances.
As I mentioned above, the claim is still ongoing at the moment and negotiations with the 
local authority are still happening. Fairmead also identified that they didnt have any up to 
date monitoring reports to present as further evidence to the local authority if they asked for 
it in current negotiations. So recently theyve been monitoring the property. And our 
investigator said they should continue with and complete monitoring so they can provide this 
if requested as evidence from the local authority. Im in agreement that this is a reasonable 
approach in anticipation of being asked for further evidence, so as not to cause further 
delays.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint and direct Fairmead Insurance Limited 
trading as Legal and General to:
complete monitoring to obtain updated results 
provide Ms H with monthly updates on her claim
provide Ms H with a timeline of proposed next steps for her claim
In addition to the £350 compensation already offered, pay a further £1,500 
compensation to Ms H
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman