DRN-3034578
The complaint
Mrs S complained that she was given unsuitable advice to transfer her defined benefit (DB) 
British Steel Pension Scheme (BSPS), to a self-invested personal pension plan (SIPP) and 
invest the funds through a discretionary fund manager (DFM). 
Better Retirement Group is responsible for answering this complaint and so to keep things 
consistent, Ill refer mainly to BRG.
What happened
In March 2016, Tata Steel UK Ltd announced that it would be examining options to 
restructure its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation 
with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved pension benefits, one 
of which was a transfer to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF)  the PPF is a statutory fund 
designed to provide compensation to members of defined benefit pension schemes when 
their employer becomes insolvent. The BSPS was eventually closed to further benefit 
accrual from 31 March 2017.
Mrs S left British Steels employment in July 2016 but became concerned about what the 
above announcement meant for the security of the defined benefits she had accrued in the 
BSPS. Mrs S says there were a lot of worrying rumours at around this time and had heard 
that BSPS could eventually move into the PPF and that there might be a modified new 
pension scheme (BSPS2). She was concerned that everything shed heard about her 
pension was negative. 
In September 2016 Mrs S was introduced to another firm I will refer to as F. It completed 
some of the initial paperwork for her and requested pension information on her behalf, but as 
it didnt have the relevant permissions to advise on DB pension transfers it involved BRG to 
provide the pension transfer advice. 
In December 2016 BRG provided a suitability report for Mrs S which advised her to transfer 
out of the BSPS to a SIPP. It noted F intended to recommend Mrs S invest the funds with a 
business Ill refer to as S, which was a DFM. BRG agreed that this was suitable for her.
Around £74,000 was transferred from Mrs Ss BSPS to her new SIPP. Mrs S says she 
subsequently suffered significant losses in the SIPP and that firms F and S are no longer 
trading.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and said that BRG should not have 
recommended Mrs S to transfer out of her BSPS. The investigator said all the evidence 
indicated that Mrs S was likely to be worse off after the transfer as the investments she had 
been advised to transfer into would have needed to grow substantially to have been able to 
match what she had previously in her BSPS. They said Mrs S should be compensated in line 
with the regulators DB transfer methodology for this failure. 
BRG did not respond to the investigators view, but Ive looked carefully at what it said during 
the course of the investigation. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was 
passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I am upholding Mrs Ss complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate 
that the transfer was in Mrs Ss best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Overview
Mrs S had accrued deferred benefits in the BSPS having completed over 19 years 
pensionable service. She was married with two young dependent children at the time of the 
advice and lived in a family home valued at approximately £280,000, owned jointly with her 
husband and with no mortgage. She and her husband also owned two rental properties 
generating around £6,000 per year income and Ive noted there was a considerable amount 
of equity in these investment properties. They also had cash savings of £40,000 and Mrs S 
had recently taken up new employment at the time of the advice. She had also joined her 
new companys pension scheme.
Mrs S was only 39 years old when BRG recommended she transfer out of the BSPS and 
into the SIPP. She wasnt planning to retire for some time, probably at around the age of 65. 
Her state pension age was 67. In making the recommendation, BRG said transferring out 
from the BSPS to a SIPP: 
allowed access to tax-free cash from the age of 55;
provided flexibility in the future;
allowed the taking of a higher level of income if needed; and
allowed money to be left more flexibly to others upon death.
Pension schemes such as the one Mrs S belonged to typically have significant defined 
benefits which include index-linking, guarantees of future payment and death benefits. 
Giving these up and subjecting future pension income to the risks associated with 
unpredictable investment returns should therefore only be done where it can be shown that it 
was clearly in the best interests of Mrs S. And I dont think it was.
Financial viability 
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
BRGs suitability report showed the growth Mrs Ss fund would need to achieve in order to 
match the financial benefits she could obtain through the BSPS. The investment return 
required to match the BSPS pension at the age of 65 - the critical yield - was 11.37% per 
year if no tax-free lump sum was taken. The critical yield required if Mrs S did take a tax-free 
sum in those circumstances wasnt provided. However, the hurdle rate  the growth needed 
per year to buy an annuity with no spouse benefits, increases or guarantee - was 8.78%.
BRG also said the critical yield to match the benefits available through the PPF at age 65 
was 9.66% per year if Mrs S took a full pension, and 9.45% per year if she took a tax-free 
cash lump-sum and a reduced annual pension.This compares with the discount rate of 4.6% per year for 25 years to retirement. For further 
comparison, the regulator's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection 
rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2% per year.
I've taken all this into account, together with the composition of assets in the discount rate, 
Mrs Ss highest medium attitude to risk (as assessed by BRG) and also the term to 
retirement. There would be little point in Mrs S giving up the guarantees available to her 
through her DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme. But here, referring to the critical yield figures, I think Mrs S was very likely to 
receive benefits of a lower overall value than those provided by the BSPS at retirement, as a 
result of investing in line with that attitude to risk. This would be the case even if the scheme 
moved to the PPF.
BRG provided a number of models in its income drawdown report which it implies shows 
Mrs S would have been able to meet her retirement needs. Ive considered these, but I think 
they merely show that the funds would likely be exhausted in her retirement, even when 
considering the medium estimated growth rate. Also, these were not direct comparisons with 
the benefits being given up and I think Mrs S could have found these models difficult to 
understand, and certainly, to draw like for like comparisons from. Also, as BRG will know, 
past performance is no guarantee for future performance and so I consider the discount 
rates and the regulators standard projections to be much more realistic in this regard in the 
long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, particularly over such a long period 
of time. And based on growth of this level, if Mrs S drew the same income as provided by 
her DB scheme at age 65, her funds would be depleted by age 74.
For this reason alone, I dont think a transfer out of the DB scheme was in Mrs Ss best 
interests. Of course, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer 
advice; there might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite 
providing overall lower benefits. Ive therefore considered these other factors below.
Flexibility and income needs
I dont think it could yet be said that Mrs S required the flexibility BRG described when it 
recommended she transfer out of her DB scheme  Mrs S was only 39 at the time of the 
advice so it was too early to know what her needs in retirement might be. I think this 
apparent need was poorly defined by BRG, referring only to a possible requirement for a 
higher income at certain times in the future. In my view, there was no evidence supporting 
this requirement, only an implied assumption that getting access to more income in some 
years rather than others might be something Mrs S would want to do. 
Similarly, BRG said Mrs S would be able to access more tax-free cash. Whilst this might 
have been possible, this time-period was still many years off in her case and we know Mrs S 
already had significant cash savings and equity within the investment properties at the time. 
In my view therefore, this need for flexibility seems somewhat undefined and assumes that 
being able to access tax-free cash specifically from a SIPP at 55 might be something she 
would want to do. But I think its fair to say that set against the guarantees and benefits 
Mrs S was being advised to give up, the case for being able to access a higher proportion of 
tax-free cash in this way is not persuasive. Mrs S would also have been able to access some 
tax-free cash by staying in the BSPS, but I dont think this was promoted thoroughly enough 
for her.  
As Ive said, Mrs S giving up work was probably quite a long way off and so her income 
needs at retirement, at that point, were uncertain - she could have had up to around 25 
years or so before accessing her pension. So I think it was too soon to make any kind of 
decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. On the information Ive seen, Im satisfied 
she could have probably met her income needs through the DB scheme at 65. She was 
entitled to an annual income of £16,274 from the scheme at 65 and had other financial 
assets as Ive described. It also seems likely that Mrs Ss husband would also have the benefit of a pension. So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for her to give up the 
guaranteed benefits in 2016 when she didnt know what her needs in retirement would yet 
be. 
Death benefits
The issue of death benefits for Mrs Ss family were promoted by BRG when giving the 
transfer-out advice, but I dont think this was a genuine objective for Mrs S quite in the way 
portrayed. In my view, it was more likely a consequence of the overall recommendation to 
transfer out.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was most likely an attractive feature to Mrs S. But whilst 
I appreciate death benefits were important to Mrs S, and she might have thought it was a 
good idea to transfer her DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here 
was to advise her about what was best for her retirement provisions. A pension is primarily 
designed to provide income in retirement and I dont think BRG explored to what extent 
Mrs S was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in exchange for higher death 
benefits.
I also think the existing death benefits attached to the DB scheme were underplayed. Mrs S 
was married with children and so the spouses / dependents pension provided by the DB 
scheme would have been useful if Mrs S predeceased them. I dont think BRG made the 
value of this benefit clear enough to Mrs S. This benefit was guaranteed and it escalated  it 
was not dependent on investment performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a 
personal pension was. And as Ive said above, if Mrs S took benefits of the same level 
provided by her DB scheme at age 65, the funds would have been depleted by age 74. So, 
there wouldnt be any remaining capital to pass on to her family in the event of her death.
Furthermore, if Mrs S genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for her husband / children, which 
didnt depend on investment returns or how much of her pension fund remained on her 
death, I think BRG could have instead explored life insurance. The suitability report makes 
brief mention of a whole of life policy, but this appears to be discounted on the grounds of 
cost. However, the cost isnt provided so I dont know whether it was genuinely unaffordable. 
Nevertheless, given Mrs Ss age, I think BRG could have provided a quote for term 
assurance, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide. 
Overall, I dont think the different death benefits available through a transfer to a SIPP 
justified the significant decreases in retirement benefits for Mrs S. And I dont think that 
insurance was properly explored as an alternative.
Control or concerns over financial stability of BSPS
When Mrs S met with BRG she was concerned about the financial stability of her BSPS 
pension. Lots of her former colleagues at the time were considering transferring out of the 
scheme and she was worried her pension could end up in the PPF. 
It was BRGs obligation to give Mrs S an objective picture and recommend what was in her 
best interests. However, as the figures above show, even if this happened, Mrs S was still 
likely to be better off by not transferring, even when compared to ending up in the PPF. 
I dont think that this comparison was properly explained to her; if the scheme did end up 
moving to the PPF, I think BRG should have explained that this was not as concerning as 
Mrs S thought. She was still unlikely to match, let alone exceed the benefits available to her 
through the PPF if she transferred out to a personal pension.
Summary
Overall, I dont think the advice given to Mrs S was suitable. She was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income and by transferring out of the BSPS, Mrs S was very likely to obtain lower retirement benefits. In my view, there were no other particular 
reasons or circumstances which justified a transfer, particularly when she had around 25 
years before she expected to retire. 
In arriving at that view, Ive taken into account that, at the time the advice was given, there 
was considerable uncertainty. However, it was the BRGs responsibility to objectively weigh 
up this uncertainty and the options for Mrs S. Ive shown above how the financial 
comparisons simply didnt make transferring out a suitable option for her and just how much 
her funds would need to grow by to match what she already had. Mrs S was also married 
with dependent children, so the BSPS benefits relating to these things would have been 
important to her. There were also the guarantees of annual pension indexation to consider. 
In my view, the clear and objective advice should have been against transferring out of the 
BSPS. And if this had happened, I think Mrs S would have accepted that advice  at that 
point she would have remained in the BSPS.
If Mrs S had stayed in BSPS, she would have shortly after had the choice to move to the 
PPF or transfer to a new scheme, the BSPS2. Mrs S had no plans to retire early  she 
expected to continue working to her normal retirement age. So, I don't think that it would 
have been in her interest to accept the reduction in benefits she would have faced by the 
scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for early 
retirement. Also, Mrs S was married, and her husbands pension would be set at 50% of her 
pension at the date of death, and this would be calculated as if no lump sum was taken at 
retirement (if Mrs S chose to do so). The annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
So, overall, I think BRG should compensate Mrs S for the unsuitable advice, using the 
regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the above, it 
is the benefits available to her through the BSPS2 at age 65 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
Responsibility for loss
I have considered the role of both firms F and S in determining whether I should apportion 
only part of the responsibility for compensating the loss to BRG. In the circumstances, 
though, I think it fair to make an award for the whole loss against BRG. 
I note that the suitability report states that F had made the investment recommendation for 
Mrs S to invest via S. But BRG stated that it had taken this into account when making its 
recommendation to transfer out of the BSPS and it considered this to be suitable for Mrs S. 
But as I have set above, BRG should not have recommended that she transfer out of the 
BSPS as it was clearly not in her best interests. And it was only as a result of BRGs 
involvement that Mrs S did. BRGs role was therefore pivotal, since the eventual investments 
were fully reliant on the funds being transferred first. If that hadnt happened, Mrs S couldnt 
have invested as she did. So, in my view, the entirety of Mrs Ss loss stems from BRGs 
unsuitable advice to transfer away from her DB scheme. 
To be clear then, I think holding BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair 
compensation in this case.
FSCS compensation
Im aware Mrs S may be able to take her claims about F and S to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS).
As a scheme of last resort, its possible the FSCS wont pay out if a third party could also be 
held liable. This means requiring BRG to pay only part of the losses could risk leaving Mrs S 
out of pocket. But I think its important to point out that Im not saying BRG is wholly 
responsible for the losses simply because F and S are now in liquidation. My starting point 
as to causation is that BRG gave unsuitable advice and it is fully responsible for the losses Mrs S suffered in transferring her existing pension to the SIPP, and then investing as she 
did. That isnt, to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my 
view of the fair and reasonable position.
With this in mind  and recognising also that Mrs S wouldnt have lost out at all but for BRGs 
failings and that BRG benefitted financially from advising on this transaction  I think holding 
BRG responsible for the whole of the loss represents fair compensation in this case.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the BRG to put Mrs S, as far as possible, into 
the position she would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mrs S would 
have most likely remained in her DB scheme if suitable advice had been given. And I think 
its clear Mrs S would have later wanted to transfer to the BSPS2 when this was offered the 
year after as the scheme offered many similar benefits.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
For clarity, Mrs S has not yet retired, and she has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on her normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mrs Ss 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mrs Ss SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mrs S within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mrs S.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mrs S to the position she wouldve been in but for the actions of BRG. 
This is complicated where investments in the SIPP are frozen as their value cant be 
determined, which appears to be the case here.To calculate the compensation, BRG should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If BRG is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, BRG may ask Mrs S to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. BRG will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If BRG asks Mrs S to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mrs S wish to move her investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented, 
the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by BRG taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs S can discuss 
with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take. Third parties are 
involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide certainty to all 
parties, I think its fair that BRG pay Mrs S an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years 
worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
In addition BRG should pay Mrs S £250 for the distress and inconvenience this matter has 
caused her.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the 
BRG pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mrs S the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require 
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mrs S any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above. Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mrs S any interest as set out above on the sum of 
£160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that 
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mrs S the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs S.
If Mrs S accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement 
Group Ltd.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mrs S can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 Michael Campbell
Ombudsman