DRN-4252974
The complaint
Mr T complains that Barclays UK PLC unfairly closed his bank account.
What happened
Mr T had a current account with Barclays. 
In November 2022, Barclays decided to review how Mr T was operating his account. Whilst it 
completed its review Barclays blocked Mr Ts account. This meant Mr T couldnt access the 
money held in his account. Following this, Barclays closed Mr Ts account immediately. 
Mr T complained to Barclays about the closure of his account. He explained that that he and 
his family had been good customers of the bank for a number of years. He said that at time 
he was just starting work and needed the account to receive his wages and deposits from 
customers. So having a functioning bank account was very important to him. In response, 
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong and had closed Mr Ts account in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account.
Unhappy with this response, Mr T brought his complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened.  After reviewing all the information, the 
investigator didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He thought the bank had acted fairly closing his 
account. Mr T disagreed. He wants Barclays to reopen his account.
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would add too that our rules allow us to receive evidence in confidence. We may treat 
evidence from banks as confidential for a number of reasons  for example, if it contains 
security information, or commercially sensitive information. Some of the information Barclays 
has provided is information that we considered should be kept confidential. This means I 
havent been able to share a lot of detail with Mr T, but Id like to reassure him that I have 
considered everything.
Ill deal first with Barclayss decision to block and review Mr Is account. Barclays have 
important legal and regulatory obligations they must meet when providing accounts to 
customers. Those obligations are ongoing and dont only apply to when an account is 
opened. They can broadly be summarised as a responsibility to protect persons from 
financial harm, and to prevent and detect financial crime.
To comply with their obligations, Barclays will monitor accounts for activity which appears 
unusual or out of place. And may ask its customers to provide information about certain 
transactions. Its common industry practice for firms to restrict access to an account to 
conduct a review on a customer and/or the activity on an account. And, considering the 
information Ive been provided, I understand why Barclays carried out a review and I dont 
find their initial decision to restrict Mr Is account was unreasonable. So, whilst I appreciate 
the restriction caused Mr I inconvenience and was upsetting, I cant say the bank treated him 
unfairly when it blocked and reviewed his account.
I understand that Mr I wants Barclays to explain the reason it applied the block to his 
account.  Hes also unhappy that Barclays gave him no warnings about what it was doing. 
But Barclays doesnt disclose to its customers what triggers a review of their accounts. And 
its under no obligation to tell Mr I the reasons behind the account block, as much as hed 
like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Mr I this information. And 
it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it to do so or for me to disclose the reasons. 
Mr T has explained that the closure of his account has caused him a lot of problems and 
upset  especially as he was just starting out in his working life. Im sorry that whats 
happened has caused Mr T trouble and upset. But its generally for banks to decide whether 
or not they want to provide, or to continue to provide, banking facilities to any particular 
customer. Unless theres a very good reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a 
bank must keep customer or require it to compensate a customer who has had their account 
closed.
Ive considered whether Barclays acted fairly in closing Mr Ts account. In doing so, Ive 
looked at the terms and conditions of his account. The terms and conditions outline that the 
bank can close a customers account with two months notice, and in certain circumstances 
they can close an account immediately. In this case Barclays closed Mr Ts account without 
notice. For Barclays to act fairly here they needed to meet the criteria to apply their terms for 
immediate closure  and having looked at these terms and all the evidence Im satisfied that 
the bank did. And that it was entitled to close the account as its already done. So, I wont be 
directing Barclays to reopen Mr Ts account.
In summary, I realise this will be disappointing to Mr T, but  having looked at all the available 
evidence, Im satisfied that Barclays closed Mr Ts account fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman