DRN-2975814
The complaint
Mr S complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund transactions made from his account that 
he says he didnt make or authorise.
What happened
Between 28 February and 22 April 2020, a series of transactions were made from Mr Ss 
account at various retail outlets, hotels and cash machines, whilst he was travelling abroad.  
Mr S says his bag was stolen at a train station in Austria whilst he was busy buying train 
tickets. Hes explained that he normally kept his bank cards in his wallet, which was in the 
bag that was stolen. Hes said he hasnt shared his PIN with anyone and reported the theft to 
the local police. 
Mr S says he tried to contact Lloyds at the time to let them know his cards had been stolen 
but couldnt get through on its international contact numbers. Following this Mr S says he 
contracted Covid 19 and was admitted to hospital where he remained until 20 April 2020. 
And it wasnt until 22 April 2020 that he managed to speak to Lloyds to report what had 
happened. Mr S believes someone must have seen him using his card and obtained his PIN.
Lloyds looked into the transactions and said it thought Mr S authorised them. So, it didnt 
refund him. In summary, Lloyds said:
 the payments were authenticated using Mr Ss card and PIN and there was no 
plausible explanation for how an unknown third party wouldve become aware of the 
PIN 
 the first disputed transaction took place on 8 March 2020  several days after Mr S 
says he lost his card which is unusual for a fraudster
 no incorrect PIN entries or balance enquiries were made
 no transactions were attempted after the card was cancelled by Mr S on 22 April 
2020
 Mr S was logging into online banking throughout the period the disputed transactions 
took place so wouldve been aware of the transactions before he reported them to 
the bank
Mr S disagreed with Lloyds decision. He said he didnt authorise the transactions. So, he 
brought his complaint to this service where one of our investigators looked into the matter. 
In summary the investigator said that:
Lloyds technical evidence showed that Mr Ss bank card and PIN were used to 
authenticate each of the disputed transactions
there was no plausible explanation for how an opportunistic thief was able to obtain 
Mr Ss PIN given hed last used it in Hungary on 26 November 2019 to make a cash 
withdrawal. He thought it was unlikely that an opportunistic thief wouldve been able 
to shoulder surf Mr S using his card in Hungary, then follow him to Austria, steal his 
bag on 28 February 2020 at the train station, and then wait to use the card on 8 
March 2020
the online banking records showed Mr S had been logging into his account 
throughout the period of disputed transactions, so its likely Mr S wouldve been 
aware of the transactions, but he didnt alert the bank until 22 April 2020.
Overall, the investigator concluded that it was more likely than not that Mr S, had authorised 
the disputed transactions.
Mr S disagreed with the investigators opinion. He maintained that hed never authorised the 
transactions and that it wasnt him accessing his online banking as hed also had his mobile 
phone and laptop stolen. So, it was the thief, not him, accessing his account.
 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out the full facts, the disputed transactions, 
the relevant regulations and the evidence. Both Mr S and Lloyds have read the investigators 
view. So, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis of my decision. 
However, I can assure Mr S that Ive read the file, including his comments and evidence.
 
The basic position is that Lloyds can hold Mr S liable for the disputed transactions if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr S made them or authorised them. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs 
2017). The PSRs also say that someone acting as an agent on behalf of Mr S can be 
treated as acting with apparent authority when making transactions on his account. And that 
the person to whom the card has been issued must notify the firm which provided the card if 
they become aware of its unauthorised use. This must be without undue delay. 
For each transaction Lloyds has been able to provide evidence to show the payments were 
appropriately authenticated using Mr Ss bank card and PIN. But thats not enough to hold 
Mr S liable. I also need to consider whether the evidence suggests he consented to the 
transactions. or whether he is the victim of fraud as hes alleged. 
Having looked at all the evidence and considered Mr Ss explanation carefully Im afraid Im 
not persuaded by what Mr S has said.  I cant say for sure who was making the payments at 
the various locations. But on balance Ive ruled out that a third-party fraudster was 
responsible. Ive considered what the PSRs say about apparent authority too and Im 
satisfied that Mr S did consent to the transactions he is disputing. So, I dont think it would be 
fair or reasonable to say Lloyds needs to refund him. I say this for the following reasons:
Lloydss technical evidence shows that Mr Ss genuine card and PIN were used to 
authenticate each of the disputed transactions. This means that whoever made the 
transactions needed to be in possession of both Mr Ss bank card and his PIN.
Mr S says his bank card was kept in his wallet and was in his bag which was stolen 
whilst he was at a train station in Austria on 28 February 2020. Hes also said that 
hes never disclosed his PIN to anyone. Ive considered what Mr S has said. But I 
dont think its likely that an opportunistic thief took Mr Ss bank card from his wallet 
and was then able to use it over a period of nearly two months.
 
Based on what Mr S has told us and the bank theres no plausible explanation for 
how an opportunistic thief couldve become aware of Mr Ss PIN  hes said he hadnt written it down anywhere or told anyone what it was  in other words hed kept it 
safe. Ive kept in mind that its possible that someone could have seen Mr S entering 
his PIN when he used his card (known as shoulder surfing) as Mr S has suggested. 
But the last last genuine spend using the card and PIN was on 26 November 2019 
when Mr S used his card to make a cash withdrawal in Hungary. I think its unlikely 
that a thief would follow Mr S to another country, wait for an opportunity to steal his 
bag, to take and use Mr Ss card. 
Mr S says he had his bank card and belongings stolen on 28 February 2020 The first 
disputed transaction took place on 8 March 2020, more than a week after. I dont 
think an opportunistic thief wouldve waited several days before using Mr Ss card 
because theyd be a high risk of Mr S reporting his card stolen and cancelling it 
before the thief could use it. The disputed transactions also took place over a period 
of nearly two months and were usually for small amounts, which is unusual for 
fraudulent activity. I dont think a fraudster would have continued using Mr Ss 
account details and card over a such a lengthy period. Its more typical for the card to 
be used as quickly and for as much as possible. But this didnt happen.
Lloyds has provided technical evidence which it says show Mr S was logging onto his 
online banking throughout the period of the disputed transactions. So, it says Mr S 
wouldve been aware of the transactions, but he didnt report them until after the last 
disputed transaction had been made. Mr S says it wasnt him logging on to his online 
banking. And has said that it mustve been the thief using his stolen mobile phone, 
which had the mobile banking app installed. Mr S has also said he and his wife were 
unwell in hospital with Covid so hadnt known about the transactions. And he 
maintains that he did try and alert the bank for two days but just couldnt get through 
on its international contact numbers.
Ive thought about what Mr S has told us about his health. But Ive also looked at the 
online banking information Lloyds has provided. And I can see that on 9 March 2020, 
just over £4,000 was moved into Mr Ss sole account and then back into Mr Ss joint 
account by someone logging into Mr Ss online banking. This seems highly unusual 
behavior for a fraudster  especially as according to Mr S all his bank cards 
(including his joint account card) had been stolen at the train station. So, theyd be no 
need to move money between Mr Ss accounts as the thief had both cards and 
already had access to all of Mr Ss funds whichever account it was in.
I also note that no further transactions took place after Mr S contacted Lloyds on 22 
April 2020, I would expect someone committing fraud to make (or at least attempt) 
further fraudulent transactions  but this didnt happen. I cant see how an unknown 
third party could be aware Mr S had cancelled his bank card  only Mr S and his wife 
wouldve known this information.
Despite being asked to do so by the investigator, Mr S hasnt provided any evidence 
that he was in hospital during the period the disputed transactions were carried out. 
And he hasnt provided any evidence that he reported the theft of his belongings to 
police. 
So, when I weigh everything up, I find on balance, that Mr S more likely than not made or 
otherwise authorised the disputed transactions. It follows that Lloyds is entitled to hold him liable for them. I know Mr S will be disappointed, but for the reasons Ive given I cant ask the 
bank to refund him.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2021.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman