DRN-2473552
The complaint
Mr D says Ingenious Capital Management Limited (Ingenious) misled his investment into 
the 2018 Ingenious Infrastructure Ventures EIS scheme  the 2018 scheme. He says he 
had previously invested in an earlier version of the scheme, which was based on investment 
directly into infrastructure companies; that he expressly asked to make another 
subscription into the previous scheme; and that, instead, he was invested into the 2018 
scheme which invests beyond infrastructure companies (and which is precisely what he did 
not want).
What happened
Mr D applied for the 2018 scheme, without advice, in December 2018 and invested £60,000 
into it. The 2018 scheme then allocated a part of his investment into an investee company in 
the same month and he was updated on that. Allocation into the second investee company 
took place in May 2019 and he was also updated on that. 
Mr D says he raised an objection to the second allocation because the investee company 
operates in the technology sector, which he considered contrary to his expectation that 
investments would be made only in infrastructure companies  and he specifically wanted to 
avoid technology companies. Ingenious treated his objection as a complaint and responded. 
It did not uphold the complaint. In the main, it said the mandate for the 2018 scheme was to 
invest in companies which operate in or provide services to the infrastructure sector and the 
second investee company matched this description (in terms of providing services to the 
infrastructure sector); and this remit was clearly stated in the documentation for the 2018 
scheme which Mr D confirmed reading and agreeing at the outset.
The matter was referred to this service and considered by one of our investigators. He 
concluded that the complaint should not be upheld and agreed with the points made by 
Ingenious (as reasons for his conclusion). Mr D disagreed with this outcome, asked for an 
ombudsmans decision and insisted that his instruction was to reinvest in the scheme he had 
previously invested in, which is not what happened. The investigator sought further evidence 
of what was said between the parties at the outset. Ingenious confirmed that it did not record 
telephone calls with clients, but it shared a copy of the email exchange with Mr D which led 
to his investment in the 2018 scheme. 
The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no evidence of what was verbally said between the parties, so there is no basis to 
verify whether (or not) Mr D verbally asked to reinvest in the previous scheme. Ingenious 
has shared documentation about the previous scheme and there are the following two 
notable differences between it and the 2018 scheme  
The former was called the Ingenious Infrastructure scheme, whilst the latter was 
called the Ingenious Infrastructure Ventures scheme.
The formers remit was to  invest in companies that develop and operate high 
quality infrastructure projects in the UK and the latters remit was to  invest in 
young companies that develop, operate, or provide services within the infrastructure 
sector in the UK 
There is evidence of what was written between the parties leading up to Mr Ds investment. 
An email exchange shows that on 26 November 2018 he said  We talked on Friday. Im a 
current investor in the infrastructure EIS and I wanted to make another subscription. The 
email also referred to an attached draft application form. Later in the exchange, on the same 
date, Ingenious said the following to Mr D  
I note that you have not ticked the box on the back page to confirm that you have 
acknowledged, read and understood the Key Information Document for this service. Please 
find this document attached for your reference. Once the above box has been ticked and the 
application form has been signed, our Client Services Team would be pleased to being [sic] 
the application process. Should you have any questions in the meantime, please do let me 
know.
Ingenious has also stressed the points that the schemes were/are close-ended investments, 
so upon achieving requisite capital they are closed to further investment; that Mr D had 
previous experience of investment in the scheme so he would have known this; and that, for 
this reason, it questions his claim that he expected to reinvest in the previous scheme.
I considered all the above and reached the following conclusions:
On balance, Mr Ds email appears to support his assertion that his instruction was to 
reinvest in the previous scheme. His words, as quoted above, can reasonably be 
understood as conveying that message. 
However, I also find merit in Ingenious argument. It is indeed plausible that Mr Ds 
investment experience in the previous scheme  and Ingenious says he had invested 
in more than one previous scheme  should have made him familiar with its close-
ended characteristic. This raises the following question  why would he request 
reinvestment into a scheme he should have known was closed? I consider two 
meaningful possibilities  Mr D forgot the previous scheme was closed; or his email 
was meant to instruct investment in the same type of scheme (or perhaps meant to 
instruct investment in a scheme identical to the previous). On balance, I consider the 
latter more likely (than not). It is unlikely Mr D would have forgotten the basic 
characteristics of an investment that appears to have impressed him enough to 
prompt his desire for another similar (or identical) investment.
Irrespective of what Mr D knew and intended when he sent his email, I regard 
Ingenious response (and the documentation for the 2018 scheme) to be pivotal 
evidence. Ingenious clearly directed Mr D to read and understand the documentation 
and to acknowledge doing so in order for his application to progress. He duly did that, 
then submitted a valid application and progressed his investment in the 2018 
scheme. 
As quoted above, the documentation was unambiguous about the remit and strategy 
for the 2018 scheme. Unlike previously, this version of the scheme looked towards 
investing in companies operating in the infrastructure sector but also, importantly, 
those who were providing services within that sector. The second investee company 
was such a company, it provided communications services within the infrastructure 
sector  providing those services to railway stations, airports and manufacturing 
facilities.By the time Mr D read, understood, completed and submitted his application for the 
2018 scheme he ought reasonably to have known its remit and investment strategy 
and ought to have known that its remit was wider than that of the previous scheme 
he invested in. His submission of the application means, or at least suggests, he 
agreed with this. News about allocation of part of his money to the second investee 
company should not have surprised him. If, as it appears (and for any reason), it did 
surprise him then Ingenious response to his complaint (in which it reminded him 
about the remit of the 2018 scheme) should have made clear that the investment in 
the second investee company was not the wrongdoing he had initially thought it was.
Overall, on balance and based on my treatment of the complaint above, I do not 
consider that Ingenious misled Mr Ds investment into the 2018 scheme or that it was 
wrong to allocate part of his money into the second investee company.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman