DRN-4052885
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain about Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited (Admiral) and the way 
it handled their home insurance claim as well as the settlement offer its paid.  
Admiral is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of the complaint concerns the 
actions of the agents and contractors. As Admiral has accepted it is accountable for the 
actions of the agent, in my decision, any reference to Admiral includes the actions of the 
agents and contractors. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs C have home insurance with Admiral. 
They made a claim to Admiral when they discovered a leak in their bathroom in May 2022 
which caused damage to the main ensuite, the floor of the adjoining suite, and the 
decoration of the hall, stairs, and landing. 
Mr and Mrs C say Admiral delayed validating and settling the claim and a settlement offer 
wasnt received until July 2022 and it wasnt adequate. 
Mr and Mrs C say Admiral have been uncontactable and have not returned calls as agreed 
or within promised timescales. They also say the contractors have failed to attend 
appointments. They say Admirals inability to schedule repairs has caused significant delays 
as well as stress and anxiety. 
Mr and Mrs C have been without use of their bathrooms for two months. They say there was 
damage to the decoration and flooring on the ground floor, in addition to the damage to the 
ensuite shower rooms on the first floor. 
Mr and Mrs C have provided Admiral with a quote from their own contractor for the repair 
works despite them not wanting a cash settlement. Admiral made a settlement offer but Mr 
and Mrs C dont believe it is enough to allow them to have the works completed by their own 
contractor. 
Mr and Mrs C thought Admiral would cover the renewal of the whole floor covering and any 
associated works if damaged. Their flooring passes unbroken with no joints through their 
hall, lounge, playroom, and under the stairs and so they think it should be considered one 
floor covering.  
Mr and Mrs C complained to Admiral who upheld most of their complaint points. Admiral 
accepted the claim hadnt been proactively managed and they hadnt always been kept 
informed. By way of an apology Admiral paid Mr and Mrs C £300. 
Mr and Mrs C werent happy with the response from Admiral so they referred their complaint 
to this service. Our investigator looked into things for them. He recommended Mr and Mrs C 
allow Admiral to check the moisture levels by pulling up some of the flooring in the hallway. 
He said if the flooring couldnt be repaired or replaced then he would ask Admiral to pay 50% 
of the cost to replace the floor. The investigator said he thought the cash settlement was 
reasonable so if Mr and Mrs C didnt want the flooring to be looked at then he wouldnt ask 
Admiral to do anything further in respect of the complaint. 
The investigator also said he wasnt able to see evidence of delay in Admirals handling of 
the claim or with scoping the works. He also said the total compensation offered of around 
£300 was fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed with the investigators outcome. They said their floor is continuous 
and unbroken moving between different rooms and therefore they say it constitutes a single 
floor covering. And by only replacing part of it means they arent left in a pre-loss condition. 
Because Mr and Mrs C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the offer of compensation made by Admiral is reasonable and fairly 
addresses the complaints Mr and Mrs C have raised. Ive focused my comments on what I 
think is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific point its because I dont believe its 
affected what I think is the right outcome. For ease I have separated the complaint into what 
I think are the key issues. 
First I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr and Mrs C. I dont doubt 
the disruption and upset they would have suffered as a result of the leak and damage in their 
home. Its clear the leak caused significant damage to their property and led to them not 
having full bathroom facilities. 
It is not in dispute there have been avoidable delays during the claim process. Its also not in 
dispute there has been some confusion over what is and isnt included in the scope of works 
owing to the involvement of two different contractors acting for Admiral. I think this led to a 
breakdown in communication. As these aspects arent in dispute I dont intend to discuss 
them further. Instead I will reflect and comment on these when I think about what Admiral 
has offered to put them right. 
The flooring
I can see why Mr and Mrs C arent happy they were told the flooring would be included in the 
scope of works, and then were told it wouldnt be. I can see originally the contractor believed 
the readings from the hallway flooring showed it was dry. A subsequent contractor said the 
flooring was water damaged and so it would need to come up. Admiral said following 
discussions with the technical team and a review of the moisture readings the flooring was 
classed as dry. But if Mr and Mrs C had reservations with the flooring being wet underneath 
then they could agree for the skirting to be removed and tested that way. I understand Mr 
and Mrs C werent happy with this course of action as they felt the edge of the flooring 
wouldnt give an accurate reading. But I cant say that Admiral did anything wrong in making 
this suggestion in an attempt to resolve the claim. 
Matching sets 
Mr and Mrs C believe Admiral should meet the cost of replacing all the flooring in their hall, 
lounge, playroom, and under the stairs as its one continuous piece of flooring. Ive looked at 
the policy terms relating to matching sets. The policy says, each individual item from a matching set or suite of items, such as bathroom or kitchen units, floor coverings or furniture, 
is considered to be a single item. We will not pay for the other items in the set. 
The policy goes on to say, if part of a floor covering is damaged beyond repair, and we 
cannot find a replacement for that part, we will pay for repairing or replacing the whole suite 
or floor covering. But, loss of or damage to floor coverings in adjoining rooms or clearly 
identifiable separate areas are not covered. 
Admiral considers the lounge, hallway, and playroom to be separate areas of flooring. Thats 
because each room/area has a doorway dividing it from the next. So it says it will only 
replace the damaged hallway flooring. 
But I dont think Admiral has considered this part of the claim fairly. The photos show Mr and 
Mrs C clearly intended the flooring downstairs to match. Theres no door bar separating each 
area and in my view, the flooring is continuous throughout the rooms. So I think Admiral 
should treat the lounge, hallway, and playroom flooring as matching. Without replacing all 
the areas there will be a loss of this match. This means I think it would be reasonable for 
Admiral to pay fair compensation for the loss of match. 
However I dont think it would be fair for me to direct Admiral to pay the full cost of replacing 
the lounge and playroom flooring, given it hasnt been damaged. It isnt strictly covered by 
the policy terms. So Ive thought about what would be a fair and reasonable compromise for 
both parties. I think the fair outcome for this complaint would be for Admiral to pay 50% of 
the cost of replacing the undamaged lounge, playroom, and under stairs flooring. 
The settlement 
I can understand why Mr and Mrs C have been left upset and frustrated when they realised 
the cash settlement from Admiral wouldnt cover the full cost of their own scope of works. 
And I recognise they would question the fairness, and use, of the policy because of this. 
But for me to say Admiral should cover the full costs of Mr and Mrs Cs repair quote Id first 
need to be satisfied Admiral had done something wrong when offering the cash settlement 
they did. So Id need to see evidence that shows when offering the settlement Admiral failed 
to act within the terms of the policy. Or if I think they did act within these, that it was unfair of 
them to do so. And in this situation I dont think this is the case. 
The terms and conditions of the policy says; 
We will decide to either:
Pay the cost of repairing the item
Replace the item as new, or
Pay in cash or vouchers up to the amount we could repair, restore or replace the item 
for.
I think this condition makes it reasonably clear the cash settlement Admiral provided may be 
lower than the repair quote put forward by Mr and Mrs C. And so, I think Admiral have acted 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy when doing so. 
Mr and Mrs C have said the cash settlement Admiral has offered isnt enough to cover the 
work, and the settlement should be the cost to them of getting the work done. But most 
insurers have established relationships with building companies who agree rates that tend to 
be below the market price. Admirals notes suggest Mr and Mrs C wanted a cash settlement, 
although they dispute this. I think its fair for Admiral to pay Mr and Mrs C what it would have cost it if it had used its approved repairers. This might be less than it would cost Mr and Mrs 
C to arrange for the repairs themselves. I should also note the scope of works in Mr and Mrs 
Cs quote includes replacing all of the downstairs flooring which isnt something Admiral 
would cover under the terms of the policy. 
I have reviewed the assessment of cost and I dont think it was unreasonable. I say this 
because it does provide a breakdown of the repairs required and I havent seen it missed 
any necessary repairs. So I dont think it was unfair of Admiral to have relied on this 
information when reaching the settlement figure. And because of this, I dont think Admiral 
needs to do anything more.
The claim delays 
Mr and Mrs C feel Admiral didnt communicate with them as they would have expected. I 
have reviewed the information provided by both sides. I can see Mr and Mrs C had to chase 
Admiral on more than a few occasions, and there were times when they were told things 
would happen that then didnt happen, such as instructing the contractor. 
Admiral accepted it didnt communicate with Mr and Mrs C as it should have and I have 
discussed this further below. 
Compensation 
Having reviewed all of the documentation it was clear to me an award was due for the 
distress this whole episode caused Mr and Mrs C during this time. However, dealing with an 
insurance claim involving such damage is inevitably inconvenience and taking time off work 
or making phone calls and responding to emails is necessary for a lot of cases like this. And 
I wouldnt award compensation for what would be considered the normal handling of an 
insurance claim. 
I can see there has been some confusion on what was covered in the claim in respect of 
repairing the damage, and I can see Mr and Mrs C have been frustrated at having to chase 
Admiral for updates and information. I think this was unfortunate but Im pleased Admiral 
recognised it could have provided a more proactive and transparent process and paid £300 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused. I think this is a fair award for the 
level of upset it is likely to have caused during the claim. 
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mr and Mrs C, but I think Admirals offer to 
settle the claim was fair and in line with the terms of the policy. And I think the £300 is 
reasonable compensation for the delay and customer service issues Mr and Mrs C 
experienced. 
Putting things right
For the reasons explained above Admiral needs to do the following;
Contribute 50% of the cost towards the replacement of the undamaged flooring in the 
lounge, playroom, and under the stairs.
To be clear in settling Mr and Mrs Cs claim Admiral will need to replace or repair the 
damaged parts of the flooring as per the terms of the policy, if indeed it needs to be repaired 
or replaced. And Admiral will carry 100% of the cost of that. I understand Admiral has 
already made payment for the hallway flooring within the cash settlement.Admiral will also need to pay 50% of the cost of replacing the undamaged parts of the 
downstairs flooring. Thats in line with our usual approach where repairs or replacements 
cant be made to match the undamaged parts. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I am upholding this complaint and direct Admiral Insurance 
(Gibraltar) Limited should do what Ive set out above 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2023.
 
Kiran Clair
Ombudsman