DRN-3321257
The complaint
Mrs W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly declined her chargeback claim. Mrs W is 
being represented  any reference to Mrs W also includes the actions of her representative. 
What happened
Around December 2020, Mrs W asked Lloyds to start a chargeback claim for a payment she 
made the month before. The payment was for around £2,600 and was paid as a deposit for 
building work Mrs W wanted carrying out to her home. Mrs W raised the dispute because the 
work didnt commence on time and she wanted the payment she made to the building 
contractor (the merchant) to be refunded to her.
Lloyds said it initiated the chargeback process twice and said it challenged the merchant 
given the bank wasnt initially satisfied with the evidence it received. Following this, Lloyds 
said it was declining the chargeback claim because the merchant had demonstrated it was 
willing to provide the agreed services to Mrs W.
After Mrs W complained, Lloyds issued a response standing by its decision. So Mrs W asked 
this service to provide an independent view on her complaint. One of our investigators 
decided that Lloyds had acted fairly and in line with the relevant rules. 
Mrs W didnt agree and reiterated that the services the merchant agreed to provide had been 
delayed. Mrs W asked for a final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To start with Id like to be clear that it isnt my role to provide an opinion on Mrs Ws dispute 
with the merchant. I can only consider whether Lloyds handled the chargeback fairly and 
whether it fairly relied on the available information when doing so.
The chargeback scheme is a voluntary code that Lloyds is part of. Theres no guarantee that 
a chargeback claim will be successful in recovering funds for a customer and Lloyds is 
required to follow the relevant card scheme rules  which, in this case is set out by VISA. 
Ive considered these rules as part of my decision.
The chargeback process allows the relevant merchant the opportunity to defend the claim. 
Generally, card issuers wont take a chargeback any further at this stage if the submission 
by the merchant is satisfactory. But, if the bank thinks its necessary, the claim can be 
escalated to the arbitration stage  where the card scheme (VISA) decides whether the 
chargeback should be granted based on its rules. Keeping this in mind, Ive considered 
whether Lloyds fairly declined the chargeback.
Under the VISA rules, Lloyds raised the dispute for services not received. Mrs W says the 
merchant didnt start the work within the agreed timescale and, when it did attend her home, 
it did so without any equipment or materials  so the work couldnt begin. Mrs W says the 
arrangement she had with the merchant was that the work she wanted carried out would 
begin within 21 days from the date of agreement. And, because this didnt happen, Mrs W 
feels Lloyds shouldve agreed the chargeback. 
However, Ive seen a copy of the agreement Mrs W made with the merchant and I can see 
this notes the installation date as TBA (to be announced). So Im not persuaded that a 
timescale was definitively agreed. Ive also seen another copy of the agreement that appears 
to separately note that the work was booked for 7 December 2020. Mrs W says the 
merchant didnt attend that day but arrived the next day with no equipment or materials  so 
the work couldnt begin. 
As I mentioned, as part of the chargeback process, Lloyds wouldve given the merchant the 
opportunity to defend the claim. The VISA rules deem a dispute invalid where its regarding a 
partial advance payment transaction when the remaining balance was not paid and the 
merchant is willing and able to provide the services. In this instance, I can see from the sale 
agreement that Mrs W made a partial payment at the time totalling around £4,600. The 
agreement points out that the remaining balance is to be paid upon installation. 
When Lloyds reached out to the merchant, the merchant responded explaining that Mrs W 
hadnt followed the terms of the agreement it had with her, and shed only reached out to 
cancel the agreement several weeks after it had been put in place. Moreover, the merchant 
said it had already purchased materials and sent a team to Mrs Ws home. Lloyds accepted 
this submission as the merchant being willing and able to provide the services that were 
agreed. I think Lloyds acted reasonably and in line with the rules when doing so. So I think 
the bank acted fairly when it declined Mrs Ws chargeback request. 
Mrs W says she made some of the partial payment via another card held with a different 
provider and she says she was able to successfully claim back her money via this provider  
so she expects the same outcome from her chargeback claim with Lloyds. Mrs W told us this 
was a section 75 claim made under the Consumer Credit Act 1974. I cant comment on 
exactly why Mrs W was able to successfully recover her funds with the other provider. 
But I will point out that a section 75 claim is different to a chargeback claim in that it is set out 
in law and the rules around it can be found within the Act. Whereas the chargeback process 
is a voluntary code and the rules are set out by the relevant card scheme. As I explained, 
Lloyds made its decision taking the VISA rules into account and I think it did so fairly.
So I wont be asking Lloyds to change its decision.  
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 May 2022.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman