DRN-3895402
The complaint
Mrs C complains about @SIPP Limited (@SIPP). She says @SIPP failed to inform her that 
her Self Invested Personal Pension Plan (SIPP) wasnt receiving rental payments from a 
shop that the SIPP owned. Mrs C says that is because it didnt have the proper controls and 
processes to manage this. Because of this, Mrs C says the SIPP has lost a significant 
amount of money and she thinks @SIPP should be responsible for replacing, or recouping, 
this.
What happened
@SIPP is the trustee and administrator of Mrs Cs SIPP. The SIPP owns a shop and the rent 
is paid into the SIPP. There was a ten-year lease agreement made in 2014. The tenants 
have paid the rent without issue until early 2020 when the Covid-19 Pandemic affected their 
trading income. Mrs C is the property manager. 
In April 2020 it was agreed between the tenants, @SIPP and Mrs C that the tenants would 
pay no rent for three months and then 50% of the full rent for a further six months. After this 
period the tenants agreed to resume paying the full rent. 
There was some correspondence between @SIPP and the tenants towards the end of 2020. 
The tenants requested an invoice to pay the rent from @SIPP. I understand this wasnt 
provided and the rent payments werent resumed until 2022. 
In May 2022 @SIPP informed Mrs C that the rent had not been paid as agreed. It said it had 
received no rent from these tenants for over two years. 
Mrs C complained in 2022 to @SIPP about its failure to inform her of the rent arrears. She 
said that she unaware the rent had gone unpaid until 2022. And it hadnt provided regular 
statements that wouldve brought this to her attention. A significant amount of rent had gone 
unpaid, and Mrs C feels she is unlikely to able to recoup this. Given @SIPPs mistakes 
Mrs C feels that it should be responsible for this loss. 
@SIPP has upheld Mrs Cs complaint in part. It said that repeated failures in its internal 
processes and controls meant she wasnt notified about the missing rent for more than two 
years. It hadnt properly invoiced the tenants for the rent, and it did not keep on top of the 
rent amounts that had been agreed. It has refunded two years of the account fees to 
compensate for this. This is total of £1,360.80. 
But @SIPP didnt agree it was responsible for the rent arrears. It said that the responsibility 
to pay the rent rests with the tenants and the collection of rent was Mrs Cs responsibility
as property manager. And added to this @SIPP said it needed to be careful to fulfil its 
obligations regarding rental payments during the pandemic when customers were struggling. 
Mrs C referred her complaint to our service. An investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He 
said that it was established that @SIPP had made errors in the administration of the SIPP. It 
had not provided regular (paper) statements. And it hadnt informed Mrs C that it was not 
receiving rent. It had also not invoiced the tenants as it should have done. Our investigator 
thought that the compensation offer of £1,360.80 was reasonable for these errors. 
But he went on to say that as Mrs C was the property manager, she was ultimately 
responsible for ensuring the rent was received. This wasnt changed by the administrative 
errors @SIPP had made. She also could have found out about the rent by looking at her 
SIPP information online or contacting @SIPP, or the tenants, directly. 
Mrs C disagreed, saying that:  
It was established that @SIPP repeatedly failed to act as instructed, and its internal 
controls repeatedly failed.
She has not had access to the online portal and, and she hasnt received written 
statements, so she wasnt aware the rent was not paid.
If she had access to transaction data she would have spotted that the rent was 
unpaid and taken steps to rectify this. 
The tenants were unable to make payment as they didnt have the correct supporting 
paperwork (the invoices) to enable them to do this. 
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was referred to 
me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my conclusions 
on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to have happened 
based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Its helpful here to outline the responsibilities each party has in respect of the arrangement. 
@SIPP is the SIPP trustee and has responsibility for the SIPP and its administration and 
management. The SIPP owns the shop on behalf of the trustee. 
Mrs C owns the SIPP and will be the ultimate beneficiary of its proceeds. And she entered 
into a property management agreement with the SIPP. @SIPP have provided a copy of the 
property management agreement Mrs C agreed to Obtain payment of all or any arrears due 
under the Leases. And Mrs C did essentially agree to manage the property and obtain the 
rent on behalf of the SIPP which owns the lease. 
And lastly, the tenants themselves have a responsibility to, amongst other things, pay the 
rent as agreed. 
The crux of Mrs Cs complaint is that @SIPP has poorly administered the SIPP.  This isnt in 
dispute and @SIPP has realised that it should have done better here. It has failed to request 
(by invoice) the rent from the tenants, and it didnt proactively inform Mrs C that the rent was 
not being paid until a significant time after the first payment was missed. It has paid 
compensation of two years SIPP fees in respect of this. I think this is reasonable for the 
general administration failings. But Mrs C feels that @SIPP should also be responsible for the rent that has not been 
received. Or that @SIPP should recover this on the SIPPs behalf. Ive thought about 
whether this is reasonable. 
As Ive said above, the tenants should have been making the agreed rental payments. I can 
see that they may have asked to be invoiced for the rental payments and a direct debit 
arrangement may not have been set up properly. But this doesnt really affect that they 
should have paid the rent, a lack of reminders doesnt mean that a rental contract shouldnt 
be fulfilled. The onus would always be on the tenants to make payment. 
Given all of this, I dont think I can reasonably say that @SIPP should have had a 
responsibility to pay the rent due to its poor administration. 
Mrs C feels that the errors @SIPP has made, particularly in the provision of information, 
have prevented her from fulfilling her responsibilities as the property manager. Mrs C 
complains that the statements dont show that the rent was not being paid. And she wasnt 
informed about the online portal that @SIPP has. She has had difficulty accessing this. 
She feels that if @SIPP had notified her about the lack of rent then then the problems with 
the tenants could have been rectified earlier. And the lack of invoices it sent made it more 
difficult for the tenants to pay the rent. 
Again, I accept that @SIPPs actions have made things more complicated for Mrs C, in the 
same way it probably would have made things more complicated for the tenants. And its 
perhaps understandable that she wasnt aware of the problem when @SIPP hadnt informed 
her of it. 
But Mrs C did have some responsibility herself in this regard. And she could have contacted 
@SIPP or the tenants to find out if things were going as planned. And Im sure any problems 
she was having with the online portal could have been sorted out in time. 
I know Mrs C has said that she didnt feel that she had a reason to contact @SIPP to check 
on the rental payments. But she did know that the tenants were having problems paying the 
rent, and many businesses were having problems over this period. So, she could have been 
aware of the possibility that the tenants may have had continuing problems. Given this, I 
dont think I can say this that Mrs Cs lack of awareness was entirely due to the actions or 
inactions of @SIPP. So, I dont think it should provide further compensation. 
Overall Mrs C has been compensation for the poor administration of the SIPP. I think this is 
reasonable here, and Im not persuaded I should make any further award. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Andy Burlinson
Ombudsman