DRN-2560007
The complaint
The estate of Mr W has complained that Mapfre Asistencia Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros S.A (Mapfre) unfairly avoided his policy and refused to pay his claim. 
What happened
The late Mr W had a travel insurance policy underwritten by Mapfre. The complaint has been 
brought by the personal representatives of the estate, including the late Mr Ws son, Mr W.
The policy was taken out via a price comparison website and so was a non-advised sale. Mr 
W was taken ill whilst on holiday and contacted Mapfre as he needed medical treatment and 
repatriation.
Mapfre said Mr W hadnt declared all of his pre-existing medical conditions (PEMCs) and 
had he done so, it wouldnt have offered him a policy. It treated this non-disclosure as a 
careless misrepresentation. And avoided his policy and refunded his premiums. 
The complaint was referred to this Service. Our investigator didnt think the complaint should 
be upheld as Mapfre had asked clear questions during its online process and it was for Mr W 
to provide information about his PEMCs. 
Mr W didnt agree and said his late father was vulnerable and this hasnt been taken into 
account.
And so the case has been passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
First of all, Im very sorry to hear of Mr Ws passing.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why.
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Mapfre thinks Mr W failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
failed to declare all of his PEMCs.
Ive looked at the sales process and the questions asked. Mr W correctly declared that he 
had PEMCs but then didnt go on to list all of his PEMCS. He declared three PEMCs but 
there were a further five which he hadnt declared. 
I dont think Mr W took reasonable care to include all of his PEMCs and so Im satisfied this 
amounts to a qualifying misrepresentation. Had Mr W declared all of his PEMCs, Mapfre 
wouldnt have offered a policy. It has provided a retro screening which shows Mr W would 
have received the following message had he declared all of his PEMCs: One or more 
travellers medical conditions exceed what this insurance scheme can cover. 
Mapfre treated the misrepresentation as careless. Ive looked at the actions it can take in 
accordance with CIDRA. And Im satisfied that Mapfre was entitled to avoid Mr Ws policy. It 
did this and refunded the premiums. As CIDRA reflects our long-established approach to 
misrepresentation cases, I think allowing Mapfre to rely on it to avoid Mr Ws policy produces 
the fair and reasonable outcome in this complaint. 
After Mr W was provided with screenshots of the online process, he agrees that his father 
was prompted by the online questions to declare his conditions. But he doesnt think Mapfre 
has taken his vulnerabilities into account. As this was an online, non-advised sale, Mapfre 
had no input and wouldnt be aware that Mr W was vulnerable. And so I cant see what more 
Mapfre could have done at the point of sale.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 March 2021.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman