DRN-2898570
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr L had with Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
As there are various heads of complaint Ill detail them below rather than summarising them 
here.
 
What happened
Mr L took this mortgage out in June 2005, initially borrowing £540,000. In August 2007 he 
borrowed a further £210,000 and then in March 2009 a further £139,600.
Unfortunately, the mortgage fell into arrears and possession proceedings were issued in 
November 2013. Mr L was adjudicated bankrupt soon after. Halifax was granted a 
possession order over the property.
In July 2017 Halifax sought to enforce the possession order, which resulted in Mr L making 
an application to stop the enforcement. Litigation continued for a number of years, until the 
courts placed a civil restraint order on Mr L in January 2019 to prevent him from starting 
further litigation for two years. 
On 13 August 2019 a letter was sent to Mr L. It said an appointment had been arranged with 
the Bailiff for eviction on 4 September 2019. It said you are required to vacate the Property 
beforehand, together with all possessions and belonging, as you will not be able to collect 
them once the Eviction has taken place.
The property was then taken into possession on 4 September 2019.
The timeline on the marketing and sale
Halifax obtained three valuations of the property. The property was placed on the market on 
27 September 2019 for just under £2m.
In October 2019 as thered been no interest in the property, the price was reduced by 
£100,000. It was reduced by about £200,000 the following month as there had only been two 
viewings. An offer was made in November 2019 but the buyer later withdrew.
In February 2020 the price was reduced to just over £1m as thered been only four viewings 
to date, and then in March to £1m. An offer was received for £550,000 which was turned 
down for being too low.
In March 2020 things went on hold whilst we considered Mr Ls previous complaint and to 
give him a chance to make a short settlement to get the property back. As Mr L didnt meet 
terms of the short settlement, the marketing recommenced in June 2020.
In July 2020 the marketing price was reduced to just under £1m which generated two offers. 
The first for £750,000 was turned down and the second for £800,000 was accepted. 
Unfortunately, the buyer later withdrew their offer.
In August 2020 the original estate agent was unwilling to continue marketing the property as 
it didnt feel safe, saying it had received numerous calls from individuals who appeared to be 
trying to stop the sale of the property proceeding. It didnt know the identity of the caller(s), 
but found them intimidating, so it decided it was no longer able to continue to act. As a result 
a new agent was appointed to sell the property.
The new agent conducted some viewings and three offers were received, two for just under 
£800,000 and the other for £800,000. The offer of £800,000 was made on 26 August by a 
cash buyer and that was accepted. 
Contracts were exchanged on 1 September and the sale completed on 22 September, with a 
loss to Halifax of around £680,000 which I understand that, due to Mr Ls previous 
bankruptcy, Halifax isnt in a position to recover.
The timeline on the clearance of the property and unauthorised access and removal of items
In the meantime, on 10 September Mr L sent an email to the company that were managing 
the possession (who, going forward I will refer to as X) I will let you know by tomorrow the 
days for access to retrieve personal and valuable items that had to be left at the property 
because of short notice.
The same day Mr L sent an email to Halifaxs solicitor:
I had hoped to deal with these house issues over the next few months to get them fixed so 
a mortgage could be obtained as its possible without such being fixed a mortgage may not 
be made available to any prospective purchaser. Condemned gas boiler. Your clients need 
to be aware the boiler in the property has been condemned [] There are massive leaks in 
the house with the cellar constantly flooding, the cylinder tanks are leaking [], the 
replacement price for such was estimated at £30,000 over a year ago by a different gas safe 
company. Asbestos Your client needs to be aware there is certain parts of the building that 
has asbestos [] Structural subsidence There has been movement on the property []
On 11 September Mr L sent a further email to X I note another vehicle was on the drive, I 
am concerned because the house has lots of valuables and personal items in there inc 
IPhones, computers etc that these should all be removed before people start to visit the 
property.
X responded to say that it had run through the procedure with Mr L and the onus was on him 
to now book in visits to the property to collect his belongings. It said it would continue with its 
process with a view to place the property on the market, and he could have access up until 
exchange of contracts at which time the property is sold as seen. It recommended, therefore, 
that Mr L booked in some access sessions as soon as possible and asked for his preferred 
dates.
Mr L emailed X on 17 September to say the pool cover had been damaged after hed left the 
property. He said the short notice to move meant he was unable to remove his possessions 
in time. He asked for visits on three consecutive afternoons that week, and then three 
afternoons the following week. He said he intended to remove items including fixtures such 
as electric sockets, light fixtures, security alarm systems, television aerials and satellite 
dishes, fires and fire surrounds, hearths, central heating boilers and radiators, plumbing 
installations, fixed furniture, jacuzzi, gym equipment, kitchen units, clocks built into the wall, 
gates, railings, garden lights, petrol pump, built in wardrobes, cupboards and shelf units. He 
also said he would remove all items in the outbuildings and on the driveway, as well as 
fittings such as carpets, blinds, curtains and rails, paintings, ovens, refrigerators, washing machines, dryers, beds, sofas, other free standing furniture, lamps and lampshades. He said 
the list was not exhaustive.
X confirmed those dates were acceptable, but said that Mr L couldnt remove the fixtures 
and fittings, giving a list of those things that had to remain. It said Mr L could remove any 
connected devices that werent classed as a fixture or fitting as long as he had a qualified 
engineer with him who could safely disconnect the items. It said any damage Mr L was 
claiming had taken place since hed left the property needed to be confirmed in writing along 
with the photographic evidence he said he had so it could be investigated.
Mr L replied to say he felt matters had been delayed by X and if it didnt reconsider its 
position hed instruct his solicitor to issue proceedings to recover his property. He said I also 
have tools in the property and this stance is unreasonable and is impacting upon my work 
and livelihood.
Emails passed back and forth over the next few months, with Mr L making various 
appointments to visit the property to collect his belongings, some of which he kept, others he 
cancelled.
On 4 December Mr L emailed Halifaxs solicitor. He said his wife  Mrs L  had been visiting 
some land owned by a family member that adjoined the property and their dog ran off into 
the garden of the property and so Mrs L had to go in to get the dog back. He said Mrs L 
noticed some of the flagstones had been removed and said that if they werent replaced then 
damage could be caused.
A week later Mr L sent a further email, this time to X, saying hed notified the solicitor of the 
theft several weeks ago, and that there had been a further theft with the gates left wide 
open. He said that further parts of the patio had been stolen and the gaps would allow water 
to pass into the cellar. He said his lawnmower worth around £10,000 had also been taken. 
He said hed installed his own lock on the gates. Finally, he said the property was 
unsafe/dangerous, and that he would need to be involved with the decision of repairs to the 
property.
The solicitor replied to confirm the first theft had been reported to the police on 5 December, 
and the second theft (of the lawnmower) had been reported to the police upon receipt of 
Mr Ls email notifying it. It encouraged Mr L to liaise with the police in respect of any missing 
items. It reminded Mr L he had no right to enter the property or place any locks on it as 
Halifax had possession of the property. It also said Mr L wouldnt be involved with any 
repairs or maintenance that X may decide to do. It finished by saying You should now make 
arrangements with [X] to collect any items remaining at the Property as a matter of urgency. 
The Bank has incurred significant house-sitting costs to date and is not prepared to keep 
incurring these costs indefinitely.
Mr L said hed been told by X that all items left at the property were insured. He said the 
property was unsafe due to the removal of the various flagstones, and to remove any items 
would put lives at risk. He said he envisaged needing ten more full days of access, but that 
those couldnt take place until the front patio area had been made safe.
X confirmed that Mr L could have a maximum of five full days, and that no further access 
after that would be granted. It said any cancellation would be classed as a visit being 
undertaken. It confirmed the patio steps had been deemed to be in working order and so 
would not obstruct the removal of goods, and that in any event there were two other access 
doors which had been unaffected by the criminal damage, so there was no reason why the 
property couldnt be cleared. It reminded Mr L that once contracts had been exchanged on a sale that the property would be sold as seen, with any items remaining at that point forming 
part of the sale.
X emailed Mr L on 1 September 2020 to say it understood hed been in contact with Halifaxs 
solicitor as he wanted to collect chattels from the property. X asked that Mr L provide a 
suitable date and time so it could be arranged as soon as possible. It said the items would 
be placed outside the property for collection as internal access was no longer permitted, and 
that the sale of the property was due to complete on 22 September.
Mr L replied to say that all the items were authorised to be left at the property and had now 
been moved or previously stolen. He said the items were covered on the banks insurance, 
and that everything in or around the property is required, including some red diesel in the 
tanks. He said there were all the carpets, underlay, brass stair rods, internal door bell to be 
removed. He said the light fittings couldnt be checked if they were placed outside. He felt 
with various people having wandered around items may have been contaminated, which 
hed discuss with his solicitor. He said the items in the outbuildings and garden would be 
moved on 10 and 11 September, and the contents would be collected on 17 and 18 
September.
X confirmed it had booked Mr L to attend the property on those four dates, and that it had 
also booked in 16 September as the contractors felt five days would be needed. It said the 
dates now couldnt be changed (except for 16 September) and that any items not collected 
after those dates would be left in the property for completion. On each day that has been 
booked, items will be placed outside and will be available for collection that day. The 
arrangements are the same for the collection of all items, including any items in the 
garage/outbuildings.
What has happened since the property was sold
Mr L made an application to the courts on 15 September 2020 seeking leave to bring 
proceedings against Halifax. His witness statement detailed the full extent of the claim, but 
he raised the following broad claims:
Halifax didnt treat him fairly as it didnt provide him with a sufficient opportunity to 
discharge his liability, and the ultimate purchase price is no better than hed 
tentatively agreed with Halifax but was unable to comply with.
The property had been put on the market for nearly £2m and was subsequently sent 
to auction with a reserve of £750,000.
Halifax is in breach of its duty to him in not obtaining the best possible price for the 
property, and consequently deprived him of monies over and above the mortgage 
debt.
Halifax gave permission for various items to be left in the property, but failed to 
protect the property and therefore Mr Ls contents. He said that had resulted in a loss 
to him personally in the region of £150,000, including a lawnmower worth around 
£10,000.
Hes been unable to raise finance to buy the property back because Halifax had left 
the utilities in his name and the non-payment of those accounts had affected his 
credit rating. His credit file had also been impacted by the mortgage payments being 
incorrectly marked repeatedly as defaulted.Halifax sold the property with a number of his personal possessions including floor 
coverings, a jacuzzi and several light fittings that are valued at around £50,000 alone. 
He said Halifax had previously indicated that he could remove those items, but now 
believed that as contracts had been exchanged that it no longer had to honour that 
promise.
On 29 September 2020 a Judgement was issued which said that upon reading Mr Ls 
application and witness statement, and upon having regard to the Civil Restraint Order 
imposed on Mr L that the application for leave is refused. It said the grounds seeking leave 
to issue proceedings against [Halifax] being wholly without merit.
In June 2021 I issued a decision to explain which parts of the complaint wed be considering, 
and why. In that I said: 
Whilst I wont necessarily be answering each and every point Mr L has raised, nor am I 
likely to do so in as much detail as Mr L has presented them, for clarity these are the broad 
areas that Ill be looking at:
The marketing of Mr Ls property, and the eventual sale price.
The damage Mr L says occurred to the property whilst Halifax was in possession.
The theft Mr L reported of some of his possessions.
Some of Mr Ls possessions remained in the property when it was sold, and others 
were left outside for him to collect.
Halifax wouldnt place the sale of the property on hold.
Halifax wouldnt accept a reduced settlement from Mr L to hand the property back to 
him.
Our investigator had already dealt with those issues, not upholding Mr Ls complaint.
Since my previous decision our investigator wrote to both sides about a complaint point Mr L 
raised about a subject access request (SAR) he made to Halifax. Our investigator said 
Halifax should pay £150 compensation for the delays in fulfilling Mr Ls SAR.
Halifax agreed to pay that compensation, and Mr L didnt make any comments about it. As 
Mr L had already disagreed with our investigators findings about the main thrust of his 
complaint, the case has been returned to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
I wont use the exact figures in this decision, as the combination of those and the dates could 
lead to triangulation and therefore be a threat to Mr Ls anonymity when this decision is 
published. Ive made my decision based on the exact figures, I simply dont include them 
here. I also wont go into any detail about the damage to the property, or the theft, for the 
same reason. But again, Ive made my decision based on the full facts. Rather than listing 
each bullet point separately Ill deal with Mr Ls complaint under some broad headings.
The sale of the propertyWhen it first took the property into possession, Halifax obtained some valuations. It asked 
two estate agents and a surveyor to value the property, and those valuations came in with 
the range from £1.65m to just under £2m. 
Halifax placed the property on the market in September 2019 for just under £2m. There was 
limited interest, and it was noted that the property needed a lot of work. By the end of 
November 2019 the asking price had been reduced by around £300,000, and one offer was 
received of £1m, but that offer was later withdrawn.
In February 2020 the price was reduced again to a little over £1m, and by March thered still 
only been six viewings. By then the property had been broken into and there had been some 
criminal damage.
The price was further reduced, and Halifax looked at putting the property into an auction as 
by July there had only been one further viewing.
The auctioneer conducted nearly 20 viewings of the property, but the feedback was the 
property needed too much work. Eventually a cash offer of £800,000 was received at the 
end of August 2020, and that sale later completed.
When selling a property in possession, Halifax is required to get independent valuations and 
use them as a guide when marketing the property. Thats what it did. It relied on the opinions 
of qualified professionals. I dont think it did anything wrong here. There was little to no 
interest and so the price was reduced. Mr L has said that he wasnt consulted about the 
price drops, but he wouldnt have been because Halifax was selling the property as 
mortgagee in possession. It wouldnt run any of its decisions past Mr L as that would be 
entirely inappropriate. Im sure Mr L can understand that less scrupulous customers might 
use any need for consultation to try to delay matters and fetter the lenders right of sale. The 
valuations and marketing opinions of the property noted there were various other issues that 
would negatively impact on its saleability and value. It was noted that:
The property was very dated and required full refurbishment including rewiring, which 
due to the size of the house would be costly.
Buyers with that amount of money to spend on a property would prefer to live in one 
of the more highly regarded locations in the area.
The location was off-putting as it was very close to a busy road, and the road leading 
up to the property was uneven and filled with pot-holes. It was noted that twice a car 
had been damaged just getting to the property.
A lender in possession should get the best price it can. But it shouldnt hold out too long for 
an unrealistically high price while interest on the debt mounts up. That isnt always an easy 
balance to strike, but I dont think Halifax got it wrong in this case. Having considered 
everything I dont agree that Halifax sold the property for less than it was worth, nor do I 
think it held onto it for longer than it should to try to achieve that price.
I understand Mr L feels the damage to the property severely affected its eventual sale price, 
but it seems from the marketing history, limited interest and offers that were made that the 
property simply wasnt worth what Mr L believed even before the damage.
Mr L has blamed Halifax for the cellar flooding, saying it happened due to the criminal 
damage and theft of flagstones. He also says the lack of maintenance whilst the property 
was in possession caused other issues. But that doesnt tally with his email to Halifaxs solicitor in September 2019 when he told them the boiler had been condemned, the property 
had massive leaks with the cellar constantly flooding and the cylinder tanks leaking. He 
also said the property suffered from subsidence, amongst other issues. 
In any event, I cant hold Halifax liable for criminal damage that occurred to the property. 
Whilst I acknowledge Mr Ls strength of feeling that the padlocks that were used were too 
cheap and that things had been left open, if a person wanted to break into the property they 
would have done so whether the padlock cost £5 or much more; a more robust padlock may 
only have slowed their entry down slightly. Unfortunately, unauthorised access and thefts is 
always a risk when a property is empty, and theres nothing Halifax could have reasonably 
done to prevent unauthorised access from someone that was set on breaking in.
Ive seen the photos from when the property was taken into possession in September 2019 
and I can see from those that the property was dated, and there were elements of disrepair. 
In his email to the solicitor on 10 September 2019 Mr L listed some issues that were wrong 
with the property, so it seems he accepts the property wasnt in an ideal condition to try to 
sell. Having considered the reports about the condition of the property, reviewed the photos 
and considered Mr Ls testimony in that email about the things he knew were an issue, Im 
satisfied Halifax didnt do anything wrong when it decided to market the property as is 
rather than spending out what could have been a very large sum of money to rectify those 
issues, without any certainty that expenditure would be recouped upon the sale of the 
property.
Mr L has said There is black mould in the property which is as a result the bank instructed 
the central heating to be drained down, this has damaged to the inside of the building and 
the central heating system. But surely he can see how fool-hardy it would have been if 
central heating had been left to run after hed told Halifaxs solicitor that the boiler had been 
condemned.
Mr L has said that the swimming pool and its cover were damaged by Xs contractors, saying 
theyd drained the pool without removing the cover first. I cant see that Mr L has provided 
any proof that Xs contractors drained the pool and caused the damage in the way he said. 
On 17 September 2019 Mr L reported the damage to X, and it replied I must advise also in 
relation to the supposed damages that you believe to have been caused we need you to put 
all items in writing along with any photographic evidence you may have so we can 
investigate this further for you.
Whilst Ive considered Mr Ls points very carefully Im not persuaded the various reports of 
damage to the property (such as the flagstones that were stolen, and the swimming pool and 
its cover, for example) have caused Mr L any financial loss. I say this because at the time 
the property was taken into possession the mortgage debt stood at just under £1.4m, so 
unless an equivalent sale price was achieved Mr L would not receive any money from the 
sale. Having considered everything Im satisfied that even if the various damage hadnt 
occurred that it is very unlikely a sale price at that level could have been obtained. 
The damage to the swimming pool and its cover wouldnt have had a massive impact on the 
potential sale price, and the theft of the flagstones didnt occur until after the purchase price 
had already been reduced to around £1.6m due to a lack of interest, with just one offer of 
£1m being received that was later withdrawn. Again, at that point I consider it unlikely that 
those missing flagstones would have had an impact on the sale price to the degree someone 
would have been willing to offer around £1.4m or above if those thefts hadnt taken place. 
I understand Mr L has said that he tried to get a bridging loan to get the funds to buy the 
property back from Halifax and that because of the theft and Halifax reducing the purchase 
price the bridging loan couldnt proceed due to the loan to value. Mr L mentioned his inability to raise finance in his previous complaint that was decided by a 
colleague  that time it was the inability to raise finance before the property was taken into 
possession in 2019. In that complaint he attributed his failure to raise the finance on 
information Halifax had incorrectly recorded on his credit file but the general concepts 
remain the same. 
For me to decide that the sole reasons the bridging loan couldnt proceed is because of the 
damage to the property and the reduction in purchase price Id have to be satisfied that:
The bridging loan lender would have received an independent valuation of the 
property at a level that would allow it to lend Mr L the money he needed if the 
damage hadnt occurred and the purchase price hadnt been reduced. 
There was no other information on Mr Ls credit file that would have led the lender to 
not want the risk of lending to Mr L.
The lender would have been happy to proceed in the knowledge of Mr Ls two 
bankruptcies that would have remained on his credit file until May 2021 and 
September 2023 respectively.
The lender would have been satisfied with the risk on whether Mr L would repay the 
money in full and on time.
No other reason existed for the lender to be unwilling to lend to Mr L.
Having considered everything I cant say that it is more likely than not  which is the test I 
must use  that Mr L would have obtained the bridging loan he needed to buy the property 
from Halifax but for the damage to the property and the reduction in the purchase price.
Having considered everything Im satisfied the only party that potentially lost out financially 
due to the damage to the property was Halifax, as it incurred a loss of around £680,000 
when the property was sold. Im also satisfied that Halifax didnt act inappropriately in the 
marketing and sale of the property.
Up until the point of completion Mr L was asking that the sale be placed on hold, listing 
various failings as he saw them and saying that it would be unfair for the sale to go through 
whilst we considered the complaint.
As my colleague explained in his decision in 2019 
One of the fundamental principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender 
has the right to enforce its security to recover money owed to it. The courts have found 
emphatically in Halifaxs favour on this, and it would be entirely inequitable and 
inappropriate for me to remove that right in a final decision on Mr Ls complaint.
Halifax had marketed the property for just under a year and had obtained an offer from a 
cash buyer that seemed to be the best it was going to obtain. Mr L had made various offers 
to try to stop the sale, but the underlying principle of all of them was that he was only willing 
to pay a sum equivalent to that which Halifax had accepted (£800,000). However rather than 
being a cash buyer giving over the whole sum within weeks and with no ties or potential 
further issues, Mr L instead wanted to pay the sum in instalments over a couple of years 
without yet having the money available to pay the full amount  it would be reliant on him 
being able to obtain finance from somewhere. 
It is entirely understandable that Halifax wasnt willing to consider that as an attractive option 
for it, considering how protracted and costly the litigation had been to get matters to this 
point with a Civil Restraint Order being given to Mr L, with a judge who referred matters for that Order on his own initiative referring to Mr Ls claims as speculative, nothing but a 
smokescreen, wholly without merit and an attempt to delay the inevitable. The notes that 
accompanied the Order said that an order was made in May 2015 and Since then [Mr L] 
has been attempting to avoid the possession order being enforced by making various 
applications.
Based on this, it is understandable that Halifax didnt want to take things right back and allow 
Mr L another chance by letting him move back into the property whilst still owing it a 
significant sum of money that he had no definite way of repaying.
Having considered everything, for all the reasons given I dont uphold this part of Mr Ls 
complaint.
Mr Ls possessions
Mr L has said some of his personal possessions were stolen from the property, including a 
ride-on lawnmower worth around £10,000. Hes also unhappy that some items remained in 
the property when it was sold, and that others were left outside for him to collect.
Firstly I think I need to correct Mr Ls belief that Halifax (or its agent) insured his belongings 
that remained in the property after the property was taken into possession. Thats not the 
case. The insurance that was held was purely to cover the building (for instance, to pay out 
to rebuild the building if it was fully destroyed by an insured event). There was no contents 
cover and I havent seen any evidence to indicate Mr L was told otherwise. It wouldnt make 
sense for Halifax to be paying out for insurance to protect Mr Ls contents that should 
already have been removed from the property anyway. Any items that remained until Mr L 
could collect them were left there at his own risk.
Mr L has said he was unable to clear the property before it was taken into possession, but I 
dont agree. Mr L has known that Halifax had a possession order for many years, and in my 
colleagues decision in July 2019 he said
Mr L continued his attempts to block the possession of [the property] in court. Those 
attempts were all rejected by the courts and culminated in January 2019 with Mr L being 
barred from further court proceedings for two years by a civil restraining order. That left 
Halifax free to proceed with the eviction on [the property], but Mr L then brought the 
complaint to us. He asked if we could tell Halifax to suspend the eviction while we looked 
into the complaint. We pointed out that we couldnt tell the bank to do this, but that we could 
ask it. With a great deal of reluctance, Halifax agreed to stay the eviction.
This shows that Mr L was aware, months before he was evicted from the property, that 
eviction was imminent and he was then sent a letter by Halifaxs solicitor on 13 August 2019 
that said the eviction had been arranged for 4 September. That letter said that Mr L needed 
to leave the property by then, together with all possessions and belongings. So Mr L knew 
three weeks before the day, when exactly he needed to clear the property by, and had 
known for months before then that the day was imminent. Putting all that together I cant 
agree Mr L didnt have enough time and warning to remove his  and his familys  
belongings before the property was taken into possession.
Despite that X made numerous appointments for Mr L to visit the property and retrieve the 
belongings that he had left. Some of those appointments were kept and others were 
cancelled. X told Mr L on 11 September 2019 that he could have access to retrieve his 
belongings up until contracts are exchanged on a sale, at which point the property is sold as 
seen. He was reminded of that fact over the months that followed and, as I said, numerous 
appointments were booked for him. Mr L has said he didnt want to visit the property during the pandemic as he didnt feel it was 
safe, but by the time of the first lockdown hed already had six months to retrieve anything he 
wanted. He also said he didnt want people in the property unaccompanied due to his 
valuables in there, but then the onus was on him to remove anything of value, rather than on 
Halifax to have to work around them.
X said it needed to clean the property before it was marketed, and as part of that it would 
place any remaining items into the corner of each room. That doesnt seem unreasonable. 
For a property to be marketed, it should be presented in the best possible way it can be in 
the circumstances, and that wouldnt be with Mr Ls (and his familys) possessions remaining 
where hed left them as can be seen from the photos taken when the property was taken into 
possession.
As Ive said previously, I dont hold Halifax liable for the unauthorised access to the property 
and it follows, therefore, that I cant hold Halifax liable for the theft of Mr Ls belongings. All 
that could be done was for Mr L to report the theft of his belongings to the police and Halifax 
said it would cooperate with any investigation that followed.
Once the property was taken into possession it should have been empty of all personal 
possessions. Despite that, and despite Halifax allowing Mr L to visit the property on different 
occasions so he could remove his belongings, some items still remained almost a year to the 
day later when contracts were exchanged on the sale. At that point, as Mr L had been 
warned for that year, he could no longer access the property. Despite that Halifax still made 
arrangements for Mr L to visit the grounds of the property to collect his personal possessions 
as its contractors cleared the property in advance of completion. It said Mr L couldnt remove 
any fixtures as exchange had taken place with them in situ, with Mr L having had a year to 
remove them if he wanted, and so they formed part of the sale.
Mr L has made much of his possessions being left outside. But, as our investigator said, they 
would only have been left outside if he didnt attend  as hed said he would  to collect 
them. Mr L was told by Halifaxs solicitor
[X] has booked contractors to remove items from the property on 10, 11, 17 and 18 
September 2020. The contractors will remove the items in the most practical way and are 
happy to empty the outbuildings first as you have requested. Please note that the 
contractors will only take instructions from [X] and not yourself. 
Please also note that the contractors will arrive at the property between 9.30am and 10am 
so you are invited to arrive to collect your items at 10am. 
Could you please let [X] know by 12pm on 11 September 2020 whether you can attend the 
property on 16 September 2020 as the contractors have told us that 5 days are needed to 
clear the property. If [X] doesn't hear from you, it will go ahead and book this date which you 
will not be able to change.
After the items had been removed, Mr L said
Your agents removed items from inside my property, then dumped such items outside 
without exercising due care and attention to those items, in a letter from the FOS I was told 
you would not put my items outside, yet you did in direct conflict to what the FOS told me
But that isnt what we told Mr L. Our investigator didnt say that Mr Ls possessions wouldnt 
be put outside, she said they wouldnt be left outside if Mr L arrived to collect them as 
discussed: [Halifaxs solicitor] has invited you to collect your things. Should you arrive to do that, your 
belongings will not be left outside. So I strongly suggest that you agree the dates with 
[Halifaxs solicitor] and arrive to collect things.
The items were always going to be removed from the property and outbuildings by the 
contractors as Mr L was no longer allowed inside any of the buildings. The contractors would 
then put them outside and Mr L was supposed to then be there to load the items from where 
the contractors were putting them into his transport to remove them. The only reason the 
items would be left outside would be if Mr L wasnt there as arranged. That was outside of 
Halifaxs control so I cant hold it liable if any of the possessions were left outside as it had a 
tight timescale for the property to be emptied of all Mr Ls possessions, so it couldnt just wait 
around. By that time Mr L had had a year since the property had been taken into possession 
to remove his belongings, and months of notice before then that his eviction was imminent. 
Ive not seen any evidence to show any of Mr Ls belongings were damaged by the 
contractors who were clearing the property over and above anything that would normally be 
expected when an item is moved from one place to another.
Mr L has said that someone had used weed-killer in the area around where some of his 
furniture was which led to him and his family members suffering from vomiting and 
gastroenteritis for six days. He says hes been advised that it is from poisoning, and all the 
items will now need to be cleaned. Hes also said that he stood on a board with a rusty nail 
that went right up into his foot and he needed to go to hospital. Ive a great deal of sympathy 
for Mr L and his family, as their illnesses and his injury came at what was already a difficult 
time for them having lost their home. Unfortunately Im not able to consider these elements 
here as I cant see that Mr L has provided any evidence of his illness and his injury being the 
fault of Halifax (or its agents) to Halifax so it hasnt been able to investigate those issues. Im 
sure that if Mr L provides such evidence to Halifax, then it can investigate those matters in 
the appropriate way.
Mr L has also said that the contractors didnt wear PPE, which put him and his family at risk 
of Covid. As far as I am aware, at the time the property was being cleared (September 2020) 
there was no requirement for the contractors to wear PPE outside which is the only place 
Mr L and his family should have been, but again that is a matter Mr L can raise with Halifax if 
he wants to do so.
Having considered everything I dont uphold this part of Mr Ls complaint.
The subject access request
Mr L made a subject access request to Halifax, and was unhappy with how long it took and 
the contents of it as he said items were missing, naming the photos taken of the property on 
the day of the eviction.
Mr L says the photos would have showed the good condition of the property and he felt that 
was why Halifax had withheld them.
Our investigator said the delay in providing the information didnt disadvantage Mr L in 
progressing his complaint with us, as wed request any information directly from Halifax if we 
needed it, as we had done. He also didnt think that if Mr L had received the subject access 
request any sooner that the overall outcome of what happened with the property would have 
been any different.Halifax said it didnt include the photos as it didnt feel those constituted Mr Ls personal 
data, and Im inclined to agree. However, despite that Halifax provided the photos to Mr L 
when he queried it so hes received them anyway. That seems a reasonable resolution to 
Mr Ls dissatisfaction of the photos being omitted. 
For completeness, having reviewed those photos I dont feel they support Mr Ls statement 
that the property was in a good condition when he was evicted, and so I dont agree Halifax 
withheld them for any nefarious reason.
As our investigator explained, the information that was redacted doesnt constitute Mr Ls 
personal data and so Halifax was right to do so, and in any event hasnt caused Mr L any 
loss.
In terms of the delay in providing the information to Mr L, our investigator felt £150 was a fair 
award of compensation, and having considered everything I agree with him.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint only insofar as I award £150 compensation for the delay in providing 
Mr L with his subject access request. I dont uphold any other part of this complaint.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman