DRN-3154402
The complaint
Mr H complains that Nationwide Vehicle Contracts Limited (NVC) failed to provide the 
correct information to a lender which resulted in him being refused a loan. He says that he 
lost out on a deal and the one he eventually obtained is some £40 a month more expensive.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for the following reasons: 
I believe Mr Hs loan application failed due to a degree of confusion as to his current 
address. He was in the process of changing address at the time the application was made. 
Mr H completed the application online and NVC used this information to make a proposal to 
the lender, who I will call L. Mr H has explained he used the address he wanted the car 
delivered to.
NVC says that L didnt ask for any further information, but an appeal was made using Mr Hs 
parents address as requested by him. The situation regarding the issue of his address was 
explained to L and it rejected the appeal. NVC then asked if it could resubmit the application 
but L said that we would reject the new application having now gone through the appeals 
process and the situation regarding housing had been explained during that process.
I appreciate Mr H was upset by the rejection given he had a good credit history, but I cannot 
see that NVC has done anything wrong. It made the proposal based on information provided 
by My H and when it was made aware of the circumstances of his address it appealed the 
decision. It explained the circumstances and it was not responsible for the outcome.
Having read the documentation I can see that NVC made every effort to try and secure the 
loan. I do not consider it took too long or that its customer service was poor. From 
application to appeal took three days and from appeal to request to make a new application 
was just seven days and then just six days between the rejection and the offer of a new 
agreement.
I appreciate Mr H says he suffered stress anxiety and sleepless nights which were due to the 
incorrect information being requested. However, I cannot conclude that NVC did anything 
wrong. It is entitled to use automated processes and it was open to Mr H to explain his 
circumstances if he felt he didnt fit the norm. I have looked at the NVC website and it 
provides a contact number and email address.
I have noted that he was able to obtain finance from L directly, but that of itself doesnt mean 
that NVC did anything wrong. Finally, I would make it clear that I am only considering the 
complaint against NVC and Mr H has raised a separate complaint against L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman