DRN-3013376
The complaint
Mr B is unhappy about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds decision to find him at fault 
following a car accident. He said the third party was on the phone at the time of the accident 
and hit his car. He is also unhappy with the way Advantage handled the claim.
 
What happened
In August 2020 Mr B was involved in an accident in a car park. He spoke to Advantage and 
gave his account of what happened. 
Later, Mr B was renewing his insurance when he noticed his premiums had increased. He 
was unhappy so he contacted Advantage who told him about the fault claim. A complaint 
was raised, and Advantage said it had fairly decided Mr B was at fault for the accident he 
reported. But Advantage offered £100 for the poor communication it had provided. 
Mr B remained unhappy, so he made a complaint to this service. He said a third party hit his 
car when he was stationary and that he had spoken to an independent witness who told him 
he saw the incident. Mr B said Advantage told him no further action would be taken with the 
claim until it had spoken to him. 
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He said that Advantage had 
fairly decided Mr B was at fault for the accident based upon the evidence that was available. 
He said Advantage contacted one of the witnesses provided by Mr B, but that person said 
they didnt witness the incident. And Advantage wasnt made aware there was CCTV in the 
surgery car park, but it did check to see if there were any further cameras in the area which 
may have seen the incident. Because there were none, it couldnt consider this information 
any further. The investigator added that in one of the claims calls, Mr B said he was 
reversing at the time there was an impact with the third party, so he didnt think Advantage 
had unreasonably accepted the fault claim on Mr Bs behalf. 
The investigator added that Advantage had offered £100 to Mr B in recognition that it 
couldve communicated better with him. And that he thought that was a fair offer in all the 
circumstances. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an Ombudsmans review. He said he told Advantage he was 
stationary when the third party hit his car and that he told Advantage about the CCTV 
overlooking the place of the incident. He didnt agree with the damage the third party claimed 
for and that this claim had unfairly affected his insurance premiums. He added that 
Advantage failed to communicate with him during the claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr B feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why.
This service doesnt decide liability for an accident; thats a matter for the courts. But we do 
consider whether an insurer, Advantage in this case, acted in accordance with the policy 
terms and made a fair decision.
Mr Bs policy says that Advantage is entitled to take over and deal with a claim on his behalf. 
Its a common term in motor insurance policies. And wed expect it to be applied fairly. 
So, Ive considered whether Advantage has treated Mr B fairly and reasonably when 
deciding if he was at fault. 
Mr B says the third-party driver was on his phone at the time of the accident and that there 
were two witnesses. And that if Advantage had told him sooner that the claim was 
progressing, he couldve provided more information. 
Advantage has provided two call recordings with Mr B on the day of the accident and call 
notes which include a conversation with a witness who said they didnt see the accident, only 
the altercation between Mr B and the third-party that happened afterwards. Ive listened to 
the call recordings and Im satisfied Mr B mentioned one witness (who Advantage 
contacted). And no CCTV was mentioned to Advantage. So, I dont think Advantage unfairly 
decided that it didnt have any independent witnesses or evidence of the incident to decide 
who was at fault and to prove the third-party was on the phone. 
Advantage has taken into account Mr Bs version of events. But without independent 
evidence to support that, Advantage decided that as Mr B confirmed he was reversing into a 
parking space, he was more likely to be held liable for the incident according to the Highway 
Code. Ive reviewed the part of the code Advantage has referred to and Im satisfied its 
considered the code fairly in the circumstances. 
I understand why Mr B was unhappy he didnt get more of an opportunity to defend himself 
during the claim. But for the reasons Ive already mentioned, Advantage has the right to fairly 
decide liability. I can see it made him aware of the possibility of accepting a 50/50 fault. And 
because there wasnt an independent witness of the collision, I dont believe it was 
unreasonable for Advantage to find Mr B at fault and to tell him that, in the circumstances, it 
was unlikely to be successful if liability for the incident went to court. So, Im not satisfied 
Mr B confirming his version of events wouldve changed the outcome of the claim here. 
Ive also considered the damage the third-party claimed for. I understand why Mr B is 
unhappy with the amount, but it doesnt seem excessive to me. The investigator has 
explained that insurers have an agreement between themselves that they have to present 
legitimate and accurate claims to another insurer. This means providing sufficient evidence 
of the costs involved. Advantage has provided a copy of the engineers report from the third-
party insurer. And Im satisfied the costs are reasonable. 
Mr B is unhappy with Advantages communication during the claim. According to the notes 
on file, when Mr B first contacted Advantage the claim wasnt registered. And it was only 
logged as an incident. Which matches what Mr B has told this service. Advantage then told 
Mr B the incident would remain open on its system. But the third-party insurer contacted 
Advantage about the claim a few months later which led to Advantage considering the 
matter further. Im sure Mr B was surprised when he heard about the progression of the 
claim. And Advantage has admitted that it couldve handled things better. It offered £100 for 
the distress and inconvenience it caused. I agree with the investigator that the offer from 
Advantage is fair here and is in line with offers Id expect in similar cases. So, Im not going to ask Advantage to take any further action here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2021.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman