DRN-1847220
The complaint
Miss K complains about the level of customer service she received from Blue Panda Finance 
Ltd. She says it hasnt justified the fee shes been charged for its service as she had to do 
most of the work herself.
What happened
Miss K instructed Blue Panda to represent her in a complaint against a payday loan provider. 
She agreed to pay Blue Panda 25% of any settlement she received. 
In October 2019, Miss K received an email from the lender telling her it was making an offer 
following the Financial Ombudsman Services involvement. The Blue Panda representative 
said it hadn't been told the amount she would be getting. He suggested Miss K contact the 
lender directly to ask for a figure, so it could make sure the amount was correct and in line 
with what the ombudsman service said. He also told her she could contact the ombudsman 
service directly.
The same day Miss K spoke to a second Blue Panda representative. Miss K was unhappy 
that the previous representative had told her to contact the lender and the ombudsman 
service directly. She questioned what she was paying Blue Panda for. 
The second Blue Panda representative said this particular lender wanted customers to give 
their bank details directly for security reasons. She told Miss K that the previous 
representative was only suggesting she contact the ombudsman service herself. Hed sent 
them an email after the call. 
In the same call the Blue Panda representative let Miss K know the settlement figures it had 
received from the lender. Miss K didn't think these were correct and expressed her concern 
that Blue Panda hadn't calculated the amounts before receiving the figures. The Blue Panda 
representative said its process was to review the calculations once theyd been received.
Miss K complained to Blue Panda. She said she was satisfied with the way it had handled 
her other claims, but not this one. She didnt feel she should have to give Blue Panda over 
£1,500 of her settlement when shed had to chase the claim at every point. She didnt think 
she should have had to get in touch with the lender and the ombudsman service herself. 
This was what Blue Panda was paid to do. She said she didnt believe the lender or the 
ombudsman service would not have spoken to Blue Panda at the stage (of the offer). Blue 
Panda had spoken to them after this.
Blue Panda said that some lenders refuse to discuss certain details with claims management 
companies once the claim is reaching resolution. The representative had only suggested 
Miss K contact the lender to speed up the process and confirm a figure that Blue Panda 
could then cross-reference with the offer confirmed to the ombudsman service by the lender. 
This didn't mean Blue Panda wouldn't chase Miss Ks complaint any further. It contacted the 
ombudsman service straight after Miss Ks telephone conversation with the first 
representative in October.Blue Panda said it had reviewed its handling of Miss Ks entire claim against this lender. It 
was in line with the terms of business Miss K had agreed to. It thought it had handled      
Miss Ks claim in the manner expected. But it offered to reduce her invoice by 10% as a 
gesture of goodwill.   
Miss K remained unhappy, so she brought her complaint to our service. Our investigator 
looked into Miss Ks concerns but didn't think her complaint should be upheld. He said he 
understood that contacting the lender directly inconvenienced her, but the terms of business 
said that Blue Panda could ask her to do this. He didn't agree that Miss K had been 
instructed to contact the ombudsman service herself. The representative said hed contact 
the ombudsman service after the call, and he did so.
Our investigator didnt think Blue Panda should have phoned Miss K after shed asked it not 
to. But he felt the reduction in fee Blue Panda offered fairly compensated her for any trouble 
and upset shed experienced.
The investigator said he appreciated that Miss K felt she did most of the work to retrieve her 
redress, but Blue Panda had provided evidence to show it also worked on her behalf to 
retrieve it.
Miss K disagreed with our investigators view. She said she was unhappy with the way Blue 
Panda had dealt with her claim from the start. She had already raised concerns when the 
complaint against the lender went to the ombudsman service because it was taking so long. 
On a number of occasions when shed called Blue Panda, correspondence had only been 
opened when she was on the phone. She wasn't happy to be paying for a service where 
shed had to do most of the work.
As Miss K has disagreed with our investigators opinion, her complaint has been passed to 
me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to reassure Miss K I have considered all of her points, even if I havent responded to 
each of them individually. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our 
investigator. I think the offer Blue Panda made to Miss K to resolve her complaint before she 
came to our service is fair. Ill explain why.
The terms of business Miss K agreed to say payment is on a No Win, No Fee basis. They 
say: If BPF (Blue Panda Finance) is successful in obtaining Compensation, then you owe 
BPF 25% of the Compensation.
Miss K says she doesn't think she should have to pay 25% of the settlement from the lender, 
because she feels shed done most of the work herself. Shes particularly unhappy that she 
was told to phone the lender and the ombudsman service directly after the lender made an 
offer. 
Blue Panda says it handled Miss Ks claim in line with the terms of business she agreed to. It 
had considered the ombudsman services timescales when deciding whether or not to chase 
for an update. 
Blue Panda has provided copies of correspondence between it, the lender and the 
ombudsman service. From what Ive seen, I think Blue Panda has handled Miss Ks claim appropriately. It submitted Miss Ks claim to the ombudsman service the day after the lender 
rejected her complaint. It didn't chase Miss Ks claim for almost six weeks, but it says this 
was because it had taken the ombudsman service's typical timescales for acknowledging a 
complaint into consideration
Miss K is unhappy that the Blue Panda representative she spoke to in October told her to 
call the lender and the ombudsman service herself. But Blue Panda says the representative 
advised her to speak to the lender because he was aware this particular lender wanted to 
deal with customers directly at that stage of the process. Ive listened to both calls that took 
place between Blue Panda and Miss K on that day. And Im satisfied this was explained to 
her. 
I appreciate Miss K felt frustrated that she was advised to contact the lender directly. But the 
terms of business she agreed to say: Unless We Specifically ask You to, once You have 
appointed Us, You will not communicate directly with the lender(s) with whom We are 
making Your claim with So, I think the terms allowed Blue Panda to ask Miss K to contact 
the lender directly. And I think it was reasonable for it to have done so under the 
circumstances. 
I understand Miss K was under the impression the representative was telling her she had to 
call the ombudsman service directly. But what he actually said was: 
In the meantime, what Ill do, Ill get in contact with the ombudsman try and get everything 
directly myself so I can let you know. But if you want to contact the ombudsman then theres 
no issues regarding that, just to try and double check everything, get the figures back
So, Im satisfied the representative told Miss K he intended to contact the ombudsman 
service himself. He was just letting Miss K know it wouldnt be a problem if she wanted to 
speak to them directly. And I can also see that he emailed the ombudsman service the same 
day. 
Overall, I think Blue Panda handled Miss Ks complaint appropriately. It could possibly have 
been a bit more proactive on occasion and it might have done more to update Miss K on 
progress. I dont think it should have phoned her after shed specifically asked it not to. But I 
think its offer to reduce Miss Ks fee by 10% (around £150) is enough to compensate her for 
any frustration or inconvenience she might have experienced.
I appreciate Miss K feels that Blue Pandas fee doesn't justify the amount of work its done. 
But Blue Pandas fee was agreed on a No Win, No Fee basis. So, the fee didn't need to 
reflect the amount of work or time Blue Panda spent on Miss Ks case. And I think it made 
Miss K aware of this when she agreed to use its services.
My final decision
Blue Panda Finance Ltd has already made an offer to reduce its fee by 10% to settle      
Miss Ks complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So, my decision is that Blue Panda Finance Ltd should reduce its fee by 10%.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 7 July 2020.
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman