DRN-4345335
The complaint
Ms W complained that a payment of £150 compensation from St. James's Place Wealth 
Management Plc (SJPWM) was inadequate to reflect the delays she experienced and the 
poor service it provided to her during the process of transferring her cash ISA from another 
financial services business (whom Ill call B to keep things simpler.) 
What happened
Ms W held a consolidated Cash ISA with B that matured in April 2022. She already had 
other assets invested with SJPWM and wanted to transfer these proceeds from B to 
SJPWM on maturity.
23 March 2022  Ms W had made SJPWM aware of her transfer intentions and was in 
communication with them about this.
12 April 2022 - SJPWM posted a signed letter of authority to B, authorising it to release 
information about Ms Ws ISA.
Between 25 April 2022- 16 May 2022, in the absence of any response, SJPWM chased up 
the requested information from B on three occasions. 
25 May 2022  SJPWM heard back from B with the requested information. 
6 June 2022  SJPWM asked Ms W to sign a cash ISA transfer authority form. 
29 June 2022 - The transfer was completed.
When Ms W complained to SJPWM about how long the transfer had taken it said B was 
mainly responsible for the delay and that once SJPWM had everything it needed, it had 
completed the transfer within 16 days. But SJPWM upheld Ms Ws complaint in part. It 
acknowledged it had been responsible for delay in providing a response to her complaint 
and offered her £150 as a gesture of goodwill. 
Ms W didn't feel this went far enough to resolve things and so she brought her complaint 
to us and one of our investigators looked into what happened.  
Our investigator thought that the service provided by SJPWM had fallen short in some key 
respects and so upheld this complaint. He didnt identify any investment loss or think 
SJPWM needed to refund any charges. But he felt that the redress paid by SJPWM wasnt 
enough to reflect the full extent of the impact on Ms W of SJPWMs service failings and 
recommended that SJPWM should pay Ms W a further £150 for the trouble and upset it 
was responsible for causing her. 
Ms W agreed with our investigator and said she would be content to accept £300 
compensation in total from SJPWM.
SJPWM however disagreed with the investigators assessment of the issues. It said that the 
delays were attributable to how long it took B to provide SJPWM with scheme information, 
without which it could not send Ms W a recommendation or transfer pack. And it didnt agree 
that it hadnt responded adequately to Ms Ws information requests and the concerns shed 
raised about what she was being asked to sign.
So this complaint comes to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I sympathise with Ms Ws frustration at the delay she encountered when it took longer than 
it shouldve done to carry out her transfer instructions. Ive thought carefully about how far 
SJPWM was responsible for unreasonable delay and about the quality of the service it 
provided to Ms W in connection with this matter.
HMRC guidance says ISA transfers should take no longer than 15 working days for transfers 
between cash ISAs. So it's fair to say that once SJPWM was satisfied it had everything it 
required, the transfer completed within a reasonable timescale, especially bearing in mind 
that there were two bank holidays during this period. But that alone isnt a reason for me not 
to uphold this complaint. 
From early May onwards, so a month or so after the maturity date, Ms W was repeatedly 
in contact with SJPWM trying to find out what was happening. Ms W was reasonably 
entitled to expect that the cash from the transfer of her consolidated ISA should by then 
have been with SJPWM. I dont think SJPWM did enough to clarify what the reason was 
for the hold-up. 
It said, for instance, on 8 June 2022 that the delay was attributable to Bs slow response in 
providing the information requested and the regulatory requirements that we have to 
enable the investment to be processed. SJPWM explained that it asked for this information 
to ensure all the details it held were correct, up to date and there were no hidden charges or 
conditions that could affect the advice. 
But I think its understandable that Ms W was concerned when SJPWM asked her to sign the 
transfer authority form saying Please take this form as authority immediately to cash in my 
Cash ISA, as shown below, and transfer the proceeds some two clear months after she 
had first asked SJPWM to arrange this. She had signed the letter of authority at SJPWMs 
request around the time her ISA had matured, which led her to think the transfer process 
was actively underway. SJPWM didnt explain to her what hidden charges or conditions 
would be likely to impact on the transfer proceeds, given that Ms W understood her cash ISA 
would have matured or ask whether she could provide evidence to show SJPWM that it had 
by then matured, or why the transfer authority form couldnt have been sent to B sooner in 
these particular circumstances.    
Ive also taken into account that SJPWM later told Ms W that it had requested work 
commence on the suitability pack in an attempt to reduce the time it would take to 
complete your transfer. This suggests to me that there was some flexibility in its process. 
So doing this and sharing this information with Ms W sooner might have taken away much of 
the anxiety and stress she suffered. Looking at this from Ms Ws point of view, she simply 
wasnt told what was happening, beyond B being blamed for not responding. I also think it's clear that SJPWMs responses to Ms Ws emails sent 8 June failed to 
address her concerns in the way she was reasonably entitled to expect. Ms W had explained 
why she was worried about the way the transfer form was filled out and asked for 
reassurance. She had a significant amount of money tied up in the cash ISA and she was 
paying for SJPWMs services and advice. There had been plenty of time to discuss the 
transfer form with her and to get it signed, irrespective of Bs lack of response to enquiries. 
To my mind, Ms W was entitled to expect a better service from SJPWM rather than simply 
being told: With regard to signing the form, please do. I can assure you that it has been 
correctly prepopulated. It is all explained in our response to your latest email which you will 
receive shortly.
For these reasons, I am upholding Ms Ws complaint about the service SJPWM provided to 
her on this occasion. So Ive thought carefully about redress.
The investigator didnt identify any financial loss and Ms W has accepted the investigators 
findings. So I dont need to say more about this except that I agree with the investigator. 
I havent seen enough to show that Ms W has suffered any investment loss or that shes lost 
out in money terms any other way.
But fair compensation needs to properly reflect the impact on Ms W of SJPWMs service 
failings on this occasion. The further £150 suggested by the investigator matches the level of 
award I would make in these circumstances had it not already been proposed. I dont doubt 
that the shortcomings in the service SJPWM provided to Ms W, as described above, caused 
Ms W significant distress and inconvenience. Whilst I can consider the customer service Ms W received, complaint handling isnt a 
regulated activity. The FCA says our service can only look into complaints about regulated 
activities. For this reason, I will not be commenting on SJPWMs goodwill payment made 
already in respect of its delay handling her complaint beyond saying that Ive taken into 
account that this will mean total compensation paid to Ms W will be £300, which feels fair 
and reasonable to me in these circumstances. 
Putting things right
SJPWM should pay Ms W a further £150 (making a total payment to her of £300) to put 
things right.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc to put things 
right for Ms W, as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman