DRN-1948995
The complaint
Mrs K and Mr S complain that Xbridge Limited (trading as Simply Business) mis-sold them a 
landlords contents policy, because it wasnt made clear that wooden floors werent covered. 
What happened
Mrs K and Mr S own two properties that they rent out. They say that because the properties 
are leasehold, buildings insurance is arranged by a property managing agent and is paid for 
as part of the general leasehold service charge. Mrs K and Mr S bought landlords contents 
insurance from Simply Business, which covers items within the flats owned by them rather 
than the tenant. 
A tenant in one of the properties reported problems with the wooden floor, and it was 
discovered there was a valve leaking in the shower which had caused extensive damage to 
the wooden floors in the flat.
Mrs K and Mr S made a claim on their contents policy, only to be told  to their dismay  that 
wooden floors werent covered, as they were deemed to part of the building.
Mrs K and Mr S complained, but Simply Business maintained its stance. Mr S tells us that  
many months later  he managed to get the damage covered under the general building 
insurance held by the property agent. But he says that Simply Business mis-sold him and 
Mrs K their policy in the first place by not making it clear wooden floors werent covered. He 
thinks this means theres no cover for damage caused by a water leak and wants Simply 
Business to refund the cost of two years insurance for both properties  just under £715.
Our investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think Simply Business had done anything 
wrong. She said the policy Mrs K and Mr S clearly showed that wooden floors would have 
been covered by buildings cover rather than the contents cover Mrs K and Mr S bought.
Mrs K and Mr S say they had no need to read the buildings section of the policy terms and 
conditions as they didnt buy buildings cover, and our investigator hasnt clearly shown they 
were told the floors werent covered.
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im glad Mrs K and Mr S eventually managed to get the damage paid for under the building 
insurance they paid for in the service charge for the property. I appreciate they had some 
difficulty with this  but Im afraid I cant comment on this. Thats because how that claim was 
handled isnt part of this complaint, which is only about what Simply Business did.
This complaint is about whether Simply Business gave Mrs K and Mr S enough information 
when they bought their Landlords contents policy for them to make an informed decision 
about whether the cover provided suited them.
Ive looked carefully at the terms and conditions contained in the policy. The policy has, 
towards the beginning of the document, a list of definitions. Those definitions apply to the 
whole policy, regardless of what level or type of cover is bought.
Under buildings wooden floors are included. Mrs K and Mr S say they didnt read this point 
as they were buying contents cover. They think that as wooden floors were excluded from 
the contents cover this should have been made clear. Im not persuaded by that argument. 
No insurance policy will list everything that isnt covered  that would be impractical. Insurers 
are required to draw their customers attention to any unusual or onerous terms that their 
policies contain. However, its common practise in the insurance industry that wooden floors 
are covered under the buildings part of a policy. So them not being included in contents 
cover isnt unusual or particularly onerous, and I dont think Simply Business had to draw 
Mrs K and Mr Ss attention to this. Thats because, even if Mrs K and Mr S had realised the 
wooden floors werent covered by the contents policy, they werent likely to be able to buy a 
contents policy at a similar price that did cover wooden floors. And of course they were 
already insured for these elsewhere. We know that because Mrs K and Mr S did get their 
claim met under a buildings policy.
I have some sympathy for Mrs K and Mr Ss argument that they bought contents cover so 
didnt read what was said about the buildings cover. But Im also aware that they own and 
rent properties  so Id expect them to be familiar with how this type of insurance works, 
even if they arent experts.
Finally, I dont agree that Mrs K and Mr S should get their premium for two years refunded. I 
agree they hadnt bought cover for the damage that occurred under this policy, but they have 
had the rest of the cover provided by the policy in return for their payment.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2020.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman