DRN-3445704
The complaint
D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC was unable to locate title documents in respect of 
its property.  
What happened
D is a limited company and is represented in this complaint by Miss N. 
D was involved in a dispute involving a property in which it has a legal interest and over 
which Barclays holds a charge as security for the companys borrowing. 
In order to act effectively on Ds behalf, its solicitors needed access to the title and security 
documents, which they believed the bank held. Miss N contacted Barclays about them on or 
about 21 April 2021. When she had not heard from the bank within it about ten days Miss N 
followed up on her request. 
On 18 May 2021 the bank said that it did hold the documents and gave Miss N options for 
viewing them. Miss N contacted the bank on several further occasions, not always 
successfully. On 11 June 2021 Miss N was told by Barclays that it did not in fact have the 
documents that she, D, and Ds solicitors needed. Its records in fact showed that the 
solicitors had held them, subject to an undertaking to the bank, since 2014.
Barclays acknowledged that it should have identified that earlier and that, because it had not 
done so, Miss N had been put to unnecessary trouble. It offered her £200 in recognition of 
that. Miss N did not believe that Barclays had done enough to resolve Ds complaint and 
referred the matter to this service on its behalf. 
One of our investigators considered what had happened but did not recommend that the 
bank do anything more. He did not believe that D had suffered any actual loss or 
reputational damage. Miss N did not accept the investigators view and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.             
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The customer and complainant in this case is D, a limited company. Miss N is its 
representative and a relative of its owner, acting in a non-professional capacity. But, 
because has not brought this complaint in her own right (and cannot do so), I have no power 
to consider the banks treatment of her; I can only consider its treatment of D.   
Barclays has correctly acknowledged its error. It should have identified very much sooner 
than it did that the title documents were with Ds solicitors. Miss N was put to some trouble 
as a result. 
D does not appear however has suffered any actual loss as a result of the delay in locating 
the documents. Nor does it appear to me that it has been put to any real inconvenience  
although it may be that Miss N has. And we generally take the view that a company  unlike 
an individual  cannot suffer distress. 
For these reasons I agree with the investigator that Barclays has done enough to resolve Ds 
complaint.   
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not require Barclays Bank UK PLC to take any further steps to 
resolve Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman