DRN-3395571
The complaint
Mr K complains that Revolut Ltd (Revolut) have failed to refund money he lost as part of a 
scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat everything 
again here. In summary, Mr K paid over £4,000 to a fraudulent investment merchant 
(FXLeader) in May 2020. He made the following payments to the merchant using his Revolut 
debit card:
Date Merchant Amount
19/05/2020 Visa debit card payment to Payby Me*doluhosting €999.63
19/05/2020 Visa debit card payment to Payby Me*doluhosting €999.97
20/05/2020 Visa debit card payment to Payby Me*doluhosting €999.74
20/05/2020 Visa debit card payment to Payby Me*doluhosting €999.78
20/05/2020 Visa debit card payment to Payby Me*doluhosting €499.90
 Total: €4,499.02
Mr K realised he had been scammed when he was unable to withdraw the money he had 
invested. He raised a dispute with Revolut in August 2020 for help in recovering his lost 
funds, but the bank declined to provide him with a refund. Mr K was unhappy as he says 
they ought to have processed his chargeback claim and have done more to prevent him 
from falling victim to a scam.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think a chargeback claim would have 
been successful given the specific evidence required under the Visa scheme rules. And he 
didnt think the transactions were unusual enough to have prompted further enquiry by 
Revolut. Mr K disagreed, so the matter has been escalated to me to determine. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback
In this case, Mr K paid FXLeader via a payment facilitator called Payby Me, which collects 
payments on behalf of online businesses and is seemingly why FXLeader does not appear 
on his statements. 
Mr K raised a chargeback with Revolut on 6 August 2020 on the basis that the merchant had 
failed to provide the services he had paid for. Revolut asked for some further information 
about the circumstances of the dispute but rejected the claim on 11 September 2020 as they 
said there are no chargeback rights for transactions in which any value is purchased for 
gambling, investment or similar purposes. 
However, Revolut were incorrect in this assumption, as the Visa chargeback rules did cover 
binary options (or investment) trading from 14 October 2017, i.e. after the disputed 
transactions: see Visa Business News 26 October 2017:
Effective 14 October 2017, issuers may use Reason Code 53 to address cases 
whereby a binary options (or forex) merchant has imposed obstacles to prevent 
cardholders from withdrawing funds. This chargeback right is limited to the amount 
available in the binary option account at the time funds are requested. Issuers cannot 
charge back more than the original transaction amount, so capital gains from binary 
options trades cannot be paid out via the chargeback process. 
It does not appear that Revolut pursued a claim under Reason Code 53 (later re-coded by 
Visa to 13.5). But I note that the Visa rules required Revolut to present evidence that Mr K 
had an available balance and that he tried to withdraw sums equal to, or less than, his 
available balance on the same day. Visa required specific evidence in the form of a dated 
screenshot on the day the withdrawal was requested, but they have also confirmed to this 
service that they would consider a dated acknowledgement from the merchant advising that 
the withdrawal request will be processed, which includes the amount of the request, as 
sufficient evidence to support the chargeback for 13.5, and an additional screenshot would 
not be required if this information was presented.
I note that Mr K has provided this service with various screenshots of his trading account 
and balances that the merchant said he had available. But I have not seen any of the 
specific evidence outlined above that Visa would require in order for a chargeback to be 
successful. Therefore, I do not think Revolut acted unreasonably by failing to pursue a 
chargeback under this particular code in these circumstances.
Mr K has also referenced reason code 13.3 (services not as described). However, for claims 
under this reason code to have succeeded at Visas final stage of arbitration, Revolut would 
have needed to provide evidence that FXLeader made written representations to Mr K 
guaranteeing an amount of profit/return he was due to receive. I have not seen any evidence 
that Mr K received any such representations from FXLeader, so Im satisfied Revolut were 
correct to conclude that it didnt have any prospects of success at arbitration under reason 
code 13.3 either.
I appreciate that Mr K may have been successful in pursuing a chargeback claim with 
another bank. But the reasons behind why this was successful are not clear, and I can only 
consider whether Revolut ought reasonably to have pursued a chargeback claim based on 
the specific evidence Mr K has presented. And, for the reasons already outlined, I dont think 
they had the necessary evidence required in order to present a successful chargeback 
claim, so I dont consider theyve acted unreasonably by failing to take it forwards in these 
circumstances. 
Unusual or uncharacteristic activity
Ive also considered whether Revolut should have done more to prevent Mr K from falling 
victim to the scam. as there are some situations in which a bank should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a particular transfer. For example, if it 
was particularly out of character. 
However, the payments Mr K made were for relatively small amounts, such that they would 
not have appeared unusual in comparison with his spending history. So, Im not persuaded 
there was any reason for the payments to have been regarded as suspicious or indicating 
that he might have been at risk of falling for a scam. I appreciate a warning had been 
published on the FCA website about FXLeader. But the payment was not made directly to 
this company. Revolut would have only seen that it was a payment being made to Payby Me 
(seemingly the payment facilitator used by the merchant), so they would not have known that 
Mr K was attempting to pay a company that had an active warning published about it by the 
regulator. So, I dont think Revolut can fairly be held liable for Mr Ks loss here, as Im not 
persuaded there was any obligation on them to intervene or prevent the payments in these 
circumstances.
I appreciate this will likely come as a disappointment to Mr K, and Im sorry to hear he has 
been the victim of a cruel scam. However, in the circumstances, I do not consider it would be 
fair and reasonable to hold Revolut liable for his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2022.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman