DRN-3342791
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) has declined a claim he made under
his travel insurance policy.
What happened
Mr P took out an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy on 6 December 2019. And he
explained that he booked a trip abroad, to celebrate a significant birthday with family and
friends. Hes explained there were 20 people coming on the holiday  and these people were
coming from different parts of the world.
Mr P has said he booked and paid for accommodation for all 20 people, with the trip starting
on 1 August 2020 and ending on 15 August 2020. And he paid the bill for this in two parts 
on 14 November 2019 and 12 December 2019.
On 17 March 2020 the Foreign and Commonwealth Development Office (FCDO) advised
against all but essential travel abroad in response to the Covid-19 pandemic. In July 2020
the UK government opened a series of travel corridors which allowed travel to certain
countries.
The country Mr P was due to visit with his family and friends wasnt added to the travel
corridor list and the FCDO advice against all but essential travel remained in place until the
point of Mr Ps planned departure in August 2020. Its unclear on exactly what date Mr P
formally cancelled the booking but he was in contact with the accommodation provider in
August 2020, following the change in FCDO advice in March 2020 and the updated
information about the travel corridors which confirmed travel to his destination wouldnt be
possible. And Mr P said the government at his intended destination was also denying entry
to.
Because Mr P was no longer able to travel, he got in touch with the party he was renting the
villa from. It said it couldnt provide him with a refund. Instead, it offered him credit, allowing
him to change his trip dates to August 2022. The company he booked through said it 
couldnt guarantee Mr P would be able to book the same villa has before, for any intended 
dates. But that Mr P could book any villa under its management and pay the real-time cost
of the accommodation then.
Mr P wasnt happy with this. Hes explained to this service that the holiday he had been due
to go on, was a once-in-a-lifetime trip, for his significant birthday. He said it wasnt possible
to re-arrange the trip anymore, because there had been a large amount of people coming,
from all over the world. The event they had been planning to celebrate had gone, and it
would be very difficult to co-ordinate everyones diaries again.
Having travel insurance, Mr P raised a claim with IPA for the cost of the holiday. IPA
responded to Mr Ps claim and let him know it wasnt able to settle it. It said that Mr P did
have cover under his policy for cancellation  if the reason the holiday was cancelled was
one listed in the policy booklet. It said the reason Mr Ps holiday was cancelled  the
pandemic  was not a reason listed in the booklet. So, it wouldnt technically be covered
under the policy.
IPA however did say that it was taking cancellation claims, where the reason for cancellation
had been the pandemic, into consideration, outside of the policy terms. And it had
considered his claim in line with this. But it still wasnt able to settle the claim. IPA said this
was because Mr Ps policy only covered irrecoverable losses. It said Mr Ps loss was
recoverable though  he had been offered a credit voucher. And he could raise a complaint
with the accommodation provider, about its refusal to offer a monetary refund.
Mr P has said he did raise this with the accommodation provider, but he didnt receive a
response. And he noted that when he booked the villa, he remembered being told there was
no refund in the case of cancellation.
Because IPAs position remained as above, Mr P referred his complaint to this service for an
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She agreed
that Mr Ps policy only provided cover for irrecoverable losses, and she thought Mr P had
been able to recover his loss elsewhere. This being because hed been provided with a
voucher for the price of the villa. Our investigator noted that this meant Mr P was back in the
position he was in prior to his holiday being cancelled. And she didnt think the credit
voucher, which Mr P said was valid until August 2022, was unreasonably restrictive, given it
gave him until August 2022, to go on the holiday he originally planned.
Mr P didnt agree. He highlighted the holiday was only happening as a birthday celebration,
and this had passed now. And, he noted the difficulty in getting all of those who were
supposed to go on holiday with him, together again.
Because Mr P didnt agree, his complaint has been referred to me to decide.
I sent a provisional decision, outlining my thoughts on this complaint. In this I said;
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Im currently minded to 
uphold this complaint, and require IPA to reassess Mr Ps claim, in line with the remaining 
policy terms and limits. Ive explained why below.
When considering a complaint such as this, I need to consider the relevant law, rules and
industry guidelines. In this case, the relevant rules, established by the Financial Conduct
Authority say that an insurer mustnt unreasonably decline a claim. So, Ive thought about 
whether IPA, in declining Mr Ps claim, did so unreasonably. And I think it did decline Mr Ps
claim unreasonably.
Ive reviewed the documents relevant to Mr Ps policy  the terms and conditions and the 
IPID from the time the policy was sold to Mr P.
On doing so, I can see the terms and conditions of the policy do provide cover for 
cancellation of a holiday. But only in certain circumstances. This isnt unusual with policies of 
this nature. For a claim to be covered, the policyholder, in this case Mr P, needs to show the 
cancellation of the holiday was due to one of the circumstances listed in the policy booklet, 
under the cancellation section.
From looking at the circumstances the policy says it covers, I can see cancellation as a
result of the global pandemic isnt one of them. So, I acknowledge that strict interpretation of
the policy means Mr Ps claim isnt covered under the cancellation section of it.But IPA has confirmed it has extended cover, so as to consider cancellation claims, where
the cancellation is due to the Coronavirus pandemic. Given the unique situation the
pandemic has posed, I do consider this to be fair, reasonable. And that it would be fair to
consider Mr Ps claim in light of this, as has been done with other policyholders.
However, in Mr Ps case IPA has said it cant accept Mr Ps claim for this, because the policy
doesnt provide cover for losses recoverable elsewhere and Mr P has been able to recover
his costs, in the form of credit. Im aware the policy does note the following;
We will pay you up to £6,000 for your proportion only of any irrecoverable unused travel
and accommodation costs.
And so, if Mr P has been able to recover his costs from elsewhere, his claim wouldnt
succeed, even with the extension to cover that IPA has provided.
So, Ive thought about whether its fair and reasonable for IPA to conclude the
accommodations costs have been recovered by the credit hes been offered. And based on
everything provided to me, I dont think it is.
Mr P has been offered the opportunity to change his dates, to August 2022. But there is no
guarantee he will be able to book the same villa as originally planned. And Mr Ps holiday
was for a one-off occasion  the celebration of his significant birthday, with a number of
family and friends. This significant birthday has been and gone, so it isnt possible for Mr P to
celebrate it in this way any longer. And, given that a number of guests due to join him on
holiday are from across different countries around the world, and hes explained how they
cant all come together at the same time, I dont think the voucher offered to him puts him in
the position of recovering the holiday he lost. He cant use it in the same way and in the
specific circumstances of this case I think the terms of the credit hes been offered are so
restrictive it is unreasonable to expect Mr P to accept it.
Mr P has also explained that hes sought to get a refund from the accommodation provider.
From the booking documents Ive seen, Mr P purchased the holiday through a website
linking villa owners with those seeking to rent a villa. But this intermediary is based abroad
and doesnt set the cancellation policy for each villa itself. In an email between Mr P and this
firm, it is explained to Mr P that;
we are not able to return the payment in cash as that income already transferred to the
villa owner directly.
Mr P hasnt been able to provide me with the cancellations terms that were set by the owner.
But has said he was told they dont offer any refunds when he was booking the villa. And he
has provided me with the details of the specific villa booked. Ive looked at this specific villa
on the website, and its cancellation policy. And on doing so, I can see the cancellation policy
does clearly note the booking as non-refundable.
Im also aware Mr P has attempted chargebacks on his credit cards. But these havent been
successful.
In light of the above, Im satisfied Mr P has attempted to gain a refund from the avenues
available to him, and he has been unsuccessful. With this in mind, I do think Mr Ps loss is
irrecoverable and hes taken reasonable steps to recover his losses in the circumstances of
this case. And as a result, Mr Ps claim should be reassessed under the remaining terms
and conditions of the policy.Mr P responded to my provisional decision and confirmed his agreement. IPA didnt provide 
a response.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my decision remains the same as that noted in my provisional decision. As 
above, I havent received any comment or evidence from either party, that changes my 
thoughts on the outcome of the case, or the reasoning around this outcome. As such, my 
final decision remains the same as noted in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and require Inter Partner 
Assistance SA to;
Reassess Mr Ps claim under the cancellation section of their cover, subject to the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy, included any excess and/or policy 
limits.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman