DRN-1179919
 
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mr W says Bank of Scotland Plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI
What happened
Briefly:
In 1999 Mr W took out a PPI policy at the same time as applying for and taking out a credit 
card. Both things happened by post - BoS says it was a direct mailing.
The policy provided protection for Mr Ws credit card payments in the event he couldn't work 
because of accident, sickness or unemployment. The policy's benefit was 10% of the 
monthly outstanding card balance and it would pay out for up to 12 months per claim. It cost 
78 pence for every £100 Mr W owed on the card.
At the time of the sale Mr W was employed, and he said he was entitled to sick pay of six 
months' full pay followed by six months' half-pay. He said he had some savings he could've 
used to make his card repayments as well as rental income. He also said he was in good 
health at the time.
BoS says Mr W made a successful claim on the policy in 2013.
The adjudicator didn't recommend the mis-sale complaint should be upheld. They said they 
thought it likely Mr W chose to take out the cover. And there was nothing to indicate it was 
wrong or inappropriate for him.
But they went on to say that the offer BoS made in relation to high commission and profit 
share was fair in the circumstances.
Because Mr W, through his representative disagrees, the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint and my reasons are set out 
below.
did Mr W have a choice about PPI? 
did he agree to take it out?I think it's likely BoS made it clear that Mr W didn't have to take out the PPI and that he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember this.
BoS no longer has a copy of Mr W's credit card application. And this isn't surprising given 
how long-ago things happened. But it's provided an example paper application, which it says 
is like the one Mr W would've completed and posted back to apply for his credit card.
Looking at this I can see there was a separate section for PPI where a customer was 
presented with two equally prominent options - 'Yes' to take out the cover or 'No' to decline it 
- which required some kind of indication with a tick or a cross in the relevant box.
In the absence of persuasive evidence that something different happened in Mr W's case, I 
think his application was the same as or similar to the example provided and that he chose 
to take out PPI by indicating that he wanted it on his application.
the information  
This was a sale by post with no interaction or involvement from a member of BoS' staff. So 
I'm satisfied BoS didn't recommend PPI to Mr W. This means it didn't have to ensure the 
policy was suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr W enough clear and timely information 
about the policy, so he could make an informed decision about it.
Because this was a sale by post, I think Mr W would've paid more attention to the written 
information he was given about the policy than for say in a meeting where it's likely more 
reliance would be placed on the spoken words of an adviser. So I don't think Mr W would've 
gone ahead and taken out the policy without knowing something about it.
But given the limited available evidence, I accept its possible the information BoS gave Mr 
W about the PPI wasn't as clear as it shouldve been. 
However, as I found above I think Mr W chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And based on his circumstances at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
inappropriate for him - for example he wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or 
limits to the cover such as those relating to existing medical conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances - so it seems like it would have been useful for him if something 
went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the 
PPI would have put Mr W off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
So while BoS might not have done everything it should fairly and reasonably have done 
when it sold Mr W PPI, in light of his circumstances at the time - and because I don't think 
the policy operated fundamentally differently from what he expected based on the 
information he was given - I think Mr W would still have gone ahead and taken out PPI had 
BoS done anything more.
This means I dont think Mr W has lost out to the extent that BoS has to pay back to Mr W 
everything he paid for PPI.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr W because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr W about that. Because BoS didn't tell Mr W, that 
was unfair. To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
Ive thought about everything Mr W and his representative have said - including what theyve 
said about Mr W's existing means and his 'significant savings' and what Mr W's told us about 
his rental income. But these points dont change my decision.
I'm not persuaded it's reasonable to assume Mr W's savings were significant at the time 
given Mr W hasn't been specific about amounts. I don't doubt Mr W had savings, but I can't 
place sufficient weight on these existing means such that it leads me to conclude the PPI 
wouldn't have been of use to Mr W.
I've thought about the additional income stream Mr W has told us about. And while I can see 
this could've helped Mr W out if things went wrong, I don't know to what extent he might 
already have been relying on this income to support his lifestyle or how much was used / put 
aside to support the upkeep of the let property itself. I'm also not persuaded it can 
reasonably be considered a guaranteed income.
But in any event the PPI would've paid out alongside Mr W's existing means and would have 
done so for up to 12 months per claim. And with a benefit of 10% of the monthly outstanding 
card balance, it had the potential to pay off the entire balance. This would've allowed Mr W 
to divert any existing means to help meet other ongoing household/fixed expenditure should 
he have found himself in the position where the insured risks became a reality. So I think Mr 
W would've found the policy useful at what would likely be a difficult time. And I think this is 
likely the reason Mr W chose to take it out in the first place.
So it is for these reasons - along with those I set out above - that I think more likely than not 
Mr W would've taken out PPI in any event. 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have to pay back to Mr W any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 March 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman