DRN-4386350
The complaint
Mr T complains PDL Finance Limited trading as Mr Lender (Mr Lender) gave him loans 
when he had a poor credit score. 
What happened
Mr T was advanced four loans and a summary of his borrowing can be found in the table 
below.
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £200.00 07/12/2018 10/05/2019 4 £115.60
2 £500.00 10/05/2019 25/07/2019 6 £195.33
break in lending 
3 £400.00 17/02/2022 05/07/2022 4 £199.20
4 £1,500.00 05/07/2022 outstanding 12 £316.58
Following Mr Ts complaint about the sale of the loans, Mr Lender wrote to him to explain 
that it wasnt going to uphold the complaint because it had carried out proportionate checks. 
Unhappy with this response, Mr T referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
An adjudicator then considered the complaint and she said Mr Lender had carried out 
proportionate checks which showed it each loan was affordable. And so, she didnt uphold 
the complaint. 
Mr T didnt agree saying that had Mr Lender reviewed his expenditure more closely it 
wouldve discovered he was gambling, and he had bad credit. 
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to resolve.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about this type of lending - including all 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive used that 
to help me decide this complaint.
Mr Lender had to assess the lending to check if Mr T could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed, without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was 
proportionate to the circumstances. Mr Lenders checks couldve taken into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, 
and Mr Ts income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Mr Lender should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr T. These factors include:
Mr T having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr T having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr T coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr T. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ts complaint and I agree, considering the break in lending between loans two 
and three. 
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Mr T could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr T was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ts complaint.
For all of these loans Mr Lender carried out the same sort of checks. It asked Mr T to declare 
his income and expenditure details and it also carried out a credit search. Mr Lender also 
says that when loan four was granted, in addition to the above, it also carried out an income 
verification check through a third-party tool. Finally, for loan four, it used Office of National 
Statistics (ONS) data, credit check results and what Mr T had declared about his outgoings 
and then used the highest figure for each field for its affordability assessment. 
Having thought about these checks Im satisfied they were proportionate, and the checks 
showed the loans to be affordable. Ive explained why below. 
Loans 1 and 2 
Mr T declared his income was £1,650 for both loans in this lending chain and I think it was 
fair and reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what Mr T had declared at this point in 
time.  
Mr T declared monthly outgoings of £1,205 for loan one and £1,226 for loan two  this was 
across a number of different categories including rent /mortgage, utilities, food, transport and 
other credit commitments to name a few. 
I dont think the information Mr T declared wouldve prompted Mr Lender to have checked 
the information it was being provided, which means I dont think it wouldve needed to have 
viewed Mr Ts bank statements.  
Based solely on the income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered Mr T had 
enough disposable income to afford the largest repayment for each loan. Before the loans were approved Mr Lender also carried out credit searches and it has
provided the Financial Ombudsman with a summary of the results it received from the credit 
reference agency. I want to add that although Mr Lender carried out a credit search there 
isnt a regulatory requirement to do one, let alone one to a specific standard. 
Having looked at the credit results, there wasnt anything in my view, that wouldve led 
Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr T wasnt insolvent either through an 
Individual Voluntary Arrangement, bankruptcy or a County Court Judgement within the three 
years preceding the loan. 
In addition, it was given information to suggest that for loan one Mr T didnt have any 
outstanding payday loans. And he had one outstanding payday loan when loan two was 
granted. But the presences of one other payday loan wouldnt have prompted Mr Lender to 
have either carried out further checks or to have declined the application for credit, this is 
because payments towards other loans were factored into the expenditure assessment 
which suggested each loan was affordable. 
Mr T did make one deferral during the time of loan one  when the first month he paid only 
the interest rather than the interest and capital. He also returned on the same day that loan 
one was repaid for loan two  which was for more than twice the amount. But in saying that, 
given the information he provided showed the loan was affordable and taking account of how 
each loan was structured  in terms of repayments decreasing each month I think it was still 
fair for Mr Lender to have accepted what it was being told. The fact he returned quickly for a 
new loan, is, in this case, not enough for me to say that further checks need to be done. 
I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint about loans one and two. 
Loans 3 and 4
After Mr T repaid loan two, he didnt return for a new loan for nearly three years. This break 
in borrowing is significant enough for Mr Lender to have reasonably believed that whatever 
the reasons for Mr T approaching it previously had been, was now resolved. 
So, while it was Mr Ts third loan it was in effect the first loan in a new chain of borrowing 
and this does impact what a proportionate check may be. Equally, loan four was in effect the 
second loan in the second lending chain. Ive kept this in mind when thinking about these 
two loans. 
Mr T declared a monthly income of £1,850 for loan three and £1,750 for loan four. For loan 
four only, Mr Lender says it verified his income through a tool provided by a credit reference 
agency. It says the results of that check indicated Mr T did have a monthly income of £1,750 
 but a copy of the check results hasnt been provided. 
But whether the results of this additional check are available (or not) doesnt make a 
difference to the outcome that Ive reached because it was early on in the new lending chain 
and it was therefore reasonable for Mr Lender to have relied on what it was told, especially, 
because there wasnt anything to suggest what Mr T had provided was inaccurate. 
In terms of expenditure, Mr Lender used monthly outgoings of £1,053 for loan three, and 
following the additional checks I explained earlier for loan four which included obtaining data 
from the ONS, Mr Lender used monthly outgoings of £1,148.
The income and expenditure information Mr Lender gathered showed that Mr T had enough 
disposable income to afford the loan repayments. In my view, the actions of Mr Lender were proportionate in using a combination of the ONS 
data, what Mr T declared and his credit file in order to establish his likely monthly outgoings. 
This has also led me to conclude that I dont think it wouldve been prompted to have 
checked the information it was provided any further, which means I dont think it wouldve 
needed to have reviewed Mr Ts bank statements.  
And like loans one and two Mr Lender also carried out a credit search, and its provided a 
summary of the results that it received. Ive once again considered what it was told. The 
results were similar to what Mr Lender received for loans one and two and there wasnt 
anything that wouldve led Mr Lender to have carried out further checks. It knew Mr T wasnt 
insolvent within the three years preceding the loans. It also knew, for both loans, based on 
what it was told that Mr T didnt have any outstanding payday loans. 
There were no signs, from the credit check results which indicated Mr T was in financial 
difficulties, was having problems managing his existing credit commitments or had 
unsustainable levels of debt. 
Finally, Ive also considered, that Mr T returned on the same day as loan three was settled 
for a much larger loan  for over three times the amount. Mr Ts fourth loan was also due to 
be repaid over the longest term to date  one year. In some cases, that may be enough to 
have prompted Mr Lender to have conducted further checks, but I dont think in this case it it 
had yet reached that point.  
I say this because Mr Lender had in my view conducted proportionate checks, before loan 
four was granted, and these checks showed that Mr T could meet his largest repayment. 
Had for example, Mr T had one chain of lending, then I do think it may have been prudent of 
Mr Lender to have conducted further checks, but there wasnt one chain  there was two, 
and so that has played a part in my decision to determine the outcome of the complaint. 
Overall, the checks Mr Lender carried out, where proportionate and showed Mr T could 
afford the repayments.  There also wasnt anything else to suggest these loans would either 
be unaffordable or unsustainable for him. 
I appreciate Mr T will be disappointed by the decision, but I was to reassure him Ive 
considered all the evidence provided. An outstanding balance does remain due and I would 
remind Mr Lender of its obligation to treat Mr T fairly and with forbearance. 
Im therefore not upholding Mr Ts complaint about the approval of loans three and four.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Ts complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 November 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman