DRN-3092750
The complaint
Mrs B complains that the supply and installation of a fitted kitchen was not carried out with 
reasonable care and skill. Because the work was funded in part with a loan provided by 
Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc, she says that it is liable to compensate her.
What happened
In or around January 2019 Mrs B entered into a contract with a retailer, W, for the supply 
and installation of a new kitchen. The contract was to be financed primarily by a loan 
provided by Hitachi under arrangements it had with W. That is, W arranged the loan.
Installation work began in July 2019, but within a few weeks Mrs B complained to Hitachi 
about it. She said that she had been left without running water and cooking facilities, that the 
fitter had left the work unfinished and that the wrong size cupboard doors had been 
delivered.
Over the following months W tried to remedy the problems. There were a number of 
difficulties, however. I do not need to set them out in detail, but they included:
delivery of the wrong replacement parts;
late and unreliable deliveries;
delays in fitting; and
damaged parts and damage caused during fitting.
At the end of January 2020 W acknowledged that its service had not been satisfactory and 
offered, in full and final settlement, to pay Mrs B:
£60 for the time she had been without running water;
£140 for being without cooking facilities;
£700 because of the installation overrun;
£250 in respect of five additional deliveries; and
£250 towards her loss of earnings.
Ws notes indicate that Mrs B accepted that offer. For its part, Hitachi agreed to suspend 
loan payments.
The problems appear to have continued, however. In early February 2020 Mrs B provided W 
with a list of missing components. When they were delivered, however, Mrs B says some of 
them were damaged, so she had to arrange to collect replacements.
It was agreed that W would carry out the further remedial works needed, but the fitters 
availability was limited, and the work then had to be postponed because of the Covid-19 
pandemic.
Mrs B said that she would lose earnings as she would have to stay at home while the work 
was carried out, but she did agree  albeit reluctantly  to a payment of £50 a day from W.
Mrs B had already referred the matter to this service, and in April 2020 one of our 
investigators issued a preliminary assessment of her complaint. The remedial work had not 
at that point been completed.
Our investigator noted that Mrs Bs claim had included a claim for loss of earnings and that 
Hitachi had contributed £300 of £800 paid towards those losses. She also noted that, of the 
total compensation paid, £700 related to the delay in installation. This was around 20% of 
the installation costs. She thought a fair price reduction would be 40% of the installation 
costs and so recommended that Hitachi pay Mrs B a further £720.
Hitachi did not think was fair. It said that Mrs B had accepted Ws offer of £700 for the delay 
in full and final settlement of that part of her claim. It also said that it had not financed all the 
fitting costs. Specialist work had been financed separately.
Mrs B did not accept the investigators view either. The case was therefore passed to me for 
further consideration. Because I was minded to reach a different conclusion from the 
investigator, I issued a provisional decision. In summary, I said:
Because the loan had been arranged by W to pay for the supply and fitting of the 
kitchen, the effect of section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 is that, if Mrs B has a 
claim for breach of contract against W, she has a like claim against Hitachi. 
The contract provided for W to supply appliances, kitchen cabinets, lighting, 
components and worktops. It also provided for installation, excluding specialist works, 
for a price of £3,373. 
Specialist works included the installation of appliances, other electrical work and 
finishing touches. That work was the subject of a separate contract, not financed by 
Hitachi.
Mrs Bs contract with W was subject to two sets of terms and conditions  one in 
respect of the goods and one covering installation work. 
The terms and conditions did not guarantee any specific delivery or installation dates. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 says however that contracts for services should be read 
as including a term that services will be provided within a reasonable time and with 
reasonable care and skill. 
It appeared that W had accepted that it was in breach of its contract with Mrs B. It had 
supplied replacement components, carried out remedial works and offered 
compensation to her. I was satisfied that there had been breaches and that Hitachi was 
equally liable for them.
I was satisfied however that Mrs B had accepted Ws offer of settlement. I did not 
therefore think it would be fair to require Hitachi to pay more compensation than what 
had been agreed with W.
Overall, I thought that Hitachi had handled Mrs Bs complaint fairly. I noted that Mrs Bs 
primary concern was to have her kitchen installed, but there was little that Hitachi could 
do to assist with that. 
Overall, I did not believe that I could fairly require Hitachi to do any more to resolve the 
complaint. 
Mrs B did not accept my provisional decision. She thought a 50% reduction in the installation 
cost would be fair, but she had only received £1,400 in compensation  some £573 less than 
that. She said too that the provisional decision had made no mention of the fitter damaging a pipe, that he did not appear to know what he was doing or replacement appliances that were 
needed. 
She also said that she had not accepted Ws offer of settlement. Had she done so, she 
would not have referred the matter to this service. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I did not refer in my provisional decision to each and every issue that arose during the 
kitchen installation. I did however consider carefully all that Mrs B had said about it. And I did 
refer in wider terms to damage caused and delays. I can assure Mrs B (and Hitachi) that I 
did take into account what she said about the installation and her assessment of the fitters 
suitability to carry out the work. I agree with Mrs B that the work was not carried out to a 
satisfactory standard or within a reasonable time  and I do not understand W or Hitachi to 
dispute that. 
Mrs B says that she did not agree to a settlement with W. I have however reviewed her email 
exchanges with W. On 30 January 2020 W wrote to her saying  I would like to offer you 
£1,400 in full and final settlement of the issues that you have brought to our attention  
followed by the breakdown of that figure which is on page 1 of this decision. Mrs B replied 
the following day to confirm that she was accepting the offer and W said it would send a 
cheque. Subsequent exchanges concerned the supply of missing parts and arranging for the 
installation to be completed. 
Mrs B says that she would not have referred the matter to us if she had settled it. However, 
she referred it to this service some months before that settlement. In my view it is clear that 
she had agreed a resolution in January 2020 of the problems she had encountered up that 
point  including the issues she referred to this service. 
As I said in my provisional decision, Mrs B said there have been further issues with the 
remaining work. I have not commented on them because  as far as I am aware  neither W 
not Hitachi has been given an opportunity to do so. Mrs B may wish to raise further issues 
with them (and potentially with us) in due course.     
My final decision
For these reasons my final decision is that I do not require Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc to do 
anything more to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 November 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman