DRN-3697437
The complaint
Mr W has complained about Southern Rock Insurance Company as it cancelled a car 
insurance policy for a car which was impounded.
What happened
Mr W arranged cover in 2019. The car covered by the policy was, at that time, impounded by 
the police and Mr W needed the cover in order to retrieve the car. On the first day of cover 
Southern advised it couldnt and wouldnt offer cover for impounded cars. But it said it was 
considering what to do. Southern later cancelled the policy and logged the cancellation as an 
inconsistency on an industry database.
In 2021 Mr W noted he was having difficulty getting cover. He became aware of the 
cancellation recorded by Southern. He contacted it to complain. Southern said it had been 
entitled to cancel and the matter had been logged correctly. It noted some detail Mr W gave 
at that point and said if it had been made aware of that in 2019, that would likely have given 
it further cause to either not offer cover or cancel it. Mr W complained to us.
Our Investigator felt that Mr W likely hadnt known hed needed specialist insurance. She felt 
that Southern hadnt acted fairly. She said the relevant records should be amended to 
remove the inconsistency marker and show that Mr W cancelled the policy. She also 
recommended £300 compensation.
Mr W didnt object to the findings but Southern did. It argued that the detail it had discovered 
in 2021 meant the cancellation record  logged for different reasons  should remain. The 
complaint was passed for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see why Southern had concerns about what it found out in 2021. But as Southern has 
admitted that detail was not known in 2019. And its the cancellation in 2019, complete with 
Southerns reasons, as they existed at that time, for it doing that, which I have to assess 
here.
A policy was arranged which did not suit Mr Ws needs. But detail Southern has supplied 
satisfies me that Mr W would not have been aware of that when arranging cover. Quite 
simply the insurance application did not ask whether or not the car was impounded. The 
policy documents did say that a car being impounded might allow the insurer to cancel the 
cover. But I dont think that detail  buried within the policy terms and conditions  was 
something I could fairly say Mr W should reasonably have been aware of when arranging the 
cover. 
Further, because the application did not ask about the car being impounded, Southern didnt 
know its policy was unsuitable for Mr W either. Not until the calls which took place on the day 
cover began. Whilst the policy terms allow Southern to cancel cover in this instance, I think it 
applying that term in these circumstances was unfair and unreasonable of it. 
Southern is aware that cancellation by an insurer can impact a policyholder. And I think it 
was very clear to Southern, from the first day of cover, that this policy was simply unsuitable 
for Mr Ws needs. The fair thing, in that situation, I think would have been for the policy to 
end with Southern recording that as cancellation by Mr W. It makes sense to me that the 
record is now corrected to how it should reasonably have been recorded in the first place.
Further, Mr W has reported difficulty in recent times in finding cover. I think its likely the 
detail Southern recorded on the industry database has impacted that. And, as Ive said, 
reasonably that record shouldnt have been made. It follows that I think Southern should pay 
Mr W compensation. Im satisfied that £300 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Putting things right
I require Southern to:
Remove the inconsistency record logged against Mr Ws name.
Change its own and any industry databases to show that Mr W cancelled the policy in 
2019.
Pay Mr W £300 compensation.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Southern Rock Insurance Company to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman