DRN-2652858
The complaint
Miss M complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited failed to deal properly with her requests for 
an account statement and other information. She wants £50 compensation to cover the time 
she spent on the complaint.
What happened
Miss M tells us that she contacted Moneybarn in early March 2020, to obtain information 
about her finance agreement. And that the call handler didnt deal with requests correctly or 
politely. And didnt immediately send the information shed requested. This led to her having 
to make additional calls. She feels it took too long to respond to her calls and says that she 
should be compensated for the time she spent trying to get a response from Moneybarn.
Moneybarn told us that its call handler supplied the information which Miss M had requested. 
Including about the statement balance and early settlement figure. But it accepted that the 
call handler didnt arrange for an email to be sent confirming the information that Miss M had 
requested. It said that it had offered Miss M £20 worth of gift vouchers. But it didnt agree 
that the agent had been rude or unprofessional.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt find that 
Moneybarns agent had been rude. But he accepted that Miss M had incurred some 
inconvenience in having to phone back when the information wasnt sent as shed expected. 
He felt the offer of £20 in gift vouchers was fair and reasonable.
Miss M wasnt happy with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
Ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Miss M would feel frustrated at having to call back Moneybarn when her 
initial request for information hadnt been confirmed in writing. And I empathise that it 
happened at a difficult time for her.
Businesses sometimes make mistakes and Moneybarn accepted that its agent hadnt sent 
the information that Miss M had requested. But it did point out that this had been supplied 
verbally.
Not every error by a business requires a payment of compensation. Sometimes an 
acceptance of an error together with an apology will suffice. Here Moneybarn has 
acknowledged the mistake its agent made in not following up Miss Ms request by sending 
the information by email. And it offered an apology together with the gift vouchers.
I accept that Miss M experienced the inconvenience of having to phone back and spend time 
waiting for a response. But we dont recommend that a business should pay directly for time 
a consumer spends on pursuing a complaint. 
Ive listened to the call recordings with which Ive been provided. And I accept that different 
individuals can have different perceptions. But Im unable to conclude that either of the call 
handlers was rude or unhelpful. And the calls seemed to end naturally and didnt seem to 
have been terminated prematurely.
In summary, I find that Moneybarn has responded to this complaint appropriately and made 
what I find to be a fair and reasonable offer. I shant be asking it to do anything else.
My final decision
For the reasons given above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Stephen Ross
Ombudsman