DRN-4438919
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain that more 2 life Ltd made a mistake with the expiry date of their 
lifetime mortgage offer, and this resulted in the mortgage not completing in time.
What happened
In August 2022, through an independent financial adviser (IFA), Mr and Mrs M applied to 
more 2 life for a lifetime mortgage. They wanted to borrow £90,000. More 2 life issued a 
mortgage offer on 31 August 2022, for a lump sum of £90,000 at a fixed interest rate of 
4.78%. It was valid for 42 days.
Mr and Mrs M accepted the offer, and both they and more 2 life instructed solicitors. By 
11 October, conveyancing work was ongoing and the mortgage hadnt completed, so more 2 
life extended the offer. It says it did so for 30 days from the original offer expiry date, to 
11 November 2022, and it was unable to extend the offers validity any further.
However, on 11 October more 2 life emailed the solicitors who were acting for it and told 
them that it had extended the offer until 11 December 2022. The solicitors then relayed that 
new expiry date to Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors.
Both sets of solicitors continued with the conveyancing and legal work, and a completion 
date was set for 18 November 2022. On 14 November, more 2 lifes solicitors sent more 2 
life the documents needed for completion. On 15 November, more 2 life said Mr and Mrs Ms 
offer had expired and the mortgage product had been withdrawn. It said the mortgage 
couldnt go ahead and Mr and Mrs M would need to re-apply.
Mr and Mrs Ms IFA complained to more 2 life on their behalf. They said that both solicitors 
had been working to an offer expiry date of 11 December, which was the deadline more 2 
life had given them, and more 2 lifes mistake with the date was the reason the mortgage 
didnt complete in time.
As a result, Mr and Mrs M could no longer borrow £90,000 at a rate of 4.78%. The best 
option open to them at the time, in November 2022, was borrowing of less than £80,000 at a 
rate of almost 8%. They didnt want to go ahead on that basis and asked more 2 life to 
honour the original offer.
More 2 life accepted it had made a mistake with the extended offer expiry date. But it said 
the mortgage could never have completed by the correct expiry date of 11 November, 
because its solicitors didnt have all the documents they needed at that stage, and in any 
event it couldnt now get funding for the original offer. It apologised, and offered Mr and 
Mrs M £250 by way of compensation.
Mr and Mrs M didnt accept that and, through their IFA, they referred the complaint to us. 
They also said that more 2 lifes mistake was having a significant impact on them and their 
financial planning.
Our Investigator made enquiries of both sets of solicitors, as well as of more 2 life and Mr 
and Mrs Ms IFA. He concluded that the mortgage could reasonably have completed in time 
if both solicitors had been working to the correct deadline. More 2 lifes mistake meant that 
the solicitors had understood they had a month longer than they in fact did.
The Investigator recommended that more 2 life reinstate its original offer, and allow Mr and 
Mrs M the same amount of time as before to complete on the mortgage. He also said it 
should refund the payments Mr and Mrs M had had to make to their existing mortgage in the 
meantime, plus interest on them, refund any additional conveyancing fees they would be 
charged, and pay Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation.
More 2 life didnt accept that conclusion. It said that while it had made a mistake with the 
offer expiry date in one email, all parties knew the correct expiry date was 11 November. In 
any event, it said its solicitors didnt receive a redemption statement in the right format in 
time, and they wouldnt have proceeded without one. It didnt consider itself responsible for 
the mortgage not completing.
More 2 life also said it could no longer secure funding at the 4.78% rate on the original offer, 
and that product may no longer be suitable for Mr and Mrs M. It agreed to pay Mr and Mrs M 
£500, but said that reinstating the original offer is neither appropriate nor achievable.
Mr and Mrs M werent prepared to accept more 2 lifes £500 offer, but they did accept the 
Investigators findings.
My provisional decision
I reviewed this complaint and reached a slightly different conclusion to our Investigator about 
how it should fairly be resolved, so I issued a provisional decision. I said:
Theres no dispute that more 2 life made a mistake with the expiry date of Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage offer. It told the solicitors who were acting for it in this transaction that the offer had 
been extended to 11 December 2022, instead of 11 November 2022. Its solicitors then 
relayed that information to the solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs M.
More 2 life has said that all parties knew the correct, November, expiry date. But almost all 
of the available evidence doesnt reflect that, and more 2 lifes position is at odds with what 
both the solicitors acting for it and the solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs M have said. Both sets 
of solicitors have been clear that, from 11 October onwards when more 2 life extended the 
offer, they were working to the deadline of 11 December which more 2 life had given them.
The solicitors acting for Mr and Mrs M did refer to an offer expiry date of 11 November in one 
email of the same date. This, though, doesnt tie in with any of the other email 
correspondence between the parties, including emails sent in November chasing completion 
on the planned date of 18 November. Ive also seen an earlier email from Mr and Mrs Ms 
solicitors to more 2 lifes solicitors on 3 November, asking for a completion date for week 
beginning 21 November  this doesnt reflect an expectation on the solicitors part that the 
offer was set to expire before then, on 11 November. I must consider all of the evidence, and 
the 11 November email on its own doesnt persuade me that Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors knew 
about and were working towards an 11 November deadline.
More 2 life has also said that its solicitors didnt have a redemption statement addressed to 
them by the correct offer expiry date of 11 November  and so Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
could never have completed in time.I agree with more 2 life about the redemption statement. Its solicitors required a redemption 
statement from Mr and Mrs Ms existing lender addressed to them, the solicitors, in order 
that they could redeem the existing mortgage on completion. The solicitors were clear from 
the outset that that was their process.
However, I think the key point here is that the conveyancing for Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
was done on the basis of a deadline of 11 December 2022  a deadline which more 2 life 
had provided. So Ive looked very carefully at the chronology of events in this case, including 
the timelines provided by both sets of solicitors, in order to determine whether Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage could reasonably have completed in time but for more 2 lifes mistake with 
the offer expiry date.
I note that the two sets of solicitors planned to be ready for a completion date of 
18 November. They had everything in place for that, and this was only a week after the 
actual offer expiry date of 11 November. I dont consider that there were significant or 
unreasonable delays in the conveyancing process. However, I think certain parts of the 
process could have been carried out more quickly had the parties known about the correct 
offer expiry date. For example, Mr and Mrs Ms solicitors saw Mr and Mrs M on 19 October 
and received the necessary signed documents from them on 31 October. I see no reason 
why Mr and Mrs M might not have been able to sign and return documents more quickly had 
they and their solicitors known about the correct completion deadline of 11 November 
instead of 11 December.
There was also, as our Investigator pointed out, a process which the solicitors acting for 
more 2 life used in very exceptional circumstances under which they could proceed with a 
mortgage without a redemption statement in the usual format.
In the circumstances, I think it most likely that both sets of solicitors and Mr and Mrs M would 
and could have acted more quickly, had more 2 life provided the correct offer expiry date of 
11 November. They would have known the deadline was a month earlier and that the 
mortgage offer would no longer be valid if the mortgage didnt complete in time. Both sets of 
solicitors would have had the relevant information to enable them to progress and prioritise 
Mr and Mrs Ms case as necessary. As things stood, they were all working towards a 
completion date of 18 November, in what they understood to be good time for the 
11 December deadline.
More 2 life made what was a small typographical error  but that error had far-reaching 
consequences for Mr and Mrs M, and I find that more 2 life is responsible for putting things 
right.
Im broadly in agreement with our Investigator about how more 2 life should resolve this 
complaint, other than that I dont consider I can fairly require it to refund the mortgage 
payments Mr and Mrs M have made to their existing mortgage since November 2022. This is 
because no interest has been charged on their more 2 life mortgage as a result of this 
mortgage not going ahead  and they wont have to pay interest, rolled up over the term of 
the lifetime mortgage, for the past year. I therefore dont propose to make any order or 
award in this respect.
More 2 life has said that the mortgage product it offered to Mr and Mrs M is no longer 
available, and it cant now secure funding at the 4.78% fixed rate in Mr and Mrs Ms expired 
mortgage offer. More 2 life is the lender in this matter, so if Mr and Mrs M accept my final 
decision and if that is the same as this provisional decision it will need to make the 
necessary arrangements in order to implement my award.That may involve more 2 life obtaining funding at todays rates but instead of passing that 
rate on to Mr and Mrs M, making up the difference itself so that Mr and Mrs M are only 
charged interest at 4.78%, even if it costs more 2 life more than that to provide the mortgage 
to them. But this is a matter for more 2 life to resolve  ultimately it is responsible for finding 
a way to put Mr and Mrs M back in the position they would have been in but for its mistake.
In settlement of this complaint, I intend to require more 2 life Ltd to:
- issue a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs M on the same terms as the offer dated 31 August 
2022, for a lump sum of £90,000 at a fixed interest rate of 4.78%, valid for 42 days in 
order to give Mr and Mrs M time to complete, with the option of a further 30-day 
extension should that be necessary;
- refund any additional conveyancing fees Mr and Mrs M are required to pay as a result of 
the conveyancing work needing to be re-done; and
- pay Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation. I consider this a fair and reasonable award in 
recognition of the impact of this matter on Mr and Mrs M. They are both in poor health 
and have found the matter upsetting and stressful, and have had to struggle to keep up 
with the payments to their existing lender.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs M didnt say whether or not they accepted my provisional decision, but they had 
nothing more to add.
More 2 life said it had little to add but asked me to reconsider, and it repeated some of its 
earlier arguments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion I reached in my provisional decision for 
the same reasons. Ive carefully considered more 2 lifes further comments, but it hasnt 
added anything new and I find no basis on which to take a different view about what it should 
do to resolve this complaint.
Putting things right
To settle this complaint, more 2 life Ltd must:
- issue a mortgage offer to Mr and Mrs M on the same terms as the offer dated 31 August 
2022, for a lump sum of £90,000 at a fixed interest rate of 4.78%, valid for 42 days in 
order to give Mr and Mrs M time to complete, with the option of a further 30-day 
extension should that be necessary;
- refund any additional conveyancing fees Mr and Mrs M are required to pay as a result of 
the conveyancing work needing to be re-done; and
- pay Mr and Mrs M £500 compensation.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and I require more 2 life Ltd to put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 5 December 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman