DRN-3188185
The complaint
Mr Y says Everyday Lending Limited (ELL), trading as Everyday Loans, lent to him
irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr Y took out three instalment loans from ELL. A summary of his borrowing follows. 
loan taken out value, £term in 
monthsmonthly 
repayment, 
£ total 
repayment, £
1 05/02/2018 3,000 24 241.37 5,792.88
2 29/08/2018 4225.95 24 295.24 7,085.76
3 26/07/2019 6,415.29 48 300.48 14,423.04
Loans 2 and 3 were both used in part to settle the previous loan. I understand there is an 
outstanding balance on loan 3.
Mr Y says ELLs checks were not proportionate. The loans led to spiralling debt that he 
hasnt managed to clear.
Our investigator said he could find no reason ELL was wrong to give loan 1 to Mr Y, but 
loans 2 and 3 should not have been given as the lenders checks showed that it was likely 
Mr Y was having problems managing his money by then.  
ELL disagreed. It said, in summary, the affordability assessments for loans 2 and 3 showed 
Mr Y would have disposable income each month of over £1,000. And neither of the credit 
checks indicated Mr Y was showing any signs of financial strain. It maintained loans 2 and 3 
were sustainably affordable for Mr Y. 
ELL asked for an ombudsmans review, so Mr Ys complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when ELL lent to Mr Y required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So ELL had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr Y. In
other words, it wasnt enough for ELL to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr Y.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether ELL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr Y. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
did ELL complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Ys loan 
applications to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loans in a sustainable 
way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did ELL make fair lending decisions?
did ELL act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see ELL asked for some information from Mr Y before it approved the loans. It asked 
for details of his income and checked this on the payslips and bank statements he provided. 
It estimated his living costs using national statistics, adding a buffer to cover unexpected 
costs. It also checked Mr Ys credit file to understand his existing monthly credit 
commitments and credit history each time. And finally it asked about the purpose of the 
loans: loan 1 was for debt consolidation; loan 2 was for debt consolidation and car repairs 
and loan 3 was for debt consolidation and a holiday. From these checks combined ELL 
concluded Mr Y had monthly disposable income of over £1,000 at the time of each 
application and so could afford to take on the loans.
I think these checks were reasonable and proportionate for the first loan and the decision to 
lend was fair, but not for loans 2 and 3. I will explain why.
Loan 1
The loan repayment was a relatively small percentage of Mr Ys income, which ELL says it 
had verified on both a payslip and bank statement. I note ELL used £3,278.86 in its 
assessment but the payslip and bank statement show £2,955.90  but this does not alter my 
finding. He told ELL he was living with his parents and did not contribute to household costs. 
The credit check showed he had a significant amount of unsecured debt, but payments were up-to-date and the majority of it was a car finance agreement. There was no recent adverse 
data. 
So given Mr Ys relatively high income and lack of mortgage/rent and household bills, and 
disposable income of over £1,000, I think it was fair to lend to Mr Y. I do note it meant Mr Y 
would be spending quite a significant proportion of his income on his credit commitments, 
but at this stage in the lending relationship I think this appeared sustainable given his salary 
and living arrangements.
It follows I dont think it was wrong for ELL to give loan 1 to Mr Y.
Loan 2
Mr Y applied for loan 2 just six months into the 24-month term of his first loan  and I note at 
the first opportunity he was able to apply for a top up. He had enquired two months earlier. 
This time ELLs assessment again showed he had disposable income of over £1,000. But 
this was Mr Ys second application in six months for high-cost credit  and ELL could see, as 
listed in its Go Live Audit, that Mr Y was also using short-term high cost credit.  So at this 
stage I think it ought to have carried out better checks, in the form of a fuller financial review 
using verified actuals for his outgoings.  However, I wont comment further on this as even 
based on the information it gathered I think ELL ought to have declined the application.
I say this because once Mr Y had settled loan 1 and a payday loan for £400 as he planned 
to, ELLs Go Live Audit shows he would need to spend around 45% of his monthly income to 
meet his ongoing credit commitments. This is significant and often a predictor of financial 
difficulties. In addition, the fact Mr Y was still taking out payday loans, as he had been six 
months earlier, suggests his finances were under pressure  and that it was most likely he 
did not have the level of disposable income ELL had opted to base its decision on. 
In the round, I think ELL ought to have realised there was a risk this loan would cause 
financial harm to Mr Y and so it was most likely not sustainably affordable. And it had to 
check this, not just the pounds and pence affordability, to meet its obligations. 
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 2 to Mr Y.
Loan 3
I think at this stage from the overall pattern of its lending history with Mr Y ELL should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable. This was the third time Mr Y 
had applied to ELL in 18 months and he was looking to borrow over twice as much as his 
first loan, increasing the total he would need to repay by around 150% - as well as the term 
of his indebtedness as he looked to repay loan 3 over 48 months.
In addition, the concerns noted above about loan 2  that Mr Y would need to spend a 
significant portion of his income on his ongoing credit commitments and the Go Live Audit 
showed Mr Y was still taking out other high-cost loans - were relevant to Mr Ys third 
application. And they are another reason why I find that it was most likely loan 3 was not 
sustainably affordable for Mr Y.  
It follows I think ELL was wrong to give loan 3 to Mr Y.
I have considered carefully ELLs response to the investigators assessment. This focuses 
on the pounds and pence affordability and why it used national statistics to estimate Mr Ys 
living costs. I accept there are times when this is a proportionate approach, but for the 
reasons set out above this was not the case for loans 2 and 3. But as I said earlier, even without considering what better checks might have shown ELL, my conclusion is that there 
was sufficient information in the checks it did to conclude that giving loans 2 and 3 would 
most likely cause adverse financial consequences for Mr Y.   
I have not seen any evidence that ELL acted unfairly or unreasonable towards Mr Y in some 
other way.
Putting things right
Loans 2 and 3
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr Y to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he had
the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on loans that shouldnt have
been provided to him.
So ELL should:
Add up the total amount of money Mr Y received as a result of having been given 
loans 2 and 3. The repayments Mr Y made should be deducted from this amount. 
If reworking Mr Ys loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then ELL should refund these overpayments with
8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments
would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ys account results in there still be a capital balance outstanding ELL
should work with Mr Y to agree an affordable repayment plan.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ys credit file in relation to the
loans 2 and 3.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires ELL to deduct tax from this interest. ELL should give Mr Y a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ys complaint in relation to loans 2 and 3. Everyday Lending Limited 
(ELL), trading as Everyday Loans must put things right as set put above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman