DRN-1312276
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) acted 
irresponsibly when lending to him. 
What happened 
Between July 2016 and January 2018 Sunny provided Mr S with 17 instalment loans. 
Heres a table setting out details of the first 9 loans:
 
Loan 
Date TakenDate
Repaid 
Instalments 
AmountHighest 
Repayment *
112/07/2016 16/07/2016 14 £1,200.00 £162.42
217/07/2016 24/08/2016 14 £800.00 £106.49
308/08/2016 24/08/2016 14 £800.00 £217.12*
407/09/2016 28/11/2016 14 £1,200.00 £165.68
502/12/2016 05/06/2017 14 £1,200.00 £168.97
610/01/2017 05/06/2017 14 £800.00 £278.50*
708/04/2017 05/06/2017 14 £200.00  
812/05/2017 05/06/2017 14 £200.00  
907/06/2017 17/10/2017 14 £1,200.00  
*Highest Repayment represents the largest instalment due on that loan and any overlapping 
loans.
Mr S feels that Sunny shouldnt have given him loans which were unaffordable. He said that 
if Sunny had asked to see his bank statements then it wouldve realised his outgoings 
exceeded his income. Mr S told us hed had to go into a debt management plan in order to 
get his finances under control and overall the situation caused him a lot of stress.  Our adjudicator partly upheld Mr Ss complaint. He didnt think hed seen enough to say that 
loans 1 - 4 shouldnt have been lent. But he felt that by loan 5 Sunny shouldve seen that 
Mr S had shown signs that he was struggling to repay some of his previous loans. And by 
loan 6 his overall pattern of borrowing suggested hed become persistently reliant on short-
term loans. So our adjudicator said Sunny shouldnt have lent to Mr S from loan 5 onwards 
and he set out what he thought Sunny should do to put things right for Mr S.  
Sunny first of all disagreed with our adjudicator. But following further contact with our 
adjudicator Sunny said it was now willing partly to uphold Mr Ss complaint from loan 10 
onwards and amend Mr Ss credit file.
Sunny sent us details showing how it had worked out what to pay and we sent this 
information on to Mr S. But hes aware this offer stills falls short of what our adjudicator 
recommended and hes asked for an ombudsman review. 
So this complaint comes to me to make a final decision. 
What I've decided - and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr S could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny should fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Sunny was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties. And in particular, the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments - as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Taking all this into account, Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and 
information provided and thought about what this all means for Mr Ss complaint.
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. It asked him to provide 
details of his income and to tell Sunny what he normally spent each month. And Sunny also 
carried out checks on Mr Ss credit file. 
I agree with the adjudicator that looking at the information Mr S told Sunny about his income 
and outgoings and what Sunny had recorded about his financial situation, it wasnt wrong for 
Sunny to give him loans 1, 2, 3 and 4. These loans all looked comfortably affordable for 
Mr S, based on what hed said to Sunny about his finances - even taking into account the 
combined monthly repayments. 
I appreciate that Mr S feels that Sunny shouldve asked to see his bank statements before 
agreeing to lend to him. The regulations say lenders need to do proportionate checks  they 
dont say a lender has to look at bank statements.
Given the loans terms, I do think Sunny should have looked further into Mr Ss 
circumstances when he took out these loans. But I havent seen anything in the information 
available to me (including Mr Ss credit report) which makes me think that Sunny should 
reasonably have decided not to agree these loans had it done so. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont agree it was reasonable for Sunny to provide loan 5. At this 
point, I think Sunny shouldve realised that it was clear from looking at Mr Ss borrowing 
history that he was likely having money problems. 
I say this because loan 5 was the third time that Mr S was asking for further borrowing after 
early repayment of previous loans. Hed taken out loan 2 the day after hed paid loan 1, and 
loan 4 started just two weeks after hed paid loans 2 and 3 early. 
Loan 5 was for the same amount as loan 4  and this was also the same amount Mr S had 
started off borrowing when hed taken out his first Sunny loan around 5 months or so earlier.
This suggests to me that Mr S was finding it hard to get on top of his money problems and it 
was likely that he was using this borrowing to help plug the gaps in his finances left by 
repaying earlier loans. 
So although loan 5 mightve appeared affordable, I think that Sunny shouldve realised that 
Mr Ss borrowing record had the hallmarks of someone struggling with debt. And despite 
what hed told Sunny about his finances, it showed that Mr S was having serious problems 
managing his money. So Sunny shouldve seen that the indications were that loan 5, and 
any further lending, wasnt likely to be sustainably affordable for Mr S. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr S to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or 
otherwise harmful and so it shouldnt have provided further loans. I think Sunny should reasonably have seen that this point was reached by loan 6. I say this 
because:
Mr S wasnt managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr S had been paying Sunny 
loans every month for 6 months in a row and this loan was due to keep him indebted 
to Sunny for a further 14 months 
 
following on from his earlier overlapping loans, Sunny could see that when Mr S 
asked for loan 6, he was still making repayments on loan 5  and hed only recently 
repaid loan 4.
 
Sunny didnt necessarily do anything wrong when it loaned again to Mr S before hed 
paid all his earlier loans. But Sunny shouldve seen that he wasnt making any real 
inroads into his debt 
 
although the loan amounts were variable this record of borrowing doesnt suggest 
that Mr S was asking to borrow because of a new need for a short term loan. Rather, 
I think this indicated that he had ongoing money problems and that he wasnt using 
the loans for their intended purpose.
 
I think that Mr S lost out when Sunny continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ss indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time  
 
the number of loans was likely to have a negative impact on Mr Ss ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
 
So Im upholding the complaint about loans 5 through to 17 and Sunny should put things 
right.
Putting things right  what Sunny needs to do 
A. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr S towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 5  17, not including anything it has already refunded.
 
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr S which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Mr S originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
 
C. Pay Mr S the amounts calculated in "A" and "B".
 
D. Remove all adverse entries from Mr Ss credit file for loan 5. The overall pattern of 
borrowing by loan 6 means any information recorded about loan 6 and the loans that followed is adverse. So all entries about loans 6 - 17 should be removed from Mr Ss 
credit file.
 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im partly upholding Mr Ss complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) should take the steps Ive set out to put things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 May 2020.
Susan Webb
Ombudsman