DRN-1387410
The complaint
Miss W is unhappy with the service she received from National Westminster Bank Plc 
(Natwest).
What happened
Miss W holds a current account with Natwest. She is unhappy about the issues she 
encountered when trying to cancel two direct debits via her mobile banking app on 26 
August 2019, as she says she received confirmation that they had been cancelled and that 
the payments would be returned overnight. However, the payments were debited from her 
account.
Miss W complained via the mobile banking app, where she was expecting to receive a 
response. However, she was unhappy because Natwest sent their response to a different 
email address of hers. Miss W also says she found the Natwest staff were rude when she 
was chasing up the refund of the direct debits.
Natwest explained that only one direct debit had been cancelled on 26 August 2019, and 
that Miss W had mistaken the direct debit cancellation to mean that the payment had also 
been recalled. But they apologised for the confusion regarding the channel in which her 
response was sent. They returned the funds that had been debited from her account and 
offered £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think Natwest was at fault for the 
money debiting Miss Ws account because the payments had already been processed by 
the time she asked for them to be cancelled. However, the investigator agreed that 
Natwests service could have been better, but that the £25 they had offered was fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator, as I think the compensation is fair.  
Miss W submits that the £25 compensation offered by Natwest is not commensurate to the 
experience she has had, and that an amount of either £50 or £75 would be a more 
appropriate award. The power to make such an award is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of 
the Financial Conduct Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award fair 
compensation for distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award 
must be a proportionate reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have 
had on the customer.
Ive considered the impact that Natwests handling of the matter has had on Miss W, and its 
clear that she has been left frustrated and upset by how she was dealt with. I can see, for 
example, that Natwest could have made it clear to her how they would respond and which email address they would be using. And I can see that she feels the agent she spoke to on 
the webchat adopted a rude tone. 
But I have to consider whether, in the circumstances, the compensation awarded so far is 
proportionate to the distress and inconvenience suffered. And in order to award further 
compensation to Miss W, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of Natwest 
have had a greater impact than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant say it 
has in these circumstances.
I appreciate Miss W has been left upset and inconvenienced by having to chase up the 
return of the payments that debited her account which she thought had been cancelled. But 
given that the payments had already been processed by the time the Miss W gave the 
instruction to cancel her direct debit, this is not something Natwest can fairly be held 
responsible for. They have also returned the money that was debited in any event, so she 
has suffered no financial loss in this instance. And Miss W had also not kept Natwest 
updated with her email address, so they had no cause to believe she would not receive their 
response by sending it to the address they had on file. 
So Im satisfied that the £25 offered by Natwest is fair compensation in these circumstances, 
and I do not consider any higher award is warranted. 
My final decision
National Westminster Bank Plc have made an offer to pay £25. I conclude that such an offer 
is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that Natwest should pay Miss W 
(if they have not done so already) within 28 days of receiving her acceptance of this 
decision, failing which interest will start to accrue at the simple rate of 8% per year until 
settlement (less any tax properly deductible). 
Miss W should note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding on all parties, 
and she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Miss W and Natwest as to whether the £25 offer still 
remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman