DRN-2979195
The complaint
Mrs R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC has incorrectly said her account is in 
Persistent Debt (PD).
What happened
Mrs R says Barclays has suspended her credit card account and told her the account is in 
PD. She says Barclays calculations are incorrect and she paid more than the requested 
amount. Mrs R would like the account reinstated and an apology.
Barclays says it has followed Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) rules and sent Mrs R all of 
the required letters and information about PD. It says it told Mrs R the payments she needed 
to make to avoid the PD, but she didnt make contact with it until after the account was 
suspended in January 2021. Barclays doesnt accept making a mistake.
Mrs R brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought Barclays had followed the FCA rules on PD and sent Mrs R numerous letters about 
it. The investigator didnt think Mrs R had replied to the those letters and hadnt made 
required payments. The investigator provided a list of payments and didnt think the change 
in the direct debit amount was enough.
Mrs R doesnt accept that view and maintains Barclays calculations are incorrect.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that I dont uphold this complaint. I 
appreciate Mrs R will be disappointed by my decision.
The PD rules are not set by Barclays but by the FCA and Barclays must follow them. I have 
looked at Barclays records and am satisfied that it sent Mrs R numerous letters about her 
account and explained the PD rules. I dont think Mrs R spoke to Barclays until after the 
account was suspended in early 2021. So, Im satisfied Barclays didnt make a mistake or 
act unfairly by sending the PD letters or by suspending the account. Im also satisfied it 
correctly followed the PD rules.
I appreciate Mrs R says Barclays calculations are incorrect. I make clear to Mrs R that we 
are not an auditing service, but I have not seen any evidence that leads me to conclude the 
calculations are incorrect and can see the investigator has provided a spreadsheet of the 
figures.
Overall, Im satisfied Barclays correctly followed the PD rules and was reasonably entitled to 
suspend Mrs Rs account when required payments were not made. I dont think it matters 
that the direct debit amount was changed and think that Barclays told Mrs R the amount she 
needed to pay to avoid the account being suspended.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 September 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman