DRN-3885802
The complaint
Mr A complains Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc trading as Hitachi Personal Finance (Hitachi) 
hasnt honoured a claim he brought under section 75A of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 
(CCA).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on 9 December 2022 in which I explained I was not minded to 
uphold this complaint. Rather than repeat my provisional decision here in full, I will 
summarise the background first and then my provisional findings:
Mr A had entered a contract with a firm I referred to as AWL to replace windows 
and add secondary glazing at his house, in May 2015. This cost £32,623 after 
discounts, part of which was financed by a point of sale loan between Mr A and 
Hitachi.
Works did not begin until February 2016 and various issues arose. Installation wasnt 
complete until November 2016 and then remedial works were required. The last 
remedial works had been due to take place in July 2018 but AWLs contractor failed 
to turn up and Mr A asked AWL not to return after this point.
Mr A raised concerns with Hitachi in January 2021 about what had happened. He 
argued the windows had not been like-for-like replacements for the existing ones, 
which had been an important requirement due to the house being in a conservation 
area. He also complained about the quality of the windows, and requested a full 
refund plus further compensation.
Hitachi contacted AWL for its comments. AWL accepted there had been some issues 
but denied it had been told the property was in a conservation area, or that the 
windows were not like-for-like or poor quality. However, in July 2021 AWL wrote to 
Mr A saying it wouldnt pursue him for £11,211 of the price which he hadnt yet paid.
Hitachi considered this was a fair solution to the problem and told Mr A this. He 
complained and the matter was subsequently referred to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service for an independent opinion.
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and he came to the conclusion that 
AWL had already fairly resolved the problem by reducing the price by £11,211, so 
there was nothing more for Hitachi to do. Mr A didnt agree. He noted the situation 
had caused him a lot of stress and inconvenience, that he hadnt got what he paid for 
and that the 10 year warranty on the windows had been withdrawn. After looking into 
these points further our investigator decided not to change his view, and as no 
agreement could be reached the matter was then passed to me to decide.
In my provisional decision I explained that section 75A of the CCA allowed Mr A to hold 
Hitachi liable for any breach of contract by AWL in relation to the supply and installation of 
the windows.
I observed that it was common ground that something had gone wrong with the supply and 
installation, but the details were unclear. Based on the documents dating from the months 
leading up to installation beginning, I thought Mr A hadnt told AWL that the house was in a 
conservation area, but that he had said the windows needed to be like-for-like. 
Having examined photographs of the house and the windows before and after being 
replaced, I concluded the new windows could not reasonably be called like-for-like. The 
frames were a different colour and were painted in a different way. But I noted there were 
emails in which Mr A had agreed to the plans and drawings produced by AWL, which had 
described the colour and details of the windows. There was no evidence that AWL had 
deviated from the plans and so I concluded Mr A had got the windows hed ordered and the 
difference in style and colour from the originals did not therefore represent a breach of 
contract.
I went on to consider the other aspects of the supply and installation of the windows which 
had apparently gone wrong. There was not much detail to go on, but it was apparent the 
installation had taken a very long time, some of the new windows had needed to be 
replaced, and there had been various snagging issues. By the time Mr A had asked AWL not 
to return, the evidence had indicated the remaining remedial works were a new windowsill 
for a bay window, some painting, and remake products. I noted there was no other 
evidence of defects with the windows or the way theyd been installed, and that Mr A had not 
been specific about any problems which remained.
It was against this background that I had to decide, provisionally, whether AWLs remedy 
had been enough to settle matters fairly. I noted the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) 
covered Mr As contract with AWL, and that in certain circumstances it allowed for a price 
reduction to be granted where goods were not of satisfactory quality and/or services were 
not carried out with reasonable care and skill. I further observed that the notes which 
accompanied the CRA explained that the purpose of such a price reduction was to reflect 
the difference in value between what someone had paid for, and what theyd received.
I reasoned that Mr A had received a price reduction of £11,211, which was more than a third 
off the price. He appeared to have received, and had installed, all the windows hed paid for, 
and in light of this the price reduction granted had appeared quite generous. In the absence 
of evidence to the contrary I concluded it had been a fair reduction.
Regarding Mr As complaint about the warranty being withdrawn, I agreed with Mr A that he 
had not specifically agreed to accept the price reduction on the understanding the warranty 
would not be provided. And I could see an argument that Mr A should have a warranty for 
the parts of the contract which had been completed. However, I thought the loss of the 
warranty was covered by the price reduction hed received. I thought it was likely the 
£11,211 reduction would cover the difference in value between a perfect installation with a 
warranty, and an installation with minor remaining issues and no warranty. 
Concluding, I found that as AWL had fairly remedied its breach of contract with respect to 
the supply and installation, it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to require Hitachi to do 
anything further to satisfy its potential liability under section 75A of the CCA.
I asked both parties to respond to my provisional decision by 23 December 2022 with any 
new evidence or arguments they wanted me to consider. Hitachi did not respond. Mr A 
asked for an extension to 2 January 2023, which was granted.
Mr A provided his further submissions on 3 January 2023, in the form of some handwritten 
comments on a copy of my provisional decision. Ive summarised my understanding of the 
comments below:Mr A had not completed the pre-contract forms such as survey documents which had 
asked if the property was in a conservation area. When he had replied please 
proceed to an email which had attached copies of the survey documents and 
seeking his approval, he had only been approving the colour of the windows, not 
agreeing that everything was accurate on the attached documents (such as the 
conservation area status).
In another email in which he had replied Everything is in order to a message from 
AWL asking him to approve the final designs, Mr A had only been approving the 
colour of the glass and the patterns.
One of the most important things had been the impact AWLs delivery of the windows 
and installation had had on Mr As mental health. £11,000 was no match for this.
The warranty had in fact been issued in 2016 but AWL had failed to honour it.
The case has now been returned to me to consider once again.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. Ill 
explain why, focusing on Mr As recent submissions.
The meaning of Mr As emails to AWL, and whether he agreed to the designs/colours
One of Mr As key points in response to my provisional decision is that I havent interpreted 
his emails to AWL correctly, so Ive considered these emails again in the context they 
appeared. 
The first email Ive seen was in response to an email dated 5 October 2015, from a Mr M at 
AWL. Mr M had said he had attached your survey documentation for approval and went on 
to ask Mr A to confirm that you are happy with this documentation. Ive seen the survey 
documentation and this included, among other things:
A section to confirm what restrictions might be on the property, such as being in a 
conservation area. No known restrictions was ticked.
A note stating that all windows had changed from the original contract and that Mr A 
had seen a sample of timber with a particular colour code.
Specifications of the windows to be ordered, which indicated they were in the same 
colour code mentioned in the note. 
Mr As response to this email was as follows:
Please proceed. The glass style and pattern must be as the existing one.
Mr A says that he was only approving the colour of the windows, and maybe that was his 
intention at the time, but to the recipient of the email I think it would have looked as though 
he was agreeing with the contents of the survey documents. So in other words he was 
agreeing to the statement that there were no known restrictions on the property, the colour of 
the frames and the other details of the windows mentioned in the documents.The second email was a response to a Mr T, who had emailed Mr A on 21 October 2015 to 
say that the decorative glass department should have sent Mr A drawings of the glass 
design for his order. Mr T asked if Mr A could review the drawings and confirm if they 
matched his requirements. Mr A replied: Everything is in order. I have signed and sent the 
documents back.
Mr A says that in this email he was just approving the glass colour and patterns, which is a 
point I accept.
However, I do not think this helps advance his case any further, as over the course of the 
two emails my view is that he signed off on the design and colour of the frames and the 
glass. 
Mr A has never provided evidence of exactly what was not like-for-like about the new 
windows, but the available photographic evidence from AWL and the public domain only 
shows a difference in the colour of the frames, which Mr A had approved. 
It is difficult for me to conclude AWL were in breach of the requirement for the windows to be 
like-for-like when the only visible difference is a change in the colour of the frames, which 
Mr A had confirmed his agreement to via email.
The warranty
Mr A has said in response to my provisional decision that AWL did in fact issue a warranty, 
but were now failing to honour it. I had been under the impression that AWL had not issued 
the warranty at all, but I dont think this is a material point. Whether AWL never issued a 
warranty in the first place, or issued a warranty and subsequently withdrew it as part of the 
£11,211 price reduction, this doesnt change my view that the price reduction itself is an 
adequate remedy for AWLs breach of contract (including not providing the warranty).
As I explained in my provisional decision, there is very little evidence of any remaining 
issues with the windows, meaning a price reduction of over a third seemed quite generous. 
No new evidence has been put forward to show otherwise so it follows that my views remain 
the same on this.
Impact on Mr As mental health
While I was sorry to hear that the ongoing situation with the windows has impacted Mr As 
mental health, in general (and particularly in respect of contracts of the sort in question here) 
a person cannot claim for non-financial losses experienced as a result of a breach of 
contract. The impact on a persons mental health is a type of non-financial loss. And so it 
follows that although Mr A may have felt an impact on his mental health, this isnt something 
I could say Hitachi, by virtue of section 75A, must compensate him for.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above and in the summary of my provisional decision, I do not 
uphold Mr As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Will Culley
Ombudsman