DRN-3740345
The complaint
Mr H complains that ReAssure Limited has misled him in respect of his Select Investment 
Policy. Specifically, he says it did not make him aware after the ten-year investment period 
ended that he could have extended it for a further ten years. Additionally, Mr H says 
ReAssures poor customer service perpetuated matters unnecessarily after he complained; 
he had to chase it repeatedly for answers, to no avail.  
To resolve his complaint, Mr H wants to know if ReAssures actions have caused him any 
loss, he wants to know why he experienced such poor service when ReAssure asked him to 
complain and finally, he wants to receive compensation along with an apology for the time 
he has wasted seeking a resolution to the matter. 
What happened
The investment began in July 1994 through General Portfolio Life Assurance Plc. Monthly 
contributions ended in 2004, whilst the policy was operated by Windsor Life Assurance 
Company Ltd. The funds remain invested to date. The policy has since passed to ReAssure. 
Following a query from Mr H, ReAssure wrote to Mr H in September 2020 noting he could 
not reinstate the policy as it had been more than 13 months since the last paid premium 
taken on 20 June 2004. It directed Mr H to his policy terms and conditions on that basis. 
In September 2021, Mr H contacted ReAssure by telephone. He was trying to undertake an 
online fund switch for the first time, whereby he had encountered some issues. He then 
realised from his discussions with ReAssure that he should have been told about the option 
to extend his contributions in 2004. He therefore complained as he was concerned he may 
have lost out financially on bonuses. Mr H says ReAssure encouraged him to complain. 
On 23 October 2021, ReAssure wrote to Mr H with the outcome of the complaint. However, it 
only looked at issues he previously had with the fund switch and not the substantive 
complaint about the lack of continuation for the policy contributions after 2004.  
Mr H called ReAssure a few days later explaining that his actual complaint issued had gone 
unanswered; it therefore reopened the complaint.  
On 29 November 2021, Mr H referred the complaint to this service. He noted that eight 
weeks had passed without a meaningful reply to his actual concerns. He said since the 
complaint had been reopened, he had tried to speak with various call handlers at ReAssure 
in both its customer services and escalations teams and not given any cogent answer to his 
complaint. He said he had placed many calls and been kept on hold unnecessarily. 
On 23 December 2021, ReAssure wrote to Mr H and said it had concluded that no 
reimbursement was due to Mr H. It said it did not write out to policyholders with all of the 
options on the policy because it did not provide financial advice; so, if he hadnt extended the 
policy premium term under his continuation rights, that was not the fault of ReAssure. 
However, in that letter it also said Mr H could continue to pay another ten years of premiums 
from the policys anniversary. 
On 4 January 2022, ReAssure issued a final response letter to Mr H regarding the lack of the 
continuation option in 2004. It reiterated that it would not provide policyholders with a further 
notification of a variation or continuance of premiums. But, it said if Mr H still wished to do 
so, he could pay premiums for a further ten years from the policys anniversary. 
Mr H said that ReAssure had confused matters further; he now questioned whether he could 
make the premium payments or not. He also felt that the response didnt address the original 
complaint, that being the issue around lack of communication and notification of the option to 
continue premiums. This meant he had no chance to build up a further loyalty bonus. 
An investigator from this service put Mr Hs comments to ReAssure and sought further 
clarification. ReAssure then explained its letters of December 2021 and January 2022 had 
been automated in respect of reinstating the policy and the suggestion that premiums could 
be restarted from the policys anniversary had been stated in error on both occasions. 
Our investigator thereafter issued a view on the complaint in which he concluded that the 
terms and conditions for the investment do not compel ReAssure to have notified Mr H of the 
end of the ten-year contribution period. However, he felt that ReAssure could have clarified 
this to Mr H far sooner than it did; and its two most recent letters about the policy were 
incorrect about reinstatement. He therefore felt it should pay Mr H £100 compensation. 
Mr H accepted the investigators conclusions, though he said he remained frustrated at how 
ReAssure had behaved. He noted that it had two weeks to reply to the investigators view yet 
it still hadnt done so some three weeks later. He said he felt that ReAssures actions 
continued to be disrespectful to himself and to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Thereafter, Mr H confirmed that he would like the complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. 
He said as a result of ReAssures continued poor service, he had lost all faith in it as a 
financial services provider. However, he now held had a number of investments and 
pensions with ReAssure where it had acquired them over the years; because of this he felt 
he could not move them elsewhere, despite being unhappy with how it had behaved.  
ReAssure later confirmed it would pay the £100 to Mr H. However, Mr H remained of the 
view that the complaint ought to be reviewed afresh by an ombudsman.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked at everything before me, I also believe this complaint should be upheld, on 
the basis of a payment to reflect the upset and inconvenience Mr H has suffered.
I recognise how frustrating things have been for Mr H during the course of this complaint. I 
can see that in September 2020 he was rightly told that the policy could not be reinstated. 
He had also later been correctly informed about the number of fund switches that could be 
made without any charge for the funds that remained invested with ReAssure. 
However, in the following September when he attempted to undertake the first fund switch 
(the complaint about that issue having since been resolved), he was then given confusing 
information about the ten-year investment contribution window. This led him to question 
whether hed lost out on bonuses, assuming he had chosen to pay a further ten years of 
premiums from 2004 to 2014. Mr H did not pay those premiums and the appropriate redress would not be to assume what 
he might have done differently in 2004 without persuasive evidence of the same  and that 
would only apply if I had concluded that ReAssure (or Windsor Life Assurance Company Ltd 
for which it accepts responsibility) had misled Mr H at that time, which I do not. 
Instead, at this service we must decide what should have happened in the circumstances, 
and we would not look to put a mistake right by artificially benefitting a consumer financially.
There isnt clear evidence of what actually happened in 2004, but both parties seem to 
accept Mr H wasnt directly informed that he could adopt a continuation of a further ten-year 
investment window. However, as our investigator has pointed out, the terms and conditions 
for the investment do not compel the business to provide this information at the end of the 
first ten years. Contrastingly, section 8 says the grantee of the policy may extend the initial 
investment period by a further ten years - if notice is submitted to the provider in writing.  
So, it isnt the case that the substantive complaint should be upheld. Mr H did not provide 
any such notice to undertake the continuation option in 2004. However, the reason this 
complaint should succeed is because after Mr H asked ReAssure about the continuation 
option, it then conflated the ten-year continuation with reinstatement. 
In its later communication to Mr H of December 2021 and in the final response to the 
complaint in January 2022, ReAssure mistakenly set out that the policy could be reinstated 
(for additional premium contributions)  when the terms and conditions do not permit 
reinstatement after a number of premiums are missed. Nor can the ten-year continuation be 
undertaken, unless written notice was supplied by Mr H before the end of the first period.  
ReAssure was in the informed position to give Mr H information about his policy. I accept 
that it does not provide financial advice, but it held the policy terms and could have sought to 
reference these to Mr H on various occasions before the eventual complaint response. 
For those reasons, I believe a payment should be made to Mr H, as defined below.  
Putting things right
My role is to determine if a business has treated a customer unfairly because of actions or 
inactions. And if it has, I will go on to consider what ought to be done to put any mistake(s) 
right. In this case, Mr H has not suffered any financial loss. But he has been caused upset 
due to the confusion and poor customer service he has experienced from ReAssure. 
As well as putting right any financial losses in a complaint (though there are none in this 
circumstance), this service will also consider the emotional or practical impact of any errors 
on a complainant. In doing so, we do not fine or punish businesses; we are not a regulator, 
that duty falls to the Financial Conduct Authority.  
Taking into account the cumulative impact of the various mistakes ReAssure has made, I 
believe a higher amount of compensation than previously suggested should be awarded. In 
my view, £300 is reasonable in the circumstances; this was where ReAssures compounding 
of errors and lack of explanation for its conflicting statements led to the delay in confirming 
why reinstatement or the continuation option could not be adopted belatedly by Mr H. 
Having listened carefully to his concerns, I believe these actions caused Mr H considerable 
inconvenience and trouble. The matter took him many weeks to resolve in total and it had a 
notable impact on his relationship with ReAssure. The amount of £300 is within the range of awards I believe appropriate for combined errors of this nature. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. ReAssure Limited must pay Mr H £300 for the upset he has been 
caused when dealing with his request to obtain an understanding about the continuation 
option under his Select Investment Policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 January 2023.
 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman