DRN-4343211
Complaint
Mr R has complained about a credit card Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 
Money) provided to him. He says the credit card was irresponsibly provided to him as he 
was already in debt with many other creditors.
Background
In September 2022, 118 118 Money provided Mr R with a credit card with an initial limit of 
£500. Mr R wasnt provided with any credit limit increases. 
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr R and 118 118 Money had told us. And he 
thought 118 118 Money hadnt done anything wrong or treated Mr R unfairly in relation to 
providing the credit card. So he didnt recommend that Mr Rs complaint be upheld. Mr R 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Rs complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, Ive not been persuaded to uphold Mr Rs complaint. 
Ill explain why in a little more detail.
118 118 Money needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means 
is 118 118 Money needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand 
whether Mr R could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
118 118 Money says it agreed to Mr Rs application after it obtained information on him 
income and carried out a credit search. And the information obtained indicated that Mr R 
would be able to make the low monthly repayments due for this credit card. On the other 
hand Mr R says that he was already struggling and shouldnt have been provided with this 
credit card.
Ive considered what the parties have said. 
Whats important to note is that Mr R was provided with a revolving credit facility rather than 
a loan. And this means that 118 118 Money was required to understand whether a credit 
limit of £500 could be repaid within a reasonable period of time, rather than in one go. A 
credit limit of £500 required relatively low monthly payments in order to clear the full amount 
owed within a reasonable period of time. 
Furthermore, Ive seen records of the information 118 118 Money obtained from Mr R about 
him income and that was on the credit search carried out. Mr R did have a default. But this 
was from a number of years prior to the application. And given how much time had passed, 
this doesnt indicate to me that 118 118 Money ought to have realised that Mr R didnt have 
the funds to make the monthly payment that would be required for this credit card. 
I appreciate that Mr R says that him circumstances were worse than this and he was 
struggling. But 118 118 Money could only make a decision based on the information it had at 
the time. And as the available information indicates Mr R could repay what he would owe at 
the time the lending decision was made, I dont think that 118 118 Money needed to do 
anything more. 
So overall while I can understand Mr Rs sentiments, I dont think that 118 118 Money 
treated Mr R unfairly or unreasonably when providing Mr R with him credit card. And Im not 
upholding Mr Rs complaint. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr R. But I hope 
hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have 
been listened to.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman