DRN-2000925
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr A bought the policy in 2007 alongside a credit card. 
He told us he was unhappy because he never asked for PPI and didnt need it. Mr A told us 
that he had other ways to cover the monthly repayments owing on his credit card while he 
wasnt working. 
NatWest told us first of all that Mr A had applied over the internet for his credit card and the 
PPI  although it then sent other information which it said showed that Mr A took the policy 
out in one of its branches. 
Mr A thought hed applied for the card by filling in a leaflet  and I think thats probably right 
as Ive seen his signed credit agreement.
Our adjudicator looked at this complaint and took all this information into account. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend upholding the complaint. Mr A disagrees. So his 
complaint comes to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As case. 
I dont uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest has sent us a copy of Mr As signed credit card agreement. This shows that, in 
order to take out the policy, he had to say on the form if he wanted PPI.
Its completely understandable that, so many years later, Mr A may not remember this. But 
I can see that Mr A has ticked the form next to where it says: I wish to purchase Payment 
Protection. 
Along with PPI, there were other optional features available with the card if hed wanted 
them  but Mr A left these tick boxes blank. So I think he wouldve understood at the time 
that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI  and Mr A couldve left that box unticked as 
well if he hadnt wanted PPI.
Mr A has also  signed in the box just above where it says in bold print:
Optional Insurance  you will NOT be covered unless you tick and sign above
So I think that NatWest made Mr A aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to have it 
as he wanted to protect his card monthly repayments by taking out the PPI offered. So the 
bank added PPI to his account at his request. 
If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable. 
Mr A thought that NatWest recommend the PPI to him  NatWest disagrees. But it makes no 
difference to the outcome because I dont think PPI was unsuitable for Mr A. Heres why 
I say this. 
Mr A was eligible for the cover.
Mr A told us he was entitled to full sick pay for 3 months followed by 3 months' half pay. The 
policy covered him for accident, sickness and unemployment. And it wouldve paid more 
than his minimum credit card repayments, on top of sick pay, for up to 12 months if he 
couldnt work. I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr A 
had additional costs as a result of being off work because of illness or disability. 
Mr A doesnt appear to have had significant other means he could have relied on. 
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure. 
PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money giving Mr A some additional 
financial security in those circumstances. And being entitled to a redundancy payment 
wouldnt have helped Mr A if he was off work through accident or sickness. 
So I think Mr A couldve benefitted from the policy. 
Its possible some of the information NatWest gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. Mr A wasnt affected by any of the usual conditions that mightve limited the 
policys benefit to him, such as having a pre-existing medical condition. So, even if this 
wasnt mentioned, I dont think that knowing more about things the policy didnt cover 
wouldve made any difference to Mr As decision to take it out. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to Mr A when he bought the policy. But, from 
what Ive seen, Mr A hasnt suggested that he couldnt afford the monthly premiums. So 
I dont think better information wouldve put him off buying the PPI. 
I think Mr A still wouldve decided to buy the policy if hed been better informed as it gave 
him useful protection in his particular situation. 
This means NatWest doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
I've taken into account what Mr A has said in response to our adjudicators view  but this 
doesnt affect what I think about whether the policy was mis-sold to him. Ill explain why. 
NatWest has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr A because: NatWest got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr A about that. Because NatWest didnt tell Mr A, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, NatWest has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so National Westminster Bank Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr A.
But National Westminster Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr A any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I understand it has already done this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman