DRN-1618055
 
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor service in 
connection with their home emergency insurance policy.
What happened
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance company of that name and I include 
other companies and individuals insofar as I hold that insurance company responsible for 
their actions.
Under the rules by which the Financial Ombudsman Service is bound, a complaint must be 
brought to us within six months of the final response, save in exceptional circumstances.
Mr and Mrs P had a British Gas policy that covered an annual service and certain repairs.
Mr and Mrs P made a complaint in about December 2016 and British Gas sent a final 
response on 16 January 2017.
Mr and Mrs P made a complaint in about January 2019 and British Gas sent a final response 
on 24 January 2019. 
They had an annual service booked for 28 October 2019. They complained that British Gas 
cancelled it  and this had happened before. 
British Gas offered £50.00 compensation. Mr and Mrs P brought their complaint to us in 
December 2019. 
Our investigator said he couldnt comment on previous complaints as British Gas had sent 
its final responses and the complaints were out of time.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He didnt think that 
British Gas had done anything wrong as the terms and conditions mentioned that an annual 
service might take over a year after the last one.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the investigators opinion. They asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. Mr P says, in summary, that:
British Gas has rescheduled his appointment too many times.
He feels the compensation isn't fair.
He's not happy British Gas has still not put things right.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
An annual service can only take place with cooperation between British Gas and the 
consumer.
From its records I see that British Gas carried out annual services for Mr and Mrs P in 
December 2013, November 2014, November 2015, December 2016, November 2017 and 
January 2019.
Ive noted that there were final responses in January 2017 and January 2019. I think Mr and 
Mrs P have accepted the investigators view that its too late for us to look into those 
complaints.  
British Gas has changed its policy terms in some respects over the years. But from June 
2018 they said the following:
Your annual service may be more than 12 months after your last service visit. In periods of 
local or national high demand for our services (such as cold weather), we prioritise 
breakdowns and may need to rearrange your annual service.
The policy renewed for a year from about 25 June 2019. Even at that time, Mr and Mrs P 
had already booked an annual service for 28 October 2019.I accept his statement that he 
booked that day off work.
Ive seen evidence that British Gas contacted Mr and Mrs P on Friday 25 October 2019 to try 
to re-schedule the service. Mr P said an engineer was coming on Monday and he ended the 
call.
No engineer arrived on Monday 28 October. Mr P contacted British Gas. From what British 
Gas has said, I accept that it had cancelled the annual service due to high demand for its 
services. British Gas offered Mr and Mrs P £50.00. So overall Im satisfied that it didnt treat 
them unfairly.
At the time they brought their complaint to us in December 2019 it was still less than a year 
since the last annual service. I cant make any findings on any complaint about events since 
that time.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 July2020.
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman