DRN-2120684
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) unfairly declined his loan 
application.
What happened
Mr P applied for a loan for £44,000 over a term of 60 months. Barclays declined his loan 
application stating that he didnt meet its internal scoring criteria for this particular product, it 
thought he already had a high level of unsecured debt and it believed he had recently taken 
further credit and a mortgage so wanted to see a period of stability before further lending.
Mr P disagreed with Barclays decision and said that he hadnt been treated fairly. He said 
that he had a substantial income that hadnt been taken into account and the information 
Barclays had relied on was incorrect. He says he has an excellent credit score, doesnt have 
a high level of unsecured debt and that his mortgage was ported so was existing borrowing, 
not new borrowing.
Barclays reconsidered its lending decision on two occasions but maintained its decision not 
to lend to him.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he said that he hadnt 
seen any evidence that Barclays had acted unfairly in declining the application and 
considered the reasons it had given to be reasonable.
Mr P disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator and Ill explain why.
As I understand it, Mr P has been able to fund the works he intended to carry out for his 
family himself but says he wasnt treated fairly during his loan application. For clarity, this 
service doesnt regulate Barclays and we wouldnt generally ask a bank such as Barclays to 
provide a loan  thats a commercial decision for it to make and we wouldnt usually tell a 
bank who it should lend to or on what terms. But I can consider how the lending decision 
was reached and whether Barclays has evidenced that it followed the correct process in 
reaching its lending decision.
When Barclays reviewed Mr Ps loan application, it says it had concerns about this lending  
based on both affordability and its internal scoring system, which takes into account a 
number of factors including repayment history and its lending criteria. 
I can see from Mr Ps account statements and from what hes told us that he has a high 
income and doesnt have any issues with his credit file (other than one minor issue that 
Barclays has confirmed had no impact on the lending decision). So I can understand why he 
has concerns about the decision made by Barclays.
However Barclays had identified a high level of lending, which Mr P disagrees with. Having 
reviewed this, I can see that Mr Ps calculations dont take into account the three car finance 
contracts that he has  which all involve monthly repayments. These have all been included 
in Barclays lending decision as they are classed as outgoings and therefore should be 
considered as part of the lending decision.
There were some comments made about Mr P using his account for business purposes, but 
I havent seen any evidence thats the case from reviewing his account statements. 
However, I have seen that Mr Ps monthly turnover through his current account is high and 
he appears to have fairly significant outgoings, although a large amount of his outgoings are 
not regular. So while I can understand Mr Ps concerns given his significant monthly 
disposable income, I think Barclays explanation about why it wanted to see whether Mr P 
could sustain his level of borrowing over a longer term before lending again was a 
reasonable decision for an unsecured loan of this size, particularly given that Mr Ps income 
varies significantly from month to month.
When Barclays reviews a loan application it will also have its own lending criteria about who 
it would like to lend to and how it assesses risk, which will be different from other lenders. 
Having reviewed the information provided by Barclays, I can see it has followed the correct 
process and has taken Mr Ps individual circumstances into account when making its lending 
decision. So, I havent seen anything that makes me think Barclays lending decision was 
unfair to Mr P or that it considered his application using different criteria to anyone else. 
Ultimately, it is for Barclays to make decisions on whether to lend to a customer and if Mr P 
is unhappy with the way his application has been treated then he is able to apply to other 
financial companies who may have different criteria and find his circumstances to be more 
favourable for their lending criteria.
For these reasons, although I understand Mr Ps frustrations with the lending decision that 
was made, I havent seen any evidence to suggest Barclays treated his application unfairly. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman