DRN-2130877
The complaint
Mr A trading as S is unhappy with the length of time taken by Society of Lloyds (Lloyds) to 
handle a claim made under a commercial insurance policy (the policy).
What happened
Towards the end of May 2019, there was an escape of water emanating from the ceiling of 
the premises occupied by Mr As business which caused damage to equipment. He made 
successful claims under the policy to cover the costs of the damaged equipment and for loss 
of income for the time his business was interrupted. 
Mr A is unhappy with the length of time it took Lloyds to pay the claim.
Lloyds agreed that after the decision was taken to pay the claim, it took too long to transfer 
the funds to Mr A. Initially Mr A was offered £50 by way of compensation  which Lloyds 
later increased to £250.
Mr A doesnt think thats fair. Due to the delays, he says his business suffered because it 
was unable to operate. And this resulted in him losing customers and staff; ultimately leading 
to the closure of his business. Unhappy, a complaint was made to our Service.  
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr A trading as Ss complaint. He concluded £250 was a fair 
reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused by the delay in Mr A being sent 
payment. Mr A disagrees. So, this complaint has now been passed to me to look at 
everything afresh to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold it. Ill explain why.
Lloyds has an obligation to handle complaints promptly and fairly, and it mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
It took almost three months for the claim to be paid from the date on which Lloyds was first 
notified of it at the end of May 2019. 
From Lloyds system notes, I can see that the claim was set up promptly and further 
information was requested of Mr A to enable a claim to be progressed. This included a roof 
inspection, photos of the damage caused by the escape of water and proof of purchase of 
the equipment claimed for. 
Mr A contacted Lloyds with a list of items that were damaged together with costings for 
these items at the end of June 2019; approximately one month after notifying it of escape of 
water. Looking at the system notes, Im satisfied that a call took place between Lloyds 
representative and Mr A a few days later, on or around 1 July 2019. Mr A said he didnt have 
receipts as proof of purchase, but he would supply photographs. 
Theres also a further note on 24 July 2019 reflecting that Mr A was having trouble sending 
the photographs to Lloyds. From the emails and system notes Ive seen, Im satisfied 
Lloyds received these at the end of July 2019.
In July 2019, the system notes also reflect that there were discussions between Lloyds and 
Mr A about needing to have a roof report to confirm the condition of the roof. As Ive 
explained above, the system notes reflect that this had also been requested at the end of 
May 2019, shortly after being notified of the claim. The system notes also reflect that Lloyds 
received the roof report at the end of July 2019.
The system notes also reflect that Mr A notified Lloyds in mid-July 2019 that he has lost 
business due to the equipment being damaged and he has lost customers and he was 
advised that he could make a business interruption claim on the policy. For this to be 
considered, hed need to provide six weeks worth of takings before the date of the incident.
Mr A provided this information at start of August 2019 and, after answering some follow up 
questions about the business takings, the claim was authorised within a couple of days.
I dont think any of the information / evidence Lloyds requested in order to validate the 
claims made under the policy was unreasonable. And although there were delays leading up 
to the claim being accepted, I dont think I can reasonably hold Lloyds responsible for those. 
Im satisfied that it reasonably progressed the claim and responded promptly when it was 
sent information by Mr A.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account all of Mr As comments including what he 
says about Lloyds not arranging for a loss adjuster to visit his premises.  However, it had 
been confirmed to Lloyds at the end of May 2019 that a roofer had visited the premises and 
that the roof was watertight. A possible cause for the escape of water was given. So, I dont 
think Lloyds acted unreasonably by not appointing a loss adjuster in this particular case.
Mr A also says that he was told during one call with Lloyds representative that a roof report 
wasnt needed; only to be told later that it was. Mr A cant recall the date of the call, which 
isnt surprising given how long ago this all took place. But Ive seen nothing in the system 
notes suggesting that he was told inconsistent information about this and the report was 
requested when Lloyds was first notified of the claim. In any event, even if Mr A was given 
inconsistent information about the need for a roof report, I dont think that had an impact on 
how long it took for his claim to be considered as Mr A was able to provide this at the end of 
July 2019, around the same time he provided the photographs Lloyds had been requesting 
showing the damaged items. So, until Lloyds had received those photographs, its unlikely 
that it wouldve been able to validate the claim in any event.  
However, Lloyds accepts that there was an unreasonable delay of almost two weeks 
between the claim being accepted and payment being made to Mr A. Im very sorry to hear 
the difficulties Mr A has had with his business - and that after May 2019 he lost staff and 
customers. Although, Lloyds accept there was an unreasonable delay in Mr A receiving 
payment after the claim was accepted, Im not persuaded that delay caused Mr As business 
to fail. Had Mr A received payment several days earlier, I dont think that wouldve been 
sufficient to retain staff and customers as theres mention in the system notes in July 2019, 
before the claim had been accepted, that hed lost customers. And Im not persuaded that 
payment being delayed by several days caused this, particularly when taking into account 
that the business had been closed for some time before the claim had been accepted. And 
Ive already explained that Lloyds hadnt unfairly delayed progressing the claim.Mr A was able to make a successful business interruption claim to cover the period of almost 
two weeks when he was awaiting payment  and this was paid in September 2019.
I accept that, once the claim had been accepted, waiting longer that he shouldve to receive 
payment wouldve unnecessary contributed to an already worrying time for Mr A. I can also 
see from the system notes that he was chasing for payment so was put to some 
unnecessary inconvenience.  Im satisfied that the offer of £250 made by Lloyds fairly 
reflects the distress and inconvenience he experienced. So, I dont think Lloyds needs to do 
anything more. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A trading as S 
to accept or reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman