DRN-2897491
The complaint
Mr S has complained about Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd because, having  arranged 
his car insurance policy, it then told him the policy was being cancelled, or he could cancel it 
himself. It charged him a fee for the cancellation.
What happened
Mr S arranged a policy via Marshmallow, through a price comparison website. Three weeks 
after the cover began, four weeks after the policy was agreed, Marshmallow emailed Mr S 
and told him it was cancelling the policy. It said it wasnt happy the detail hed provided to it 
was correct. It said the only alternative option for Mr S was for him to cancel the policy 
himself. But thered still be a £50  £75 cancellation fee. Mr S was unhappy but felt he had 
no choice. He cancelled the policy and Marshmallow provided a pro-rated refund of 
premiums minus the cancellation fee.
Mr S complained to us. Our investigator felt that Marshmallow had been within its rights to 
choose to not continue cover. But she felt that, in the circumstances, it shouldnt have 
charged Mr S a fee. She said this should be reimbursed, plus interest*. She also noted that 
Mr S had been worried by Marshmallow retaining the fee from his refund, so she said it 
should pay him £50 compensation.
 
Marshmallow disagreed with the findings. It said it had no choice but to cancel the policy and 
it charging the fee was fair. The complaint was passed to me for a decision to be made.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Marshmallow, having offered Mr S a policy, discovered information which 
concerned it. Whether or not an insurance company offers a policyholder cover is always a 
matter of risk and sometimes an insurer will review the risks it is prepared to offer cover 
against. But when it does that part way through the term of cover that can have 
consequences for a policyholder. Here much of that was mitigated because Mr S was given 
the opportunity to cancel the policy himself (and he did). But Marshmallow still expected him 
to pay a cancellation fee.
An insurer can choose when to carry out checks on a policyholder  and some dont do so 
unless or until a claim on the policy is made. But here Marshmallow had opted to offer 
policies with a view to completing key manual checks, that would inform its decision on the 
risk presented by the policyholder, after the policies were agreed. And, in this case, by the 
time Marshmallow had fully completed its analysis of the risk Mr S presented, the policy had 
been arranged for more than 14 days. This left Mr S at a disadvantage because he was then 
outside the cooling off period for cancelling without a fee. Whereas if Marshmallow had 
completed checks on Mr S before his policy began, or within the cooling-off period which 
ended on 27 February 2020, then there wouldnt have been a fee for Mr S to pay. 
I understand why Marshmallow wanted to cancel. And it was entitled to do so. But doing it 
whilst charging Mr S a fee for extricating itself from the risk it had by then noted and decided 
it didnt want to be a party to, was not fair or reasonable. 
Mr S has told us how worried hes been with only receiving a partial refund of premium 
(because Marshmallow retained the cancellation fee). And I think that could have been 
avoided so Im satisfied that its fair and reasonable to require Marshmallow to compensate 
Mr S for the distress and inconvenience he was caused.
Putting things right
I require Marshmallow to:
Reimburse the cancellation fee, plus interest* from 27 March 2020 (when the fee was 
charged against Mr Ss refund amount) until settlement is made.
Pay Mr S £50 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to 
the dates stated. If Marshmallow considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income tax from any interest due to Mr S, it should tell him how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr S a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. I require Marshmallow Financial Services Ltd to provide the redress 
set out above at Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 August 2021. 
Fiona Robinson
Ombudsman