DRN-3213771
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. hasnt refunded his premiums.
What happened
In January 2020 Mr D took out an annual travel insurance policy with Mapfre. It covered him 
for a number of health conditions. In March 2020, following the impact of Covid-19, there 
were wide ranging restrictions on movement and travelling abroad. Mr D says he was 
advised to shield due to his health conditions. The following month Mapfre wrote to Mr D 
saying they would extend his policy by 3 months due to the impact of Covid-19. When the 
policy was due to renew, in January 2021, Mr D asked Mapfre to refund his premiums which 
were around £950. 
Mapfre said they couldnt offer a refund and relied on the policy terms and conditions. They 
also explained theyd carried the risk of a claim during the lifetime of the policy and had 
offered a three month extension to it. Mr D complained but Mapfre maintained their decision 
to offer no refund. Unhappy, Mr D referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator set out the details of the relevant cancellation rights and how they applied in 
the circumstances of this case. The investigator also explained that it is a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that if the insurer had started to bear risk  for however short a 
time  the premium paid is not returnable. That means its not unreasonable for an insurer to 
keep any premiums relating to the risk it covered during that time. The investigator also 
explained that Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for the contract of insurance to be 
performed because cover under the policy started in January 2020 and the policy covered 
various risks during that time. 
The investigator acknowledged the unique and unprecedented circumstances of Covid-19. 
They thought that the offer Mapfre had made was fair and reasonable outcome in all the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Mr D didnt agree and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. He reiterated that, due 
to the shielding requirements, hed barely left home for 18 months and had not contemplated 
a holiday. He explained that £950 was a lot of money for a pensioner and he wanted Mapfre 
to refund the money as a gesture of goodwill, because he was a longstanding customer. 
So, I need to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator identified, and set out, the rules, regulations and law. I agree those are the 
relevant considerations which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. 
The policy terms and conditions say: 
Cancelling this policy: 
Should you wish to cancel your policy outside of the 14-day cooling off period or 
where a change to your policy means we are unable to continue with your cover, 
then the following terms apply: 
Annual multi-trip policies  provided you had not made a claim (irrespective of 
whether your claim was successful or not) on the policy and you confirm in writing 
that there is no claim pending, should you choose to cancel and understand that all 
the benefits of the policy will be cancelled, we will refund 5% of the total premium 
paid, for each full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of 
cancellation. 
Im not upholding this complaint because:
 
The policy was cancelled outside the cooling off period and so there is no 
requirement under the relevant industry rules and guidelines for Mapfre to offer a 
refund.
As Ive outlined above the contract of insurance says that for refunds outside the 
14-day cooling off period Mapfre will refund 5% of the total premium paid, for each 
full calendar month remaining on the policy from the date of cancellation. The original 
policy expired at the end of the 12-month period and so, under the terms and 
conditions, Mr D isnt entitled to a refund. Mr D also benefitted from a free extension 
to the policy for a period of three months as Mapfre acknowledged the impact of 
Covid-19 on their policyholders. 
Ive taken into account what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the 
complaint including the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding Covid-
19. In the circumstances of this case I dont think its fair to ask Mapfre to refund Mr D 
the full premiums. 
I appreciate that Mr D says he didnt contemplate travel, but the policy was still 
offering the benefit of cover during the period it was in force. Mr D says he didnt 
think about cancelling the policy until renewal but that still means hes had the benefit 
of cover for the lifetime of the policy  including, for example, benefits for cancellation 
of trips. Mr D told us he didnt utilise the policy, as he didnt plan to travel. But that 
doesnt mean Mapfre needs to refund him, or that he didnt benefit from the cover the 
policy offered, simply because he didnt utilise it.
Ive thought about what Mr D has said about being a pensioner, the amount of money 
he paid for the policy and that hed like Mapfre to give him a refund as a gesture of 
goodwill. But I dont think I can fairly ask Mapfre to step outside of the industry rules 
and the policy terms and conditions in the circumstances of this case. 
My final decision
Im not upholding this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2022.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman