DRN-4196767
The complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC acted unfairly when dealing with his lending 
requests relating to his businesss needs.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties and has been set out in detail 
by our investigator, so I havent repeated this below.
In summary Mr S has a number of concerns about the actions taken by Barclays when it 
provided him lending for his business, operated as a sole trader. 
Mr S feels the mortgage balance against his buy-to-let (BTL) properties is higher than it 
should have been and the additional borrowing should have been raised against a 
commercial property owned by his business. This has meant Mr S has experienced 
problems when trying to refinance the BTL properties with more owed to clear this balance 
than he was expecting.
Barclays has also said it needs to consider the outstanding balance on Mr Ss Coronavirus 
Business Interruption Loan (CBIL) when deciding whether it can release some of the security 
it holds. Overall Mr S has said Barclays and its actions have caused confusion and 
inconvenience to his business as well as delays to his refinancing with a new lender. 
Our investigator looked at Mr Ss complaint and found that Barclays had made a mistake 
when a new loan for Mr S was arranged against his BTL properties. She could see from the 
information provided that the first loan (Loan 1) taken out in June 2019 for £130,000 was to 
be repaid when (Loan 2) for £200,000 was taken out in August 2019, based on the notes on 
what was discussed ahead of this. But when Loan 2 was taken out, this didnt refinance 
Loan 1 or repay the balance and Mr S received the total amount. The loan agreement 
paperwork for Loan 2 made no reference to Loan 1 being repaid as a requirement to the 
drawdown but added a charge to a fourth property. This was in addition to the charge held 
against the 3 properties with Loan 1. 
With the above in mind and because Mr S would have received all of the £200,000 drawn 
down, she thought he should have reasonably been aware at the time that Loan 2 had not 
repaid Loan 1 and was additional borrowing made against the same existing properties with 
an extra added to the security for the loan. So she thought it was reasonable for Barclays to 
expect the total balance of Loans 1 and 2 to be repaid when Mr S was looking to re-
mortgage to another lender.
Equally, she didnt think Loan 1 was refinanced when Mr S had his commercial property re-
valued in January 2020.  Mr S said it was confirmed verbally that the borrowing on this 
property would increase by £130,000 but there was no recording of this conversation or 
paperwork to support a new lending application had been made. In the absence of this, she 
thought it was reasonable to believe the borrowing was still secured by the BTL properties 
with Loan 1.
She didnt think Barclays had done anything wrong when it said the CBIL needed to be taken 
into consideration when it decided whether it would release the security it holds over Mr Ss 
properties. She was happy Barclays had followed the correct process when offering this loan 
and despite this loan not being secured, Barclays was entitled to make a commercial 
decision about the risk to it when making decisions about security it holds and whether this 
could be released.  
Overall, she hadnt seen anything to suggest that Barclays held security over any properties 
that it shouldnt. And although there had been a call where there was confusion about 
whether another property had a charge over it, she didnt think Barclays had done anything 
wrong. 
She highlighted that since the complaint had been brought to this Service, Mr S had reached 
an agreement with Barclays to repay some of his existing loans and charges had been 
removed as a result of this. She said if Mr S was unhappy about anything in relation to this 
agreement reached, a complaint would need to be raised with Barclays in the first instance 
and it wasnt something she was able to consider or comment on.
Mr S disagreed with our investigators opinion. He has concerns over the error that occurred 
when Loan 2 was taken out without Loan 1 being repaid. He feels the Loan to Value (LTV) 
ratio was far too high and outside of the limits he feels are allowed by regulation. With the 
LTV restrictions in mind, he believed the difference of £130,000 had been secured against 
his commercial property. He said he is not an expert in financial matters and it was the role 
of Barclays to make sure everything happened as it was supposed to. 
Mr S doesnt think enough weight has been placed on the potential implications of this error 
made when Barclays increased the borrowing on the BTL properties to 93% LTV and this 
needs to be considered. He said had he not had additional security available, things could 
have been very different.  
Our investigators opinion remained unchanged. She didnt believe Barclays had been in 
breach of any law or regulation. Ultimately when lending with a higher LTV ratio it was 
exposing itself to risk if the loan was to default and she didnt think it had a negative impact 
on Mr S. She accepted Mr S is not an expert in lending but he had taken out lending with 
Barclays in the past and so she thought it reasonable to believe he was aware of how this 
worked. 
Because Mr S disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me for decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for much the same reasons as our investigator. I 
know Mr S will be disappointed by this, but Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
BTL re-mortgage amount and security for the commercial property.
It has been accepted by Barclays that it didnt refinance Loan 1 when Loan 2 was taken out, 
this was despite the indication being that this is what Mr S wanted to happen. The question 
is, as a result of this error, has it acted fairly now.Mr S has highlighted he is not an expert in lending and I accept this is the case. But the 
borrowing being taken out and now disputed was done so on a commercial basis with Mr S 
withdrawing equity from his BTL properties to help support his commercial interests. As 
such, although not an expert in lending, it is reasonable to expect a certain level of due 
diligence and understanding on his part as a business, ensuring that the products he is 
taking are meeting his business needs. 
The loan documentation for Loan 2 gives no indication of Loan 1 being repaid as part of the 
process, so I think from the outset it would have been clear this was not happening as 
intended. And Mr S would have received considerably more from the drawdown then he 
would have expected. 
Loan 2 was agreed in August 2019 but the commercial property was not revalued until 
January 2020 and it wasnt until after this that Mr S said he believed the security for the 
additional £130,000 had transferred to this property. There is no recording of a conversation 
to confirm what was said in the call when this was discussed. I am not persuaded this would 
be arranged without paperwork to support the transaction. And I think this supports that Mr S 
was aware in August 2019 that Loan 1 and 2 were in place concurrently after the inception of 
Loan 2.
I know Mr S is concerned about the LTV ratio he had with the BTL properties secured under 
Loan 1 and 2. I appreciate this left very little equity in these properties based on the 
valuation and amount borrowed against them. But Barclays as a commercial lender will 
consider a range of factors when deciding how much it is willing to lend against the value of 
a property and the LTV is just one of these. Ive not seen that it breached any regulations 
when it allowed the LTV on Mr Ss borrowing to reach 93% and Ive not seen this did have a 
negative impact on Mr S or his business. 
Mr S was able to raise the additional borrowing he wanted and I think it was clear from the 
loan agreement in August 2019 that this was secured against his BTL properties. It may be 
that Mr S later hoped to move some of this borrowing to his commercial property which was 
revalued after this point but I havent seen anything to show this was agreed and completed. 
I agree Barclays acted fairly when it said it has considered its total lending and exposure to 
Mr S when he has asked to have the charges on some of his properties removed. I 
appreciate the CBIL loan agreement says no further security was required when it was taken 
out but this doesnt remove the charges already held and lending provided alongside these. 
And Barclays can consider its overall position with a customer when making a decision 
about its existing charges and what is needed to release these.
It follows that when Mr S looked to refinance his BTL properties with a re-mortgage to 
another lender, that it is fair and reasonable for Barclays to expect all lending secured 
against the properties to be repaid. So Barclays correctly explained both Loan 1 and 2 
needed to be repaid. 
Other issues
Mr S hasnt explained that he disagreed with our investigators opinion on the rest of his 
complaint points so Ive not covered these off again. I mean no discourtesy by this, but I 
agree with our investigators opinion on these points and I think the crux of Mr Ss complaint 
is whether Barclays acted fairly when Loan 2 was taken out and the issues Ive addressed 
above.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2023.
 
Thomas Brissenden
Ombudsman