DRN-2545435
The complaint
Ms W complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) poor handling of her claim under 
her home emergency policy. 
What happened
Ms W had a leak in her home that was coming through her ceiling. She attempted to contact 
Aviva on the phone but was unable to get through. She then decided to contact a private 
plumber, as she was concerned that the water leak would cause more damage to her 
property.
An independent plumber attended and didnt find a leak but discovered that tiles needed to 
be reset, and sealant needed to be applied. Ms W was charged £180 by this plumber. Ms W 
contacted Aviva to complain. She said that had it answered her call she wouldnt have had to 
engage the independent plumber and wouldnt have had to pay £180, so it was only fair that 
Aviva reimburse her costs. 
Ms W said that Aviva agreed to reimburse her costs in full, if she sent in an invoice. Ms W 
sent in the invoice, but Aviva refused to reimburse her costs. It said that it was unable to as 
the work that the independent plumber undertook was neither plumbing or drainage related. 
Ms W raised a complaint to Aviva, who partially upheld her complaint. It said that its phone 
lines on the day that Ms W tried to report the leak were very busy and it apologised for this. It 
offered £30 as a goodwill gesture, for the trouble and upset it caused. But maintained its 
position regarding the independent plumbers fees. 
Unsatisfied, Ms W referred her complaint to this service. One of our investigators reviewed 
the complaint and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He said that Aviva hadnt treated Ms W 
unfairly. It had apologised to Ms W for not being able to get through to report the leak and 
offered £30 compensation which was fair. As to the reimbursement of the independent 
plumbers fee, the work undertaken by the plumber wasnt covered under the terms of the 
policy, so Aviva could reasonably decline to reimburse Ms Ws costs. 
Ms W didnt agree with our investigator as she said that she had been treated badly by 
Aviva. That it had upheld part of her complaint as she couldnt get through to report the leak. 
She maintained that she wanted the independent plumbers fees reimbursed as well as 
£5,000 premiums that she had paid over the years she had been a customer with Aviva. So, 
she asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I understand that this will come as a 
disappointment to Ms W, but I hope my findings go some way to explain why Ive reached 
this decision.
I have considered the comments and evidence by both parties, the call recordings as well as 
the terms and conditions of the policy. My role is to determine whether Aviva acted fairly 
towards Ms W in dealing with her claim. To this end, I think the main issue is whether Aviva 
ought to reimburse the £180 Ms W paid to the independent plumber. 
I note that Ms W is seeking £5,000 to be repaid to her, for the cost of the premiums she paid 
over the years that she was covered with Aviva. Ms W confirmed that she was happy with 
the service Aviva provided her over the years. She commented that on the occasions that 
she called it out to deal with emergencies in her home, it adequately dealt with them. And 
she had no complaints of the service it gave to her, up until the service she received for the 
leak, that is the basis of this complaint. 
I think as Ms W confirmed that she used the policy as it was intended for and said that Aviva 
attended as and when she required without any issue, it seems reasonable to conclude that 
Aviva complied with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, I cant say that its fair or 
reasonable for Aviva to repay all the premiums to Ms W, as it appears it provided the service 
that it was contracted to do.
Aviva has accepted that its service when Ms W attempted to report the leak, fell well below 
its usual standards and for this, it offered £30 for the trouble and upset it caused. Aviva 
acknowledged that its phone lines on the day that Ms W attempted to call them were very 
busy. It was unfortunate that Ms W couldnt get through to report her emergency, as Aviva 
has confirmed that it was experiencing issues with its phoneline as well as being busy. In the 
circumstances, I am satisfied that the £30 offered and the apology, is fair. Given there was 
poor service and Aviva has recognised this with the apology and level of compensation it 
paid. So, I dont think Aviva need do anything further in this regard.  
I have next looked at whether Aviva ought to reimburse Ms Ws costs for the independent 
plumber she engaged. Whilst I can understand how this situation couldve been quite 
stressful, I dont think that Aviva need to reimburse Ms Ws cost that she incurred, and Ill 
explain why. 
I have listened to the call recording between Aviva and Ms W in which Aviva call Ms W 
following her online complaint that she made. The key points are as follows: 
Aviva call Ms W explains that it checked the call times and there were unforeseen delays so 
her complaint on this aspect would be upheld. 
Although there was no evidence to show that Ms W phoned in as the call didnt connect, 
because she knew the date of when the call was made and Aviva could see that there were 
delays in answering calls of over one hour, her complaint would be upheld.
Aviva explained that it would reimburse the fee she paid to the independent plumber if she 
sent in the invoice and as long as we are happy with it and it ticks all the boxes, we should 
be able to get the costs reimbursed for what you paid the private plumber.
Aviva also said it needed the invoice to reimburse the money otherwise there was no 
evidence of the works that were done. 
The agent confirmed that the complaint has been resolved and will be closed.
From this evidence, I dont think that the agent promised to reimburse the cost of the 
independent plumber. He did ask for a copy of the invoice and said that if it ticked all the 
boxes which Aviva has explained meant that if it offered this service as a company, then it would reimburse Ms W. Also, Aviva said that Ms W didnt tell it during the call the type of  
work that the plumber carried out. Had she done so, it wouldve told her that it wouldnt 
reimburse her costs. Having listened to the call, I agree with Aviva that Ms W didnt mention 
the type of work that the plumber carried out. 
I have looked at the terms and conditions of the policy. Ms W had a policy that covered her 
for home emergency, specifically for plumbing and drainage issues. Such as plumbing & 
drainage, leaks, blockages, dripping or seized taps, escapes of water from toilets or tank 
overflows, leaking or blocked water supply pipe. 
Ms W has provided the invoice from the plumber which indicated that the work carried out 
was: Resetting tiles and resealing around bath and shower. I think that the work carried out 
by the plumber wasnt work that Aviva covered. So, I cant say that Aviva were unreasonable 
in not agreeing to reimburse Ms W of the fees she incurred. 
In addition, a general exclusion of the policy doesnt allow for the normal day to day 
maintenance of the property, that a policy holder would be responsible for. Aviva has said 
that this work would be considered as private maintenance and so wasnt covered by the 
policy.
Taking all of this into account, I think Aviva acted fairly when it declined to reimburse the cost 
for the independent plumber that Ms W incurred. And I think that the £30 compensation 
offered for the trouble and upset it caused, is fair. So, I cant reasonably ask Aviva to do 
anything more to resolve this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that the £30 compensation for the trouble and upset that Aviva Insurance 
Limited offered, is fair in all the circumstances and to pay this, if its not already done so.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman