DRN-4234220
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the way Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) dealt with his 
claim under his home insurance policy following an escape of water.
What happened
In January 2022 Mr S made a claim on his home insurance following an escape of water. 
RSA accepted the claim and sent a drying company to review the damage and carry out any 
drying that was required. In the meantime, Mr S installed his own drying equipment. 
The drying company were unable to inspect the subfloor in the kitchen as the floor covering 
was still down and Mr S didnt want it removed until the repairs were to be carried out. Mr S 
was warned that failure to remove the covering might prevent the floor from drying out fully. 
Moisture readings were taken and further drying equipment was installed. 
The drying company returned a few weeks later and took further moisture readings through 
the floor covering which was still in place. These readings were acceptable, but a full dry 
certificate couldnt be issued because the flooring hadnt been removed during drying. The 
loss adjuster also attended the property and prepared a scope of works.
RSA agreed to a cash settlement, but Mr S wasnt happy as this didnt include a full 
replacement of the screed floor. Mr S provided some photos and quotes for replacement of 
the screed from his contractors. RSA said that these showed no water damage to the 
concrete floor but accepted that there was some cracked screed. The settlement offer was 
increased to include the screed repair and this was paid in July 2022. 
Mr S complained to RSA. He said that he worked in the construction industry and wasnt 
happy with the number of different companies who were dealing with his claim and that the 
loss adjuster and technical expert were inexperienced. He also complained that the 
settlement offer didnt include a replacement of the screed floor. RSA said that it was usual 
practice to use different experts to deal with different aspects of a claim and it was satisfied 
that the people involved were suitably experienced. It referred to its terms and conditions 
and said that if a repair was sufficient to put the floor back into the same position as before 
the damage, it wouldnt consider a replacement. It said there was no evidence to indicate 
that the floor needed replacing but it offered to send its loss adjuster to examine the floor 
again provided the covering was fully removed.  
Mr S brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator didnt think RSA had acted 
unreasonably. She said it wasnt unusual for insurers to instruct different experts and that it 
was for RSA to choose what level of experience they required. She thought RSAs offer to 
repair the floor was fair as it had also offered to reinspect the floor, and to consider any 
additional evidence. 
In October 2022 Mr S obtained a report from a contractor who said that there were 
environmental issues and that the screed should be replaced. RSA said it wasnt clear what 
the environmental issues were, and Mr S agreed that it could re-visit the property to inspect 
the floor. Although the floor covering wasnt fully removed, RSA was satisfied a repair was 
suitable to put the floor back into a pre-incident condition.
Our investigator considered the new information but didnt think there was anything to 
suggest that the environmental issues were related to the escape of water. Mr S didnt agree 
and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He obtained a further report from another 
contractor who said that the floor had frozen during cold weather due to delays in drying. 
This caused the screed to crack and that it should be replaced. RSA disagreed and 
maintained that the screed was suitable for repair. It said if there was any damp still in the 
concrete floor this was not due to delay on RSAs part, but because the floor covering wasnt 
lifted during drying. The matter has now come to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The main issue is whether the screed floor needs fully replacing or whether a repair would 
put the floor back into its pre-incident condition. RSA and Mr S disagree about this. Having 
looked at all the information I dont think there is enough evidence to say that RSA should 
offer a full replacement  and Ill explain why.
RSA said that the full extent of the damage to the screed wouldnt be evident without 
removal of the floor covering. I think this was a reasonable conclusion. Whilst I appreciate Mr 
Ss reasons for not wanting to remove the floor covering, RSA cant be expected to agree to 
repairs or replacement without viewing the damage.
RSA reviewed its position when it saw some photos of the sub floor. However, both RSAs 
loss adjuster and technical expert said that there was nothing in these to indicate that a full 
replacement was required. It agreed that there were cracks to the screed but said these 
were suitable for repair. Based on the information available, I dont think RSAs decision to 
repair was unreasonable  particularly as it hadnt been able to fully examine the sub floor 
and it had offered to visit the property again in order to do so.
Ive looked carefully at what Mr Ss first contractor said. He concluded that the floor wasnt fit 
for purpose. He said that there were environmental issues which could lead to health 
problems due to damp. He said a full replacement of the screed was required and provided a 
quote. However, there is no explanation of how he came to this conclusion or what the 
environmental issues were. He doesnt mention taking any moisture readings or whether the 
floor covering was removed to allow a full inspection. Moisture readings were taken of the 
floor by the drying company and Mr S when the drying equipment was removed, and there 
was nothing to indicate at that stage that the floor wasnt dry. I dont therefore find this report 
particularly helpful.
Mr S agreed that RSA could re-examine the floor. On this occasion, part of the screed was 
visible, and the loss adjuster accepted that there were some cracks. They concluded that the 
repair would include a layer of screed over the whole floor and filling in the area where the 
screed had come away. Once again it wasnt possible to fully examine the floor as Mr S 
didnt wish to remove the covering, so I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to offer a 
repair based on what its loss adjuster had seen. 
Ive also considered Mr Ss second report from a different contractor. He concluded that the 
screed was suffering from frost damage which had occurred due to a delay in drying. 
However, Ive not seen any evidence that there was a delay to the drying, or if there was a 
delay that it was caused by RSA. Mr S installed industrial drying equipment immediately 
after the leak occurred and this remained in place until the drying company attended and installed their own equipment. Mr S was advised to lift the floor covering during the drying 
process, but he chose not to do so. He was advised that this could lead to moisture being 
trapped in the sub floor. Despite the flooring remaining in place, when the drying equipment 
was removed 19 days later the moisture readings were acceptable. The drying certificate, 
however, included a caveat that the floor covering had not been removed. If there was any 
trapped moisture in the sub floor which subsequently froze, I think its most likely that this 
occurred because the floor covering remained in place preventing the sub floor from fully 
drying. I dont think this was RSAs fault and I havent seen any evidence of unreasonable 
delay on its part. 
I appreciate that this must have been a difficult time for Mr S with a leak in his home and the 
subsequent repairs that were required. However, I dont think on balance that RSA has done 
anything wrong. In the circumstances, I think RSAs offer to repair the screed floor, rather 
than replace it, was reasonable. 
Mr S also raised issues regarding the number and experience of RSAs experts. Its not 
unusual for different experts to be appointed. Each has its own technical expertise and will 
deal with different aspects of the claim. Its not for me to tell RSA which experts to appoint  
or how much experience they should have. The experience of experts goes to the weight of 
any evidence they give. I havent seen anything to indicate that RSAs experts dont have 
suitable expertise  and Ive considered their evidence along with that of Mr Ss experts 
when considering this complaint.
I know that Mr S will be disappointed with my decision but Im not upholding his complaint for 
the reasons stated above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2023.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman