DRN-2239559
The complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
What happened
Mr B bought the policy in June 1997 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied 
for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided cover for Mr B for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay £300 a month towards Mr Bs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £15.18 a month. 
At the time, Mr B was employed as a manager. He has told us he was entitled to at least 
three months full sick pay from his employer and at least 12 months redundancy pay. He has 
said he had death in service benefit equal to two times his salary He has told us he didnt 
have any other means of repaying his mortgage should he be unable to work. Mr B has said 
he had a medical condition at the time of the sale.  
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2001.  
Mr Bs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have read and considered them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Bs representative says:
BoS failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses on 
handling PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mr B wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Bs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common reasons people are off work. This significantly reduced the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means BoS should have told 
Mr B about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr B and the impact they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr B received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Bs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
This sale took place in June 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code of practice in June 2000 and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded in 2001. That means the unfair relationship provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin judgment, arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular, The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other 
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the InternetThe Resume for Intermediaries 
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account when deciding, what is in my opinion, fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Bs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including: the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied duty on 
professional advisers to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness. 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001, Im also required to take into account what 
determination the relevant former scheme  in this case the Office of the Banking 
Ombudsman  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was 
required to decide complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Bs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account, it seems to me that the key questions I need 
to consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
- If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr B with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his needs 
and circumstances. 
- Whether BoS gave Mr B sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him 
to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
- If, having considered these questions, I determine the complaint in favour of Mr B, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr B suffered loss or 
damage and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr B and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Bs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr B know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. BoS no longer have the documents available from the time of the sale. This is 
understandable given the amount of time since the sale. However, what it does mean is that 
BoS is unable to show how us how PPI would have been presented to Mr B. Mr B says it 
was sold as part of a package, whereas BoS say it would have been presented as optional. 
In these circumstances, and in the absence of stronger evidence from the consumer that it 
wasnt sold as optional, I am unable to conclude that its more likely that the PPI policy 
wasnt sold as optional. And I havent seen evidence which would lead me to conclude that 
Mr B was pressured into taking PPI.
Taking everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr B knew the policy was optional 
and he agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
BoS says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr B (in his PPI questionnaire) disagrees. 
Given that the policy was sold during a branch meeting in connection with a mortgage and 
BoS accepts it provided advice, Ive considered this complaint on the basis that it was an 
advised sale.
This means BoS had to advise Mr B with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the 
policy was appropriate or suitable given his needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr B. It seems Mr B cant remember clearly what happened and there is 
no record of what the adviser discussed in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser had some limited information about Mr Bs 
financial circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show the adviser took steps to 
establish whether Mr B would have been caught by the significant exclusions and limitations 
which might have meant the policy did not fully meet his needs. For example, there is 
nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr B had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to 
determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr B given his circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BoS advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr B, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken into consideration:
- Mr B met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
- Mr B had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr Bs ability to continue to meet 
his mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr B was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the sick pay benefits he says he 
would have been entitled to. And the policy would have paid out in addition to any 
redundancy pay he would have received.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears to have been affordable for Mr B.
- The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable for Mr B. There was 
nothing about Mr Bs employment or occupation which would have made it difficult for him to claim. Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr B has told us about an 
injury he suffered from in around 1965. However, I havent seen any evidence to 
suggest that this injury caused him any ongoing problems such that it would have 
meant that this PPI was unsuitable for him over 30 years later. 
- While the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability and unemployment it still provided useful cover given Mr Bs 
circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing advice, BoS gave Mr B sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr B was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr B was 
unable to work through accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs. I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr B would have taken out the 
policy without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence (or lack of) from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr B agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties representations about what happened, while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr B Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to him. Im not persuaded BoS gave Mr B all of the information he needed 
about the policy to make an informed decision about whether to follow the recommendation 
and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling PPI complaints set out at DISP App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings Ive highlighted above, Mr Bs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards to the requirements on a business when providing information in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Bs. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Bs representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the 
insurer. 
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business shouldnt have just 
told Mr B about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Bs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr B has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint, I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done either. 
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr B? To what extent did Mr B suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr B. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr B suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr B would have 
still taken out the policy, had BoS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BoS took the steps it should have done to establish whether the 
policy it recommended was suitable for Mr B, I have found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr B has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends on whether, if BoS had explained things properly,   
Mr B would have acted differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Mr B says he wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before deciding whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr B had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean when BoS advised him that there was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect his mortgage payments in the event he was unable 
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr B knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, I dont know if BoS told him the exact premium at the point Mr B applied for the 
policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr B would have been told the cost before the policy 
started and he paid for the policy for a number of years, so if the costs were significantly at 
odds with his expectations at the point of sale, its possible he might have raised that with 
BoS at the time, or reconsidered his decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr B would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded BoS made clear exactly what Mr B would get back in return in 
the event he made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Mr Bs expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to meet his mortgage 
payment) was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr B thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical conditions that Mr B knew about or 
ought to have known about before the start date of the policy; or for which he had 
received advice, treatment or counselling from any doctor during the 12 months 
before the start date and which recurred within 24 months of the start date;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations, excluded unemployment cover if Mr B 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr B be unable to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions above might well have caused 
Mr B pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude the policy wasnt as 
good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the cover, 
when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might have dissuaded some 
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr B from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence about Mr Bs circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr B says he had a medical condition when 
the PPI was taken out and the policy wouldnt have provided cover had he needed time off 
work because of this condition, I dont think better information about this exclusion would 
have put him off agreeing to it. I say this because Mr B has told us about an injury he 
sustained in 1965. As mentioned above, there is nothing to suggest this caused him ongoing 
problems over 30 years later such that he would have thought he would have needed to take 
time off work because of it. 
And I havent seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mr B might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without having to provide some evidence to support that claim. And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr B 
from taking out the policy, Mr B, in his circumstances, still had some good reasons to take it 
out.If Mr B had known he could only claim for disability if he was not only unable to do his job or 
any similar job but also unable to do any paid work which his experience,
education or training reasonably qualified him to do, it might have played into his thinking 
about what he would do. And I accept it may have given him pause for thought  although 
given Mr Bs circumstances, on balance, I still think he would have been interested in taking 
out the cover.
BoS may not have told Mr B that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month period. 
This may have differed from what he expected and might have hoped for  but 12 months 
was a longer period than Mr B would have received full sick pay for and although Mr B has 
told us about his generous redundancy pay entitlement, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to this.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely Mr B would still have thought a policy that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit to him and would help him 
manage the consequences should Mr B be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home was not placed at risk if he 
was unable to work due to sickness and might potentially help preserve Mr Bs redundancy 
money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr B would still have taken out the policy. The policy was suitable for him, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting and provided benefits that 
would help him manage the consequences if Mr B was made redundant, or unable to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Mr B 
would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Bs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the consumer 
wouldnt have taken out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh the presumption. They 
say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms, but it is a relevant consideration so I take it into account along 
with many other things when I decide what is in my opinion fair and reasonable. Considering 
the purpose of the guidance, I dont think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances, DISP App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr B would not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Bs 
circumstances as detailed above, I consider it reasonable to conclude the position Mr B 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr B believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance for firms set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr B in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because, while I accept it is possible that he would not have taken out the policy, I 
am satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would still have 
taken out the PPI had he been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy he was buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude BoS should pay Mr B compensation, as that would put him in a 
better position than he would have been in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr B thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because the overall information BoS gave Mr B, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
June 1997 when providing information about an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Bs representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr B and about the remedy a court 
might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr B in a better position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2021.
 
Navneet Sher
Ombudsman