DRN-4388435
The complaint
Mrs P complains about Hastings Insurance Services Limiteds handling of a change to her 
car insurance policy.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
Mrs P has car insurance administered by Hastings. In May 2023, she contacted them to ask 
how much it would cost to add a new vehicle to the policy. Her previous car had been written 
off and she was in the process of buying a new one.
Hastings told Mrs P that the additional cost for the vehicle she had in mind would be £1.70.
Mrs P went ahead and purchased the car. When she called Hastings to arrange the changes 
to her policy, she was told the increase in her premium would actually be £688.07.
Mrs P paid the increased premium using a debit card, given that she needed to insure the 
new car in order to drive it home from the car showroom. 
However, she then made a complaint to Hastings. She says she wouldnt have bought the 
car in question had she known the insurance costs. She says she asked the seller to take 
the car back, but they offered her a very reduced price to do so.
Hastings admitted their error in quoting Mrs P the wrong premium increase when she called 
them before purchasing the car. 
They offered her a refund of £27.38, based  in their own words - on the fact that she was in 
her renewal period. And they also offered £200 in compensation for Mrs Ps trouble and 
upset.
Mrs P wasnt happy with this outcome and brought her complaint to us. She wants Hastings 
to refund her the higher premium they charged after adding her new car to the policy. She 
says paying the higher premium has caused financial difficulty and stress.
Our investigator looked into it and upheld Mrs Ps complaint. They thought Mrs P had made 
a decision to purchase the car based on the erroneous information given by Hastings. And 
they said Hastings should refund all of the additional premium charged - £688.07 - less the 
£1.70 theyd told Mrs P the change in car would cost her.
They thought Hastings could reasonably offset the £27.38 refund theyd already paid against 
that amount. But they should pay interest at 8% simple on the amount refunded, calculated 
from the date Mrs P had paid the premium increase.
And they said Hastings should also pay the £200 compensation theyd previously offered for 
Mrs Ps trouble and upset.
Hastings disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute at all here about the facts. Hastings have admitted they told Mrs P when 
she rang before buying the car that the increase in in premium would be £1.70. And they 
then charged her £688.07  and later refunded £27.38 of that.
Our investigator thought Hastings should  in effect  give Mrs P the policy at the increase in 
price they originally quoted - £1.70  for the policy year. 
After that, they were entitled to make an offer at renewal for any future years according to 
their usual means of calculating premiums. Essentially because the quote offered in error 
had been a quote for the current policy year  and shouldnt be seen as a commitment to 
anything thereafter.
The reason our investigator gave for asking Hastings to refund the additional premium 
increase for the current year was that Mrs P likely only bought the car based on the 
insurance quote shed been given.
I agree with our investigator that Mrs P was clearly concerned about the cost of her 
insurance. Shed checked the premium increases for a number of other cars shed been 
thinking of purchasing just before she bought her current car. And she rang Hastings with 
the sole purpose of checking what the increase would be for the car she actually then 
purchased.
Hastings say Mrs P should pay the correct premium for her current car. They say its clear 
she could afford the increased premium because she paid for it on the day in question using 
a debit card. 
And her earlier checks on other cars showed that she definitely intended to purchase a car - 
and it was always going to be in the same price bracket. They imply that would have meant 
a similar premium increase.
On balance, Im not persuaded by those arguments. Mrs P clearly paid the additional 
premium on the day under some duress. Shed bought the car but couldnt drive it home 
without insurance.
The fact that she was able to pay on a debit card cant be taken as proof that the price was 
affordable and/or wouldnt cause financial difficulty. 
That would depend on all kinds of factors such as when other payments were made into and 
out of the account each month. Mrs P tells us she had to borrow money from a relative to 
cover routine living costs later in the month.
And whilst Mrs P may have been looking for a car in around the same price bracket, she was 
evidently and quite clearly concerned about the effect on the premium that buying each car 
would have. Additional premium costs may have varied quite considerably within that price 
bracket and for different models, ages and mileages, for example. So, Im satisfied on balance that Mrs P made a decision  to buy the car  based on what 
shed been told in error by Hastings. And that she likely wouldnt have purchased the car had 
she known the true increase in her insurance premiums.
Im aware that Hastings told Mrs P that theyd allow her to cancel her policy if she wasnt 
happy with the increased premiums. She could have done that anyway  although I assume 
they meant she could cancel without cancellation fees etc. 
More importantly, I dont think that would have solved Mrs Ps problem. Her difficulty was 
that she owned a car which attracted higher premiums than shed expected. And that 
difficulty arose because of Hastings error in mis-advising her during the phone call.
Putting things right
Again, I agree with our investigator about what Hastings need to do to put things right for 
Mrs P.
Having determined that she likely wouldnt have bought her current car had she known the 
impact on her premiums, it follows that Hastings should be obliged  for the current policy 
year only  to give her the policy on the terms they quoted when she rang them before she 
purchased the vehicle.
Hastings charged Mrs P an increase of £688.07, having said it would cost £1.70. The 
difference is £686.37. Hastings have refunded £27.38 already. So, they should now refund 
£658.99 to Mrs P. 
Im aware that Hastings are the administrator for the policy and not the underwriter. This was 
their error however, and Ill leave it to Hastings to determine whether they wish to seek from 
the underwriter some or all of the refund Im now requiring them to pay to Mrs P.
Mrs P has in effect been deprived of that money between the date she paid her additional 
premium up to the date Hastings refund it. So, Hastings should pay interest on that amount 
at 8% simple.
Mrs P has suffered a degree of frustration, stress and inconvenience as a result of Hastings 
error. I agree with both Hastings and our investigator that £200 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for Mrs Ps trouble and upset. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Hastings Insurance Services Limited must:
pay Mrs P £658.99 as a refund of the increased premium she paid;
add interest to that amount at 8% simple, calculated from the date Mrs P paid them 
to the date they provide the refund; and 
pay Mrs P £200 in compensation for her trouble and upset.  
If Hastings Insurance Services Limited considers that theyre required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they should tell Mrs P how much theyve 
taken off. They should also give Mrs P a tax deduction certificate if she asks/ask for one, so 
she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman