DRN-2885196
The complaint
This is a complaint that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mrs and Mr W payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1993.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs and Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why. 
Mrs and Mr W say that the advice they were given by Santander, that they should take PPI, 
was not in their best interests. They say that this was their first mortgage and they didnt 
really understand what they were doing and so followed the advice of the financial adviser. 
They say that, as a consequence, they were persuaded to take out an inappropriate type of 
mortgage which led to significant financial loss. They believe the advice they were given, to 
take out both that mortgage and the PPI, was all part of the same poor advice which was 
probably motivated by the bonus the adviser would get. 
Im here looking just at the sale of the PPI, though I can understand why Mrs and Mr W 
would cite their experience with the mortgage as evidence of general poor practice. 
However, even if the advice on the mortgage was bad (and Ive not taken any view on that) it 
doesnt necessarily mean that the advice about the PPI was also bad. 
When Santander recommended the PPI to Mrs and Mr W, it had to make sure it was suitable 
for their needs. And, from what Ive seen, I think it probably was a suitable recommendation. 
I say this because:
Its true that PPI was of questionable value for many people with certain types of 
borrowing. But finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties, and it was often sensible to consider covering yourself with PPI for this.
Its likely Mrs and Mr W were eligible for the policy, so would have been entitled to 
make a claim if needed. 
The PPI would have paid benefits at the same time as Mrs W received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer. Mr W was self-employed, and so the PPI could 
have been even more important for him if he was unable to work for a significant 
period due to ill health. It would have paid unemployment benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And so it would have put off the time when Mrs and Mr W would 
need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for paying the 
mortgage and other living costs. This all would have put Mrs and Mr W in a more 
secure position, if theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. And Mrs and Mr W could have cancelled the policy if this changed later on. 
There are some things the PPI didnt cover (exclusions). But its unlikely 
Mrs and Mr W would have been affected by any of these.
So I think the PPI was potentially useful, and a recommendation was suitable. It would then 
have been up to Mrs and Mr W to decide whether they wanted to accept the 
recommendation and agree to buy the PPI.
There is an implication, in what Mrs and Mr W have said, that undue pressure was put on 
them to take the PPI. The problem I would have, in making a decision on that, is that I 
couldnt know the exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It 
isnt necessarily wrong to strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy, even 
if the adviser is partly motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually 
something worth having. The closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real 
sensible alternative to taking the policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure 
exactly what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Santander did something wrong unless I 
had stronger evidence of this  its a long-accepted principle that there has to be reasonable 
evidence against someone accused of wrongdoing, and they shouldnt normally have to 
prove that they are innocent.  
Overall, Ive dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 August 2021.
 
Timothy Bailey
Ombudsman