DRN-4146769
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Aviva Insurance UK Limited (Aviva) decided on liability 
following a claim on her motor insurance policy. 
Mrs M is represented in her complaint, but for ease Ill refer to her throughout.
What happened
Mrs M had a motor insurance policy with Aviva covering her car. 
In December 2022 Mrs M was involved in a collision with an emergency services vehicle 
which was responding to an emergency.
Mrs M reported the collision to Aviva and made a claim.
Aviva initially decided that Mrs M was 100% at fault for the collision and it did this on a 
without prejudice basis. Mrs M wasnt happy about this and complained. 
Avivas looked into it and assessed that, if the case went to court, liability would probably be 
60% for Mrs M and 40% for the other driver.
Aviva said it hadnt handled the initial claim very well because it hadnt reviewed dashcam 
footage before it established the initial 100% liability. It paid Mrs M £175 compensation 
because of this. 
Mrs M remained unhappy and brought her complaint to this service. Our investigator looked 
into it and didnt uphold it. She thought Avivas offer of compensation was fair. 
Mrs M didnt agree with the view and asked that her complaint was reviewed by an 
ombudsman. So it has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to begin by noting Ive set out the background above in less detail than the evidence 
in the file. I want to assure Mrs M that Ive read and considered all the available information, 
including her responses and further questions to the investigator. 
Im not going to comment on every point made and raised. No discourtesy is intended by my 
approach which reflects the informal nature of this service as an alternative to the courts.
I can hear from the initial calls setting up the complaint with this service that Mrs M cares 
significantly about what happened and its impact on her. I note how strongly Mrs M believes 
she was not responsible for the collision. 
But having looked at the evidence, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment to her and Ill explain why.
Liability for the collision
Its this services role to see if Aviva acted fairly and reasonably in how it assessed liability 
for the collision. Its not our role to assess the collision itself and establish liability as this is a 
matter for the courts.
Avivas policy wording includes the following section:
If we want to, we can take over and conduct in the name of the person claiming 
under the policy the defence or settlement of any claim or take proceedings for our 
own benefit to recover any payment we have made under this policy. We shall have 
full discretion in the conduct of any proceedings or the settlement of any claim.
This type of wording is common in motor insurance and I dont think its unreasonable of 
Aviva to use it here. What this wording means is that Aviva can proceed to handle Mrs Ms 
claim as it wishes. I understand Mrs M feels particularly aggrieved about this, but Id 
emphasise that Avivas actions here are in line with the policy wording.
Mrs M has expressed her disappointment about Aviva not accessing various types of third-
party evidence, such as the police report and CCTV or dashcam on the emergency vehicle. 
Again, I can understand her disappointment, but Aviva has a responsibility to mitigate claim 
costs by not allowing claims like these to escalate to court. So paying fees or charges to 
obtain further external evidence is only likely to happen if Aviva are sure it will result in a 
favourable outcome in terms of liability. 
Simply put, Aviva has to take into account what the prospects for success are in pursuing 
the third-party on the basis of them being 100% at fault.
And its this point that I think is the most significant. Avivas liability expert has commented 
on the likely outcome of a court case. The expert has provided two case law examples which 
vary in terms of the liability outcome between 60/40 and 20/80. The expert said they thought 
Avivas 60/40 decision was realistic but it was possible that this position might be improved 
given the polices assessment that the emergency service driver might be sent for further 
training. 
Its very important that I say at no point did the expert assess that Mrs M might escape 
liability. 
Taking that into account leads me to conclude that Avivas position on liability is not 
unreasonable  that doesnt mean it is necessarily right but that its simply the case that 
there are some very clear issues that Aviva would have to overcome if it were to look beyond 
a split liability settlement which means its reasonable for it to not pursue that course of 
action.
Ive reviewed the evidence about the collision and Ive considered the case law, the highway 
code, camera footage and the experts opinion. Taking everything into account, I dont think 
Aviva has acted unfairly in how it has decided the split liability for the collision.
Ive also thought about Avivas service, especially in the early part of the claim when it made 
the early 100% fault decision about the collision. I agree with Mrs M that Avivas 
communication with her and its service wasnt very good. Ive look at this services 
guidelines and I think Avivas payment of £175 compensation is fair and Im not going to ask 
it to pay more.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman