DRN-3731247
The complaint
Mr and Mrs O complaint about how AXIS Speciality Europe SE handled and settled a claim 
they made following water damage to a rental property they own.
Mr and Mrs Os representative brought this complaint to our service. But for clarity  Ill refer 
to all submissions as being made by Mr and Mrs O directly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs O owns a property that they rent out. This property is covered by an insurance 
policy provided by Axis.
On 25 January 2022 they suffered damage to their rental property following an escape of 
water from a faulty washing machine within the property above. This damage rendered the 
Mr and Mrs Os rental property uninhabitable. Theyd only recently fully renovated this 
property shortly before the damage occurred and tenants had moved into this property on 5 
January 2022. Their tenancy agreement was for a period of 12 months.
After Mr and Mrs O reported the damage to Axis it appointed a loss adjuster to assist it in 
overseeing the claim. The loss adjuster authorised the necessary reinstatement work. But 
the funds werent paid to the appointed builder promptly, which led to delays in the property 
being restored to a habitable condition.
During the period that reinstatement work was being undertaken, Mr and Mrs Os tenants 
had to vacate the property and move into temporary accommodation. They moved into 
hotels and incurred accommodation expenses, which were authorised by the loss adjuster 
but not reimbursed promptly.
Mr and Mrs O said they received conflicting information about the status of funding for the 
claim and spent a considerable amount of time chasing Axis for the funds to pay their builder 
and tenants alternative accommodation. 
Mr and Mrs O also said insufficient funding led to delays in the claim being progressed, 
which meant that their property wasnt reinstated as quickly as it could have been. They said 
this caused distress and inconvenience and led to their tenants terminating their tenancy 
early. Mr and Mrs O said they suffered financial loss as a result and complained to Axis 
about what had happened.
When Axis responded to Mr and Mrs Os complaint, it acknowledged that there had been 
delays in the progression of the claim. It said the loss adjuster had raised requests for 
payments the day invoices were received. But that they were unaware, at the time, that there 
was insufficient money in the loss fund to pay the invoices and that there was a delay while 
the account was topped up. 
Axis upheld the complaint and apologised for Mr and Mrs Os experience. It offered to 
compensate them £75 for the trouble and upset theyd suffered. But it declined to cover the 
loss of rental income Mr and Mrs O said they experienced as a result of their tenants 
terminating their tenancy agreement early.
Being dissatisfied with how Axis had dealt with her complaint, Mr and Mrs O complained to 
our service. Our investigator assessed the evidence provided and recommended upholding 
this complaint. They thought that Axis had acted unfairly in declining to cover a loss of rent 
claim and said it should settle a claim for loss of rent. They also thought Axis should pay 
£350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs O had been caused.
After issuing their view, our investigator was made aware that theyd taken into account 
aspects of Mr and Mrs Os complaint that Axis hadnt yet investigated such as loss of 
earnings, impact on health and the loss of enjoyment of a holiday. They confirmed with Axis 
that it would investigate these concerns under a new complaint and revisited their 
compensation recommendation. And they subsequently reduced the compensation they 
recommended Axis pay from £350 to £150 overall, which included the previous offer of £75 
that had been made.
Axis accepted our investigators view of Mr and Mrs Os complaint in relation to the 
compensation award, but it didnt agree that it should settle the loss of income claim. Mr and 
Mrs O rejected our investigators recommendation. So, Ive been asked to decide the fairest 
way to resolve this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to decide the crux of the complaint and ensure that I respond to the main issues. 
Where I havent commented on a specific complaint point raised by Mr and Mrs O or Axis its 
not because Ive failed to consider it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome for the complaint as a whole.
The crux of this complaint is whether Axis made a mistake, or treated Mr and Mrs O unfairly, 
such that it needs to now put things right. 
I appreciate this has been a stressful situation for Mr and Mrs O and I imagine that they 
thought, at the start, this claim was all going to be sorted out with minimal fuss. However, 
that didnt happen; the claim process was unnecessarily complicated, which caused delay in 
the settlement of the claim. It also resulted in Mr and Mrs O receiving conflicting information 
about funding and led to their tenants leaving early.
The evidence demonstrates very clearly that there were issues with the availability of funds, 
which hampered the progression of this claim. Im satisfied the builders tasked with the 
reinstatement work undertook the work they were able to as efficiently as was possible. After 
theyd completed all the work they could, work to reinstate the kitchen ceased pending 
payment for the new kitchen. Im satisfied the builders were unable to continue with 
reinstatement work due issues arising from non-payment that werent their fault.
Ive seen evidence showing that the funds for the new kitchen were requested by the loss 
adjuster on 11 February 2022. They werent, however, received until 23 Feb 2022, which 
caused a delay of around 12 days. This delay was avoidable and caused by an error on the 
part of Axis.
Once the funds were received by the builder, I understand they purchased new kitchen units 
the same day. Work then resumed on 24 February 2022  at the earliest opportunity  and the outstanding work was completed within around 10 days. Mr and Mrs O said the property 
was habitable by 11 March 2022. So, it appears that the overall delay was around 3 weeks.
Its clear from the evidence Ive seen that the reinstatement work was delayed due to issues 
with the sufficiency of funds. Im satisfied that if there hadnt been delays in the funds being 
released to the builder, the work would have concluded earlier. 
I accept the evidence from Axis that the loss adjuster raised every payment request on the 
day invoices were received. I also accept that they were unaware that, at that time, there 
were insufficient funds to pay the invoices, which led to delays in the work being completed. 
Axis has told our service there are times when the loss fund runs low, particularly towards 
the end of the month. It said this may explain why there were insufficient funds to settle 
invoices presented by the loss adjuster. While Im sympathetic to this, it was Axis 
responsibility to ensure that sufficient funds were available to pay for the necessary work. 
So, I think it ought to have overseen the allocation of funds more proactively. This was an 
error on its part, which led to delay. And I think this detrimentally impacted on its obligation to 
deal with this claim in a timely manner.
I can see that the tenants experienced difficulties in being reimbursed their alternative 
accommodation costs in a timely manner. They arent a party to this complaint, of course, as 
this complaint is between Mr and Mrs O, Axis and its agents. So, I cant direct that any 
compensation is paid to recognise their distress and inconvenience here. However, I 
mention the tenants difficulties because its clear they spent a considerable sum and period 
of time sourcing and funding temporary accommodation while the property was being 
reinstated. There were issues regarding the suitability of living in hotels and this is all bound 
to have caused the tenants trouble and upset.
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im persuaded that if the property had been returned to the 
tenants in a habitable condition at the earliest opportunity theyd have, most likely, moved 
back in. Axis has argued that it thinks the tenants would have left irrespective of the delay. 
But I havent seen any evidence that corroborations its view. So, I think thats a speculative 
assumption.
Its clear to me from the emails Ive seen that it was the tenants intention to move back into 
the property. The emails show the dialogue between the tenants and Mr and Mrs O. The 
tenants appear keen to leave their temporary accommodation and return to their new home. 
And, while they were initially understanding and patient about what had happened, they 
became more frustrated as the claim progressed and became delayed. 
Ive no doubt that the distress and inconvenience experienced by the tenants due to them 
having to find alternative accommodation, wait for the cost of that to be refunded and to be 
unable to return to their accommodation for over a month after it suffered damage led to 
them emailing Mr and Mrs O with notice of their decision to terminate their tenancy 25 Feb 
2022. They left the property on 5 March 2022 having paid rent up to that date.
Mr and Mrs O are seeking compensation for the rent they say theyve lost as a result of their 
tenants terminating their tenancy. But Axis seeks to rely on a clause in their policy that 
covers a policyholder for the loss of rent provided the tenant has not moved out. 
I think its important to mention that, in this case, the tenants were able to rely on a provision 
within their tenancy agreement, which entitled them to terminate the agreement if the 
property was uninhabitable for 4 weeks or more. Here, the period of uninhabitability 
exceeded 4 weeks. Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs Os property would have been habitable within this 4 week 
window had there not been delays in releasing funds to their builder. So, I think it would be 
unfair for Axis to rely an exemption clause. It follows that Im directing Axis to pay Mr and 
Mrs O for the loss of rent.
In determining how much rent was lost, Ive already mentioned that Mr and Mrs Os tenants 
were contractually liable for rent from 5 January 2022, when their tenancy commenced, to 5 
March 2022 when it formally came to an end. Mr and Mrs O have confirmed that the tenants 
paid rent for this period.
After the tenancy ended on 5 March, the property wasnt habitable until 11 March. So, 
theres a period of 6 days where rental income was lost. Mrs and Mr D contend that their 
window of loss is much wider. In mid-April, they say they decided to market their property for 
sale and appear to believe that Axis should cover the loss of rental income for this period 
and beyond.
I can appreciate why Mr and Mrs O may have chosen to sell their rental property after the 
stresses their claim brought. But there isnt any evidence that proves their decision to sell 
was caused by the errors made by Axis. And, as the property was habitable from 11 March 
2022, Mr and Mrs O could have mitigated their loss of rent by marketing their property for 
occupation from this date onwards. They didnt do this and thats not Axis fault. It follows 
that I cant fairly tell Axis to pay for any loss in rental income beyond 11 March 2022.
Mr and Mrs O have asked our service to direct Axis to pay a tenant find fee. However, this 
contradicts their assertion that they marketed their property for sale without tenanting it 
further. I havent seen any evidence that a tenant find fee was paid after the tenants ended 
their tenancy agreement.
I should also add that, even if Mr and Mrs O had paid a tenant find fee, had they decided not 
to sell their property, the terms of their policy wouldnt cover its reimbursement. The policy 
only covers loss of rent, which Im directing Axis to pay. I cant tell Axis to cover losses that 
arent insured under the policy.
  
Mr and Mrs O have said the way in which this claim was progressed detrimentally impacted 
their health. Theyre seeking compensation to reflect the way in which their health 
deteriorated. I understand what Mr and Mrs O have said about how this claim caused stress. 
But I havent seen any medical, or other, evidence confirming to what extent the errors by 
Axis have caused their health to decline. 
I can see that Mr and Mrs O are also claiming for loss of earnings. They say theyve lost 
around 5 days of income and are self-employed. They state this has arisen through 
extensive chasing and a high level of correspondence between them, Axis and their tenants. 
Ive seen over 140 emails between Mr and Mrs O, their tenants, Axis and the loss adjuster, 
which indicates that its taken a lot more time for them to deal with their claim than would 
have been necessary if there hadnt problems with funding. But not all communication 
occurred during the 3-week period of avoidable delay, which is what Im considering here. 
And I havent seen any evidence that shows 5 days of income was lost as a direct result of 
Axis errors. 
Mr and Mrs O are asking our service to make a claim that recognises the loss of enjoyment 
they experienced during a prebooked holiday that they took while their claim was ongoing. 
They said that, during the time they were away, they had to deal with a large amount of calls 
and emails from their tenants and builders which were caused by insufficient funds delaying 
the reinstatement works. They said they struggled to find internet access while away and lost around 3 days of their holiday trying to resolve the problems that were caused. They also 
said they had to return home 2 days early. 
Our investigators recommended compensation of £350 took all these three issues into 
consideration. But I can see that these three parts of Mr and Mrs Os complaint havent been 
addressed by Axis in its final response. Its confirmed its raised a separate complaint on 
these issues. It has since agreed to pay an additional compensation award of £250 for these 
aspects of Mr and Mrs Os complaint. 
I can see that our investigator revisited a compensation award when they became aware 
that the above three matters hadnt yet been investigated by Axis. They subsequently 
recommended that an overall compensation award of £150 (including the £75 previously 
offered) was fair to reflect the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs O had experienced. I 
understand that Mr and Mrs O have disagreed with this revised compensation offer and the 
new offer made by Axis. 
In thinking about what a fair and reasonable compensation award would look like Ive taken 
into account that the errors by Axis resulted in a delay of 3 weeks. Ive then gone on to 
consider what consequences flowed from that 3-week delay.
The total compensatory award thats been offered by Axis and recommended our 
investigator is £400 - £150 from our investigator for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by delays and £250 from Axis for the loss of income, loss of enjoyment of a holiday and 
impact on health. 
In the overall circumstances, Im satisfied the overall £400 compensation award is a 
reasonable amount that fairly recognises the impact the errors, 3-week delay, additional time 
that was needed to communicate about this claim and the loss of enjoyment of a holiday had 
on Mr and Mrs O. Its in line with awards made by this service in comparable circumstances 
and its what I would have told Axis to pay had an award not been suggested already. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs O but I havent seen enough evidence to persuade me 
that a higher compensation award is merited. So, Im not directing Axis to pay more than 
£400 in compensation. 
 Putting things right
To resolve this complaint, Im directing Axis to pay Mr and Mrs O the loss of rental income 
from 5 March 2022 until 11 March 2022 inclusive together with compensation of £400 
(including any compensation which may have previously been paid).
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. Im directing AXIS Specialty Europe 
SE to resolve this complaint in the following way:
 
Pay Mr and Mrs O the loss of rental income from 5 March 2022 until 11 March 2022 
inclusive . 
Pay Mr and Mrs O £400 for the distress and inconvenience they experienced 
(inclusive of previous offers).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Julie Mitchell
Ombudsman