DRN-3220620
The complaint
Mr E complains about the charges applied by BIG Warranties Ltd when he cancelled his 
home emergency insurance policy with them.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr E bought a home emergency insurance policy with BIG to cover a 
property he was renting out.
The policy auto-renewed in January 2021. Two days after the renewal, Mr Es policy was 
cancelled, at his request. Mr Es premium for the second year never reached BIG. Mr E 
asked his bank to retrieve the payment through a charge back.
BIG then asked a collection agent to obtain the debt they said Mr E owed them. This 
amounted to £40.50  made up of a £30 cancellation fee and £10.50 to pay for the time Mr E 
was on cover before he cancelled the policy.
Mr E complained to BIG. He said hed told BIG when he bought the policy that he only 
needed it for a year. He said he didnt receive any renewal notice from BIG. He felt the fees 
applied were excessive and unfair. And he thought BIG should have contacted him first 
before referring the matter to a debt collection agent.
BIG told Mr E theyd done nothing wrong and pointed him to the terms and conditions 
relating to his policy. 
Mr E wasnt happy with this response and brought his complaint to us. Our investigator 
looked into it and didnt think BIG had done anything wrong.
Mr E disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold Mr Es complaint and Ill explain why.
We have recordings of the calls made between Mr E and BIG when he first bought the 
policy. Mr E was told on several occasions that the policy would auto-renew. At no point did 
Mr E object to this.
BIG have provided us with copies of the renewal notification email which they sent to Mr E in 
December 2020. The email was sent to the correct email address. Mr E says he didnt 
receive it, but Im satisfied it was sent  and to Mr Es correct and current email address.
The policy terms and conditions set out very clearly what will happen in the event of a 
cancellation requested by the policyholder. They state that there will be a £30 administration 
charge and a pro rata payment for the time on cover.
Its entirely fair for BIG to cover their own administration costs when a customer cancels a 
policy  and £30 is not an unreasonable amount to charge. 
BIG also charged £10.50 to cover the month (January) when Mr E was on cover. Mr E has 
objected that he cancelled the policy after only a day or two. 
I can understand Mr Es point, but I dont think its unreasonable for BIG to regard a month 
as the appropriate smallest unit of time for cover. Their policy documents make it clear that 
customers may pay their premiums annually or monthly  theres no option to pay daily.
Mr E ensured BIG didnt get his premium. If they had, theyd have made the deductions and 
then refunded the remainder. He would  or should  have known that he would be left 
owing money to BIG when he asked his bank to charge back the premium payment. He was 
aware  or should have been  that the policy had cancellation charges. 
Mr E didnt take any steps to contact BIG to make the cancellation payment. It wasnt 
unreasonable for BIG to chase Mr E for that payment by whatever administrative means they 
saw fit.
Mr E says BIG were under an obligation to contact him before they asked a debt collection 
agent to become involved. I believe they would need to notify Mr E before they took the 
matter to court (which was not their intention), but I dont think they had any obligation to let 
him know how they were trying to contact him to ask him to settle the debt.
In summary, Im satisfied BIG havent treated Mr E unfairly or unreasonably in auto-renewing 
his policy, or in charging him cancellation fees, or in chasing him for payment of those fees.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 February 2022.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman