DRN-2975206
The complaint
C, a limited company, has complained that Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity 
Company wont refund them the transactions made using one of their card terminals, which 
they didnt authorise.
What happened
C runs a hotel. It says that on a night in November 2019, without Cs knowledge, some 
intruders managed to gain access to one of its card terminals. They had access to the 
terminal for a short period of time during which they processed six refund transactions of 
equal amount onto a credit card, totalling about £6,000. The credit card was not the one 
used to make any prior booking. These refunds came to light when the accounts were 
tallied on the next day. C immediately contacted Elavon who in turn contacted the card 
issuing bank. They confirmed that the funds had already been withdrawn.
C says that they were exposed to fraud and that Elavons systems and processes should 
have protected it. It says that the transactions were clearly unusual and so should have 
been picked up by Elavon.
Elavon says that it was the responsibility of C to ensure that the card terminal wasnt left 
unattended. It says that the placement of the card terminal in a particular location is 
approved on the basis that the business maintains sufficient security in regard to the 
processing of transactions. C was responsible for ensuring the card terminal was attended 
at all times and was obliged to keep this safe and secure. No person should have had 
access to the facility who did not have the authority to do so. Elavon also says that the 
card terminal requires confirmation of total transactions (with refunds separately shown) 
prior to C submitting the end of day batch to it. Had C noticed the refunds at that time and 
contacted Elavon, the unauthorised refunds could have been voided. However C didnt do 
so.
I issued a provisional decision upholding the complaint, which forms part of this decision. 
In summary, I said: 
... the relevant law providing a framework for how to consider this complaint 
is The Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). I believe the transactions 
which are essentially the subject of this complaint  the refunds  were 
carried out on Cs behalf by Elavon and credited to the fraudsters. These are 
payment transactions for the purposes of the PSRs.
There are two elements of authorisation of a payment transaction under the 
PSRs: authentication and consent. Both of these must exist for a transaction to be 
authorised. 
In this case I dont think there is any dispute that C hadnt consented to these 
refunds. As explained earlier, C didnt process the refunds. This was done by the 
fraudsters who were able to get hold of the payment terminal in the middle of the 
night and then replace it so that C was unaware that the refunds had happened.
Elavon has said that the card terminal requires confirmation of total transactions 
(with refunds separately shown) prior to C submitting the end of day batch to it. I 
dont consider the submission of end of batch to Elavon amounts to C consenting 
to those six transactions. Whilst C may have seen the total refund amount it is 
evident that they didnt know at the time that the total amount included these six 
transactions carried out by the fraudster. But this is something I have considered 
when deciding whether C acted in a grossly negligent manner (see below).
My conclusion is that the disputed transactions werent authorised by C.
Where a payment transaction wasnt authorised in accordance with regulation 67 
(consent and withdrawal of consent), the payment service provider must refund the 
amount of the unauthorised payment transaction to the payer. The payment service 
provider must provide the refund as soon as practicable, and in any event no later 
than the end of the business day following the day on which it becomes aware of the 
unauthorised transaction [PSR 76]. 
However PSR 77(3) states:
 The payer is liable for all losses incurred in respect of an unauthorised payment 
transaction where the payer
(a) has acted fraudulently; or
(b) has with intent or gross negligence failed to comply with regulation 72
So having established that this was an unauthorised transaction, I have 
considered whether C had acted fraudulently or in a grossly negligent manner.
Based on what I have seen I dont think C acted fraudulently and I believe that 
Elavon doesnt consider that way either.
As regards gross negligence, the use of 'gross negligence' in PSR, rather than 
mere 'negligence', suggests a lack of care that goes significantly beyond ordinary 
negligence or carelessness.
The FCA, in its document setting out its role under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017, says:  we interpret gross negligence to be a higher standard 
than the standard of negligence under common law. The customer needs to have 
shown a very significant degree of carelessness.
So, I have to consider whether Cs actions fell so far below the standard of a 
reasonable person that they failed with gross negligence.
Elavon has said that the end of day batch was settled manually and C needed to 
confirm that the refunds were correct. It says that by submitting the end of day 
batch, C confirmed the transactions to be correct, both sales and refunds. If C had 
reported the transactions at that time, the transactions could have been voided but 
C failed to do so.
From what I understand, the unauthorised transactions took place at around 3AM. 
The end of day batch was normally settled at around 10PM every day and that was the case on this day as well. So almost a full day had passed in between. I also 
understand that when the staff who was on duty at the time confirmed the 
transactions, they could only see the total refunds. 
Given all this, I am not persuaded that they would have been in a position to know, 
just by looking at the total amount, that something was wrong. I consider that the 
earliest opportunity C had was when the account were reconciled the next day. 
And as soon as the six transactions were spotted at the time, C reported it to 
Elavon. 
Elavon has also said that it was the responsibility of C to ensure that the card 
terminal wasnt left unattended. C was obliged to keep this safe and secure and no 
person should have had access to the facility who did not have the authority to do 
so.  Having considered what had happened in this case (as explained in my 
provisional decision), I am not persuaded that C acted in a grossly negligent 
manner in relation to this.
Therefore I consider that in this instance it is fair and reasonable to ask 
Elavon reimburse the amount lost by C.
As mentioned earlier, the PSR requires that reimbursement be made as soon as 
practicable, and in any event no later than the end of the business day following the 
day on which it becomes aware of the unauthorised transaction. I think that given 
the circumstances of the case it is reasonable to expect that Elavon ought to have 
concluded sooner that the disputed transactions were unauthorised and hence 
refunded the sums to C. But that did not happen. Therefore I consider it fair that 
Elavon also pays interest on the amount which it ought to have refunded. Interest 
should be at 8% simple per annum. It should be paid from the date these payments 
were taken off Cs bank account to the date of settlement.
Finally, C says that Elavon didnt spot the unusual pattern of the refund 
transactions. I believe that these transactions were all in excess of any normal 
pattern to Cs transactions. These were not only unusual but a number of refunds 
were made in a short period of time. In addition, there cant have been any 
originating transactions to match these refunds. So, it is unclear to me as to why this 
wasnt picked up by Elavon. However as Ive already decided that C didnt authorise 
these transactions and hence Elavon should reimburse the sum, I do not have make 
a specific finding on this.
Both parties accepted my provisional decision. Elavon just queried whether the interest 
should be paid until the date of settlement. The investigator has already confirmed that it is 
the case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no need to depart from my provisional decision. For the reasons 
explained in the provisional decision, my conclusion remains that the complaint should be 
upheld.
My final decision
In full and final settlement of the complaint, Elavon Financial Services Designated Activity Company should reimburse C £5,999.94. It should also pay interest on this amount at 8% 
simple p.a. Interest should be paid from the date these payments were taken off the account 
to the date of settlement.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 September 2021.
 
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman