DRN-1922550
The complaint
Ms T complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) wont refund the cost 
of hotel accommodation she paid for using her Halifax credit card.
What happened
In July 2019 Ms T booked, via an online booking agent that I will call S, hotel 
accommodation for four nights in August/September 2019 at a cost of £987.
Just prior to departure Ms T said it came to her attention that her hotel accommodation had 
been misrepresented to her by S.
Ms T tried to cancel her booking with the hotel and then with S, but both requests were 
declined. Ms T still travelled, but she booked and paid for alternative accommodation.
On returning to the UK Ms T asked Halifax to raise a chargeback and to consider a claim 
from her under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (section 75).
Halifax first attempted a chargeback, but this proved unsuccessful. Halifax then went on to 
consider a claim from Ms T under section 75 but didnt uphold it.
Unhappy with Halifaxs decision to decline her section 75 claim and with its subsequent 
handling of her complaint in respect of the same, Ms T referred the matter to our service for 
investigation.
Ms Ts complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it shouldnt 
be upheld.
Ms T didnt agree and so her complaint has been passed to me for review and decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I can confirm that Ive come to the same conclusion as the investigator and 
for the same reasons. 
Its clear Ms T has very strong feelings about this complaint. She has provided detailed 
submissions in support of her view which I can confirm Ive read and considered in their 
entirety. However, I trust that Ms T will not take the fact that my findings focus on what I 
consider to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less detail, as 
a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision isnt to address every point raised. The purpose 
of my decision is to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
chargeback
Chargeback is a process provided by Ms Ts card scheme - in this case MasterCard. It 
allows customers to ask for a transaction to be refunded in a number of situations including 
where goods or services arent provided, where goods or services are defective or where 
goods or services arent as described. 
There's no automatic right to a chargeback. Nor is chargeback a guaranteed method of 
getting a refund because chargebacks may be defended by merchants. If a financial 
business thinks that a claim won't be successful, it doesnt have to raise a chargeback but 
where theres a reasonable chance of success wed expect a financial business to bring a 
chargeback. 
I should also explain that it isnt Halifax that decides whether or not a chargeback is 
successful. Chargebacks are decided based on the card scheme rules  in this case 
Mastercards. So, in this complaint, I can only consider Halifaxs actions in requesting the 
chargeback. 
The information Ive seen shows that Halifax initiated a chargeback for Ms T. Halifax initially 
credited her account as Id expect it to but then debited her account when the merchant 
challenged the chargeback. I cant say that Halifax treated her unfairly because a financial 
business isnt obliged to continue with a chargeback in circumstances where the chargeback 
has been defended by a merchant.
section 75
Section 75 broadly provides that if certain conditions are met, a provider of credit is jointly 
and severally liable for a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier. 
However, I dont think section 75 was available to Ms T. For there to be a valid section 75 
claim there needs to be what is known as a debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) relationship 
between the parties. Here, the debtor would be Ms T, the creditor would be Halifax and the 
supplier would be the hotel.
But Ms T booked her hotel through S to whom she made the payment. This broke the d-c-s 
relationship because section 75 requires that payment for goods or services has to be made 
directly to the supplier. Here the payment was made to S. S isnt the supplier but an 
intermediary or agent.
In concluding the above Ive had regard to the various terms and conditions Ms T agreed to 
when making her booking (through S). Amongst other things these say:
We act as an agent for the Travel Providers whose travel Offers are featured on the 
Services. This means that we act on behalf of the Travel Providers and provide a platform 
through which you can enter into a contract with the Travel Providers for the provision of the 
Travel offers. We do not directly enter into a contract with you to provide any Travel Offer 
you purchase.
Please note that your booking is a direct contract between you and [the hotel] for the 
provision of your hotel bookingThe d-c-s relationship required by section 75 isnt discretionary. Without it, a credit card 
provider is entitled to decline a claim. The involvement of S, to which the credit card payment 
was made, broke this d-c-s relationship so I dont think Halifax treated Ms T unfairly by 
declining her section 75 claim.
Ms T says that S were legally obliged (under various legislation) to describe the deal it was 
selling accurately, and it failed to do so. Now I can understand why Ms T holds this view. But 
even if I was to accept S had misrepresented the deal to Ms T this doesnt mean she has 
available section 75 protection. Whether section 75 protection is available to a consumer is 
dependent on, amongst other things, a valid d-c-s relationship being in place. And for the 
reasons given above, Im not persuaded that such a relationship was in place.
Ms T also suggests that the terms and conditions Ive relied on in concluding what I have in 
this decision might not have been the ones in force at the time she booked. But Im satisfied 
that they were, especially given that they are dated August 2019.
I would also add that I agree with the investigator (for the same reasons) that Ms T didnt 
purchase a package holiday (as defined under the Package Travel and Linked Travel 
Arrangements Regulations 2018). And what was offered, as part of the offer, was made by 
S on behalf of the hotel. On this last point I would add that it isnt unusual for different offers 
to be made available through different agents (for and on behalf of a third party) and for 
these offers to be different to what the third party might be prepared to offer directly to 
consumers.
Finally, and for the sake of completeness, I would further add that Im satisfied that what S 
undertook to do (on behalf of Ms T) was to book the hotel room (and extras) selected by her, 
and it did this.
I appreciate Ms T will be disappointed but given what I say above I find that Halifax has done 
nothing wrong in the particular circumstances of this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2021.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman