DRN-3074907
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Santander UK Plc unfairly applied an early repayment charge 
(ERC) when they repaid their mortgage.
What happened
In 2018, Mr and Mrs S took out a fixed rate mortgage with Santander. An ERC applied if the 
mortgage was repaid before 2 October 2020.
The mortgage was repaid in September 2020. Santander applied an ERC of over £3,000. Mr 
and Mrs S said they were also charged an additional amount of around £800. They consider 
the ERC has been applied unfairly. Mr and Mrs Pointed out that the ERC was six times their 
normal monthly payment, even though there was only around two months left of the tie-in 
period.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr and Mrs S didnt agree. They made a number of points including:
The thought the ERC was excessive.
Theyd attempted to port their mortgage to avoid the ERC.
If they had not taken a three-month Covid payment deferral their mortgage deal would 
have expired.
Due to the pandemic it wasnt fair to apply the terms of the contract in this way. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgage they agreed to its terms, including that an ERC 
was payable if the mortgage was repaid before 2 October 2020. The ERC was set out 
clearly and prominently in the mortgage offer. Im satisfied that the ERC was applied in line 
with the offer.
The purpose of the ERC is to allow mortgage lenders to recover the costs they incur in 
providing fixed rate borrowing if that borrowing is repaid early. But Santander didnt have a 
free hand to charge whatever ERC it wanted. The relevant rules only allowed it to do so 
where the ERC was a reasonable pre-estimate of the cost to it of the mortgage being repaid 
early. It can be calculated across a range of mortgages of a similar type. So Santander 
wasnt required to carry out an individual calculation for Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage.
Santander has provided evidence to show how it calculates its ERCs. Ive accepted that 
information in confidence as it is commercially sensitive. It shows that the ERC reflects its 
costs of selling and servicing the mortgage, the cost of the capital it has to set aside, the cost 
of funding the fixed rate, the cost of financial instruments that could be used to protect its 
position and its future losses. Ive looked carefully at what Santander has said and I consider 
it is a fair way to calculate the ERC.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs S were very near to the end of the tie-in period and that the 
amount of the ERC appears out of proportion to the amount of payments that were due 
under the fixed rate. But Im afraid that isnt a factor in how the ERC is calculated. As Ive 
explained above, when the mortgage is repaid early there are likely to be other costs to the 
lender. Overall, I dont consider the amount of the ERC was unreasonable.
I can see that Mr and Mrs S explored porting their mortgage but that wasnt possible. The 
evidence I have does not support there was any error by Santander. While there might be 
certain circumstances where it would not be fair for Santander to apply an ERC because of 
the pandemic, I am not aware of any circumstances in this case. And it does not mean it 
cant apply any ERCS.
I note Mr and Mrs Ss point that they have paid more than the ERC. That is because there 
was a mortgage exit administration fee of £225 and additional interest, presumably because 
of their Covid payment deferral.
I am sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I dont consider Santander acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in the way it applied the ERC.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 26 November 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman