DRN-3271688
The complaint
Mr D complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) processed a payment to an 
online shopping site from his credit card account without his authorisation and subsequently 
refused to refund the payment.  
What happened
Mr D holds a credit card account with Capital One. 
In or around August 2021, Mr D was successful in securing an item he wished to purchase 
through an online shopping site. Mr Ds decision to purchase the item was influenced by a 
discount voucher promised by the site to be used against the purchase. 
The shopping site conditions required Mr D to make payment using their smart device app 
so that the voucher could be used. Mr D attempted to use the smart device app to complete 
the transaction. The instructions suggested that Mr D should select a third-party option to 
process the payment from his Capital One credit card. But when he selected this option, the 
discount voucher wasnt applied. So, Mr D cancelled the transaction.
Upon cancelling the option to use the third-party payment option, Mr D found that the online 
shopping site automatically took payment direct from his Capital One credit card. Again 
without applying the expected discount. Mr D says he didnt authorise this transaction and no 
further security verification was sought to complete it.
Having been unsuccessful in resolving matters with the online shopping site, Mr D reported 
the transaction as unauthorised to Capital One the following day. Over the course of the 
following days, Capital One requested further information from Mr D, which he provided. 
Around 12 days after the original transaction took place, Capital One contacted Mr D and 
said they wouldnt be investigating matters further. They suggested he pursue matters with 
the online shopping site.
Mr D wasnt happy with Capital Ones response to his request. So, he complained as he 
thought they should refund the unauthorised payment to his account. Capital One responded 
to Mr Ds complaint in writing in early September. They thought theyd taken the correct 
actions and treated Mr D fairly. They said Mr D had intended to purchase the item from the 
online site and he subsequently received that item. But as the transaction related to a 
purchase made by Mr D for his own benefit, it wasnt considered fraudulent.
Mr D remained unhappy, so he referred his complaint to this service. Having considered all 
the facts and circumstances, our investigator didnt think Capital One had acted unfairly or 
unreasonably. 
During the course of the investigation, Capital One confirmed that the transaction was 
authorised and completed by them using credentials on file. This is where Mr D has used 
his card previously to complete a transaction with the online shopping site that had 
previously been verified. They said the shopping site is entitled to do this. Capital One 
confirmed they are unable to dispute such transactions as there is no fraudulent intent and 
payment was for the benefit of the card holder. 
In an attempt to resolve Mr Ds complaint, Capital One have offered to pay £10 as a gesture 
of goodwill and to recognise the online discount he didnt receive. Our investigator supported 
Capital Ones offer.
Mr D didnt agree with out investigators findings. He said:
he hadnt made or authorised the transaction and thought Capital One should provide 
details of what authorisation and verification checks were completed; and
he believed the transaction had resulted from a system problem or error; and
storage of his credit card details by the online shopping site wasnt a blanket 
authority to take payments from his account; and
other retailers still require payment authorisation for subsequent purchases; and
acceptance of the goodwill payment would suggest Mr D had made the transaction, 
which he disputes. 
As an agreement couldnt be reached, Mr Ds complaint has been passed to me to consider 
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In explaining the circumstances of the online purchase that ultimately led to the transaction 
on Mr Ds credit card account, he confirmed that his original intention was to derive benefit 
from a discount voucher while making the balance payment from his Capital One account. 
Mr D has also confirmed that his Capital One credit card was registered with the third-party 
payment processor hed originally selected when trying to complete the payment. So, Im 
persuaded that it was always Mr Ds intention to make any balance payment required from 
that account. And had the discount voucher been successfully applied, Mr D wouldve 
completed that transaction.
Capital One have explained that the transaction was referred through their system by the 
online shopping site as a credentials held transaction. This is not uncommon and is used 
where consumers have previously used a site and agreed for their card details to be retained 
as a default payment method. So, referral of the transaction was essentially for funds 
authorisation and to ensure no other reason for declining the payment. In the event Mr D is 
unhappy that his card details were retained by the online site, responsibility would sit with 
him to arrange for them to be removed.
The discount voucher offered to Mr D by the online shopping site had a face value of £10. 
So, had the application of the voucher been successful, the balance of the transaction 
amount wouldve been paid from his Capital One credit card. As the voucher wasnt applied, 
it appears Mr Ds only financial loss was the £10 discount. I also think its relevant to say that 
Mr D did intend to purchase the item and use his Capital One card for the balance payment. 
So, as theres no other party involved and no apparent fraudulent or criminal intent, I dont 
believe theres any cause for Capital One to dispute or refund the transaction. 
Capital One have offered to make a goodwill payment of £10 to Mr D in an attempt to 
resolve his complaint. And although theyre not required to do that, I believe Capital Ones 
offer is fair in all the circumstances here. This would essentially put Mr D back into the 
position he wouldve been, had the transaction proceeded as hed originally intended.
I realise Mr D will be disappointed and may not agree, but as I cant find that he has suffered 
any other loss, I shant be asking Capital One to do anything more. But as Capital Ones 
offer was presented after Mr D brought his complaint to this service, I will support it in my 
decision.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint. I require Capital One Bank 
(Europe) plc to make a goodwill payment to Mr D of £10.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 July 2022.
 
Dave Morgan
Ombudsman