DRN-4183312
The complaint
Mr V complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) declined to cover two claims 
and cancelled his pet insurance policy.  
What happened
Mr V says because he made a large claim for one of his dogs, Great Lakes has looked for 
any reason not to pay. He says its reasons for cancelling are flawed. He says he 
understands that different cover is required for dogs used for breeding. But the dogs in 
question werent used in this way. He says theres no valid reason for his claims to be 
declined. 
Mr V says even if its assumed he acted fraudulently, Great Lakes hasnt paid the claims he 
registered prior to it cancelling his policy. He says the Insurance Act 2015 means that Great 
Lakes is obliged to deal with any claims that occurred prior to the fraudulent act. Because of 
this Mr V thinks the business is required to pay his claims.
In its complaint response Great Lakes says Mr Vs policy incepted on 24 January 2022. 
Since then, adjustments were made in April to add three more dogs, and three further dogs 
were added to cover on 21 September. Great Lakes says Mr V was asked to confirm that 
none of his pets had been trained to attack, and that none were used in connection with a 
business. 
Great Lakes says during the call on 21 September, Mr V said to its agent, Theyre all 
working dogs, I have a kennels. It says its agent was inexperienced so didnt pick up on 
this. But following investigation it found evidence that at least one of Mr Vs dogs had been 
trained to bite. In addition, it says evidence was found online that Mr Vs dogs were involved 
in a breeding and training business. It says because of this its unable to pay for Mr Vs most 
recent claims involving two of his dogs and has had to cancel his cover.  
Mr V didnt think this was fair and referred the matter to our service. Our investigator didnt 
uphold his complaint. She says that Mr Vs policy terms dont provide cover if the owner 
earns money from the pet, or if theyve been trained to attack. She didnt think Great Lakes 
behaved unfairly when relying on its policy terms to cancel Mr Vs policy and decline his 
claims. 
Mr V didnt accept this outcome and asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint. Let me explain. 
The relevant law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations)
Act 2012 (CIDRA). Not the Insurance Act 2015. CIDRA requires consumers to take 
reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance 
contract (a policy). The standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
If a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Great Lakes didnt refer to the CIDRA rules in its complaint response. However, it has said 
that Mr V breached the terms of his policy because one or more of his dogs are trained to 
bite and/or involved in his business. We asked Great Lakes to show the questions Mr V was 
asked when he took out his policy. 
In its response Great Lakes has provided screen shots of the questions Mr V was asked 
when the policy was incepted. The website used provided him with three quotes containing 
links to the full policy. When selecting his chosen quote, it says he had to agree to 
declarations and assumptions. Great Lakes says this includes his pets not being used to 
earn money, in connection with a business, or being trained to attack. The business says Mr 
V couldnt progress to purchasing its policy without seeing and agreeing to the declarations 
and assumptions. Its clear Mr V didnt disclose that any of his pets were being used for the 
purposes Great Lakes has shown were not acceptable for its cover.  
Ive listened to the call when Mr V added three more dogs to his insurance cover in 
September 2022. At the start of the call, he says that his dogs are all working dogs and he 
owns a kennels. He makes this comment as an explanation as to why hes insuring so many 
dogs under his policy. Two of the dogs added to the policy during this call are the ones 
involved in the claims Great Lakes has since declined to cover. 
Great Lakes says the information it has supplied shows one of Mr Vs dogs involved in bite 
training. I can see the name of this dog is the same as one of the insured pets. However, I 
accept Mr Vs comments that his business trains a lot of dogs and some have the same 
names. 
Great Lakes has also supplied links to a website associated with Mr Vs business. It says this 
supports his dogs being used for breeding purposes. Having looked at this website it 
advertises seven dogs with the same names as those insured under Mr Vs policy. The dogs 
also match in terms of breed and age. Next to a photo of each dog is a description of when 
its next litter is due. The webpage includes a job description for each of the dogs. The job 
roles are described as either, protection, search, or therapy visits.  
I note Mr Vs comments that he has 14 dogs in total and that five of these are used for 
breeding. He says this doesnt include the nine dogs he had insured under his policy with 
Great Lakes. However, the information Great Lakes has provided strongly indicates the 
insured dogs are involved with his business as breeding dogs, and in other capacities 
indicated by their job roles.  
Mr Vs policy terms say:
Animals we are not able to coverWe are not able to cover pets that have been trained to attack.
We are not able to pay claims if you earn money from your pet or your pet is used in 
connection with any business.
I think these terms are clear and were made available for Mr V to read. His policy booklet 
also says he should contact Great Lakes if any of the information is incorrect or needs 
changing. Mr V says hes aware breeding dogs arent covered by his policy and the dogs he 
insured arent used for this purpose. But the evidence shows the insured dogs were being 
used for breeding. I think Mr V was aware of this when he took out this policy and when he 
added further dogs to the insurance cover in April and September 2022.
Based on this evidence I dont think Great Lakes acted unreasonably in concluding Mr V 
didnt take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation.
Great Lakes has supplied its underwriting criteria. This information is commercially sensitive, 
so I cant share it. But Im satisfied from this that the business wouldnt have provided cover 
to Mr V if itd known he was insuring dogs that were being used to make money, were 
trained to bite, or that were otherwise involved in his business. This means Mr Vs 
misrepresentation was a qualifying one. 
Great Lakes acted to cancel Mr Vs policy as a result of his qualifying misrepresentation. Its 
policy terms say:
We can cancel this policy at any time by giving 14 days notice. For example:
You made a misrepresentation when you bought your policy or made a claim.
We will refund any premiums that you have paid for the part of the policy year after the date 
of cancellation.
Great Lakes says its underwriting team instructed it to cancel Mr Vs policy as of the date it 
identified fraudulent activity had occurred. It says Mr V took out his policy in breach of its 
declarations and assumptions on 24 January 2022. So, it acted to cancel the policy from this 
date. 
I can see that Great Lakes paid Mr V a total of £6,846.97 in claims since the policy incepted. 
It says it could ask for this to be returned. However, it has decided not to do this. It says it 
wont return the premium as it has paid out on several claims. It also says it considers Mr Vs 
misrepresentation was either reckless or deliberate. 
Great Lakes says it acted in line with the CIDRA rules when taking this action  albeit Mr V 
has benefitted from the claims it has paid and isnt asking him to refund. 
Having considered all of this I think its clear Mr V did make a qualifying misrepresentation 
when taking out his policy. In these circumstances I think his misrepresentation can 
reasonably be classed as reckless or deliberate. The CIDRA rules dont require great Lakes 
to return Mr Vs premium in these circumstances. However, as Mr Vs policy was effectively 
cancelled from inception, he has benefitted financially from the claims Great Lakes has paid 
and isnt looking to recover. 
In summary, I dont think Great Lakes treated Mr V unfairly when relying on its policy terms 
to decline his claim and cancel his policy for the reasons it gave. So, I cant reasonably ask it 
to do any more. My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 August 2023.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman