DRN-1741539
complaint
Mr M says Harvey and Thompson Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about seven loans Harvey and Thompson provided to Mr M between 
January 2012 and July 2013. A summary of Mr Ms lending history, as evidenced by Harvey 
and Thompson, is as follows:  
 
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Amount Repayment Deferrals
1 28/01/2012 26/03/2012 £348.00 £400.00 1
2 29/03/2012 27/05/2012 £348.00 £400.00 1
3 02/06/2012 27/10/2012 £348.00 £400.00 4
4 02/11/2012 21/11/2012 £340.00 £400.00  
5 27/11/2012 21/02/2013 £340.00 £400.00 2
6 26/02/2013 21/06/2013 £250.00 £300.00 3
7 22/07/2013 21/10/2013 £250.00 £300.00 2
 
Our adjudicator thought about Mr Ms complaint and felt loans four onwards shouldnt have 
been given. Harvey and Thompson havent responded to our decision, so the complaint has 
been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach 
to complaints about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and 
good industry practice - on our website.
Harvey and Thompson Limited needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend 
irresponsibly. In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to 
make sure Mr M could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take 
into account a number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages 
of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that MYJAR should fairly and 
reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. 
These factors include:
 
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
 
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
 
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself 
clearly demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Harvey and Thompson Limited was 
required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the 
loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication 
a consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this 
is the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to 
meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if 
theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in 
this context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Our adjudicator felt that Mr Ms 
complaint about loans 1-3 shouldnt be upheld. Mr M seems to have accepted this opinion, 
so as these loans are no longer in dispute, I havent looked at these any further. But I have 
considered all of Mr Ms loans when looking at his entire lending history with Harvey and 
Thompson Limited. 
Harvey and Thompson Limited say they carried out affordability checks before lending Mr M 
any of these loans. But I think they shouldve realised Mr M was having problems managing 
before agreeing to lend him loan 4. I say this because Mr M deferred his payments on loan 3 
four times, so I think it was clear he wasnt managing his finances well and was therefore 
unlikely to repay this loan or any other subsequent loans. So, I am upholding loan 4 on this 
basis. 
Ive also looked at the overall pattern of Mr Ms lending history with Harvey and Thompson 
Limited, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which it should reasonably have seen 
that further lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so, Harvey and Thompson 
Limited should have realised that it shouldnt have provided any further loans.Given the particular circumstances of Mr Ms case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
5. I say this because:
 
At this point Harvey and Thompson Limited ought to have realised Mr M was not 
managing to repay his loans sustainably. Mr M had taken out four loans and had 
deferred payments on loans 1, 2, and 3. So, I think Harvey and Thompson Limited 
ought to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was not able to repay his 
current loans and was having to borrow further to cover the hole repaying his 
previous loan was leaving in his finances and that he was not managing his finances 
well.
 
The amounts Mr M borrowed were not substantially decreasing over the time. So, by 
loan 5 Harvey and Thompson Limited ought to have known that Mr M was not likely 
borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need.
 
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Harvey and Thompson 
Limited. Loan 7 was taken out around 18 months after Mr Ms first. So, Mr M had paid 
large amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to Harvey and Thompson 
Limited over an extended period.
 
I think that Mr M lost out because Harvey and Thompson Limited continued to provide 
borrowing which was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Ms ability to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans. So, Im also 
upholding the complaint about loans 4, 5, 6 and 7 and Harvey and Thompson Limited should 
put things right as set out below.
putting things right  what Harvey and Thompson Limited needs to do
 
refund all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans 4 onwards;
 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
 
remove any negative information about loan 4 from Mr Ms credit file;
 
all entries about loan 5 onwards should be removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Harvey and Thompson Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Harvey and Thompson Limited must give Mr M a certificate showing how much tax 
its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont think complaint should be upheld.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
Ombudsman