DRN-4104521
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K have complained about the service they received from Bank of Scotland plc, 
trading as Halifax, when they were looking to remortgage. Theyve said they werent given 
clear information by Halifax which led to them believing they could remortgage on 
28 February 2023, rather than 1 March 2023. 
Originally, they said their new mortgage couldnt be delayed by that one day so they would 
incur an early repayment charge (ERC) of around £3,200 with Halifax, but they later 
confirmed their solicitor had been able to delay redeeming the Halifax mortgage until 
1 March 2023 so no ERC was due. Theyve said Halifax should have mentioned that option 
to them as a solution, and they were stressed and had sleepless nights until it was resolved.
What happened
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs K took out a fixed rate mortgage with Halifax. The mortgage offer 
explained the rate of 2.04% was fixed, and after 28 February 2023 it would move to the 
standard variable rate. It also explained that if the mortgage was repaid on or before 
28 February 2023 an ERC would be applied, to a maximum of £12,110.75. 
In March 2022 Mr K phoned Halifax. He wanted to know what the ERC would be if he came 
out of his mortgage early, what interest rates Halifax had at that time, and whether anything 
could be done as an incentive for him to remain with Halifax.
Mr K called Halifax again in August 2022. He asked how much the ERC was and what rates 
Halifax had available at that time. In this call he was told that he could apply for a new rate 
with Halifax three months before the end date, which Halifax confirmed meant Mr H could 
apply for a new Halifax rate from 1 December.
The final call was in September 2022. Mr K asked if he could apply for a new interest rate 
with Halifax six months before the existing rate expired, and was told it was a maximum of 
three months before. The current rates and the ERC amount were confirmed again, and the 
call ended with Mr K being told his mortgage would move to the standard variable rate on 
1 March 2023, and he could arrange a new product with Halifax from 1 December 2022.
In January 2023 Mr K raised a complaint. He said he was told his rate would expire on 
28 February 2023 and he wouldnt pay an ERC. He said hed arranged to complete his 
remortgage to a new lender on 28 February and he couldnt change that without changing 
the rate. He wanted either the ERC waived, or for Halifax to match the rate of the other 
lender so he could stay with Halifax. Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said it hadnt 
given him any incorrect information, and recommended he spoke to his new provider to 
discuss what options they had available to extend the offer.
Unhappy with Halifaxs response, Mr and Mrs K referred the complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service where it was looked at by one of our Investigators. She said she didnt 
think Halifax had done anything wrong as the ERC was set out in the original mortgage offer, 
and Mr K wasnt given incorrect information in the calls. 
Mr and Mrs K didnt agree and so its been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the calls very carefully, and having done so Im satisfied Halifax gave Mr K 
the correct information.
At the end of the September 2022 call Mr K was told:
The first day you will be in a standard variable rate will be the 1st of March, so your last 
day of your product is the 28th of February.
Mr K was never told, in any of those calls, that he could repay this mortgage on 28 February 
without incurring the ERC.
The ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs K entered into in 2018 
and that explained there would be an ERC of: 
5.00% of the amount repaid on or before 28/02/2019 
4.00% of the amount repaid on or before 28/02/2020
3.00% of the amount repaid on or before 28/02/2022
1.50% of the amount repaid on or before 28/02/2023
The use of on or before is clear and unambiguous. It is fairly normal in the mortgage 
industry for preferential rates (and their accompanying ERCs) to run until the end of a month, 
with the first day the mortgage can be moved without incurring an ERC as the first day of the 
following month.
Mr and Mrs K have said a mortgage adviser for the new lender said they believed the 
remortgage could take place on 28 February, but that belief would have been based on what 
Mr and Mrs K told them. That belief wasnt based on the mortgage adviser taking part in the 
calls with Halifax (so they could hear exactly what was said) nor having reviewed the Halifax 
mortgage offer. Had the mortgage adviser for the new lender done either of those I would be 
surprised if theyd said the remortgage could complete on 28 February. In any event, I cant 
take what a mortgage adviser for another lender believes into account as Im considering 
what Halifax did (and didnt) do and say.
Having considered everything Im satisfied the terms of the ERC were set out in the 
mortgage offer in a way that should have been readily understandable to Mr and Mrs K; 
certainly, the information about the ERC was set out in a way that met the regulators 
requirements. Im also satisfied Halifax didnt give incorrect information in the calls with Mr K. 
So Im persuaded Mr and Mrs K knew - or at least should have known - an ERC would be 
charged if they redeemed this mortgage on or before 28 February 2023. 
Mr and Mrs K have said that their subsequent complaint is that Halifax didnt offer the simple 
solution to the problem. But it wasnt Halifaxs responsibility to do so. All Halifax could 
discuss was its mortgage. It wasnt in a position to discuss Mr and Mrs Ks new mortgage 
with them. That would have been a matter for Mr and Mrs K to discuss with the new 
mortgage lender, their solicitor and their mortgage broker (if they used one). In any event 
Halifax put in its response to the complaint in January 2023 It may be worth speaking to 
your new provider to discuss what options they have available to extend your offer which was the right starting point for this issue. Halifax wouldnt give advice on what to do if an 
offer with a different lender couldnt be extended.
Mr and Mrs K have told us about the mental toll and stress they endured, leading to 
sleepless nights. Im sorry to hear that, it sounds like it was a very difficult time for them. 
However, as our Investigator explained, we can only make an award if a business has done 
something wrong. Here Im satisfied the ERC was clearly set out in the mortgage paperwork, 
and Halifax gave Mr K correct information on the phone. As Halifax didnt do anything wrong, 
it follows that Im unable to make any award for that mental toll.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 7 September 2023. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman