DRN-3460017
The complaint
Mr T complains about advice he received from Phoenix Life Limited when taking out a whole 
of life policy in 1998. 
Mr T and the trustees of the policy are being represented in the complaint by a Claims 
Management Company (CMC). For ease I will refer to all actions as being those of Mr T. 
What happened
In 1998 Mr T spoke with Phoenix and took out a whole of life policy.
In 2021 Mr T complained to Phoenix saying the policy had been mis-sold as it wasnt 
suitable for him and that a term plan wasnt discussed.
Phoenix looked into what happened but didnt uphold the complaint. They said the policy 
was suitable as it met Mr Ts requirement from the time for cover to continue once his 
mortgage had ended. They said a term policy wouldnt have been suitable as it didnt meet 
this need. 
Mr T remained unhappy and came to our service where one of our Investigators considered 
the complaint. They thought the sale was suitable for his needs and that clear information 
was given about the policy and its terms. Mr T disagreed so the complaint has come to me 
for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The sale took place in 1998 so its not surprising that there isnt a full record of what 
happened. In situations like this I must come to a decision based on what I think is most 
likely to have happened based on the balance of probabilities. 
At the time of the sale the adviser completed a Planning Your Future form which was 
followed up by a recommendation letter. This records what was discussed between the 
adviser and Mr T. Its quite some time ago, and I wasnt party to the conversation, but I find 
evidence like this from the time persuasive about what was discussed.
The form records that Mr T was 49 years old, married, living in a property with an 
outstanding mortgage of £20,000 and had two financially dependent children. It shows 
Mr Ts financial commitments as well as income, and says there was a budget of £50 per 
month available for cover. The form also shows that there was a shortfall in mortgage cover 
for both death and critical illness.  
Most importantly, considering Mr Ts complaint point about a term plan not being offered, it is 
recorded that Mr T wanted the flexibility to retain the higher level of cover beyond the end of 
the term of the mortgage. 
Looking at all of the available information from the time Im satisfied that Mr Ts 
circumstances were discussed and that the policy was suitable for his needs. The policy met 
a shortfall in mortgage cover for both death and critical illness with the payment being within 
Mr Ts budget. 
Mr T says that he shouldve been offered a term plan instead of a whole of life policy. But a 
term policy wouldnt have met his recorded requirement for cover to extend beyond the 
remaining mortgage term. So I think a whole of life policy was suitable.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied the policy was suitable for Mr T and it 
met his needs as recorded in the Planning Your Future form.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T, Mrs T and 
Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 29 August 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman