DRN-1586732
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that esure Insurance Limited turned down a claim he made on his home 
insurance policy.
Mr Ds represented by Mrs D.
What happened
In June 2019, Mr and Mrs D got in touch with esure to make a claim for water damage to 
their roof and a bedroom. Esure appointed a surveyor to go and inspect the damage.
The surveyor didnt think the damage to the roof or ceiling was down to storm. He thought 
the roof had been deteriorating over time. He didnt think the bedroom damage was down to 
a single event of water ingress. Mr Ds policy didnt cover damage that happened over time. 
And esure didnt think the internal damage was down to a one-off, unexpected event. So it 
turned down Mr Ds claim.
Mr D wasnt happy with esures decision, so Mrs D asked us to look into his complaint. They 
said theyd been told the claim was turned down because their roof didnt have any missing 
slates and because of damaged flashing.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Ds complaint should be upheld. Hed considered the 
surveyors report and the photos theyd taken during their visit. He acknowledged there were 
storm conditions around the time of the claim. But he didnt think the damage to Mr and Mrs 
Ds roof was consistent with storm damage. And he thought the internal photos appeared to 
show mould growth. So he felt it was more likely that water had been getting into the 
property over time. He didnt think Mr Ds claim was covered by the accidental damage cover 
he had either. Thats because the policy excludes damage which happens over time.
Mr D disagreed. Mrs D said she remembered heavy rain, which caused her ceiling to 
collapse. This led to her ceiling, furniture and carpets being damaged. She said that people 
take out insurance to cover this kind of situation.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I think it was fair for 
esure to turn down Mr Ds claim. Ill explain why.
I should first explain insurers set out a list of the insured events that they cover in insurance 
policies. These might include storm, theft, fire, flood etc. In this case, esure considered Mr 
Ds claim under the storm and accidental damage sections of the policy. Thats because Mr 
D thought the damage was caused by heavy rain. So weve also considered whether it was fair for esure to turn down Mr Ds claim under these sections.
When we look at complaints about storm damage, there are three questions that we need to 
ask:
 Were there storm conditions on or around the date of the claim? 
 Is the damage consistent with storm damage? 
 Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage? 
If the answer to any of these questions is no then the claim wont succeed. 
Were there storm conditions on or around the time of claim?
Ive carefully considered the weather conditions around the time of the claim. Its clear there 
were storm force winds and very heavy rain. And esure accepts there were prevailing storm 
conditions. So Im satisfied the answer to the first question is yes.
Is the damage consistent with storm damage?
Water ingress into a property causing internal water damage following heavy wind and rain 
may sometimes be consistent with storm damage. Generally, though, we might expect to 
see missing or dislodged roof tiles following storm winds. 
Having looked at the surveyors photos of the roof, I cant see any evidence of missing or 
dislodged slates, or any areas of obvious storm damage.
Were the storm conditions the main cause of the damage?
Ive looked very carefully at the report from esures surveyor to establish whether the storm 
was the main cause of the damage. Thats because its the only expert evidence I have.
The surveyor didnt think the storm was the main cause of the damage. He found the roof 
damage was caused by an unknown defect but he maintained it wasnt down to storm. He 
found the internal damage was caused by rainwater ingress over a period of time.
It appears that the surveyor did undertake a full check of Mr and Mrs Ds home. The photos 
show the roof in detail, together with pictures of the internal damage. He also carried out 
moisture readings. So Ive placed significant weight on his report. And Mr and Mrs D havent 
provided me with any independent expert evidence to counter the surveyors findings.
I dont think theres enough evidence to show, on balance, its most likely the main cause of 
the damage was storm. The photos of the internal damage suggest water mightve been 
getting in for some time. Thats because there appears to be some cracking to the 
plasterwork and what appears to be mould growth. There also looks like an area of the 
ceiling whichd been repainted  which esure felt might show previous repairs to the ceiling. 
This might indicate that water had been getting in gradually, rather than a one-off event of 
storm.
Taking the surveyors report and photos together with the fact the roof damage isnt 
consistent with what we might usually expect to see in cases of storm damage, I think it was 
fair for esure to decide the damage wasnt down to storm. I think its more likely the heavy 
rainfall simply highlighted existing issues with the roof. 
Overall, this means I dont think the storm was the main cause of the damage. So I think its fair for esure to turn down Mr Ds claim under this section of the policy.
Ive also gone on to consider whether the claim should be covered under the accidental 
damage section. Esure considers accidental damage to be a single, unexpected and 
unintended event. I accept that the damage to Mr and Mrs Ds home was unexpected and 
unintended. But given the surveyor found water had been getting in over a period of time, I 
dont think I can fairly say this was a single event of water ingress. 
Mr Ds policy also includes some general exclusions which set out things the policy doesnt 
cover. Two of these are damage caused by wear and tear and damage which occurs 
gradually, over time. In this case, given the surveyors evidence, it seems the damage has 
been ongoing over time. So I dont think this claim is covered by the accidental damage 
section of the policy.
Overall, while I sympathise with Mr Ds position, I think it was fair for esure to turn down his 
claim. So Im not telling it to pay him anything.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 8July2020.
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman