DRN-3775019
The complaint
Mr M complains that Cumberland Building Society did not do enough to protect him from the 
financial harm caused by an investment scam company.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Mr M was a victim of an investment scam. He was contacted by a broker claiming to work for 
a company Ill refer to as B who he came across online. The broker asked him to first 
purchase cryptocurrency through a cryptocurrency exchange company and then load the 
cryptocurrency onto his online wallet. Between 18 April 2021 and 20 May 2021, he made 
nine payments totalling £10,375.50 to two cryptocurrency exchange companies using his 
Cumberland Visa debit card. The first two payments of £100 and £500 were made on 18 
April to a company Ill refer to as C. Then between 5 and 20 May, Mr M made seven 
payments to a company Ill refer to as M. These payments ranged between £419.77 and 
£3,764.43. 
When Mr M tried to make the payment of £3,764.43, Cumberland sent him a text message 
asking him to call them, which he did. During the call he confirmed them hed authorised the 
payment and the block was lifted. Mr M received a further text when he tried to make 
another payment the following day, so he contacted Cumberland a second time. During this 
call he confirmed hed authorised the payment, explaining it was to purchase cryptocurrency. 
Again, the block was lifted.
Mr M realised hed been the victim of a scam when he was unable to withdraw his money 
from the wallet. He asked Cumberland to raise a request under Visas chargeback scheme, 
but it seems nothing was done in this regard.
When Mr M complained to Cumberland, it said it was unable to uphold the complaint. It said 
the payment on 11 May had flagged and the payment was blocked. It explained that as Mr M 
had previously purchased cryptocurrency, it wouldnt have questioned the payment, other 
than to confirm he had authorised it, as it was reasonable to assume that he understood the 
risks associated with cryptocurrency. Cumberland also said it didnt accept Mr M was the 
victim of a scam, rather it was a misjudged investment, so the Contingent Reimbursement 
Model (CRM) Code didnt apply.
Finally, it accepted it could have delivered a better service and offered £150 compensation 
as a goodwill gesture.
Mr M wasnt satisfied and so he complained to this service. He said Cumberland had 
breached its duty of care to protect him from financial loss and that it should reimburse the 
money hed lost.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. He agreed there was no valid 
chargeback claim against the cryptocurrency exchange companies because they had 
provided the services as intended, which was to purchase the cryptocurrency. 
But he thought Cumberland ought to have asked him more questions during the call on 11 
May as, by the time Mr M made the payment, cryptocurrency scams had risen in frequency 
and it should have had mechanisms in place to detect and prevent this type of fraud. He 
concluded that Cumberland could have done more to prevent Mr Ms loss and 
recommended it should reimburse the money hed lost from 11 May onwards.
Cumberland has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, arguing that it 
acted accordance with its security procedures on 11 May. It said Mr Ms card was 
temporarily stopped, and its questions were answered fully and completely during the call, 
with no indication of increased risk of fraud. Mr M was an experienced purchaser of 
cryptocurrency having previously made seven payments to cryptocurrency exchange 
companies, and the transaction wasnt deemed unusual or out of keeping with other 
transactions. It also said that if further questions had been asked, this wouldnt have 
changed the outcome, and the funds would still have been transferred.
Cumberland also argued that it would be unfair to suggest it should be responsible for loss 
after it had executed a customers request as it would make payment institutions responsible 
for transactions over which they had little or no knowledge or control.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. 
CRM Code
The CRM Code requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the victims of 
Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr M says hes fallen victim to, in all 
but a limited number of circumstances. The CRM code didnt apply in this case because the 
disputed payments were paid to an account in Mr Ms own name.
Not every complaint referred to us and categorised as an investment scam is in fact a scam. 
Some cases simply involve high-risk unregulated investments that resulted in disappointing 
returns or losses. Some of these investments may have been promoted using sales methods 
that were arguably unethical and/or misleading. However, while customers who lost out may 
understandably regard such acts or omissions as fraudulent, they do not necessarily meet 
the high legal threshold or burden of proof for fraud, i.e. dishonestly making a false 
representation and/or failing to disclose information with the intention of making a gain for 
himself or of causing loss to another or exposing another to the risk of loss (Fraud Act 2006). 
Ive carefully considered the circumstances, and I am persuaded the broker was operating 
as part of a scam. But, although Mr M didnt intend his money to go to scammers, he did 
authorise the disputed payments. Cumberland is expected to process payments and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, but where the customer has been the 
victim of a scam, it may sometimes be fair and reasonable for the bank to reimburse them 
even though they authorised the payment.
ChargebackIve thought about whether Cumberland could have done more to recover Mr Ms payments 
when he reported the scam to it. Chargeback is a voluntary scheme run by Visa whereby it 
will ultimately arbitrate on a dispute between the merchant and customer if it cannot be 
resolved between them after two presentments. Such arbitration is subject to the rules of 
the scheme  so there are limited grounds on which a chargeback can succeed. Our role in 
such cases is not to second-guess Visas arbitration decision or scheme rules, but to 
determine whether the regulated card issuer (i.e. Cumberland) acted fairly and reasonably 
when presenting (or choosing not to present) a chargeback on behalf of its cardholder (Mr 
M).
Mr Ms own testimony supports that he used cryptocurrency exchanges to facilitate the 
transfers. Its only possible to make a chargeback claim to the merchant that received the 
disputed payments and its most likely the cryptocurrency exchanges would have been able 
to evidence theyd done what was asked of them. That is, in exchange for Mr Ms payments, 
they converted and sent an amount of cryptocurrency to the wallet address provided. So, 
any chargeback was destined fail, therefore Im satisfied that Cumberlands failure to raise a 
chargeback request against either of the cryptocurrency exchange companies didnt 
represent a missed opportunity to recover the money.
Triggers
Buying cryptocurrency is a legitimate activity and from the evidence Ive seen, the payments 
were made to genuine cryptocurrency exchange companies. However, Cumberland had an 
obligation to be alert to fraud and scams and these payments were part of a wider scam, so I 
need to consider whether it ought to have done more to warn Mr M when he tried to make 
the payments.  If there are unusual or suspicious payments on an account, Id expect 
Cumberland to intervene with a view to protecting Mr M from financial harm due to fraud. 
I agree that the first three payments Mr M made were neither suspicious nor unusual. But on 
11 May, he tried to pay £3,764.43 and received a text from Cumberland asking if the 
transaction was genuine. Mr M confirmed over the phone that the payment was genuine 
before Cumberland removed the block.
Cumberland did more than seek to confirm the transaction was genuine by text and asked to 
speak to Mr M, so I do think it considered this particular transaction to be unusual. During 
the call, Mr M told the agent who he was trying to pay and confirmed the payment was 
genuine. The agent made no other enquiries and cleared the block. 
While the aim of the call had been to establish that Mr M had intended to make the payment, 
I think the agent should reasonably have identified that it was above Mr Ms average monthly 
spend, it followed a pattern of payments to cryptocurrency exchanges and, crucially, that it 
was significantly higher than the seven previous payments hed made to cryptocurrency 
exchange companies, the highest of which was £536.25. 
Having identified that the payment was unusual, and notwithstanding the fact that Mr M had 
purchased cryptocurrency before, I think it would have been reasonable for the call handler 
to have made some enquiries such as whether there was a third party involved and, if so, 
what the third party had told him in the context of how much money he might make from the 
investment. Had the agent asked these questions, as theres no evidence of Mr M having 
misled Cumberland in any of its other enquiries, I think its likely he wouldve been open 
about the fact hed been approached by a third party claiming to work for B.
While there were no warnings about B on the FCA or IOSCO websites, B wasnt regulated 
by the FCA and Cumberland could have explained to Mr M that this indicated it was probably a scam. Im satisfied that, if Mr M was warned he could be the victim of a scam, he would 
have thought twice about going ahead with the payments as the investment was funded by 
his own savings, and theres no evidence that he was keen to take risks with his money. 
If Cumberland had alerted Mr M to the risk, Im satisfied he most likely would have 
reconsidered his decision to make the payment. Consequently, I think that in failing to ask 
more questions when he called on 11 May, Cumberland missed an opportunity to intervene 
and prevent the scam. So, it should refund the money he lost from that date onwards. This 
should include a payment of 8% simple interest, per year, from the respective dates of loss 
to the date of settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that Cumberland Building Society should: 
pay Mr M £9839.25
pay 8% simple interest*, per year, from the respective dates of loss to the date of 
settlement.
*If Cumberland Building Society deducts tax in relation to the interest element of this award it 
should provide Mr M with the appropriate tax deduction certificate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Carolyn Bonnell
Ombudsman