DRN-1963803
The complaint
Mrs R says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. AXA France 
IARD, as the insurer, have taken responsibility for the sale. To keep things simple, Ill only 
refer to AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
What happened
Mrs R bought the policy in 2002 at the same time as taking out a store card. It covered her in 
case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs R disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Rs case.
I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Rs store card application gave a brief overview of what the PPI was for and what it cost. 
Then it had a section where she could take out PPI if she wanted, amongst sections where 
she could take other optional features. Mrs R signed specifically to buy PPI, separately to 
signing for the agreement as a whole. So I think that AXA made Mrs R aware she had a 
choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can 
understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so long.
AXA didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, so they didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
They did have to give Mrs R enough information to decide if the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information AXA gave Mrs R about PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have changed 
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs R chose to take out the policy, which indicates she wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And it wouldve 
paid out on top of her existing benefits and gave her more comprehensive cover  especially 
for when her benefits reduced to just a fraction of her normal pay. So the policy could have 
been useful for Mrs R if something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly 
basis, so Mrs R could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better 
information about the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 September 2020.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman