DRN-3460336
The complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd failed to pursue a chargeback claim for returned goods.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for the following 
reasons: 
I believe it is not disputed that Mr H returned goods to the company from which he 
purchased them, which I will call A. He has evidence that A received the goods back and 
agreed to refund the money he had paid on his credit card. However despite A saying it 
would make the refund it failed to do so.
He contacted NewDay and it responded on 17 July 2021 asking him to complete a disputes 
document. This he did and I see that it dated 23 July 2021. Attached to that were full details 
of the transactions and screenshots of replies from A. These show that A had received the 
returned item and Mr H also supplied photos of the item being returned.
As our investigator has explained the reference numbers match and I consider it is clear that 
the item was returned and A had agreed to make a refund. It is not clear why this didnt 
happen, but I note NewDay had concerns that As offer of a refund wasnt for the goods Mr H 
had claimed. I can appreciate that as A has claimed he had placed 26 orders over an 
unspecified time this may have caused some confusion.
However, A did not address the evidence given by Mr H to NewDay which shows the goods 
had been returned. If these records had been for another item I would have expected A to 
explain in more detail and let NewDay know what the agreed refund was for if not for the 
item Mr H was chasing. I would also have expected NewDay to challenge As rejection of the 
chargeback. Our investigator has satisfied himself that the reference numbers match and I 
agree.
A said it had tracking evidence of the parcel being delivered, but Mr H had evidence of the 
parcel being returned and this I think this was enough to push back against A.
Finally, for completeness I can confirm I agree that section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 
does not apply in this case as the required debtor-creditor-supplier chain is broken.
Putting things right
The cost of the goods should be refunded.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct NewDay Ltd to refund the cost of 
the returned item and pay interest at 8% simple plus compensation of £100 in addition to the 
£15 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 September 2022.
 
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman