DRN-1401312
The complaint 
Mrs T brings this complaint on behalf of the estate of her late son, Mr T. She says Avon 
Insurance Plc sold Mr T an accidental death policy that he didnt want or need. 
To resolve the complaint, Mrs T believes Avon ought to provide a complete refund of 
premiums paid to Mr Ts estate, with interest. 
What happened
Mr T took out a £3,200 loan which began in January 1990 and ended in October 1993. This 
loan was taken out through NatWest and was the second in a series of loans Mr T had 
sought with the bank. 
Shortly afterwards in February 1990, Mr T took out a personal accident policy with Avon. It 
had an initial monthly premium of £8.85 per month. The policy was cancelled in July 2000.  
In April 2019, Mrs T made a complaint to Avon. She said she had recently been reviewing 
her sons affairs and discovered the policy. She believed the policy was mis-sold to Mr T. 
She said she could only assume that being sold the insurance was a pre-condition of his 
lending with NatWest. She did not think that as a recent graduate and person aged 23 at the 
time that Mr T would have understood what the policy was for, or that he had any 
requirement for cover of that nature. 
Avon issued a final response to the complaint in May 2019. It explained that Mr T had been 
sent a direct mailing in 1990. This offered the first £1,000 of accidental death cover for free, 
for a set ten years. Beyond this, any further cover could be purchased as an add-on. 
Avon said it did not retain personalised information about the sale of the policy, because 
under data protection regulations it was obliged to remove Mr Ts details from its records 
once seven years had passed after the date the policy was cancelled. However, it said the 
policy was standalone accidental death cover and whilst it had been marketed to Mr T 
through NatWest, it was not connected to his lending. The sale was not advised, so it was 
for Mr T to decide if he wanted to apply for the cover when he received the postal marketing 
information. 
Mrs T brought the complaint to this service. She said she knew her son wouldnt have known 
what he was signing and likely only applied for the free insurance. 
An investigator from this service reviewed the complaint but did not think it should succeed. 
He said he hadnt seen any evidence Mr T was advised to take this policy out. Nor was there 
evidence that Mr T was led to believe hed need this policy in relation to a personal loan he 
may have had at the time. He therefore couldnt conclude the policy had been mis-sold by 
Avon. 
Mrs T asked for the matter to be passed to an ombudsman. She said she disagreed with the 
outcome for a number of reasons:
it seems too much of a coincidence that the offer was sent to Mr T at approximately 
the same time as his loan;
this was not his first loan with NatWest, yet this one appears to have been supported 
with an insurance policy;
she cannot think of a more unsuitable insurance product to be foisted on a healthy 
23-year old graduate, who neither had a car or undertook any sporting activities 
which might lead to accidental death;
she believes that Mr T was misled into signing the documents in the misguided belief 
that he was taking advantage of the free insurance offered;
as insurance cover for accidental death is not something that would have entered Mr 
Ts mind of his own volition, she is of the opinion that it was raised at the time he 
applied for the loan.
To support her view, Mrs T supplied two different finance agreements where Mr T had 
specifically refused payment protection insurance (PPI).  
Avon didnt have any further comments to make, and the complaint was passed to me for 
review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs T, but I agree with the outcome that our 
investigator reached. I do not believe Avon ought to return the policy premiums to Mr Ts 
estate, because I do not find it to have acted unfairly in relation to the sale of Mr Ts policy.  
A number of the points Mrs T has made to our investigator relate to the lending Mr T took 
with NatWest. But that business is not responsible for the sale of this policy. The lending was 
already in place before this policy was taken out. And, Avon isnt liable for the loan; it is 
unconnected to NatWest in that regard. The connection is that Avon marketed its insurance 
to customers that held certain NatWest bank accounts. 
If Mrs T remains unhappy regarding what happened at the time the loan was sold to Mr T, 
then this is a matter for NatWest to address.  
I recognise that because of the passage of time since the policy was cancelled, that Avon no 
longer retains evidence of the precise details of Mr Ts policy. That is to be expected, since it 
has destroyed any data it holds on him in accordance with data protection legislation.  
However, Avon has been able to provide the marketing information that it sent to customers 
at the time. Ive looked at it carefully, and I do not believe Avon has misled Mr T. The product 
information was a specific offer to NatWest customers. It provided for £1,000 of free cover, 
by merely ticking a box and returning the form. If the customer wished to take out additional 
cover (at set levels of £20,000, £40,000 or £60,000) then there was a further tick box section 
to complete. Those two elements were distinct, with the additional cover requiring the 
applicant to complete further information.  
It set out that:
NatWest is providing each eligible customer with the opportunity to have £1,000 of 
this valuable cover at no cost. Eligible customers (and their eligible spouses) also 
have the option to purchase up to £60,000 of additional protection.To receive your £1,000 NatWest Accidental Death Protection at no cost, simply 
complete the personalised application form enclosed and return it in the pre-paid 
envelope. Provided you remain a NatWest customer, your £1,000 cover will remain in 
force for a period of 10 years and there will be no cost to you at any time. If you wish 
to apply for a more substantial amount of cover, just tick the additional benefit 
amount you require on the same form.  
Once your insurance application has been processed, your insurance policy will be 
posted to you for inspection and  if you selected additional cover  your monthly 
premium will be automatically deducted from your bank account each month.
I am satisfied that this statement makes clear that if a customer wants any additional cover, 
this will be at an agreed monthly premium, for the level selected by the applicant. The 
documentation included policy provisions where a table set out the different cost of monthly 
premiums for each of the four levels of cover. Mr T selected the £60,000 of cover at an 
agreed premium of £8.85 per month. I believe it was clear this was a further payable benefit. 
The policy provisions also explained the nature of the cover, the benefits available and any 
terms applying to the cover, such as maximum age limits and circumstances in which a valid 
claim is paid. 
I do not doubt Mrs T feels strongly that the policy wasnt suitable for her son at the time he 
applied for it. But he did not do so with any advice from Avon. There is a difference between 
advised and non-advised sales. In this instance, Avon did not have the obligations it 
wouldve had if it had acted as an adviser by reviewing Mr Ts circumstances and making a 
recommendation based on his recorded needs. That didnt take place because the sale 
didnt happen upon receipt of any advice. 
Mr T applied for additional cover by returning the form (with his completed direct debit details 
for payment of an agreed monthly premium) based on receipt of a postal marketing to 
NatWest customers by Avon. That was his choice to make at the time, and I dont find that 
Avon was unfair to have sent Mr T the promotion, or to supply the cover until it was 
cancelled in return for Mr T paying the premiums. It follows that I cant agree that the 
premiums should be returned to Mr Ts estate, as they were paid for valid insurance during 
the relevant period.
My final decision
Im not able to uphold this complaint or make any award. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr T to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 October 2020. 
Jo Storey
Ombudsman