DRN-2867258
The complaint
Mr P complains about financial associations showing on his Experian Limited credit file. 
  
What happened
Mr P contacted Experian as he found several entries on his credit file that show financial 
associations with his wife that are over six years old. Mr P asked Experian to remove the 
entries that related to closed accounts and those that were over six years old. 
Experian responded to Mr Ps complaint but said financial association information are 
retained on a credit file indefinitely or until the consumer requests a financial disassociation. 
Mr P referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. They spoke 
with the Information Commissioners Office (ICO), the body that deals with how businesses 
use and record information. The investigator said the guidance they received from the ICO 
was that Experian should give a reason for retaining financial association entries on Mr Ps 
credit file. The investigator recommended that Experian provide Mr P with the reason it is 
necessary to record financial associations (in relation to closed accounts where there is no 
link to active accounts) on his credit file. The investigator said if Mr P remains unhappy with 
the reasons Experian gives he can then complain to the ICO. 
Mr P asked to appeal as Experian hadnt agreed to amend his credit file. As Mr P asked to 
appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the guidance the ICO issue about financial associations shown on a 
consumers credit file. It says: 
If you have a joint account or have made a joint account application for credit, the name of 
the other person will show on your credit file as a financial association The other persons 
name will stay on your credit reference file until you write to the credit reference agencies 
telling them you are no longer financially connected. This is called disassociation. 
The ICO guidance says the information will remain on a consumers credit file until a 
disassociation is requested. And a disassociation is requested when theres no longer a 
financial association. In this case, Mr P hasnt told us hes no longer financially associated 
with his wife (they have active joint accounts), hes complaining that entries relating to closed 
accounts and entries that are over six years old remain on his credit file. 
Whilst I understand Mr P wants various entries to be removed from his credit file, Experian 
has explained it believes the ICO guidance has been complied with. As theres no specific 
limit on the length of time financial association entries are reported for, I havent found 
Experian has made a mistake in this case. 
Our investigator spoke with the ICO for some additional guidance. The ICO said retention of 
information isnt a discretionary matter and that Experian should be able to give Mr P the 
reason behind why its retained financial association entries for accounts that were closed 
more than six years ago. Experian has confirmed its willing to do that. 
Our investigator also said if Mr P remains unhappy with the reasons Experian gives him for 
reporting financial associations he can refer his complaint to the ICO. I think thats a 
reasonable approach. The ICO handles queries and complaints about whether a business 
has broken the rules and regulations surrounding concerning how information is used and 
recorded. 
This service looks at complaints on a fair and reasonable basis. Ive considered whether 
Experians approach in this case has unreasonably impacted Mr P or led to a financial loss. 
Mr P hasnt given us any details of a loss thats been caused by the financial association 
entries hes raised. And I havent found anything that shows Mr P has experienced any 
problems or difficulties because of the information recorded on his credit file. 
I think the investigators recommendation that Experian should give Mr P the reason why its 
necessary for it to continue to report information relating to closed and old financial 
association entries on his account is a fair way to resolve this complaint. As Ive said above, 
if Mr P feels Experian has broken the rules he has the option to refer his concerns to the 
ICO. As a result, Im going to proceed in line with the investigators findings and uphold this 
complaint. 
  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and, on Mr Ps acceptance, direct Experian 
Limited to give him the reason its necessary for it to continue reporting financial associations 
on his credit file in relation to closed and old entries.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman