DRN-2755301
The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard withdrew his promotional 
rate of interest because he was late with a monthly payment.
What happened
In October 2019, Mr P transferred a credit card balance to Barclaycard on a 0% interest 
promotion. The promotional period was set to run until April 2021. 
In December 2019, following a job change, Mr Ps salary was paid on a different date. He 
says that, as a result of this, he was a few days late in making the December payment to his 
Barclaycard account. Barclaycard applied a late payment charge of £12 and withdrew the 
0% interest rate from Mr Ps account. They applied interest at the standard rate from that 
point onwards. Mr P says he didnt notice this until around July 2020, by which stage interest 
of around £1,000 had been applied to his account.
Mr P was unhappy about this and complained to Barclaycard. He says they didnt make it 
clear to him that the promotional interest rate had been withdrawn. And he says it was 
disproportionate to remove it in the circumstances here. Barclaycard responded in August 
2020 and said that their terms and conditions allow them to remove a promotional rate if a 
payment is made late. But, as a gesture of goodwill, they offered to re-apply the 0% rate until 
21 April 2021 and refund three months worth of interest, amounting to around £400. 
Our investigator thought this was fair and didnt ask Barclaycard to do any more. But Mr P 
didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He doesnt think 
Barclaycard did enough to make him aware of the promotional rate being withdrawn and 
says that they should refund all the interest.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr P feels strongly about the situation, and Im sorry to disappoint him. But Im not 
going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account say that he can lose his promotional interest rate 
if he doesnt keep to the terms of his credit card agreement. The terms include an obligation 
on Mr P to pay at least the minimum payment amount by the due date every month. As Mr 
Ps payment in December 2019 was late, I find that Barclaycard were entitled to withdraw 
the promotional interest rate. The fact that the payment was only late by around six days 
doesnt change this as the payment due date is fixed and the terms dont allow a grace 
period.
The terms and conditions also say that, if Mr P loses the promotional rate, Barclaycard will 
start charging interest at the standard rate immediately. So, I find that Barclaycard were 
entitled to start charging interest when they did.
Mr Ps December 2019 statement contained a message confirming that the 0% promotional 
rate would revert to the standard interest rate. The standard rate was shown on the front of 
the statement, as well as the amount of interest being charged that month. The rate and 
amount of interest charged were shown on each statement after that. So, I find that 
Barclaycard informed Mr P of the withdrawal of the promotional rate and made him aware 
that he was being charged interest.
Mr P accepts that the information was contained in the December statement. But he says it 
wasnt highlighted sufficiently and that the only other communication he received about 
withdrawal of the promotional rate was a notification in his online banking messages. He 
says that online-only documents werent an appropriate way to communicate a decision 
which had such significant consequences.
The terms and conditions of Mr Ps account say that Barclaycard may give him legal notices 
or details of changes to his agreement in his monthly statements. I dont think it was 
unreasonable that they used that approach here, particularly as Mr P has confirmed that 
they also informed him through his online banking.
I realise that the amount of interest charged between December 2019 and July 2020 (when 
Mr P became aware of it) is significant and Mr P says the amount is disproportionate to the 
administrative error he made by making the December payment a few days late. I 
sympathise with his point of view. But the reason the amount of interest is so significant is 
because Mr P hadnt noticed the interest on his statements over that period of several 
months. I dont think thats Barclaycards fault. The information was contained in the 
statements. If Mr P had checked the statements, the issue would have come to light earlier 
and some of the interest could have perhaps been avoided.
Mr P says its not reasonable to expect a balance transfer customer on a promotional rate to 
check every statement. I know he feels strongly about this. But I find that the customer does 
have a responsibility to check their statements. Im sorry to disappoint Mr P, but I dont think 
Barclaycard acted unreasonably here.
 
In any event, they re-instated the promotional rate and refunded three months worth of 
interest. I think thats a fair resolution, so Im not going to ask Barclaycard to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 May 2021.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman