DRN-4310202
The complaint
Mr and Ms K complain about poor customer service by Simplyhealth Access when they were 
given incorrect information about their policy renewal date. 
What happened
In January 2023 Mr and Ms K took out medical insurance policy with Simplyhealth through 
Mr Ks employer. This policy is a health cash plan providing a fixed amount of benefit 
throughout the year for dental treatment and physiotherapy, along with other treatments like 
reflexology and sports massages. The documentation provided showed the policy renewal 
date as 1 April 2023. Claims were made and benefits paid in February 2023 but then Mr K 
noted in March 2023 that he could no longer access his policy online. 
Mr K contacted Simplyhealth who confirmed that there had been an error and that the 
renewal date of the policy was in fact 1 March 2023, not 1 April 2023. The old policy was 
cancelled, and a new policy created to reflect the correct renewal date. Mr and Ms K 
complained to Simplyhealth, who apologised for the error and offered £50 compensation. 
But Mr and Ms K remained unhappy with this outcome and brought the complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and felt that £50 compensation wasnt enough to 
cover the loss of expectation Mr and Ms K had suffered as a result of this error. He said that 
some of the benefits could only be utilised if a health condition was to arise. But he found 
there were some benefits which could be used at any point and so he thought Mr and Ms K 
could have made use of those benefits in that year had they been aware of the correct 
renewal date. He recommended that the compensation offer be increased by an additional 
£150.
Mr and Ms K accepted our investigators view. Simplyhealth said that, while it recognised its 
initial compensation award was too low, it felt that an additional £150 was too high. It said it 
would increase the offer by an additional £100. As no agreement could be reached, the 
matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Simplyhealth has accepted that it made an error when setting up the policy and that the 
incorrect renewal date was given. It offered £50 in compensation. Mr and Ms K are unhappy 
as they believed they had a longer period to utilise the plans benefits for that particular year. 
They have told us that they would have used more of the benefits prior to 1 March 2023, had 
they known about the earlier renewal. And they dont think that the compensation offered by 
Simplyhealth is enough.
Ive thought about this carefully. Health plans are generally designed to provide 
reimbursement to the insured members for costs they incur for general healthcare up to a 
fixed sum in each year. Some of these benefits relate to reimbursement of healthcare costs 
which may come up at any point during the year if you suffer an illness or injury so these 
cannot be scheduled. However, there are also benefits, such as routine dental and eye care, 
along with some other therapies which could be utilised at any point. Therefore, it is possible 
that Mr and Ms K could have received care and claimed the benefit in the previous policy 
year, had they known of the correct renewal date. 
Simplyhealth has provided details of the claims that have been made before and after 
renewal of the cover. And it is clear that Mr and Ms K did utilise some of these types of 
benefit in March 2023. So, I think it is likely Mr and Ms K would have scheduled these earlier 
if they had known of the correct date. So, I think that they have suffered a loss of expectation 
as a result of this mistake by Simplyhealth. They also have less benefit available to them in 
the new policy year as a result.
Our investigator recommended that Simplyhealth increase its compensation offer by an 
additional £150  bringing the total compensation to £200. Ive noted that Simplyhealth feel 
this is too high and have offered an additional £100 instead. But it hasnt provided any 
explanation for the reduction. Based on what Ive seen Im satisfied Mr and Ms K have lost 
out on the opportunity to utilise the benefit they thought was available to them in that first 
year and therefore Im persuaded that an additional award of £150 should be made to bring 
the compensation to a total figure of £200.
Putting things right
I direct Simplyhealth to pay an additional £150 compensation to Mr and Ms K, bringing the 
total compensation payment to £200.
My final decision
As stated above, I uphold this complaint.
Simplyhealth Access needs to put things right as detailed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman