DRN-3039509
The complaint
Miss J is unhappy that the Nationwide Building Society made an error when handling a direct 
debit request.
What happened
In April 2020, Miss J went to her Nationwide branch to cancel a direct debit.  A few days later 
she received correspondence addressed to her but annotated deceased. She initially 
thought the letter had been addressed incorrectly. But she later received correspondence 
from the business shed cancelled the direct debit with asking for a death certificate and 
executor for her account.
On contacting them Miss J said the agent appeared amused by the situation but explained 
their records had been changed following information theyd received from Nationwide. And 
they sent a screenshot of the information supplied by the Nationwide that showed the direct 
debit was cancelled as payer deceased. 
Miss J said she was extremely distressed by the situation as shed a personal bereavement 
around this time, as well as the concerns about the pandemic and lockdown. As Nationwide 
had supplied the information this added to her concerns as she didnt know whether her 
accounts with Nationwide would also be affected. In May 2020, Miss J said she contacted 
Nationwide to find out whether her accounts had been frozen. On checking she was told her 
accounts were still active.
In June 2020, Miss J went into her branch and explained what had happened and the effect 
it had on her to the branch manager. Nationwide later wrote to her and explained it had been 
a human error and offered £125 for the trouble and upset that had been caused. Miss J 
wasnt happy with the response as it failed to acknowledge her distress and simply referred 
only to there being an error. On further contact with Nationwide Miss J said she was told she 
complained too much and should look to move to another bank. Nationwide later apologised 
for this and offered Miss J a further £100 in compensation.
Miss J feels Nationwide have failed to appreciate the full impact of their actions and referred 
her complaint to us. She said the offer of compensation was too low, and for the distress 
caused they should pay £100,000.
Our investigator accepted that Nationwide had made a mistake. But said that the offer in 
total of £225 was fair and reasonable. Miss J didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide accepts they made mistakes in this case. This includes inputting the wrong
code when cancelling a direct debit and providing Miss J with poor customer service overall. 
So, what remains for me to consider is what is fair and reasonable to put things right.
Nationwide has offered £125 for the inputting of the wrong code, and a further £100 for the 
poor customer service.
I know Miss J doesnt think this is enough and shes highlighted the distress and 
inconvenience this situation has caused her. Being told she was deceased has played on 
her mind, causing her sleepless nights and worry about her own mortality. 
At the time Miss J was already experiencing a period of distress due to a recent 
bereavement and the uncertainty surrounding the pandemic which I cant attribute to 
Nationwides mistake. But their error did make Miss Js situation more distressing. I can see 
she took steps to find out the cause of the misinformation. And has said she was given 
reassurance in May 2020 that her bank accounts hadnt been affected. So, there wasnt any 
financial impact as a result of the error. But Miss J did have the trouble of trying to find out 
what had happened.
Miss J said she was further upset by the lack of empathy shown in Nationwides final 
response as they only referred to there being an error and they didnt acknowledge the 
impact to her of saying she was deceased. But Nationwide has shown they tried to call Miss 
J several times without success before they wrote to her explaining what had happened. 
While a phone call might or might not have helped Miss Js circumstances, I cant say 
Nationwide in laying out the circumstances of how the error happened in their letter to her 
was unfair or unreasonable.
I can see this happened at a very difficult time for Miss J, and further exacerbated by the 
customer service shes received from her bank. But its not our role to punish a business. 
And the level of compensation Miss J is seeking is I think very excessive. 
I know my decision will be a disappointment to Miss J, and I understand the distress and 
worry she must have felt. But mistakes do happen as we are all only human. And I think the 
amount offered by Nationwide is enough to recognise the failings. So, I think this amount of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. I therefore wont be asking 
Nationwide to do anything else. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 January 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman