DRN-2022846
The complaint
Mrs E has complained that AXA France IARD mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.
AXA France IARD, the PPI insurer, has taken responsibility for the sale of such policies. To 
keep things simple, Ill therefore just be referring to AXA in this decision.
What happened
Mrs E took out the policy in a shop in September 1999 when she bought some goods on hire 
purchase.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs E disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Es complaint and Ill explain why.
Looking at the credit agreement that Mrs E completed, there is a separate section for PPI. In 
that section the monthly cost of the policy is shown as £4.56. It states: ONLY SIGN IF YOU 
WANT COVER. Mrs E has signed to accept PPI. I think that Mrs E would have known from 
the wording and layout of the form that she had a choice about buying PPI. It seems to me 
that she knew it was optional and decided to buy it, knowing that she didnt have to.
AXA didnt advise Mrs E to take out the PPI, so it didnt need to ensure that it met her needs. 
But it did need to provide her with enough information for her to be able to make an informed 
choice about whether or not the policy was right for her.
I think that Mrs E would have known something about the policy  that it would cover her 
repayments if she was unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment  
because I dont think shed have decided to take it out without knowing anything at all about 
it. And Im satisfied that the cost was made clear to her.
Mrs E was self-employed and wouldnt have received any sick pay if she was unable to work 
due to accident or sickness. She said she had savings of around £5,000. However, having 
the policy would have allowed her to retain these or use them to cover other outgoings at 
what would have been a difficult time.
Mrs E has argued that the policy wasnt suitable for her as she was self-employed. The 
policy says you have to have stopped trading to be able to make a claim for unemployment. 
But if Mrs E hadnt stopped trading, shed have still be working, in which case she wouldnt 
be unemployed.
Similarly, Mrs E argues that the policy doesnt cover voluntary unemployment. Therefore the 
only way she could be made involuntarily unemployed is if her business went into 
administration. However, if a self-employed person isnt earning enough income to meet 
their normal living costs, they wouldnt really have any choice about continuing with the 
business, which would be considered as being involuntarily unemployed.
Mrs E has also said that, as the policy didnt cover temporary cessation of trading, it meant 
that a person had to permanently cease trading in order to make a claim. On the face of it, 
the term could be interpreted as that. However, in practice we know that not covering a 
temporary cessation is not the same as saying that an insurer will only pay for permanent 
cessation.
Mrs E also points to the definition of disability that says: If you are self-employed, a disability 
must stop you from helping, managing or carrying out any part of the day to day running of a 
business. Again, on the face of it, it looks like this term might have made it harder to claim. 
However, from what we know about how these terms were normally applied, we dont 
consider it would have been in practice.
Having carefully considered the policy terms, I am not persuaded that they are onerous for 
self-employed people. I accept there are restrictions on when self-employed policyholders 
could claim unemployment benefit. I also accept that self-employed policyholders had to fulfil 
different requirements from employed policyholders to claim unemployment benefit. But I am 
not persuaded that these particular terms placed a significantly greater burden on self-
employed policyholders so that they became onerous, compared to the actions employed 
policyholders had to take. 
Overall, based on the available evidence, I consider that Mrs E had a need for the policy and 
could have benefited from it at what would have been a difficult time.
Its possible that AXA didnt provide as much information as it should have about the policy. 
However, Im not persuaded that, if the terms around self-employment had been highlighted 
to Mrs E, it would have caused her to make a different decision. As I consider she had an 
interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have 
caused her to change her mind. It follows that I do not uphold Mrs Es complaint.
My final decision
My decision is that I do no uphold Mrs Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 October 2020. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman