DRN-3611892
The complaint
In August 2020 Ms W instructed Legal & General (L&G) to conduct fund switches in her 
Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP) and then she requested a transfer of the SIPP to a 
new provider; both tasks were delayed by the effects of a change of business at the time 
between L&G and ReAssure Limited (RL); Ms W complained about this; on 13 October 
2020 RL upheld her complaint; it confirmed that the switches had been concluded and that 
valuations backdated to 26 August 2020 had been used; with regards to the SIPP transfer 
delay it undertook to calculate if there had been a financial loss in the delayed investments in 
the new SIPP (caused by the delayed transfer) and to compensate her for that; it also 
offered her £200 for the trouble and inconvenience the matter had caused her. 
On 27 October 2020 Ms W submitted to RL the information and documents it needed to 
conduct the compensation calculation. 
She referred the matter to this service because RL was yet to conduct the calculation and 
had therefore not paid her the compensation. She says this services intervention is needed 
to clarify the calculation approach RL must follow (including an update to the calculation that 
is needed because of the passage of time). She also says £200 is not enough to cover the 
trouble and inconvenience caused to her.
What happened
One of our investigators initially addressed the complaint, then it was referred to me. I issued 
a Provisional Decision (PD) on 27 June 2022. My provisional findings were as follows  
 liability has already been conceded by RL and does not need to be treated. RLs 
complaint response confirms this, available evidence supports why it has conceded liability 
and I have not seen anything from it to show or suggest it has withdrawn or changed its 
stance in this respect. I also agree with the investigators finding  for the same reasons he 
gave  that RL has adequately resolved the matter about execution of the switches 
instructed on 21 August 2020 by using the prices/valuations on 26 August 2020. Ms W 
appears to have previously argued for the use of valuations on 25 August 2020, but it 
appears that she now accepts the investigators finding on the matter.
For the sake of completeness, I consider that RL is responsible for the delayed execution 
of the switches instructed by Ms W and for the delayed SIPP transfer that she also 
instructed; that RL has resolved the former; that resolution of the latter remains 
outstanding; and that such resolution must involve the consideration of whether (or not) the 
delayed SIPP transfer has caused, to date, a financial loss to Ms W and, if so, the payment 
of compensation to her for such loss. As the award for trouble and inconvenience remains 
in dispute, this too will be addressed. I make the following additional provisional findings:
It is important to note, at the outset and as part of my response to Ms Ws 
assistance request, that this service does not have enforcement powers, so 
nothing in this decision exists for that purpose. In this decision  and in the final 
decision  I can uphold the complaint and order RL to calculate and pay Ms W 
redress and compensation for trouble and inconvenience, and if she accepts such 
an outcome (after the final decision) RL will be legally bound to comply with such 
an order. I can also specify a time limit for payment, by RL, to Ms W and I can 
provide for interest to be calculated and added to the compensation if and where 
RL is late in paying the compensation. However, as is broadly the case for any 
other legally binding order, the expectation at first instance is that the party that is 
bound will comply with the order, but Ms W should be informed (or should be 
reminded) that, unlike in the courts, if that does not happen after a decision from 
this service, we do not have a secondary set of powers for the practical 
enforcement of an order made in a decision. If a party needs to pursue such 
enforcement that is a separate and distinct matter that is beyond our powers.
I understand the investigators view about the case being upheld by RL, about 
RL agreeing an approach to compensation that is fair and about both being 
enough to consider the case resolved. However, I am persuaded by Ms Ws key 
submission that, as a matter of fact and despite the information and documents 
she gave RL a significant period of time ago (in October 2020), the case 
remains unresolved and needs our intervention. Her communication at the time 
reserved her position on the distinct matter of the trouble and inconvenience 
award but it is clear from the communication that she was fully engaged with the 
process of having redress calculated and paid to her and that she did that on 
the basis of the approach agreed with RL at the time. I have not seen cause for 
RL to have delayed the calculation and contact with her since late 2020. I also 
do not consider that the COVID-19 pandemic explains this. Even if 2020 is 
discounted altogether, RL had all of 2021 and the past six months of 2022 to 
provide the outcome of the calculation it agreed to provide or, as a minimum, to 
make interim contact with Ms W. I consider this delay and lack of contact 
unreasonable. It adds weight to Ms Ws pursuit for a decision on redress from 
this service and to her request for a review of the trouble and inconvenience 
she has faced in the matter (and the award in this respect).
Overall and for the above reasons, I am satisfied that Ms W should receive £500 
for the trouble and upset this case has caused her. She was entitled to timely 
action by L&G (then RL) in response to her two instructions but, instead, both 
faced delayed action. To RLs credit, it promptly undertook responsibility for this 
and for the calculation of redress for investment loss caused by the delayed 
transfer. Then, for at least the past year and a half, it did nothing in this respect. 
This has clearly compounded the trouble and inconvenience caused to Ms W. I 
acknowledge the need to balance this view with the fact that the impact upon 
her has been less than it would have been if RL had not conceded liability 
promptly and if the resolution of liability had also been delayed over the past 
year and a half. However, there is nevertheless a notable impact upon her 
arising from the fact that she has been deprived a conclusion to her case (and 
any compensation she is due) for such a long time. For all these reasons, I 
consider it fair for RL to pay her £500 for the trouble and inconvenience she has 
been caused to date. If I retain this finding in my final decision, I will order RL to 
do this.
I am satisfied that redress to Ms W must be calculated (and, if arising, paid) to 
address the impact, if any, upon her transferred SIPP, the 
investment/reinvestment of that SIPP and any financial loss resulting from RLs 
delay in transferring it. Given the passage of time, I also consider that there is a 
need to ensure the calculation (and any payment) is brought up to date. I will 
also address Ms Ws point about making any payment that is due to her into her 
SIPP.If I retain the above finding in my final decision, I will set out the following 
oMy aim will be to put Ms W as close as possible to the position she would 
now be in if RL did not delay the transfer of her SIPP. I consider that she 
would have behaved differently in terms of the timing of the post-transfer 
investments in the SIPP, but the balance of evidence shows that she would 
have made the same investments that were eventually made in the SIPP. 
For this reason, Ms Ws SIPP serves as the natural benchmark for 
calculating redress from what I define below as the start date to the end 
date. I consider this a fair way to reflect how any compensatory amount 
arising at the former would have performed up to the latter. I will order RL to 
follow this approach and I will order Ms W to engage meaningfully and co-
operatively with RL to provide it with all information and documentation, 
relevant to its calculation of redress, that it does not already have.
oRL received the transfer request on 7 September 2020 and it ought 
reasonably to have been completed within 10 working days, by 21 
September 2020. Instead it was completed on 15 October 2020. Due to that 
delay, the investments in the transferred SIPP were made on 20 October. 
On balance, I consider that, but for the delay, those investment would 
probably have been made earlier. I am mindful that they were made on the 
third working day after the delayed completion of the transfer. Without the 
delay, Ms W should have been in a position to make the investments by 21 
September 2020. I have considered whether (or not) to add three working 
days to this date in setting the start date for calculating redress, and to 
reflect the three working days gap in October. Overall and on balance, I am 
not persuaded to do so, because this is not the definitive date on which the 
transfer would have been completed. It is not possible to make such a 
precise finding. Instead, it is the date by which the transfer should have 
been completed. Potentially, and but for the delay, it could have been 
completed earlier than this date. Therefore, I consider it broadly reasonable 
to say the transfer would probably have been completed and Ms Ws SIPP 
investments would probably have been made by 21 September 2020  
without cause to add three further working days. 21 September 2020 will be 
the start date that RL will be ordered to use in calculating redress for Ms W.
oThe end date that RL will be ordered to use for the calculation will be the 
date of my final decision, because the subject of redress relates to an 
invested SIPP that has remained invested from the start date to the present 
date and, based on available evidence, will probably continue to be invested 
on the date of my final decision. By using this end date, the redress 
calculation will reflect the performance that any compensation amount 
arising on the start date (C) would have had up to date (that is, the date of 
my final decision).
oAs I said above, the natural benchmark for calculating redress is Ms Ws 
transferred SIPP and RL will be ordered to use it as such. By using this 
benchmark, the calculation will reflect the performance of C consistently with 
the performance of the SIPP over the relevant period (including a reflection 
of any changes within the SIPP)  as though C was part of the SIPP 
throughout that period.
oI will order RL to calculate the total units Ms Ws SIPP invested in on 20 
October 2020 (A) and then calculate the total number of units, in the same funds and based on the same allocations of capital, that the SIPP could 
have purchased on 21 September 2020 (B), at the prices on that date. If A 
is the same or greater than B, no compensation is due. If B is greater than 
A, compensation is due to Ms W, I will order RL to calculate the difference 
and to calculate the total monetary value of the difference based on the 
relevant funds units prices on the start date. This total monetary value will 
be what I referred to as C above  that is, the compensation amount arising 
on the start date.
oI will then order RL to calculate the performance of C from the start date to 
the end date based on the SIPP benchmark, and to pay Ms W the 
concluding amount as compensation for the financial loss she has incurred 
as a result of its delayed transfer of her SIPP. I will order RL to make this 
payment within 28 days of receiving notice of Ms Ws acceptance of the final 
decision, and I will provide that if RL does not make the payment to her 
within this period it must pay her interest on the full compensation amount at 
the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of the final decision up to the 
date the payments settled/made to her . This provision will be to 
compensate her for any undue delay by RL in settling redress.
oI will also order that RL pay the compensation into Ms Ws SIPP, to increase 
its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest; that the 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief; 
that the compensation (and any interest) should not be paid into her SIPP if 
it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance; that if the 
compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into her SIPP, it must be 
paid directly to her ; that had it been possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would 
have provided a taxable income, so the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid; 
that the notional allowance should be calculated using her actual or 
expected marginal rate of tax at her selected retirement age (for example, if 
she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax and if she would have 
been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation).
oI will order RL to provide Ms W with a calculation of the compensation in a 
clear and simple format.
oWhere I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial 
business to pay compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, 
£355,000 or £375,000 (depending on when the complaint event occurred 
and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I consider 
appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance 
is not part of my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent 
firm and it is unlikely that a complainant can accept my decision and go to 
court to ask for such balance. A complainant may therefore want to consider 
getting independent legal advice in this respect before deciding whether to 
accept a final decision. In Ms Ws case, the complaint event occurred after 1 
April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and the complaint was referred to us after 
1 April 2020, so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
 
Both parties were invited to comment on the PD by a particular deadline. Ms W did so. The 
investigator assisted me in reminding RL of the invitation to comment on the PD, but RL does not appear to have done so. However, through Ms W, we were made aware of contact 
recently made by RL with her, which I refer to below.
Ms W mainly said as follows:
The statement in the PD that says  RL has adequately resolved the matter about 
execution of the switches instructed on 21 August 2020 by using the 
prices/valuations on 26 August 2020. Ms W appears to have previously argued for 
the use of valuations on 25 August 2020, but it appears that she now accepts the 
investigators finding on the matter is inaccurate, because she never argued for the 
use of valuations on 25 August 2020. RL initially, and wrongly, sought to use the 
valuation date of 21 August 2020, but it then agreed to use the prices for 26 August 
2020, which were determined on the evening of 25 August 2020. 
[Through the investigator, I replied and quoted to Ms W a specific statement 
previously made, which was the reason I had said in the PD that she appeared to 
argue for the use of valuations on 25 August 2020. I also noted that, in any case, the 
issue about the switches had been resolved.]
Her understanding is that, should the PD be confirmed, compensation should not be 
paid into her SIPP as that would trigger loss of her Fixed Protection 2014; both the 
compensation and the award for trouble and inconvenience should therefore be paid 
directly to her; and, she is a higher rate tax payer so any compensation payment 
should be reduced to notionally allow for the income tax that she would have paid on 
75% of the compensation.
There are long term adverse effects of RLs wrongdoing that cannot be addressed by 
the compensation, due to the fixed protection issue. As a result of this issue and its 
effect in preventing the compensation from being paid into her SIPP she stands to be 
deprived the benefit of having had the compensation amount invested in the SIPP 
since 21 September 2020 and the benefit of having that passed on to her nominated 
beneficiaries in the future (as is her intention). In this context, use of the SIPP as the 
redress benchmark is arguably redundant, so she invites me to consider applying an 
alternative benchmark or applying simple interest for the calculation of redress. If I 
disagree, and in order to bring the matter to a conclusion, she will accept direct 
payment of C (corrected for tax) and the trouble and inconvenience award. 
She received a letter from RL (dated 14 July 2022) presenting its assessment of the 
compensation it has calculated as due to her and stating its intention to make 
payment to her. In response, she has told RL to make no payment into her SIPP, for 
the reason of the fixed protection issue, and to make no payment of any kind prior to 
my final decision. What RL has presented is flawed in parts. She agrees with my 
provisional finding that, but for the delay, her investments would probably have been 
made on 21 September, so this should be the redress calculation start date. In 
contrast, RL has used, without explanation, the start dates of 5 and 6 October. The 
calculation end date it has used is 24 June 2022, three days prior to when the PD 
was issued. Overall, she considers its calculation flawed and agrees with the 
approach set out in the PD.
The case was then returned to me.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so, I have reviewed the PD and given due consideration to Ms Ws submissions on 
it. As I said above, RL does not appear to have commented on the PD. However, a copy of 
its letter to Ms W (of 14 July 2022) has been shared with us and I have noted its contents. 
Overall and on balance, I am satisfied with the PDs findings, I maintain them and 
incorporate them into the present decision and I have not seen cause in Ms Ws submissions 
or in the contents of RLs letter (to her) to alter those findings. As I said in the PD and, 
through the investigator, to Ms W, the switches issue has been resolved. I have also 
explained, through the investigator, the quote from the PD (about this issue) that she 
queried. Overall, I do not consider that there is need to address this issue any further. 
In response to Ms Ws other comments:
What I said, in the PD, about the redress I intended to apply in this final decision is as 
I have quoted above.
Ms Ws confirmations of a Fixed Protection 2014 issue in her case, of the effect being 
that both the compensation and the award for trouble and inconvenience should be 
paid directly to her (and should not, or cannot, be paid into his SIPP), and of her 
higher rate tax payer status are helpful. Below, I will draw RLs attention to what she 
has said about the fixed protection issue and her tax status, as I set out my orders for 
calculating and paying redress/compensation to her.
The redress/compensation orders I set out below will be consistent with the 
provisions that I said, in the PD, I intended to set out in the final decision. Overall and 
on balance, I am not persuaded to change them. I can understand, in broad terms, 
what RL set out to her in its recent letter, but I agree with her observation that some 
parts of it are unexplained. In any case, RL had my invitation to comment on the PD 
and was reminded to do so by the investigator. Despite that opportunity, it does not 
appear to have commented and it did not copy us into the letter it sent Ms W. 
Thankfully, she provided us with a copy. On balance, I maintain that what I set out 
below fairly resolves the complaint, for the reasons given below and in the PD. Ms W 
agrees, in the event that the alternatives she has proposed are not upheld, and RL 
has not told us of a reason(s) to consider otherwise.
I have considered the alternatives that Ms W has proposed, in terms of applying 
different provisions and orders for redress/compensation, and a higher award for 
trouble and inconvenience. On balance, I am not persuaded to do either. I 
understand her points. However, I do not consider that any of them defeat or devalue 
the reasons why, as I set out in the PD (and as quoted above and incorporated into 
this decision), the SIPP is the natural benchmark for redress. My aim is to reflect, as 
closely as I practically can at present, what would have happened but for the transfer 
delay. I am satisfied that  but for the transfer delay  the same SIPP investments 
would probably have been made earlier than they were and that C would have been 
part of that, hence why the performance of C would have followed the performance 
of the investments that were eventually made in the SIPP (when calculated from the 
start date to the end date). It does not appear that Ms W disputes this, but she says 
the fixed protection issue changes matters. However, the only or main effect she has 
referred to is that the compensation cannot be paid into the SIPP. As I said in the PD 
  the compensation (and any interest) should not be paid into her SIPP if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance  if the compensation (and any interest) cannot be paid into her SIPP, it must be paid directly to her . If, in 
applying the orders below, the loss of fixed protection issue and its effect are 
established, then this provision will apply and RL will make the compensation 
payment directly to her. However, the benchmark for calculating the value of that 
payment remains unaffected. What is affected is that the compensation would not 
thereafter be a part of the SIPP. In this context, I do not accept that the SIPP based 
benchmark is redundant. For the reasons I have already given (in the PD and in this 
decision), it is the natural redress benchmark in this case so there appears to be no 
reasonable cause to explore an alternative or to apply simple interest as a substitute.
I understand Ms Ws overarching point that the idea of putting her into a position as 
though the delayed transfer did not happen is arguably unachievable, given the 
prospect that the compensation payment will not or cannot be a part of the SIPPs 
future. She says, but for the complaint events, that would have been the case. That, 
essentially, the SIPP would have included the relevant value (arising from the 
compensation amount) from the transfer to date and that would have continued to be 
the case (with any growth) into the future and up to its passage to her intended 
beneficiaries. I acknowledge the absence of evidence, since the transfer and to date 
(and at present), that says otherwise  which further supports the SIPP as a natural 
redress benchmark. Application of the SIPP benchmark to the compensation 
calculation up to the end date (that is, the date of this decision) treats the 
compensation amount as though it has been a part of the SIPP to date. This much is 
achieved, at least. Where the compensation amount cannot be a part of the SIPPs 
future it will be paid to Ms W. It will be in her hands, so she is not being deprived of it. 
Putting things right
My aim is to put Ms W as close as possible to the position she would now be in if RL did not 
delay the transfer of her SIPP. I consider that she would have behaved differently in terms of 
the timing of the post-transfer investments in the SIPP, but the balance of evidence shows 
that she would have made the same investments that were eventually made in the SIPP. For 
this reason, her SIPP serves as a natural benchmark for calculating redress  to be 
calculated from what I define below as the start date to the end date. I consider this a fair 
way to reflect how any compensation amount arising at the former date would have 
performed up to the latter date. 
I order RL to follow this approach (and that set out below) and I order Ms W to engage 
meaningfully and co-operatively with RL to provide it with all information and documentation, 
relevant to its calculation (and payment) of redress, that it does not already have.
RL received the transfer request on 7 September 2020. It ought reasonably to have been 
completed within 10 working days, and by 21 September 2020 at the latest. Instead it was 
completed on 15 October 2020. Due to that, the investments in the transferred SIPP were 
delayed and Ms W has clarified, in her recent comments and with supporting evidence, that 
they were made on 19 October 2020. On balance, I consider that, but for the delay, those 
investments would probably have been made earlier. They were made on the second 
working day after the delayed completion of the transfer. Without the delay, Ms W should 
have been in a position to make the investments by 21 September 2020. I have considered 
whether (or not) to add two working days to this date in setting the start date for calculating 
redress  in order to reflect the two working days gap in October. Overall and on balance, I 
am not persuaded to do so. This is not the definitive date on which the transfer would have 
been completed. It is not possible to make such a precise finding. Instead, it is the date by 
which the transfer should have been completed. Potentially, and but for the delay, it could 
have been completed earlier than this date. Overall, it is reasonable to conclude that the 
transfer would probably have been completed and Ms Ws SIPP investments would probably have been made by 21 September 2020  without cause to add two further working days. 21 
September 2020 is the start date that I order RL to use in calculating redress for Ms W.
The end date that I order RL to use for the calculation is the date of this final decision, 
because the subject of redress relates to an invested SIPP that has remained invested from 
the start date to the present. By using this end date, the redress calculation will reflect the 
performance that any compensation amount arising on the start date (which I refer to as C 
and which I define further below) would have had up to date.
By using the SIPP as the redress benchmark, the calculation will reflect performance of C 
consistently with the performance of the SIPP over the relevant period (including a reflection 
of any changes within the SIPP in that period)  as though C has been part of the SIPP 
throughout.
I order RL to do as follows:
Calculate the total units Ms Ws SIPP invested in on 19 October 2020 (A); then 
calculate the total number of units, in the same funds and based on the same 
allocations of capital, that the SIPP could have purchased on 21 September 2020 at 
the prices on this date (B). 
If A is the same or greater than B, no compensation is due. 
If B is greater than A, compensation is due to Ms W. In this case, RL must calculate 
the difference. Then it must calculate the total monetary value of the difference based 
on the relevant funds units prices on the start date. This total monetary value is what 
I referred to as C above  the compensation amount arising on the start date.
RL must then calculate the performance of C from the start date to the end date 
based on the SIPP benchmark, and pay Ms W this concluding compensation amount 
(C +/- the relevant performance) as compensation for the financial loss she has 
incurred as a result of the delayed transfer of her SIPP. 
RL must make this payment to Ms W within 28 days of receiving notice of her 
acceptance of this final decision. If RL does not make the payment to her within this 
period it must pay her the amount, and interest on the amount at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date of this final decision up to the date the payment is 
settled/made to her. This is to compensate her for any undue settlement delay by RL.
RL should pay the concluding compensation amount (and any interest) into Ms Ws 
SIPP, to increase its value by the amount of the compensation (and any interest); the 
payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief; the 
compensation (and any interest) should not be paid into her SIPP if it would conflict 
with any existing protection or allowance; she has explained, with regards to the 
Fixed Protection 2014 issue, that this is the position she is in, so both parties should 
engage reasonably and meaningfully with each other to establish and verify, 
transparently, the facts and details of the position; if the compensation (and any 
interest) cannot be paid into her SIPP, it must be paid directly to her; had it been 
possible to pay it into the SIPP, it would have provided a taxable income, so the 
compensation should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid; as stated above, Ms W says she is a higher rate tax 
payer, so this should be noted and verified; the notional allowance should be 
calculated using her actual or expected marginal rate of tax at her selected 
retirement age (for example, if she is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax and if she 
would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 
75% of the compensation).
RL must pay Ms W £500 for the trouble and inconvenience she has been caused in 
the complaint matter, and for the reasons I set out in the PD.
RL must provide Ms W with a calculation of the compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000, £355,000 or £375,000 (depending on 
when the complaint event occurred and when the complaint was referred to us) plus any 
interest that I consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds the compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance. Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting independent legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether to accept a final decision. In Ms Ws case, the complaint event occurred 
after 1 April 2019 (it happened in 2020) and the complaint was referred to us after 1 April 
2020, so the applicable compensation limit would be £355,000.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Ms Ws complaint and I order ReAssure Limited to 
calculate and pay her compensation as set out above, and to provide her with a calculation 
of the compensation in a clear and simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2022.
 
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman