DRN-3346361
The complaint
Mr H and Ms F are unhappy with the way in which Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. handled a claim made on their travel 
insurance policy.
What happened
Towards the end of 2019, Mr H and Ms F booked a trip abroad to South America. They were 
due to depart the UK at the end of March 2020 and return around two weeks later.  
However, due to the impact of the Covid-19 pandemic and the advice issued by the Foreign 
and Commonwealth Office on 17 March 2020 (advising against all but essential international 
travel), the trip didnt go ahead.
Mr H and Mrs F had the benefit of a travel insurance policy underwritten by Mapfre (the 
policy). They made a claim under the policy for various pre-paid costs including return flights 
to and from the South American Country theyd been due to travel, an internal flight costing 
around £270, two deposits for excursions theyd booked in the approximate sums of $650 
and $100 and UK airport car parking around £115. 
Mr H and Mrs F were unhappy with the time taken by Mapfre to assess their claim. They 
complained to Mapfre who apologised for the delay of many months and offered £100 by 
way of compensation. 
In order to assess the claim, Mapfre requested evidence of Mr H and Mrs Fs pre-paid costs 
and confirmation that the various items paid for hadnt been used/had been cancelled and no 
refunds had been obtained. 
Mr H and Mrs F are no longer claiming the cost of the flights to and from the South American 
country.  And theyve received written confirmation from one of tour operators confirming that 
the pre-paid deposit in the sum of around $650 is non-refundable and the car park provider 
has credited the amount they paid for the car park to be used for airport parking into 2023. 
 
Our investigator looked into what happened and partially upheld this complaint. 
He recommended Mapfre reconsider the claim for deposits paid for two excursions around 
$650 and $100 respectively.
He didnt think Mapfre should reassess the amount paid for the airport car park as theyd 
been offered credit to be used against a future car park booking. Nor did he think that Mapfre 
should reassess the claim for the internal flight because, at that stage, it was still possible 
that theyd been receiving a refund from the online booking agent. However, he did 
recommend Mapfre reconsider this element of the claim if Mr H and Mrs F didnt receive a 
full refund of the amount paid for the internal flight so long as they were able to provide 
evidence to Mapfre demonstrating any financial loss. 
Mapfre accepted the recommendation. Mr H and Mrs F said Mapfre should still accept the 
claims for the amounts paid for the airport car park and internal flight. So their complaint has 
been passed to me to consider everything afresh and decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold Mr H and Mrs Fs complaint. 
Mapfre has an obligation to consider claims promptly and fairly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
It isnt disputed that the circumstances which resulted in Mr H and Mrs Fs trip being 
cancelled are covered under the terms of the policy.
However, under the cancellation section of the terms and conditions of the policy (at page 
18), it says this extends to unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid 
or have agreed to pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any local 
prepaid excursions, tours or activities Its also a general condition of the policy that the 
policyholder must give Mapfre all the documents they need to deal with any claim (at the 
policyholders own expense). Its common for those sorts of terms to form part of travel 
insurance policies. 
Im satisfied that:
Mapfre should reconsider Mr H and Mrs Fs claim for the pre-paid costs of the 
excursions theyd booked in the sums of around $650 and $100 respectively. The 
tour provider has confirmed that the deposit paid for one excursion around $650 is 
non-refundable so I think thats a cost that Mr H and Mrs F cant get back. Further, Mr 
H and Mrs F say theyve tried to contact the tour provider in respect of the $100 
deposit they paid without success. They havent been able to obtain a cancellation 
notice. I accept what they say about that and Mapfre hasnt disputed our 
investigators findings on that point. So, I think it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Mr H and Mrs F cant get back the $100 deposit paid for another 
excursion.
Mr H and Mrs F have been offered credit to the value of the amount they paid for 
airport car parking which they were unable to use in March and April 2020  which is 
valid until into 2023. Mr H and Mrs F have explained why they dont intend to travel 
next year. However, I dont think the terms of the credit offered are unreasonable. So 
I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for Mapfre to conclude thats a cost Mr H 
and Mrs F havent been able to recover.
More recently, Mr H and Mrs F have been able to request a refund of the amount 
theyd paid for the internal flight around £270 from the online booking agent and 
theyve made a request via its website. At the time our investigator issued his view, 
Mr H and Mrs F were still waiting to hear back from the booking agent as to whether 
their request had been successful. If this request is still being considered, I dont 
think it would be fair and reasonable to conclude that this is a cost that Mr H and Mrs 
F cant get back. However, as our investigator also recommended, if Mr H and Mrs F 
are able to produce documentary evidence that this request has been declined by the 
booking agent  or they havent received a refund in full  they should provide this 
evidence to Mapfre to reassess this element of the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. When making this finding, Ive taken on board all 
of Mr H and Mrs Fs concerns including Mapfre further delaying reconsidering their 
claim. However, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to direct Mapfre 
to reconsider this element of the claim.
Mapfre has accepted that there were unreasonable delays in the handling of Mr H and Mrs 
Fs claim. Its apologised for this and offered them £100 compensation.  I think that fairly and 
reasonably reflects the distress and inconvenience experienced by them; having to chase 
Mapfre for updates  which I accept wouldve been frustrating. However, for reasons set out 
above, I dont think Mapfre acted unreasonably by ultimately requesting Mr H and Mrs F 
provide documentary evidence in support of their claim.
Putting things right
I direct Mapfre to reassess certain elements of Mr H and Mrs Fs claim to the extent set out 
above.
Im satisfied that an apology and the offer of £100 Mapfre made to Mr H and Mrs F as 
compensation for distress and inconvenience is fair and reasonable.   
My final decision
I partially uphold this complaint. I direct Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De 
Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to put things right by doing what Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Ms F to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 August 2022.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman