DRN-4206153
The complaint
T, a limited company, complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) delayed 
responding to a subject access request (SAR).
T is represented by its director, who Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
Mr B complained to Co-op because he felt the bank had delayed responding to his SAR, 
which he submitted around March 2023. Mr B says he made a SAR for both his personal 
and business accounts and, when he did receive a response, he didnt receive everything he 
expected.
Co-op says its response to Mr Bs SAR for his personal account was completed within the 
prescribed timescale. The bank acknowledged it made an error when handling the SAR for 
Mr Bs business account and offered £75 compensation to put things right.
After Mr B asked this service to get involved, our investigator decided that the bank had 
made a fair offer. Mr B argues that Co-op hasnt responded to the SAR in full. Our 
investigator was satisfied that the bank had responded in line with what it was expected to 
do.
Mr B doesnt agree and has asked for a final decision  so the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint  Ill explain why.
Co-op acknowledges that it didnt handle Mr Bs SAR in relation to his business account 
properly. The bank says it shouldve written to him to follow up his initial call, rather than 
requesting that Mr B put his SAR in writing. Co-op has since reviewed Mr Bs SAR and has 
concluded that its SAR response for Mr Bs personal account covered all the records it was 
under a duty to provide  so theres nothing further it needs to send to Mr B under his 
business account. 
Given the error doesnt seem to have caused a loss, nor can I see that it has caused an 
unreasonable degree of inconvenience to T, Im satisfied that the compensation the bank 
has offered is a fair way for Co-op to put right its error.
Mr B argues that Co-op hasnt sent him all the information it needs to, nor does he agree 
that the bank sent everything it said was sent to him. Under the relevant rules, Co-op is only 
required to share information it holds in relation to Mr B - in other words, his personal data. 
Given Mr Bs request is regarding his business account, the bank isnt under a duty to send 
him all the information it holds regarding this account, because not everything would be 
relevant to Mr Bs personal data.
Co-op has sent us records to show exactly what it sent to Mr B and when this was sent. I 
can see the bank emailed its SAR response both in April and May 2023. The emails appear 
to have been sent to the same email address that this service also holds for Mr B. I can see 
that numerous documents were sent, including a large number of calls, account notes and 
letters. 
So it seems more likely than not that Co-op provided a thorough and accurate response to 
Mr Bs SAR. So I dont find that the bank responded poorly. Its unclear why Mr B suggests 
these emails werent received and Id encourage him to liaise with the bank to establish 
whats happened. Theres nothing Ive seen though that persuades me this is because of 
something Co-op has done wrong.
To summarise, Im satisfied that Co-op has fairly responded to Mr Bs SAR and that the 
compensation it has offered fairly makes up for the banks error. I wont be asking Co-op to 
do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 July 2023.
 
Abdul Ali
Ombudsman