DRN-3039655
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that an appointed representative of Openwork Limited made errors 
and didnt treat them fairly or keep them informed during their mortgage application process. 
They ask that it refunds the fees they paid.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R took mortgage advice from Openwork in mid-2020. They received a decision 
in principle from a lender and Openwork made an application on Mr Rs behalf. Mr R says 
the process took months, he was asked for information hed already provided and his 
application was declined due to Openworks errors. 
Openwork said it didnt make errors and hadnt charged a fee. It said the property was 
valued at less than expected. The lender reduced the amount it would lend. Openwork said it 
asked Mr R for evidence of income and credit commitments when requested by the lender. 
After reviewing evidence of Mr and Mrs Rs income the lender assessed the amount they 
wanted to borrow as unaffordable.
Our investigator said it was for the lender to assess affordability and decide whether to lend. 
Our investigator said Openwork had progressed the application fairly and while there were 
some inconsistencies in the information referred to by the lender this wasnt due to errors by 
Openwork. The only fee Mr and Mrs R had paid was for the valuation, which was carried out. 
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree. Mr R said he felt their version of events hadnt been properly 
considered. Mr R said the mortgage adviser had suggested Mrs R take out a loan for the 
additional money needed for the deposit and then denied this. He said theyd been treated 
unfairly and lost money as they paid deposits, solicitors fees and valuation fees in the 
expectation the mortgage would be offered. Mr R said they should be compensated for the 
money they lost.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R are disappointed that they were unable to secure a mortgage for their property 
purchase. While I understand this, having read the evidence and what the parties have said, 
I dont think this was due to errors by Openwork.
I dont think its fair to say Openwork should have known at the outset the lender would 
decline the application. The lender issued a decision in principle, based on the information 
provided by Mr R. Rules on mortgage regulation required the lender to carry out a stringent 
affordability assessment before making an offer to lend. Ultimately, the lender declined to 
lend. 
The lender said the amount Mr R wanted to borrow wasnt affordable. The lender said this 
was due to him having a dependant (Mrs R) and his income being less than declared in the 
application. 
Openwork had carried out a fact find with Mr R. This said the mortgage application would be 
in Mr Rs sole name due to Mrs Rs credit history. The fact find recorded Mr Rs annual 
income as about £30,000 with additional income of about £14,000 from shift work and 
overtime. The lender provided a copy of the mortgage application to Mr R, and this shows 
the income information entered by Openwork was consistent with the fact find.
All lenders have lending criteria and policies. Here, the lender treated Mrs R as a dependant. 
This was the lenders decision, not Openworks. The lender said the evidence provided didnt 
support the amount of income stated by Mr R. I can see that Openwork challenged the 
lenders decision and the time it was taking to review the application, but without success. 
The lender remained concerned about affordability. 
Openwork told Mr R it could apply to other lenders, although affordability would be an issue. 
And it offered to re-apply for a mortgage in joint names if Mrs R provided evidence of the job 
she said shed been offered. Openwork says this evidence wasnt provided. 
Mr and Mrs R also complain about poor service from Openwork. The parties dispute some of 
the events here and have different recollections of what was said. 
The application process took longer than Mr R had hoped. The lender reduced the amount it 
would lend more than once during the process, and asked for further information and 
evidence. This must have been frustrating for Mr R. However, part of Openworks role was to 
respond to requests from the lender for further information and evidence  for instance for 
updated payslips or other evidence of income. While I understand it wasnt always easy for 
Mr R to provide the requested documents, it was right for Openwork to pass on the lenders 
requests.
When the lender asked about a credit commitment which Mr R didnt recognise, I think it was 
fair for Openwork to ask Mr R for his credit report  Openwork needed to provide this to the 
lender as evidence that he didnt have this commitment. 
The lender reduced the amount it would lend which meant Mr R had to find a larger deposit. 
While Mr R says Openwork suggested he ask Mrs R to take out a loan there isnt evidence 
to support this. On balance, it seems unlikely Openwork would suggest this, especially as 
Mrs Rs credit history made it difficult for her to borrow. In any case, Mr R says he intended 
to fund the deposit from savings and overtime. 
Mr R says they paid solicitors fees and took money for the deposit from a high interest 
account. He also paid the lenders valuation fee. Until a mortgage offer is issued, theres no 
guarantee a lender will offer a mortgage. When Mr R incurred these costs he did so on the 
basis the mortgage application might be declined. Mr R said he incurred costs related to a 
previous mortgage application that was declined, so I think he knew this. 
I dont think Mr Rs mortgage application was declined due to errors by Openwork. And I 
dont think Openwork made errors or treated Mr and Mrs R unfairly such that it would be fair 
and reasonable for me to require it to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs R or refund any fees 
or costs they might have paid. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 February 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman