DRN-1315691
The complaint
Mr W and Mrs W complain that Zenith Insurance plc held Mr W liable following a claim made 
on his motor insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy with its level of service. They want the 
claim reinvestigated taking into account their evidence. Mrs W is a named driver on Mr Ws 
policy. 
What happened
Another driver said Mr W had reversed into their car. Zenith asked their insurer for details. 
Mr W said he wasnt involved in any incidents and asked Zenith when the alleged incident 
had occurred. Zenith had an independent engineer look at Mr Ws car. He couldnt say 
definitively that there was damage that matched the incident circumstances. Zenith 
eventually settled the claim as it was provided with an independent witness statement. 
Zenith agreed there had been service failings and it paid Mr W £150 compensation for this. 
But Mr W and Mrs W thought the witness wasnt credible. They thought Zenith should have 
provided enough information about the incident so that they could show that Mr W wasnt 
involved. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Zeniths 
offer of £150 compensation for its poor service was fair and reasonable. But he thought 
Zenith had unfairly accepted liability on Mr Ws behalf. This was because the engineering 
evidence wasnt definitive, and the independent witness statement was produced six months 
after the incident. 
The investigator thought Zenith should change the claim to non-fault and amend Mr Ws No 
Claims Discount (NCD) accordingly. He thought it should refund the difference in premiums 
Mr W paid since the claim was settled. He thought it should give Mr W a letter explaining 
why the claim had been changed from fault to non-fault and pay him £100 compensation for 
his trouble and upset. 
Zenith replied that it had settled the claim on a without prejudice basis so it could open it 
again if further evidence was provided. It said it thought a court would hold Mr W liable on 
the balance of probabilities.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing an accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Mr W the same as someone else in his position. 
Zenith is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr W to take over, defend, 
or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Mr W has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party claim or better to 
compromise.
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making its decision on liability. 
Zenith received notification of the claim from the other drivers insurer. It said Mr W had 
reversed into their car. This gave a date for the incident, but not a specific time and I cant 
see that a location was specified. Zenith contacted Mr W and he denied involvement. He 
provided a statement of his whereabouts on the day in question. Zenith asked for more 
information from the other insurer, but I cant see that this was provided at the time. 
Zenith instructed an independent engineer to assess Mr Ws car. He said there was damage 
to the front and back. Zenith asked the other insurer for its engineers report and 
photographs. These were received some nine months later, and Zeniths in-house engineer 
carried out a compatibility assessment. He thought there was a possibility that the damage 
to both rear bumpers could be consistent. But he thought the claim was exaggerated by 
other unrelated items. 
The other insurer also provided a witness statement from an independent witness who said 
they were in another car at the time and saw Mr W reverse into the car. I can see that Zenith 
had some doubts about the credibility of this witness. 
Zenith reviewed the damage and witness statement. It thought the damage could be 
consistent with the claim. It didnt have evidence to counter the claim. So it said it settled the 
claim to avoid further costs. 
But I cant see that Zenith received any further information from the other insurer to 
substantiate the claim. It didnt receive details of the location, details of witnesses or the 
other drivers account of what happened following the claim. Details of the witness came to 
light six months after the claim. But I cant see that Zenith investigated its own concerns 
about their credibility. 
I cant see that Zenith considered Mr Ws statement of his whereabouts at the time of the 
incident. I cant see that it told Mr W the location of the alleged incident so that he could 
provide evidence to defend himself. 
Instead, Zenith settled the other drivers claim on the basis of indefinite engineering 
evidence, an unvalidated independent witness and few details of the alleged incident. So I 
think it settled the claim without reasonably investigating it. I think Zenith didnt act fairly or 
reasonably. And I think it unfairly held Mr W liable for the claim. I think it should put things 
right for Mr W and compensate him for the trouble and upset caused.
Zenith said the claim could be re-opened on production of further evidence. But Its now two 
years since the notification and I think its unfair to Mr W to draw things out any further. 
Zenith has agreed that its communication with Mr W and Mrs W has been poor. It gave them 
incorrect information about the claim. It paid Mr W £150 compensation for the trouble and 
upset this caused. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with what Id award in 
similar circumstances.Putting things right
To put things right for Mr W, I think Zenith should:
Change the claim from fault to non-fault on Mr Ws record and allow his NCD.
Refund Mr W the difference in premiums hes paid since the claim was settled. 
Provide Mr W with a letter he can show future insurers explaining that the claim was 
recorded as fault due to its error.
Pay Mr W £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its unfair 
investigation of the claim and for unreasonably holding him liable for the incident. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Zenith Insurance plc to carry out the redress Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs W 
to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman