DRN-2281245
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 7 October 2020. The background
and circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold it were set out
in that decision. I have reproduced the provisional decision here.
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. He
explained Mr B had said he was cold called and offered a pension review by representatives
of St Pauls Marketing, which he accepted.
Mr B was employed earning about £33,000 a year. He had no other savings and
investments and considered himself a low to medium risk investor.
Mr B had two personal pensions. He signed an execution only letter on 3 February 2016
instructing his SIPP administrator to buy debentures in Just Bridging Loans PLC (Just
Loans). An account with a discretionary fund manager (DFM) was opened on 3 February
2016. Two transfer values of £34,883 and £17,414 were transferred to the SIPP in February
and March 2016 respectively. £34,073 was invested in Just Loan debentures in February
2016 and £17,324 in March 2016.
Mr B, through his representative, complained to Alexander David in May 2019. I understand
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint. The representative
subsequently referred the complaint to us.
One of our investigators asked Alexander David for its files and to provide any other
evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, no further evidence or
arguments were provided. The investigator therefore assessed the complaint on the
evidence that had been presented.
The investigator said the evidence suggested that St Pauls Marketing had conversations
with Mr B about his pension and given his background he thought it unlikely Mr B would
have sought out this type of investment on his own volition. He noted St Pauls letter to Mr B
dated 9 December 2015 was sent as a follow up to an earlier conversation and cites an offer
for the debentures. The investigator thought the circumstances suggested St Pauls 
discussed the existing pensions and compared them with the debentures they were
promoting. He said he thought it likely St Pauls advised the debentures were likely to
perform better. The investigator thought St Pauls had personally recommended Mr B to
transfer his pensions. He didnt think someone in Mr Bs position and background would
likely act on an execution only basis. And he didnt think the investments were suitable for Mr
B in all the circumstances.
The investigator said that as St Pauls was arranging the transaction it was required to carry
out an appropriateness test in accordance with the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA)
Conduct of Business rules (COBS 10). He said St Pauls had failed to assess
appropriateness and disregarded Mr Bs prior knowledge and experience in favour of
encouraging him to transfer his pension.
The investigator thought that the complaint should be upheld. He sent his assessment of it to
Alexander David. However it didnt provide a response. The investigator subsequently wrote
to both parties on 7 September 2020 explaining that the complaint would be passed to an
ombudsman for review and to make a final decision. No further evidence or arguments have
been provided.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Bs original complaint. Neither did it co-operate with
our investigation. Theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at
the time of the transaction.
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Bs recollection of
events. Alexander David hasnt disputed what Mr B said in his complaint to it, or
what the investigator said in his assessment.
Im also mindful that this is one of a number of complaints we have received and which I
have seen against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature, involving seemingly
similar circumstances and the same investments.
I need to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each
particular case. But Ive noted that what Mr B has said about St Pauls role is consistent with
what other complainants have described. So I think what he has said is plausible. And taking
everything into account, I have found it credible.
Mr B completed a complaint form for us a copy of which was sent to Alexander David. In it
he said he had received a cold call from St Pauls Marketing, and from this he sent some
documentation off for a pension review. He had two face to face meetings to discuss his
pensions further. He was told that due to his pensions being frozen his funds would be better
off if he transferred to a SIPP. He said the adviser told him he would get a fixed return of
8.75% and that believing the investment had guaranteed returns he thought it was too good
to tum down.
Im satisfied, on the balance of the evidence that is available that St Pauls Marketing was
involved from the outset. Mr B subsequently transferred his pension to the SIPP and
invested in the debentures. In my experience, its unusual for someone of Mr Bs background
and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in order to invest in this type of
investment without prompting. I think it was unlikely to have happened without the
involvement of St Pauls. Im satisfied that it initiated the transfer and investment in the
debenture and this wasnt a genuine execution only transaction. St Pauls was aware of
where the investment was going to be made and facilitated it.
Mr Bs representative complained to St Pauls alleging that the recommendation to transfer
Mr Bs existing pensions to the SIPP and invest in the DFM was unsuitable. Mr B has said St
Pauls advised him to transfer and invest in the debentures. The firm hasnt disputed this. In
all the circumstances and on the balance of the limited evidence that is available, I think its
more likely than not that advice was given.The investigator also said he thought St Pauls was involved in arranging the transaction and
that it was required, but failed, to assess its appropriateness in accordance COBS 10. He
didnt think the debentures were appropriate for Mr B.
Again, St Pauls hasnt disputed this. I agree with the investigator that its more likely than not
that St Pauls arranged the investment. It was the promoter for the debentures, but Im
satisfied, on the limited evidence available, that it went beyond just promoting them and was
involved in arranging the investment (and recommending it). The debentures were high risk
and speculative and clearly werent appropriate for Mr B given his background, knowledge
and circumstances.
I think it was clear that the debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr B and this
should have been clear to St Pauls.
 
I also dont think the firm acted in Mr Bs interests as required by the regulators Principles.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls hadnt advised Mr B to transfer and invest in the debentures or if
it had told him it wasnt appropriate for him he wouldnt have transferred and invested in
them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls failures caused Mr B to transfer and invest in a
product that he would otherwise not have invested into. It follows that Im satisfied its failures
caused the losses that Mr B has claimed.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint. I intend to order Alexander David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr B on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr B as close as possible to
the position he would probably now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I dont think
he would have transferred, but I think Mr B would have invested differently. Its not possible
to say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below
is fair and reasonable given Mr Bs circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr B fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance of Mr Bs investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest set out below. 
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Bs pension plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Ltd 
shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pensionplan, it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional
allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his
selected retirement age.
I think Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Bs 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr B £250 for the distress and inconvenience the disruption to his retirement 
planning has caused.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr B how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr B a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Actual value
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily sold on the open
market), it may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander David Securities Ltd should take
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension
provider / administrator. This amount should be deducted from the compensation and thebalance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value should be
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require that Mr B provides an undertaking to pay
it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking must allow
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt from the pension plan.
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred within
the plan on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander
David Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment
on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point on.
The investigator recommended that Alexander David pay Mr B £500 plus VAT towards
financial advice fees to transfer out of the SIPP plus any penalties he might incur. However
the fair value takes into account any penalties. And the benchmark provides a fair value
irrespective of the charges/advice fees deducted as part of the transaction. Given Mr Bs
existing funds were invested at a higher level of risk than was appropriate for him he would
have always had to incur advice fees if he wanted advice on alternative funds. So Im not
currently minded to award the £500 plus VAT or any additional award for the penalties
incurred on transferring out, as I think the compensation already takes those factors into
account.
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable as Mr B hasnt got the opportunity to
close the SIPP if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David Securities Ltd
cant buy the investment and it remains illiquid, it should pay Mr B an amount equal to five
years of SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the compensation
calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr B and his representative have said he was a low and low to medium risk investor. In the
circumstances, I dont think Mr B would have transferred with suitable advice. But his
existing funds were invested in funds that presented a higher degree of risk than was
suitable. So I think he would have switched funds with his existing providers if hed been
given appropriate advice. Its not possible to say exactly how he would have invested, so Ithink the index outlined above is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the
level of risk that Mr B was willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared 
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does not mean that Mr B 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of 
index tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that 
broadly reflects the sort of return Mr B could have obtained from investments suited 
to his objective and risk attitude.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments that they wanted me to
consider.
Alexander David Securities Limited didnt provide any further evidence or arguments. 
Mr Bs representative confirmed he had nothing further to add.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive seen no reason to depart from the findings set out in my provisional
decision to uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs
complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr B as set
out in my provisional decision above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 November 2020. 
David Ashley
Ombudsman