DRN-3497387
The complaint
Miss C complains about a cancellation charge imposed by Hippo Vehicle Solutions Limited 
after she placed and then cancelled an order for a car.
What happened
In October 2021 Miss C placed an order with Hippo for a new car. Hippo, acting as a broker, 
ordered the car. On 1 October 2021 Miss c signed a document from Hippo which stated that 
there was a £234 document fee and a £600 cancellation fee.
On 4 October 2021 Miss C entered into a hire agreement with a  credit provider to finance 
the new car. The agreement was for 48 months.
Shortly after entering the agreement, Miss C decided not to proceed. She withdrew from the 
agreement before the car was delivered.
Hippo deducted a cancellation charge of £600 from Miss Cs initial payment of £961.92 
which she had made towards the agreement.
Miss C complained to Hippo. Hippo refused to refund the cancellation charge and said that 
the terms and conditions of the contract allowed it to charge the cancellation fee.
Miss C remained unhappy and complained to this service. She wants the cancellation fee 
refunded.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the terms and conditions of the 
contract between Miss C and Hippo gave Hippo the right to charge a cancellation fee of 
£600. The investigator said that hed given consideration to the circumstances in which Miss 
C entered into the contract but said he didnt think Hippo had acted unfairly or unreasonably 
in charging the cancellation fee.
Miss C didnt agree. She said that at the time of entering into the contract she was suffering 
from a medical condition which caused her to make impulsive decisions. She also said she 
didnt think Hippo had suffered any financial loss.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the document which sets out the contract between Miss C and Hippo. Miss C 
has signed the document to say that she agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions. 
The contract includes a term which states that if the contract is cancelled (for any reason 
other than a price increase), then a cancelation fee of up to £600 is payable.
Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Hippo has the right to charge a cancellation fee of 
£600. This is in line with the terms and conditions of the contract.
Miss C has said that she doesnt think Hippo has acted fairly in charging a cancellation fee. 
Shes said that she cancelled the agreement before the car was delivered, so she doesnt 
think Hippo has suffered any loss. Hippo has said that it had already ordered the car by the 
time Miss C cancelled the agreement, and that as a result it has been left with a car on its 
stock book that it wouldnt normally stock, which will depreciate as time passes. In the 
circumstances, I dont think Hippo has acted unfairly or unreasonably by charging the 
cancellation fee.
Miss C has said that there were circumstances affecting her health and decision-making 
abilities at the time she entered into the agreement which she feels should be taken into 
consideration. Shes provided some medical evidence to support this.
Im sorry to hear about Miss Cs circumstances but theres nothing to suggest that she 
entered into the contract under duress or that she lacked capacity to enter into the contract. I 
cant see that Hippo was made aware of Miss Cs circumstances at the time, so Im unable 
to say that it shouldnt have allowed her to enter into the contract.
I understand that Miss C will be disappointed by this decision but having looked at all of the 
available information Im unable to say that Hippo has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I wont 
be asking Hippo to refund the cancellation fee.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 July 2022.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman