DRN-2873681
The complaint
A company which Ill refer to as Q complains that Covea Insurance plc (Covea) unfairly 
declined a claim under Qs liability insurance policy.
Mr B, who is a director of Q, brings the complaint on Qs behalf.
What happened
In February 2020, Q agreed to carry out some roofing works to a private property  this was 
undertaken by two of Qs employees and required the use of some heating equipment. Q 
carried out relevant safety checks before starting the job. There was a hose in the garden of 
the property that one of the employees says was tested before the works began and the 
employees had a fire extinguisher in a vehicle parked in front of the property, at the end of 
the driveway.
During the course of the works, one of the employees noticed that there was smoke coming 
from the property so removed the gas cylinder from the area he was working on. And on 
further inspection realised that the first-floor extension next to where he was working was on 
fire, so he alerted the home owner to call the fire brigade.
One of the employees returned up the ladder and broke a window to the extension in order 
to attempt to extinguish the fire. Unfortunately the water hose, while long enough to reach 
the outside roof, wasnt long enough to reach inside the extension so the employee 
attempted to use buckets of water to extinguish the fire. Unfortunately, the employee wasnt 
able to put out the fire, which was ultimately put out by the fire brigade. The fire caused 
damage to the property and Q was pursued for these costs  so Mr B made a claim on Qs 
liability insurance policy.
Covea considered Qs claim but declined it as it said the policy conditions hadnt been 
adhered to. Under the fire precautions section of the policy, it stated that suitable fire 
extinguishers and hoses are in readiness for immediate use at the scene of operations. As 
this was a condition precedent, these actions needed to be carried out in order for there to 
be cover under the policy.
Mr B didnt agree that the conditions hadnt been met. He says that there were no definitions 
given for immediate or for the scene of operations, and that his employees took 
reasonable steps to meet these conditions. He says the fire extinguisher was in the van 
where one of the employees was working so it was immediately accessible in an emergency. 
And he says that the hose was tested prior to works starting and was shown to reach the 
roof area where the employee was working. For these reasons, Mr B says that Q had taken 
all reasonable steps to meet the conditions of the policy. He added that he cant be held 
responsible for how his employee reacted when he panicked in an emergency situation.
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. In short, he didnt think Mr B 
had demonstrated that Q had adhered to the condition precedents within the policy. So he 
didnt think Covea had acted unreasonably in declining to cover the claim. Mr B didnt agree, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.
When considering whether Covea acted fairly in declining the claim, I have considered the 
terms of the policy held by Q. The policy included a Conditions section, which stated:
Fire Precautions
It is a condition precedent to the liability of the Insurer to indemnify the Insured that 
whenever the Insured is using any process which involves the application of heat away from 
the Insured's own Premises
f) the following are in readiness for immediate use at the scene of operations:
i) suitable fire extinguishers by number and size for the scope of operations; and
ii) hoses connected up for immediate use and successfully tested prior to the 
commencement of the operations.
In this case, the dispute is about the interpretation of this condition precedent and it is for Q 
to show that it met this condition.
Mr B says a fire extinguisher was kept in the van, which was parked at the end of the 
driveway, around nine to ten meters from where his employee was carrying out the works, 
so he believes this meets the definition of being at the scene of operations. He also says the 
other employee on site was with the fire extinguisher, so he believes it was available for 
immediate use. 
I have considered Mr Bs comments. However, Im not satisfied that the actions taken by his 
employees meet the conditions of the policy. 
The policy doesnt provide a definition of scene of operations but the condition 
precedent is set out under fire precautions and refers to the use of heating 
equipment. The policy could refer more generally to the site where the works are 
taking place but rather it refers to the scene where the equipment causing a fire risk 
is being operated. So I think it is clear that the scene of operations is the area where 
the heating equipment is being used. 
While the term immediate also isnt defined in the policy, readiness for immediate 
use at the scene of operations does clearly suggest that the fire extinguisher needs 
to be available immediately where the heating is taking place. This requires it to be 
present at the scene of the fire risk. In this case, Qs employee was with the fire 
extinguisher at the front of the property while the heating works were taking place at 
the rear of the property. By Mr Bs own admission, the fire extinguisher was several 
meters away from the area where the heating took place. So Im not satisfied that Q 
has shown that it met this condition.
The policy also refers to hoses connected up for immediate use. There isnt any 
dispute that the hose was connected and tested prior to the works taking place. However, Mr B hasnt demonstrated that it was immediately available at the place 
where the heating equipment was being operated, i.e. on the roof.
As Im not satisfied that Q has evidenced that it met the conditions of the policy, Ive then 
gone on to consider whether the breaches increased the risk of loss  and I think they did. I 
say that because the conditions relate to having suitable fire precautions readily available 
when using heating equipment as there is a higher risk of a fire breaking out. I cant say 
whether, had the fire extinguisher been readily available and had the hose been present on 
the roof, the fire could have been maintained (and as Mr B has stated, it is impossible to 
predict how his employees would have reacted in these circumstances) but I am satisfied 
that the fact these items werent readily available to extinguish the fire did increase the risk. 
So overall I dont think Covea acted unfairly in declining this claim.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Sara Falzon
Ombudsman