DRN-3073212
The complaint
Mrs D is unhappy that Barclays Bank UK PLC declined her application for an overdraft and 
feels that the agent she spoke with on the telephone was rude to her.
What happened
Mrs D applied for an overdraft facility with Barclays on the telephone, but her application was 
declined. Mrs D wasnt happy about this and felt that the agent that she spoke with on the 
telephone had asked her questions that were too personal in nature and that they had been 
rude to her. Mrs D also noted that Barclays agent had told her that her application had been 
declined because of a County Court Judgement that was present on her credit file, which 
wasnt the case. So, she raised a complaint.
Barclays looked at Mrs Ds complaint, but they felt that theyd declined Mrs Ds application 
fairly, so they didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays hadnt acted 
unreasonably by declining Mrs Ds application, so they also didnt uphold Mrs Ds complaint.
Mrs D remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its at the discretion of Barclays as to whether they will offer a credit facility to a customer 
who applies for such a facility or not. What this service would expect would be, if a customer 
is declined for an applied for overdraft facility, that Barclays would explain clearly to that 
customer why their application had been declined.
In this instance, Mrs D went through her overdraft application with a Barclays agent on the 
telephone. Ive listened to a recording of the telephone call in question and its clear that Mrs 
D isnt happy about having to provide the level of personal information that Barclays were 
requesting from her in order to progress the overdraft application.
I can appreciate, considering this point, how Mrs D might have perceived that the Barclays 
agent to whom she was speaking was rude. However, having listened to the call myself, I 
dont feel that the Barclays agent was rude. The agent attempted to respond to Mrs Ds 
objections to the application process by providing information as to why the information was 
being requested, and later attempted to explain why the application had been declined, but I 
cant say that the agent was objectively rude in how he did this or in how he handled the call.
It also should be noted that Barclays are entitled to request information about a customers 
personal financial circumstances in order to assess that information and to make a lending 
decision based on that information. If Mrs D didnt wish to provide that information then she 
was under no obligation to do so, but conversely Barclays were under no obligation to 
provide her the overdraft she was seeking without first obtaining such information from her.
At the point of the call when the agent explained to Mrs D that her application had been 
rejected, the agent read a formal statement to Mrs D which was as follows:
Unfortunately, we are unable to approve your application at this time because our 
records indicate that you have adverse information on your credit file, e.g. County 
Court Judgement, arrears, default, bankruptcy. You should obtain a copy of the 
Credit Reference Agency report to obtain more information.
Mrs D has stated that Barclays rejected her application because of a County Court 
Judgement  which is something that isnt present on her credit file. However, its evident 
from the statement above that the reference to a Country Court Judgement was just given in 
a general sense, and Im satisfied having listened to the call that Mrs D wasnt told by 
Barclays that her application had been rejected specifically because of a County Court 
Judgement that was on her credit file. Rather, she was told that the application had been 
rejected because of something on her credit file, with a Country Court Judgement listed, 
among other things, as an example of what that something might be.
Ultimately, as explained previously, its at Barclays discretion as to whether they would offer 
an overdraft facility to Mrs D upon her applying for it. And, on this occasion, having assessed 
the information that they obtained from Mrs D, Barclays chose not to. And I think that the 
reasons as to why Barclays made that choice were explained clearly to Mrs D during the 
telephone call.
All of which means that I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly or unreasonably in any 
way here, and it follows from this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing 
Barclays to take any further action at this time. 
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mrs D wanted here, but I trust that she will 
understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman