DRN-4222409
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Nationwide Building Society has declined to refund the money she lost 
when she fell victim in 2017 to what now appears to have been an investment scam. She 
brings her complaint with the assistance of professional representation, but for readability, in 
what follows I will refer solely to Mrs B.
What happened
In 2017, Mrs B invested in an unregulated property scheme (that Ill refer to as W). She 
made this investment through a £10,000 Faster Payments bank transfer from her Nationwide 
account to W in June 2017. The investment was initially arranged for a fixed term, after 
which Mrs B kept her money invested with W.
W has since entered liquidation and Mrs B has highlighted significant concerns that it may 
have been operating fraudulently.
Mrs B reported what had happened to Nationwide in 2022. She complained when it did not 
reimburse her. She said Nationwide had breached a duty of care by failing to question her 
about the original payment and, had Nationwide done so, it would have come to light the 
investment was not legitimate, and her loss would have been prevented. 
Nationwide said the payment had gone to an unregulated investment which has since gone 
into liquidation, and so it did not consider Mrs B had been the victim of a scam  this had 
been a failed investment. In any event, Nationwide said it wasnt liable for any losses 
because Mrs B had authorised the payment, and it did not have any reason to intervene or 
block Mrs Bs payment request.
Mrs B referred the matter to our service and one of our Investigators didnt uphold her 
complaint. The Investigator thought it likely this had been a scam, contrary to Nationwides 
position. Furthermore, he thought Nationwide should have spoken to Mrs B about the 
payment when shed made it, given the relatively large value. But even had Nationwide done 
so he didnt think Nationwide (or Mrs B) would have had sufficient grounds to conclude the 
investment was not legitimate given what it could reasonably have uncovered at the time. He 
didnt think Nationwide could have prevented Mrs Bs loss.
Mrs B maintained that had Nationwide intervened it would have been able to identify several 
concerning aspects of the investment, and therefore should have warned her this was a 
scam. Had it done so, this would have stopped her from making the payment, and avoided 
the loss she has suffered.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The starting position in law is that Mrs B is responsible for transactions shes carried out 
herself. Theres no dispute about that here.
However, taking into account regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and 
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time, Id expect Nationwide to 
have been on the lookout for out of character or unusual transactions, as well as other 
indications that its customer might be at risk of financial harm from fraud or scam.
I consider it to be appropriate for a customers previous account activity, among other 
factors, to be taken into account when deciding whether a payment instruction does, or does 
not, present a sufficiently heightened risk that it would justify an intervention before 
processing the transaction.
Here, Nationwide did not intervene. Arguably it did not need to. While the payment was for a 
large sum, it seems to me that Nationwide had limited prior account activity on the relevant 
account against which to compare it.
But even if I were to accept that Nationwide ought to have intervened here and spoken to 
Mrs B about the payment prior to processing it, I consider it unlikely this would have 
prevented her loss. While there are now significant concerns about the legitimacy of Ws 
business, these first began to surface in the period surrounding Ws liquidation, and 
therefore several years after Mrs Bs payment was made.
I cannot rely on the benefit of hindsight  I must consider what Nationwide could reasonably 
have established in the course of proportionate enquiry to Mrs B about her payment back in 
June 2017.
And with that in mind, I dont think it wouldve been apparent in 2017 that W was likely 
fraudulent rather than simply a risky investment. Im not persuaded sufficient information was 
readily and publicly available at the time which would have caused Nationwide (or Mrs B) 
specific concerns about this. 
Mrs B has provided copies of investment literature I understand she received at the time. 
This appears professional and on the whole unlikely to have prompted Nationwide to 
suspect all might not be as it seemed. The documents appear to have given an explanation 
of the risks involved, recommended investors to seek independent financial advice prior to 
making an investment decision and indicated that the financial promotion had been 
approved by an FCA regulated firm. On the face of it, I dont think there was enough here for 
Nationwide to have reasonably suspected W was other than it seemed.
Mrs B explains that her late husband had initially made enquiries and then spoken to an 
adviser about W. Mrs B says she relied on this when she proceeded with her investment. 
Amongst other things she suggests that W (or intermediaries acting on its behalf) did not act 
in accordance with rules around the marketing of unregulated investments. The unsuitability 
of this investment for an investor of her type should have been a sign to Nationwide that the 
advice was not legitimately provided. Nationwide should have identified and warned Mrs B 
about this. 
However, I find Nationwide couldnt have considered the suitability or unsuitability of third-
party investment advice without itself assessing Mrs Bs circumstances, investment needs and financial goals. Nationwide didnt have any obligation to step in to protect its customers 
from potentially risky investments. Taking steps to assess suitability without an explicit 
request from Mrs B (which there was not) would have gone far beyond the scope of what I 
could reasonably expect of it in any proportionate response to what, on the face of it, was a 
seemingly legitimate payment request from its customer.
In short, while Ive carefully reviewed all of Mrs Bs submissions, I dont find that significant 
concerns would (or could) have been readily uncovered by either Nationwide or Mrs B at the 
relevant time. I can only reasonably expect any enquiries by Nationwide to have been 
proportionate to the perceived level of risk. All considered, I dont think it likely that 
Nationwide could have prevented this payment from being made, or otherwise caused Mrs B 
not to proceed.
Finally, the recipient bank has confirmed that at the time Mrs B reported the matter to 
Nationwide, no recovery of her funds could have been possible. So even had Nationwide 
determined this to have been a scam and attempted to recover the payment, at this point it 
would have made no difference.
Having carefully considered everything Mrs B and Nationwide have submitted, I dont find 
Nationwide could have reasonably prevented Mrs Bs loss here. Neither do I find it materially 
at fault otherwise. 
I appreciate this will not be the answer Mrs B would like me to give her, and I am sorry to 
have to disappoint her. She has lost a significant sum. But it is simply the case that I dont 
consider I can fairly and reasonably hold Nationwide liable for that loss.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Bs complaint 
about Nationwide Building Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 September 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman