DRN-2257252
The complaint
Mr P complains that Just Retirement Limited (Just) failed to make him aware that 
purchasing an annuity with his pension savings would mean that he lost the ability to access 
those funds at a later date. He also complains that, in 2016, he was told by Just that 
forthcoming legislative changes would allow him to exchange his annuity for a capital sum.
What happened
Mr Ps complaint comprises two distinct, but related, events. He complains about what 
happened when he originally took the annuity in May 2009. And he complains about 
information he was given on a telephone call in October 2016.
I have previously decided that the first part of Mr Ps complaint, about what happened when 
he originally took the annuity, had been made too late. It isnt therefore something that I can 
consider in this final decision. So in this decision I will only be looking at what happened 
when Mr P called Just in October 2016.
Mr P holds an annuity with Just. That annuity provides him with an income for life. It isnt 
possible to change, or cash in, that annuity. But in 2015 the UK government announced that 
it would be starting a consultation on whether it should allow a market to be established that 
would enable established annuities to be sold on. It was in relation to that announcement 
that Mr P spoke with Just in October 2016.
Mr P complains that Just led him to believe that he would be able to cash in his annuity the 
following year. Just says that it only provided him with information about the consultation that 
was ongoing by the government and that Mr P was given no assurance that he would be 
able to cash in his annuity.
Mr Ps complaint has been assessed by one of our investigators. After listening to the phone 
call between Mr P and Just he concluded that the business hadnt done anything wrong. He 
didnt think it had made any promises to Mr P about being able to cash in his annuity. So our 
investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mr P didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding this complaint Ive taken into account the law, any relevant regulatory rules and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mr P and by Just. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, 
I have made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked 
at what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what 
I think is more likely to, or should, have happened.
Like our investigator I have listened to a recording of the call between Mr P and Just that 
took place in October 2016. The call was relatively short, and started by Mr P asking for 
more information about when he would be entitled to take a drawdown from his annuity 
account the following April. Although Mr P didnt immediately say this related to the 
governments consultation activities, the call handler at Just understood that was what he 
was asking.
The call handler for Just explained the current situation to Mr P very carefully. She explained 
that the date for a decision following the consultation had been put back a year. So although 
it had been hoped that annuities could be cashed in from April 2016, the earliest that would 
now be implemented was April 2017. But she was also careful to explain to Mr P that no 
decision had been taken at that time so Just was unable to know whether, or which, 
annuities might be affected by any changes. So she told Mr P that his annuity would 
continue to provide him with an income for his lifetime, and that withdrawing from the annuity 
wasnt something he could do at that time.
As I explained in my earlier decision I think Mr P does have some confusion about the 
advice he was given by his broker in 2009. But the product he purchased from Just was a 
lifetime annuity. Unless the legislation changes he cannot change that back into a capital 
sum. And I think that is precisely what Just told him when they spoke in October 2016. So 
I dont think that Just has done anything wrong here.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold the complaint or make any award against 
Just Retirement Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2020.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman