DRN-3694676
The complaint
Ms F complains NewDay Ltd trading as Pulse wont send one-time passcodes by email and 
about the interest rate she was charged on her account which she says was too high.
What happened
Ms F has a credit card which she took out several years ago  it was a differently branded 
card when she took it out and wasnt, at the time, managed by NewDay.
In January 2021 Ms F complained to NewDay  whod been managing her card for several 
years by then  that she was having problems logging onto her account because she didnt 
have a mobile phone, or use phones, and so couldnt receive one-time passcodes. Ms F 
says shes been having problems with NewDay since 2020. For example, she says NewDay 
unfairly increased the interest rate on her account and then put her on a payment plan.
Ms Fs card was going through a re-branding when she complained. In May 2021 she was 
offered a Pulse card  which is what the card became following the re-branding  which 
Pulse says she was told shed have to activate. NewDay says Ms F hasnt activated her new 
Pulse card, and that her account has been closed as a result. 
NewDay investigated Ms Fs complaint and said that it had changed its processes for online 
banking and / or making online payments following the introduction of strong customer 
authentication rules. It said that it had decided to authenticate its customers using one-time 
passcodes sent to a mobile phone or through its mobile banking app. It also said that it could 
send Ms F a one-time passcode to a landline number. In the circumstances, NewDay didnt 
think it had done anything wrong when it had changed its processes. NewDay also 
investigated Ms Fs complaint that it had unfairly increased the rate of interest on her 
account. It said that it had charged interest on her account in line with its terms and 
conditions. In the circumstances, NewDay didnt think it had acted unfairly. Ms F was 
unhappy with NewDays responses and so complained to us. She says she stopped using 
her card and cleared the balance on it after complaining as she was annoyed with NewDay.
One of our investigators looked into Ms Fs complaint and said that they didnt think NewDay 
had acted unfairly by introducing strong customer authentication. Our investigator did, 
however, think that NewDay had acted unfairly in that none of the methods of authenticating 
that it offered  all of which involved using phones  were viable alternatives for Ms F as she 
doesnt use phones. Our investigator recommended £300 in compensation as they thought 
that this had had a considerable impact on Ms F. Our investigator didnt think NewDay had 
acted unfairly charging Ms F the interest rate it had done, as it had done so in line with the 
terms and conditions of the account. Our investigator looked into what happened to Ms Fs 
card following its rebranding, and the circumstances in which her account was closed. 
Having done so, they thought that Ms F hadnt been able to activate her account because 
shes been unable to log on.
NewDay didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. It said that it had opted to 
send one-time passcodes to their customers mobile phones and landlines when it rolled 
strong customer authentication out in January 2021, in order to ensure a smooth transaction. 
It said it introduced a process for sending one-time passcodes to their customers via email in 
mid- October 2021. Ms Fs complaint had already been dealt with by then  and it was 
because of this that she was told that one-time passcodes were only being sent to mobile 
phones and landlines. NewDay said that Ms Fs account had been closed in March 2022 as 
she didnt activate her new card. Because NewDay didnt agree with our investigators 
recommendations, Ms Fs complaint was passed onto an ombudsman. As a result, Ive been 
asked to look into her complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read the file, Im satisfied that Ms F doesnt use phones  she genuinely believes that 
this would put her at risk of fraud and scams  and that shes been very careful to avoid 
getting Covid-19. I dont necessarily agree with her that shes at risk of fraud and scams for 
the reasons she gives, but Im satisfied that she is genuinely fearful of using phones. In the 
circumstances, I can understand why she prefers to communicate by email rather than by 
phone. I can also understand why she complained to NewDay when she was told that shed 
need to provide a phone number  either a mobile or a landline  so that shed be able to 
receive one-time passcodes that shed need in order to log onto her account or carry out 
certain transactions online. And I can understand why she wanted NewDay to send one-time 
passcodes to her email address or allow her to carry on logging into her account the way 
shed always done. Im satisfied that sending one-time passcodes via email wasnt an option 
NewDay offered at the time.
strong customer authentication
NewDay has told us that it made changes to its processes in order to implement new 
regulations that came into effect in September 2019 that affected the whole banking sector  
namely the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Those regulations required 
payment service providers (PSPs) to apply strong customer authentication in certain 
circumstances. Those circumstances are set out in in Article 100 of the regulations which 
says:
A payment service provider must apply strong customer authentication where a 
payment service user
(a) accesses its payment account online, whether directly or through an account 
information service provider;
(b) initiates an electronic payment transaction; or
(c) carries out any action through a remote channel which may imply a risk of payment 
fraud or other abuses.
The FCA gave PSPs until March 2020 to implement strong customer authentication for 
online banking and has given the e-commerce industry until March 2022 to implement strong 
customer authentication for online payments. The e-commerce industry includes card 
issuers, payment firms and online retailers. There was, of course, nothing to stop firms 
bringing in strong customer authentication sooner than that, if they wanted to do so.
The Payment Services Regulations  which implemented an EU Directive from 2015 
commonly known as the revised Payment Services Directive  define strong customer 
authentication as:authentication based on the use of two or more elements that are independent, in that 
the breach of one element does not compromise the reliability of any other element, and 
designed in such a way as to protect the confidentiality of the authentication data, with 
the elements falling into two or more of the following categories
(a) something known only by the payment service user (knowledge);
(b) something held only by the payment service user (possession);
(c) something inherent to the payment service user (inherence);
In short, strong customer authentication involves, amongst other things, checking that the 
person accessing a payment account online or initiating an electronic payment is permitted 
to do so. PSPs have to authenticate the person in question using factors based on 
knowledge, inherence or possession and must use at least two independent factors 
when doing so. They cant, for example, check using only knowledge based factors, but 
they can check using one or more knowledge based factors and one or more possession 
based factors. Ms F is unhappy that NewDay changed its processes and unhappy that the 
changes involved having to use a phone.
NewDays approach to implementing strong customer authentication
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of NewDay to implement strong customer 
authentication  its an important measure to help combat fraud. In this particular case, I 
dont, therefore, think it was unfair or unreasonable of NewDay to say to Ms F that she 
wouldnt be able to log into her account using her user ID and memorable data only as that 
wouldnt constitute strong customer authentication  this would be authentication based on 
one rather than two factors. I can also understand why NewDay decided that it would send 
one-time passcodes to its customers mobile phones and landlines when it first rolled out 
strong customer authentication  in January 2021  as I accept those were the main 
methods by which its customers got into contact. I do, however, agree with our investigator 
that NewDay needed and needs to offer alternative ways of authenticating that are viable for 
customers like Ms F. Id like to explain what the FCA has said about strong customer 
authentication and its expectations first before saying what I think that means in this case.
What has the FCA said about strong customer authentication and its expectations?
The Financial Conduct Authority (the FCA) has published several papers about strong 
customer authentication and its expectations and it has written to firms about this too. In a 
paper published in June 2019  Payment Services and Electronic Money  Our Approach  
the FCA described its approach to the PSRs and payment services and e-money related 
rules in its Handbook. In paragraph 20.21 of its paper the FCA said:
We encourage firms to consider the impact of strong customer authentication 
solutions on different groups of customers, in particular those with protected 
characteristics, as part of the design process. Additionally, it may be necessary for a 
PSP [Payment Service Provider] to provide different methods of authentication, to 
comply with their obligation to apply strong customer authentication in line with 
regulation 100 of the PSRs 2017. For example, not all payment service users will 
possess a mobile phone or smart phone and payments may be made in areas 
without mobile phone reception. PSPs must provide a viable means to strongly 
authenticate customers in these situations.
The FCA has, in my opinion, made it clear in its paper and elsewhere that businesses 
shouldnt rely on mobile phones alone to authenticate their customers and should provide viable alternatives for different groups of customers. The FCA has, in my opinion, also made 
it clear in this paper and elsewhere that this includes people who dont possess a mobile 
phone or a smart phone and not just those who cant use one. The FCA has talked, for 
example, about managing the potentially negative impact of strong customer authentication 
on different groups of customers particularly the vulnerable, the less digitally engaged or 
located in areas with limited digital access. And the FCA has also talked about the need for 
firms to develop strong customer authentication solutions that work for all groups of 
consumers and has said that this means they may need to provide several different 
authentication methods for your customers.
why is Ms F complaining?
Ms F is complaining that NewDay told her that it couldnt send one-time passcodes via email 
and that shed have to provide a mobile phone or landline number if she wanted to receive 
one-time passcodes in order to log into her account online and make certain payments. 
Thats because she doesnt use phones. Before complaining and Covid, Ms F says she used 
a device belonging to her daughter to log into her account. Ms F says her daughter now 
uses this device so its no longer convenient for her to do so, but she does have access to 
another device that allows her to go online when she needs to. She wanted NewDay to 
either send one-time passcodes via email or allow her to carry on logging on the way she 
always had done  in other words, allow her to log on using her user ID and memorable 
data. She says she wants to be able to access her account over the internet and not via an 
app as she doesnt have space on her device for apps. So she wasnt happy when NewDay 
sent her an email with a link to its app.
should NewDay have done more for Ms F?
Ive already said why I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable of NewDay to say Ms F 
couldnt log on using her user ID and memorable data alone. This wouldnt be strong 
customer authentication. So the main issue I have to decide is whether or not NewDay ought 
to have offered Ms F other ways of authenticating that didnt involve phones.
The FCAs guidance says that businesses should offer customers alternative ways of 
authenticating that dont involve mobile phones. I agree with NewDay that it did offer an 
alternative  it offered to send one-time passcodes to landlines too. The FCA guidance, 
however, also makes it clear that businesses should consider the impact on different groups 
of customers as part of the design process and that it might be necessary to provide different 
methods of authenticating. In Ms Fs case, I agree with our investigator that NewDay could 
and should have done more to help as its clear she was struggling with the options it had 
given as they all involved phones of one sort of another.
NewDay says that since Ms F complained it has decided to send one-time passcodes via 
email too. In other words, NewDay has introduced an alternative that ought to work for Ms F. 
In order to get a one-time passcode sent via email, however, NewDay has told us that Ms F 
would have to phone its customer service department. Thats despite Ms F making it clear 
that she doesnt use phones.
Im satisfied, given everything that Ive said, that NewDay could and should have done more 
for Ms F and that she had problems accessing her account because NewDay didnt offer her 
an alternative way of authenticating that was viable for her. Ms F has told us that she cleared 
the balance on her card and stopped using it after she complained. Shes also told us that 
the card is no longer a joy to use. In the circumstances, given that NewDay says her account 
has been closed because her new card wasnt activated, I agree that compensation is the 
appropriate remedy in this case.Putting things right
I agree with our investigation, given the impact NewDay not offering an alternative way of 
authenticating that is viable for Ms F, that an award of £300 is fair in this case. So thats the 
amount Im going to require NewDay to pay Ms F in full and final settlement of her complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I require NewDay Ltd to pay Ms F £300 in compensation in full and 
final settlement of her complaint.
0Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman