DRN-3798040
The complaint
Mr R complains about the way American Express Services Europe Limited (AESEL) has 
dealt with claims he brought to it relating to flight bookings hed made using his credit card.
What happened
The background to this complaint was set out in some detail by our investigator in his initial 
assessment. For reasons of brevity and in the interests of avoiding identifying features, Ill 
simply summarise events here.
Mr R made a series of travel bookings using his American Express credit card. Unfortunately 
his travel plans were affected by the Covid-19 pandemic. He received travel vouchers in lieu 
of a refund, which were valid for 12 months. Mr R made replacement bookings using a 
combination of the vouchers and further part-payment with his credit card.
The replacement bookings were cancelled for similar reasons, and Mr R received more 
vouchers, though not to the full value of the amounts hed paid. He made further future 
bookings, but once again these were cancelled, with more vouchers issued.
Mr R did eventually get to travel on a subsequent booking, which he paid for using some of 
the vouchers and a small amount by card. Perhaps unsurprisingly, Mr R felt the amounts 
hed paid didnt tally with the flights that did take place, or the refunds and sums hed 
received as vouchers. He asked American Express to look into things and see if that would 
enable him to recover the money by which he was out of pocket.
There was some back and forth between American Express and Mr R in efforts to establish 
the correct amount he should receive. The parties werent able to agree on this, and 
ultimately Mr R asked us to consider the dispute.
Our investigator examined the evidence in relation to all of Mr Rs bookings, the amounts 
hed paid by card and by voucher, and whether he considered American Express had had 
proper regard for its potential liability to Mr R both via chargeback and the connected lender 
liability provisions in the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He concluded that it was likely American 
Express was liable to Mr R, though not to the full value of the vouchers, as these included an 
additional sum above the amount that was the subject of the cancelled contracts.
The investigators calculations produced an overall total of £2,464.81, which was £944.69 
more than American Express had proposed. He recommended American Express pay this 
sum to Mr R to resolve the dispute.
Mr R indicated he was willing to accept the investigators recommendation. American 
Express hasnt sought to challenge the findings in respect of its liability to Mr R. But it has 
said it has been unable to establish that the vouchers are invalid. American Express has 
expressed concerns over the possibility that agreeing to the settlement might result in Mr R 
obtaining double recovery. It maintains its own calculations are a fair sum in settlement.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say, first of all, that I have every sympathy for Mr R and the unfortunate 
circumstances in which his travel plans appear to have been so frequently disrupted. It 
doesnt appear to be in dispute that these disruptions gave rise to a liability on American 
Expresss part to refund Mr R. The issue at hand is the amount of that liability; that is, whats 
the appropriate sum American Express should pay Mr R to address his loss?
Im also sympathetic to American Express in this respect. The chain of payments, vouchers, 
refunds and rebookings is quite involved, and was further complicated by the merchant 
applying an additional amount on top of the value of certain of the vouchers. Ive no doubt 
American Express has made extensive efforts to work out the correct amount. Im also 
conscious Mr R has taken the time to produce his own calculations via a spreadsheet. Its 
not my intention to suggest either party is at fault for the failure to reach an agreed sum as 
settlement.
Rather, Ive focused on what I consider to be the fair way to resolve matters, having regard 
for all of the evidence available to me. That suggests to me that our investigators proposal, 
based on the total amount Mr R has paid on his card, less the vouchers he has been able to 
use, represents a reasonable working resolution.
Ive considered the reasons American Express gave in response to that proposal, and I 
understand its concerns. Im sure Mr R would readily acknowledge he wouldnt expect to 
recover money while also benefitting from having the use of vouchers representing those 
same funds.
That said, Ive seen nothing to suggest that Mr R has been able to use the remaining 
vouchers, or that there is a significant risk that he will do so. After all, one of the key points 
Mr R has made  and of which he has provided us with supporting evidence that weve 
shared with American Express  is that hes been unable to use the vouchers, prompting his 
request that they be refunded.
As this appears to be the main barrier to resolution along the lines suggested, I think its 
appropriate to make provision to address the risk  however unlikely  that gives American 
Express cause for concern. Im satisfied this will then enable the parties to reach a fair 
settlement to the dispute.
My final decision
My final decision is that in settlement of Mr Rs complaint, American Express Services 
Europe Limited (AESEL) should, within 28 days of receiving his acceptance of this decision, 
take the following steps:
1. pay Mr R £1,520.12 to reflect amounts paid for his cancelled flight bookings, as it has 
previously offered to do
2. pay Mr R £944.69 in respect of the vouchers issued to him in August 2021 and due 
to expire in August 2022 that he has been unable to use and which appear to be 
invalid.
In addition to this, American Express is entitled to deduct from the amount in 2. any sums in 
relation to these specific vouchers it can show Mr R has been able to use. If Mr R has not used these vouchers but does so at some point in the future, he undertakes to inform 
American Express of this and to repay any such amounts to it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 April 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman