DRN-3878186
The complaint
Mr D and Miss E complain that Nationwide Building Society offered them a loan at one rate 
but increased it to a higher rate.
What happened
In June 2022 Mr D and Miss A contacted Nationwide and applied for a loan of £7500 to pay 
off some existing finance.
The agent at Nationwide took Mr D and Miss As details and processed a personal loan 
quote for £7500 over 5 years at 2.9%.
It subsequently came to light that the agent had misspelt Miss As surname when the quote 
was processed. When the error was corrected and the quote re-processed, the APR 
increased from 2.9% to 5.9%.
Mr D and Miss A took the loan at 5.9% and then complained to Nationwide.
In response, Nationwide acknowledged that it had made an error when it misspelt Miss As 
surname. It apologised for any distress caused and offered compensation of £75. IN relation 
to the loan, Nationwide said that once Miss As surname had been corrected, it had been 
able to get more accurate information from her credit file And that based on the risk profiling 
the APR increased to 5.9%. 
Mr D and Miss A were unhappy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said that the initial APR offered was 
provisional and that the rate was changed when new information came to light. The 
investigator said that Mr D and Miss A had the choice whether to accept the loan at 5.9% 
and had chosen to accept it.
Mr D and Miss A didnt agree so Ive been asked to make final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide has acknowledged that it made an error with the spelling of Miss As surname 
and that this was only discovered when she provided her income verification documents. 
Nationwide has explained that the error meant that they had been unable to search Miss As 
credit history, but that once the error was corrected, it had been able to complete the search 
and the information on the credit file meant that the risk profile of the loan was increased, 
resulting in a  higher APR being offered.
I appreciate that the increase in the APR wouldve been disappointing for Mr D and Miss A. 
However, the APR here was provisional and subject to change once credit checks had been 
completed. If the agent had taken down Miss As surname correctly at the outset, I think its 
likely that the APR would still have been 5.9%.
I can see that Nationwide offered Mr D and Miss A the choice of whether to accept the loan 
at the increased APR. It explained that they could appeal to the underwriter if they wished to 
see if the APR could be reduced. Mr D and Miss A said they didnt want to do this. I think the 
offer to appeal was fair and reasonable. 
Ultimately it was up to Mr D and Miss A whether they accepted the offer of the loan at the 
APR of 5.9%. Theres no evidence to suggest that they werent aware that this was the 
applicable rate.
Taking everything into account, I think Nationwide acted fairly by offering compensation for 
the spelling error. I dont think Nationwide needs to do anything further in relation to the loan.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr D 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2023.
 
Emma Davy
Ombudsman