DRN-2331047
The complaint
Mr F complained about the way esure Insurance Limited trading as esure handled a claim he 
made following the theft of his car under his car insurance policy.
What happened
In August 2019 Mr Fs car was stolen and he reported the theft to esure. His car was 
recovered by police a couple of days later. esure settled Mr Fs claim as a total loss as it 
wasnt economical for it to repair his car. Mr F decided to keep his car. 
Mr F made a series of complaints to esure between September and November 2019. He 
said esure caused delay and confusion when moving his car from police recovery to an 
approved repairer - and in arranging and returning car hire. He didnt think the total loss 
settlement was fair. When his car was returned to him after deciding to retain it, he found 
new damage since it was recovered. Mr F said esure caused a delay in returning his car to 
him from the salvage agent. 
In September 2019 esure accepted that it had caused some delay and provided a poor 
service at times. For this, esure paid Mr F a total of £350 compensation. It said the market 
value it reached for Mr Fs car was fair. 
In November 2019 esure paid a further £200 compensation for the delay and poor service 
provided in returning Mr Fs car to him. Mr F identified new damage which he said hadnt 
been caused by the theft. esure paid Mr F the costs of the estimates provided to repair the 
further damage. 
In January 2020 Mr F asked us to look at his complaints. He said the compensation esure 
paid wasnt enough to reflect the distress, inconvenience and financial losses he incurred 
due to their poor handling of his claim. Mr F said he wanted esure to explain how his car was 
further damaged after the theft. He was concerned there may be further damage which 
wasnt visible. 
In August 2020 Mr F said he had to pay a further £1,600 to replace the front driver side 
wheel and shock absorbers which he believes was unidentified damage caused to his car 
while in esures care. 
Our investigator thought esure had dealt with Mr Fs complaints reasonably and done 
enough to put things right for their failings. He explained that esure cant confirm how Mr Fs 
car received new damage. But as it agreed to cover the costs to repair it, he thought this was 
fair and couldnt ask esure to do any more. 
Mr F didnt agree. He feels his point regarding unknown damage hasnt been addressed. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its reasonable to expect a degree of inconvenience when having to deal with a claim. 
Unfortunately it is inevitable that having to deal with an event such as this will involve some 
of our own time. 
The investigator set out a detailed chronology of what happened in his view, so I dont intend 
to duplicate that in my decision. However, I think its clear that in this case esures handling 
of the claim caused Mr F over and above what would be a reasonable level of 
inconvenience. 
The awards we give for compensation are modest and examples can be found on our 
website. I can see that Mr F had to call esure regularly, sometimes daily, to establish where 
his car was and when it arrived at the approved repairers from police storage. While esure 
agreed to provide Mr F with a hire car, it caused confusion as to how long he could have it 
for which meant Mr F was chased by the hire car company to return it. 
esure has shown that the market value it reached for Mr Fs car was reasonable. It was 
within the range of the retail transacted figures given by the main motor trade guides for a 
similar car in good condition. 
I think esures decision to pay Mr F for the estimates to repair damage identified when his 
car was returned to him from the salvage agent was reasonable. 
I understand Mr F is disappointed that further damage he says was unidentified until his car 
was repaired hasnt been considered by us. Mr F says he had to pay a further £1,600 to 
replace the front driver side wheel and shock absorbers. 
If Mr F has independent evidence to show that this damage was caused by the recovery of 
his car from the salvage agent to him in November 2019, he will need to provide esure with 
this so that it can consider the matter further. I appreciate that Mr F feels his concerns 
havent been addressed about esure not confirming how his car received new damage. But I 
cant ask esure to confirm something it doesnt know. As Ive explained, I think esure paid Mr 
F a fair market value for his car  minus a salvage fee  on the basis his car was in good 
condition before the theft. And it paid him for the costs under the estimates provided to repair 
new damage to the rear springs, a wing and bumper. So I think esures approach was 
reasonable here. 
For the poor service and delays between August and November 2019, esure paid Mr F a 
total of £550 compensation. I think this is fair and in line with awards which we give for 
similar cases. So  taking everything into account  I think esure has done enough to put 
things right for Mr F. So Im not asking it to do any more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman