DRN-2095667
The complaint
Miss W complains about the information Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclaycard) has recorded 
on her credit file in relation to her credit card account. 
What happened
Miss W has a Barclaycard account. In 2013, she contacted Barclaycard to say she was 
having trouble meeting her minimum repayments. Barclaycard agreed that Miss W could 
make reduced payments of £10 per month. This arrangement ended in 2017, when Miss W 
went back to making the contractual payments for her account. 
Miss W complained to Barclaycard in 2019 because she was unhappy that this payment 
arrangement was showing on her credit file. She said it was affecting her ability to get other 
credit. She was particularly unhappy because she said Barclaycard hadnt explained to her 
that having an arrangement to pay would damage her credit file for longer than a default 
would have. Miss W wanted Barclaycard to remove the arrangement to pay markers or apply 
a backdated default. 
In response to Miss Ws complaint, Barclaycard said it didnt think it had acted incorrectly. It 
had allowed Miss W to make reduced payments, not charging her the usual interest or 
charges during this period and shed eventually got back up to date with her account and the 
arrangement had ended. It said itd correctly recorded this information on Miss Ws credit file.
Miss W wasnt happy with this response so referred her complaint to our service. 
Our investigator thought Barclaycard had treated Miss W fairly. He said this because he 
could see that the information Barclaycard had reported on Miss Ws credit file accurately 
reflected the conduct of her account. And although there were no call recordings available of 
when Miss W spoke to the bank about her arrangement, he thought it was most likely 
Barclaycard had correctly explained the arrangement to her. And based on the letters it sent 
Miss W, it had also explained that the arrangement would be reported on her credit file in 
writing.
Miss W didnt accept the investigators view. She maintained that Barclaycard hadnt 
followed the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) guidance in relation to defaults 
because it had allowed her repayment arrangement to go on for a number of years. 
As Miss W didnt accept the investigators view, the complaints been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a customer is in financial difficulties, wed expect the financial business to treat their 
customer positively and sympathetically. What this means in practice depends on each 
customers circumstances. And  when recording information on a customers credit file  
financial businesses have an obligation to make sure what they record is an accurate 
reflection of the conduct of the account. 
Theres no dispute that Miss W couldnt afford her contractual repayments in 2013, asked 
Barclaycard for help and Barclaycard agreed a reduced payment arrangement. I can see 
from the letters Barclaycard sent to Miss W, that this arrangement was first agreed in 2013 
and it was reviewed every 12 months  until it ended in 2017. The letters also set out that 
the arrangement would be reported to the credit reference agencies. In 2017, Miss W 
resumed making contractual repayments. And having reviewed Miss Ws credit file, I find 
what Barclaycard has recorded reflects this arrangement. 
During the period of the arrangement, Barclaycard didnt charge Miss W the usual level of 
interest or fees on the amount she owed. And her monthly payment was reduced to about 
20% of its usual amount. The credit limit was reduced to zero during the arrangement, but 
Barclaycard reinstated Miss Ws credit limit when the arrangement ended in 2017, so shes 
been able to use the card again. Barclaycard allowed Miss W to do this, as shes pointed 
out, for about four years. 
Miss W thinks Barclaycard has not complied with the relevant industry guidance because it 
allowed her payment arrangement to continue for a number of years, so she doesnt think 
this was a temporary arrangement. I see why she says this  the ICO guidance does 
generally say a default can be registered when between three and six months of contractual 
payments have been missed. But it doesnt say that one must be registered in those 
circumstances. 
The point of a repayment arrangement is to give the customer some breathing space if 
theyre struggling and help them get back to making their normal payments under the 
contract, where possible. In Miss Ws case, Id agree that four years is perhaps longer than 
you might expect a temporary arrangement to last, but it was in fact temporary because it did 
allow her, in the end, to go back to running the account as normal. 
A default is normally used to indicate where the agreement between the business and its 
customer has broken down and the customer is unlikely to ever be able to resume 
contractual payments. I dont think thats what happened in Miss Ws case. At the time, both 
parties were happy with the arrangement and it was reviewed regularly and renewed until 
Miss W was able to make the contractual payments again. So, I dont agree that Barclaycard 
shouldve registered a default in these circumstances. 
Miss W also doesnt think Barclaycard did enough to explain to her the effect of the payment 
arrangement on her credit file. As I understand it, the effect of what Miss W is saying here is 
that she now thinks Barclaycard shouldve advised her not to pay anything towards the 
money she owed them. Then Barclaycard wouldve defaulted her account. And she thinks it 
shouldve done this because the default would have been removed from her credit file 
sooner than the payment arrangement because of the amount of time the payment 
arrangement ended up lasting. 
But, like the investigator, I wouldnt have expected Barclaycard to have advised Miss W in 
these terms. Barclaycards obligation was to treat Miss W positively and sympathetically in 
relation to her financial difficulties and to explain that there would be information recorded on 
her credit file in relation to the arrangement. And, for the reasons Ive already said I think it 
did. 
I can see why, with the benefit of hindsight, Miss W would think that by agreeing an 
arrangement to pay with Barclaycard shes in a worse position now than she would be if 
shed made no attempt to repay the money she owed. But, having considered all the available evidence, I think at the time Miss W was content with the arrangement shed 
reached with Barclays. Not least because she was happy to extend this agreement three 
times. And, as Ive said, I think its likely Barclaycard correctly explained that the 
arrangement would be recorded on Miss Ws credit file. So, I dont think Barclaycard have 
treated Miss W unfairly or recorded anything inaccurate on her credit file. 
Miss Ws mentioned that other businesses defaulted accounts she had in 2013. That may be 
the case, but just because other businesses did doesnt mean Barclaycard should also have 
done the same. And, having considered all the circumstances of the case, Ive explained 
why I dont think Barclaycard treated Miss W unfairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 October 2020.
 
Eleanor Rippengale
Ombudsman