DRN-3820778
The complaint
Miss D complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to process her international payment 
instruction. 
What happened
In April 2022, Miss D made an international payment of £9,000 to her account in Cyprus. 
However in May, she noticed that the payment hadnt been received and that the funds were 
still showing in her Barclays account. 
She said she called Barclays and was told that her access had been restricted because they 
were concerned about the recent transfer she had made. Miss D confirmed that the payment 
was a legitimate one and was told that it had gone through. This wasnt the case though, as 
the payment had in fact been cancelled and so needed to be made again. 
When Miss D checked her Cyprus account, she noticed the payment hadnt been received 
and the money was still showing in her Barclays account. She called Barclays again but they 
werent able to tell her what had happened. They also said theyd call her back but Miss D 
didnt receive a call.  
Miss D was then told on 24 May that while she needed to make the payment again, she 
wouldnt be able to do it over the phone and that shed need to go into a branch. As she 
didnt want to do this, she made the payment using a third-party provider. 
Miss D complained as the payment was for her mortgage in Cyprus. While she had enough 
in her Cyprus account to cover the payment that hadnt arrived in April, she had been 
worried that the following payment due on 31 May wouldnt have been covered. She 
acknowledged that Barclays had tried to contact her but said they had left a voicemail which 
she couldnt hear properly and had only tried to contact her once. 
Miss D also wanted to be refunded for any losses incurred in terms of the exchange rate 
used, as the rate used when the payment was made with the third-party provider could have 
been different to what it would have been, had the payment been made with Barclays.  
Barclays responded and explained that while they want to have as little impact as possible 
on their customers, sometimes they have to stop certain transactions because their system 
spots something that looks irregular. They said they had tried to contact Miss D in April and 
left a voicemail but didnt hear back from her which led to the payment being cancelled. 
As their fraud detection system had worked as intended, they werent able to refund any 
losses that may have been incurred by Miss D, but they did pay her £100 in compensation 
as an apology for telling her the payment had been made when it hadnt. 
Our investigator was of the view that Barclays should pay Miss D a further £100 in 
compensation. He said that while Barclays were within their right to stop the payment, they 
failed to communicate clearly with Miss D on several occasions and didnt try to contact her 
again once her payment had been cancelled. 
In relation to the exchange rate, our investigator acknowledged that it was possible Miss D 
paid more in May than she would have done in April. However, he said that Miss D had 
known about the payment not being made in early May but didnt make the payment again 
until later in the month. Given the amount of time that passed, our investigator didnt feel it 
would be fair to hold Barclays responsible for any potential loss caused by fluctuations in the 
exchange rate. 
Barclays agreed to pay Miss D a further £100. However Miss D didnt agree. She didnt feel 
our investigator had looked into whether or not she had lost out as a result of the difference 
between the exchange rate that had been used in May, compared to what it would have 
been in April.  
Because of this, the complaint was passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having looked through everything, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator for 
the same reasons. I will explain why. 
Fraud detection systems are in place to help a bank protect their customers accounts. 
Barclays have explained that if their system detects a transaction that seems irregular, they 
will stop it and attempt to contact their customer to see if its legitimate. Barclays tried to 
contact Miss B but couldnt get through, so left a voicemail. They said that had she spoken 
with them sooner they could have released the payment without issue. While this is true, I do 
think they could have tried to contact her again. They also gave her the wrong information 
when they said the payment had been made when it hadnt. For these reasons I agree they 
should pay her an additional £100 to that already paid. 
In relation to Miss D wanting to be compensated for a different exchange rate being used, 
Im not able to ask Barclays to do this. Exchange rates change every day, and while I 
appreciate Miss D feels she may have received a worse rate than she would have done 
through Barclays, we cant pinpoint the day the payment would have been made, and so we 
dont know what the rate could have been. 
At this service we can only look into what did happen and whether a business has acted 
fairly. In this case I believe that Barclays didnt do anything wrong in initially stopping the 
payment as it was one that was flagged as irregular. So the payment couldnt ever have 
been made on that date as it was stopped correctly.  
Miss D was told that the payment had been cancelled in early May, so the payment could 
have been made then, or even slightly earlier had Barclays tried to contact her a second 
time. But again we dont know what rate may have been used as the payment could have 
been made on any one of the days in between Miss D finding out it had been cancelled, and 
when she made the payment through the third-party provider. 
In the interest of trying to find some comparison, I looked at the wholesale market prices for 
the EUR/GBP exchange rate in early April when the rate was around £0.83 to the Euro. It 
remained around the same throughout May. On the date the payment was made, the 
wholesale market rate was around £0.85, and Miss B received a rate of £0.87 through the 
third-party provider. Overall, while I fully understand the points Miss D has raised, I cant say that Barclays have 
done anything wrong in this instance in relation to stopping the payment and Im not able to 
determine whether or not there was any loss in terms of the exchange rate. But I do agree 
that they should have tried to contact Miss D again, and that they failed to communicate 
clearly with her on multiple occasions.   
For this reason, Im asking Barclays to award an additional £100 to Miss D as compensation 
for the inconvenience caused. I know Miss D will find this disappointing, but I hope my 
reasoning explains why Im not able to give her the outcome she hoped for. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold this complaint. Barclays Bank UK PLC should pay 
Miss D a further £100. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March 2023.
 
Danielle Padden
Ombudsman