DRN-3753153
The complaint
A company which Ill call B complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) treated 
them unfairly by restricting access to their business bank account. 
The complaint is brought on Bs behalf by their director, Mrs R.
What happened
B held a business bank account with RBS. In August 2021, RBS carried out a Customer 
Due Diligence review of Bs account and wrote to the company requesting some further 
information. The bank said that if the information wasnt received, this could mean Bs 
account was restricted. 
RBS didnt receive this information so it wrote to B again in September, reiterating that their 
account could be restricted. B tried to upload the information to RBSs online portal as 
requested but they werent able to do so. So they called the bank to ask for help but due to 
lengthy call waiting times, B werent able to speak to anyone - so voicemails were left 
requesting call backs from the dedicated team dealing with the review, but these were never 
received.
RBS wrote to B again in October and said that the outstanding information needed to be 
received at the latest by 8 November or their account would be restricted. When the 
information wasnt received as requested, RBS applied the restriction to Bs account on 9 
November. Due to existing plans, this was the same day that Mrs R travelled abroad so she 
wasnt aware the restriction had taken place.
On 11 November, B noticed that a payment to their supplier hadnt been made. Around the 
same time, they were contacted by a customer who couldnt pay for their goods and staff 
who werent able to use their business cards to cover expenses. B contacted different 
people within RBS and was eventually given a direct contact number for the dedicated team 
and able to provide the information the bank required. RBS said it would take nearly two 
weeks for the account to be updated. Mrs R explained the impact on both herself and B as a 
result of the banks actions and made a complaint. 
RBS apologised and agreed to remove the restrictions on Bs account by 15 November. 
However, the restrictions werent removed until 16 November, by which point Bs account 
had been restricted for 8 days. At this point, B identified that direct debit payments hadnt 
been paid, their credit cards had been blocked due to missed repayments. They also said 
they incurred various charges from these third parties, spent lengthy periods of time on calls 
and that Mrs R had to make personal transfers to cover payments. 
RBS upheld Bs complaint. The bank agreed to refund the charges incurred by B and offered 
£300 compensation for the inconvenience caused - which it subsequently increased to 
£1,000. B didnt think this was enough and said that in the process of trying to resolve their 
complaint, RBS had sent an email to a member of their staff which was a data breach, 
unprofessional and had led to concerns from staff. So they asked this service to look into 
their complaint.
Our investigator thought RBS had done enough to put things right. She said that now the 
charges had been refunded, the focus of Bs complaint was the compensation amount - 
which she felt was fair. She thought that RBS had given B sufficient warning that it would 
restrict their account if the requested information hadnt been received, so it had acted 
reasonably here. She agreed that B had faced difficulties providing the information to the 
bank and that they had been caused inconvenience once this had been provided, which had 
been compounded when the complaint information had been sent to their staff member in 
error - but she thought this had been considered by the bank as part of its offer. 
The investigator noted the inconvenience caused to Mrs R as Bs director, but explained that 
as B was the complainant, not Mrs R, this wasnt something our service could award 
compensation for. She also said that if B was unhappy that RBS had caused a data 
protection breach when it had sent their member of staff the email about the complaint, that 
they could raise this directly with the Information Commissioners Office.
B didnt think the compensation was enough to cover the impact of RBSs actions. They 
reiterated that they had spent lengthy periods of time trying to provide the information the 
bank had requested but werent able to do so. So they asked for an ombudsman to review 
their complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think RBS have done enough to put things right. Ill explain why. 
B says that RBS has treated them unfairly by restricting access to their account as a result of 
its Due Diligence review. RBS has legal and regulatory obligations to ensure that it has 
sufficient knowledge of its customers. Ive seen that RBS wrote to B four times over a four-
month period to obtain the information it needed - but it didnt receive what was required. As 
the bank wasnt satisfied it could meet its regulatory obligations, it gave B warning that it 
would restrict their account which was in line with its terms and conditions. 
However, B has told us that they repeatedly tried to call the bank to provide the information 
as requested but were unable to do so. Ive also seen emails between B and their 
relationship manager asking how they could provide this, but it wasnt until after the 
companys account had been restricted that they were given a dedicated number. RBS has 
agreed that its service was below what B should have reasonably expected here.
B has told us that as a result of RBSs actions, they had regular monthly payments that 
werent paid which incurred charges and customer payments which couldnt be received. 
They also said that their staff had to spend significant periods of time trying to resolve the 
issues with the account and that Mrs R had to make payments from her accounts to cover 
staff expenses. As a result B says that it was caused reputational damage both internally 
and externally. I recognise this would have been a frustrating time for B, but RBS has 
apologised and offered £1,000 compensation for the inconvenience caused in addition to the 
refund of charges that it has already paid. 
I recognise that B says this isnt enough compensation for the inconvenience caused. 
However, I havent seen any evidence of the reputational damage that B says it has 
sustained or that customer transactions were lost as a result of the banks actions. I also 
understand that Mrs R was inconvenienced whilst abroad, however B is the complainant in 
this case so I cant take this into consideration. Furthermore, as a service, we would expect 
a director to mitigate any losses where possible, as Mrs R did when covering Bs payments, so Im not persuaded there was an impact on B here. 
B also told us that when RBS was reviewing their complaint, it copied in a member of their 
staff to an email discussing the proposed complaint resolution which it felt was a data 
protection breach. However, whilst I acknowledge this wasnt the best level of service, its 
not for us to fine or punish a business for making a mistake and Im not persuaded this had a 
significant impact on B. I say this because, the company told us that several members of 
staff had been contacting the bank to resolve the account issue. So I think its likely this is 
where RBS had obtained the staff members email address from, which means they would 
have already been aware of what had happened to Bs account and the impact of the banks 
actions. So taking all of the circumstances of the complaint into account, I think the 
compensation offered by RBS to cover Bs call costs and the inconvenience caused to the 
company is fair.  
My final decision
The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has already made an offer to pay £1,000 to settle the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc should pay B £1,000 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2023.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman