DRN-2821852
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M & S) handled his 
request for a refund of a transaction he financed with his credit card.
 
What happened
Mr S booked a holiday with a supplier, T, to take place in May 2020. He paid £100 using his 
M & S credit card and the total cost of the holiday was £1,256.88. The remainder of the 
holiday was paid for using other payment methods. Following restrictions introduced in the 
UK and abroad as a result of the Covid-19 pandemic, T had to cancel Mr Ss holiday in April 
2020. 
Mr S said he asked T for a refund of the cost of holiday but said he never received a 
response. He asked M & S to look into a refund for him in April 2020. M & S called Mr S in 
May 2020. It said it could raise a chargeback for Mr S but he would be better waiting for T to 
respond to his request for a refund. It said a chargeback would have a better chance of 
succeeding if there was evidence T had refused Mr Ss request for a refund or that it had 
done this after offering a credit note instead and he had rejected this. 
Mr S called M & S around ten days later to explain that T had offered him a credit note 
instead of a refund. M & S told Mr S that T would have 60 days to respond to a chargeback. 
Mr S said he felt this was generous and he thought M & S should have considered his 
request for a refund under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 anyway. 
M & S told Mr S that it would consider his request under the chargeback process before 
looking into a section 75 claim. Dissatisfied with this, Mr S referred his complaint to this 
service. 
Mr S received a full refund of the cost of the holiday from T in July 2021.
The investigator did not think Mr Ss complaint should be upheld. He said that while it may 
have been better for M & S to have considered Mr Ss claim under section 75 rather than 
chargeback, this didnt have much impact on Mr S because he received a refund from T 
fairly soon after anyway. He also took into account that it was a challenging time for 
businesses as they were receiving unprecedented numbers of requests for refunds 
alongside the operational challenges the pandemic had created. 
Mr S did not agree with the investigator and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. He said that M & S failed in its duty to provide a refund and pursue T under 
section 75. He said he thinks an award of compensation for this failure is appropriate in this 
case. 
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator has already given an explanation of the chargeback process and section 75 
so I wont repeat this information in my decision.
Its clear in this case that a claim under section 75 would have been more beneficial to Mr S 
since he could have claimed for the full cost of the holiday rather than just the £100 he paid 
on his M & S credit card  which was all he could claim via chargeback. So, I understand 
why, from Mr Ss point of view, he wanted M & S to look at his claim under section 75. 
Having listened to Mr Ss calls with M & S on 4 and 14 May 2020 however, I dont think it 
was refusing to consider Mr Ss claim under section 75. It told him it would raise a 
chargeback first and then consider matters under section 75 if necessary. And, it explained 
that Mr S should ideally wait for T to confirm that it was refusing to provide him with a cash 
refund first anyway.
Nevertheless, even if I did think M & S should have considered Mr Ss claim under section 
75 from the start, I dont think its failure to do so has had a significant impact on Mr S in this 
case. Mr S received his refund from T in July 2020 within a couple of months of when he 
said he was offered a credit note from it. It was a challenging time for businesses such as   
M & S during those first few months of the pandemic  both in respect of the increase in 
numbers of requests for refunds and the operational challenges faced in light of lockdown 
rules. So, its entirely possible, or likely even, that if M & S had considered Mr Ss claim under 
section 75 it might not have finished looking at it before T made the refund to him. 
While this might not be a reasonable amount of time to take to consider such matters, I do 
find it fair take into account the aforementioned challenges when deciding if M & S needs to 
do anything more here  along with the fact that it was T, by not refunding Mr Ss holiday 
from the start, that caused some of the delay and inconvenience.  Having weighed 
everything up, I dont find M & S needs to pay Mr S compensation in this particular case. 
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ts 
complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2021.
 
Michael Ball
Ombudsman