DRN-3947270
The complaint
Miss B complains that Chetwood Financial Limited trading as LiveLend (LiveLend) are 
holding her liable for a loan agreement she didnt enter into. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here. In January 2022 LiveLend received an 
application and subsequently issued a loan for £7,000. The loan had a term of 24 months 
and the money was paid into Miss Bs bank account. In February 2022 Miss B contacted 
LiveLend and told them that the loan had been taken in her name without her knowledge or 
consent. 
She described how shed been the victim of an online scam perpetrated through social 
media. Shed shared certain details with a third party who she believed was going to help her 
reduce her debt and improve her credit score. She said multiple loans had been taken in her 
name and shed been persuaded to pass the loan funds on to the scammer.
LiveLend investigated but ultimately held Miss B liable for the loan. Being unhappy with this 
outcome Miss B raised a complaint with the support of our service. One of our Investigators 
ultimately concluded it was more likely than not that Miss B had entered into the loan 
agreement, and so she didnt recommend that LiveLend needed to do more. 
Miss B disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our Investigators outcome and for largely the same reasons. I 
know this will be disappointing for Miss B, so Ill explain why. 
Im aware of Miss Bs linked complaints about other lenders, but this complaint only relates 
to LiveLend. Im sorry to hear of the difficult personal circumstances Miss B has described in 
recent times. And Ive no doubt of the impact the whole situation has had on her. Im pleased 
to see our Investigator has already signposted Miss B to organisations who may be able to 
provide further support. But my role requires that I remain impartial and reach an outcome 
based on what I believe to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
With that in mind, my first consideration is whether Miss B entered into the loan agreement 
or whether this was done without her knowledge and consent as she alleges. Key to this is a 
conversation that took place between Miss Bs bank N and her on 11 January 2022. The 
LiveLend loan had been paid into her account on 6 January 2022. The conversation involved 
N speaking to Miss B seeking to protect her from a fraud or scam. They asked her questions 
about an outgoing payment she was instructing. Miss B explained that she was sending 
money to a friend who was using it to help her pay legal costs relating to a dispute she was 
having. During the call the following exchange took place:
N: I can see that you have recently got a couple of loans out havent you?
Miss B: Yes I have.
N: Is that to pay for this then or to pay for part of it?
Miss B: Yes to pay for it so Ive got a roof over my head. 
Miss Bs statements from N show that in addition to the LiveLend loan there were other 
loans credited to her account in the days prior to 11 January when the phone call took place. 
I think its most likely that the LiveLend loan is one of those the agent was referring to. I find 
this call to be persuasive evidence. If Miss B hadnt consented to the loan or didnt know the 
loan was in her name, its difficult to understand why she told N she had taken the loan. 
Particularly when she didnt then raise this with LiveLend until late February 2022. 
Miss B has since said that the payments (including the one N were querying) were upon the 
direction of the scammer. But again, its not clear why she didnt tell N the payment was in 
relation to clearing debts and improving her credit score. Miss B later told our service that 
the scammer had reassured her that no loans were in her name and that it was all part of the 
process. And this continued until direct debits relating to loans started to come out of her 
account. This contrasts what she told N at the time, specifically that she had taken the loans 
in question. The inconsistencies between what Miss B said at the time to N and what shes 
later told LiveLend and our service, make it difficult for me to place a lot of weight on her 
testimony as reliable and credible evidence.
I appreciate that amongst the chats between Miss B and the scammer that she has 
provided, there is evidence of her accusing the scammer of taking multiple loans without her 
consent. But this comes later, after the relationship between Miss B and the scammer seems 
to have deteriorated. And as such Ive placed more weight on the evidence from the time 
closer to when the loans were taken, particularly the call with N.  
Miss B has alleged that the LiveLend loan was unaffordable for her. Shes stated this as an 
additional reason why the loan shouldnt have been paid in the first place. The £7,000 loan 
was to be repaid over 24 months with monthly payments of around £340. The declared 
purpose of the loan was the purchase of a vehicle. 
So Ive considered whether LiveLend completed reasonable and proportionate checks to 
satisfy themselves that Miss B would be able to repay the agreement in a sustainable way. I 
think they did. I can see that LiveLend verified the information included on the application 
through various other sources. And its likely that the other loans taken around the same 
time wouldnt have been visible immediately on Miss Bs credit file. So, I dont think LiveLend 
failed to complete reasonable and proportionate checks, as they are required to. 
And even if Im wrong on this point, Ive reviewed Miss Bs statements for the months prior to 
the loan being agreed. This is with both of her banks L and N. And, in general this shows 
that her incoming regular payments were sufficient such that even if LiveLend had sought 
further evidence, I dont think this would (or should) have impacted their lending decision. So 
I dont think LiveLend needs to do more on this point. That being said, if Miss B is 
experiencing financial difficulty, Id still expect LiveLend to treat her positively and 
sympathetically. 
Overall, I dont think LiveLend concluding that Miss B likely agreed to enter into the loan 
agreement was unfair or unreasonable. It follows that there isnt a reasonable basis upon 
which I can direct them to do anything further to resolve this complaint. My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman