DRN-3155683
The complaint
Mr A complains that Metro Bank PLC failed to give reasonable warnings about its 
identification requirements before he opened a new current account.   
What happened
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. I said:
In November 2020 Mr A applied online for a new account with Metro Bank. Mr As closest 
Metro Bank branch is around 150 miles away so he called the bank before making his 
application to check he could complete the whole process online. Mr A has confirmed he 
was told the application and supporting documents would all be processed online.
Mr As new account was set up and his funds were deposited. But Metro Bank placed a 
block on Mr As account and told him he had to take originals of the identification 
documents into branch. Mr A explained the distance to his nearest branch made that 
option unworkable. Metro Bank advised Mr A could use the Post Offices identification 
service to verify his documents.
Mr A complained and explained that, due to the pandemic, he was concerned about 
visiting a branch of the Post Office and couldnt realistically visit a Metro Bank branch. 
Metro Bank didnt agree it had made an error and said it had blocked Mr As new account 
in line with its terms.
Mr A referred his complaint to this service and it was passed to an investigator. During the 
investigation, Mr A took his documents to the Post Office and paid £12.75 for them to be 
certified. Metro Bank went on to remove the account block.
The investigator thought Metro Bank had dealt with Mr As complaint fairly and didnt ask it 
to do anything else. Mr A asked to appeal. Mr A advised that if hed received accurate 
information when he enquired about the account opening process (including whether hed 
need to submit identification in branch) he wouldnt have applied. Mr A advised he thought 
Metro Bank should refund his costs and compensate him for the frustration caused. Mr A 
has also pointed out that the delay in opening his account meant he lost out on a £50 new 
customer incentive.
As Mr A asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive reached a different view to the 
investigator concerning how to fairly resolve Mr As complaint. Based on the information 
Ive seen so far, I intend to uphold Mr As complaint.
Mr A complains that he was aware there was no local Metro Bank branch so called to 
check whether he could apply for his account online. Mr A has explained Metro Bank 
confirmed the process could all be completed via the internet and that he went on to 
submit his identification as requested. Whilst Metro Bank hasnt provided a copy of this 
call, on balance, I find Mr As comments plausible. I accept Mr A wasnt warned there was 
a possibility further checks and documents would be required before the account could be 
used.
All parties agree there was no reasonable prospect of Mr A visiting a branch of Metro 
Bank due to the distances involved. Metro Bank says Mr A had the option of verifying his 
documents via the Post Office. Mr A has quite reasonably pointed out that, during the 
pandemic, he wasnt willing to visit the Post Office due to health concerns. Whilst I 
appreciate Metro Bank is free to request further information from its customers when 
considering an application, I think it ought to have been up front with Mr A and warned him 
there was a chance further identification or information could be required.
I note Mr A transferred funds into his account and the block Metro Bank applied meant he 
wasnt able to access his money. Again, had Mr A been warned in advance further 
identification could be required to support his application, he couldve made an informed 
choice concerning whether to proceed. Im satisfied that delays that were largely outside 
Mr As control meant he wasnt able to access his funds for an extended period. I agree 
that was inconvenient.
Mr A has pointed out that he had to pay £12.75 to verify his documents. Mr A has also 
explained he simply wanted to retrieve the money deposited and has had to pay the Post 
Office in order to do that. I think thats a reasonable point. Again, if there was the potential 
for additional costs involved in the application process I think Metro Bank shouldve 
warned Mr A when he called before applying online.
Taking all the available information into account I intend to uphold Mr As complaint. As 
Ive said above, Im satisfied Mr A called to check the application process and information 
he would need to provide before his application was made. And Im satisfied that if Metro 
Bank had told Mr A there was the potential for him to either visit a branch or pay to have 
documents certified he wouldnt have continued with his application.
In my view, the fairest way to resolve Mr As complaint is for Metro Bank to refund his 
£12.75 certification costs and pay him £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I invited both parties to respond with any additional comments they wanted me to consider 
before I made my final decision. Mr A responded and confirmed he accepted. We didnt 
hear back from Metro Bank.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided new information for me to consider I see no reason to change 
the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. I still think Mr As complaint should be 
upheld, for the same reasons. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr As complaint and direct Metro Bank PLC to refund his £12.75 costs and pay £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman