DRN-1113408
 
The complaint
Ms D says that she was mis-sold a regular premium mortgage protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide). 
What happened
Ms D took out a further advance on her mortgage with Nationwide in 2004. At the same time 
she was sold a PPI policy to protect her mortgage repayments if Ms D was too sick to work 
or lost her job for up to 24 months per claim. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Ms Ds complaint should be upheld because he thought it was 
made clear the policy was optional and it wouldve provided a useful benefit. 
Ms D disagrees, she says she was put under pressure to take the policy and that she didnt 
need it. So her complaint has come to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Nationwide had to make it clear to Ms D that she had a choice in taking out the PPI and that 
it was separate from the mortgage. Ms D says this wasnt done and that she was called on a 
number of occasions and told she had to have PPI. 
Ive seen a copy of Ms Ds mortgage application form and there is a separate section that 
deals with PPI. In the section it recommends protecting mortgage payments with PPI and 
gives the option to select Yes to receive information about PPI, No to not taking PPI or 
No as PPI is being taken with another provider. I can see on Ms Ds form she has selected 
Yes with a tick and signed next to this confirming her selection. 
Ive also seen a copy of her mortgage offer where although I can see PPI is recommended it 
is not a condition of the mortgage.  
And finally Nationwide have given us a copy of Ms Ds PPI application dated a month after 
her mortgage offer and three months after her initial mortgage application. The application is 
entirely separate from her mortgage and on it I see that there were a number of different 
levels of PPI cover available to purchase  unemployment, accident and sickness or both, 
for either 12 or 24 months cover. I can see that Ms D selected to take accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover for 24 months. So I think because Ms D was given the option right at the start of the application process to 
decline PPI and received her mortgage offer a month before applying for the policy she 
wouldve understood it was optional and she completed the application form for PPI because 
she wanted the cover. If PPI wasnt optional I dont think she would have been given a 
choice about the level of cover and I think she wouldve understood this.
Ms D says she felt pressured into taking PPI because she was working long hours and at the 
same time receiving numerous phone calls from Nationwide telling her to take the policy. I 
accept Ms D may well have felt under pressure at the time she was taking out her mortgage 
but I havent seen any evidence that this pressure was caused by Nationwide as opposed to 
her circumstances at the time.
From what we know of Nationwide PPI sales they were generally on a non-advised basis. 
And I havent seen anything from this sale to make me think it was any different here. What 
this means is that Nationwide didnt recommend PPI to Ms D, it just gave her information 
about PPI. This information needed to be given in a way that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so she could make an informed choice about buying PPI. 
Given the length of time that has passed since the sale, I dont know if Nationwide did give 
all the information as it shouldve. But I dont think this wouldve made a difference because I 
think Ms D wouldve still taken the policy if she was given all the proper information. I say 
this because at the time of the sale: 
Ms D was eligible for the policy.
 
It doesnt look like Ms D wouldve been caught by any of the main exclusions in the 
terms and conditions of the policy which couldve made it difficult to make a 
successful claim.
 
Ms D say she was entitled to a generous level of both redundancy and sick pay and 
had savings she could use to make her mortgage payments if she couldnt work. But 
as the sale wasnt advised it was up to Ms D to assess her own circumstances and 
needs and the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits and savings and 
for potentially longer for up to 24 months per claim.   
 
So I think the policy wouldve provided a useful benefit to Ms D in her circumstances 
especially considering Ms D was taking on a significant and long term financial 
commitment. Given the implications if she was unable to meet her repayments I think 
she wouldve been interested in protecting them. 
 
There is nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Ms D and if she no longer 
wanted the policy she was able to cancel it. Nationwide sent out a PPI renewal notice 
every year which outlined how she could cancel her policy. I note Ms D kept the 
policy for a number of years which I think suggests she saw some benefit in having 
the cover. 
 
So I dont think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Ms D on 
the PPI. I think she wouldve still taken out the PPI policy as it was of value to her.Which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Nationwide has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms D because: 
When the policy was sold, Nationwide expected to get a high level of commission 
and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Ms D 
about that. Because Nationwide didnt tell Ms D, that was unfair. 
 
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
 
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Ms D.
But Nationwide Building Society does have to pay back to Ms D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2020.
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman