DRN-4250446
The complaint
Mrs L complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) treated her unfairly with the cost of 
her home insurance policy over a number of years.
Mrs Ls complaint has been brought by a representative, who Ill refer to as Mr L.  
What happened
Mr L says he was going through Mrs Ls accounts and noticed payments being made to 
Aviva. Mr L then discovered these were premium payments for home insurance. Mr L says 
he became concerned when he noticed Mrs L paid £201.34 when she originally took out the 
policy in 2016 but this had since auto-renewed each year and had more than doubled by 
2022. Mr L says he was concerned as this was significantly higher than what he was paying 
for his own home insurance. And he was particularly concerned as he found the same policy 
being offered by Aviva for £97.49. Mr L then cancelled the cover and found an alternative 
policy for £91.14. Mr L also complained to Aviva. 
Aviva responded and explained the premiums had been calculated correctly. They said the 
premiums were in line with general year on year premium changes, which were linked to the 
rising costs of claims. They accepted theyd failed to log Mr Ls complaints previously, so 
they offered £150 compensation. During our investigation, Aviva accepted that Mrs L could 
be classed as being inert so they offered to refund the difference between what Mrs L paid 
for the policy in 2019 and what she paid for it each year after this, together with 8% interest 
on this payment. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs L. He thought Avivas offer of the premium refund 
and compensation was reasonable. Mr L disagreed so the matter has come to me for a 
decision.    
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. And, I think the investigators 
recommendation here is a fair way to resolve matters. I understand Mr L will be disappointed 
by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision.  
The role of this service when looking at complaints about insurance pricing isnt to tell a 
business what they should charge or to determine a price for the insurance they offer. This is 
a commercial judgement and for them to decide. But we can look to see whether we agree a 
consumer has been treated fairly  so is there anything which demonstrates theyve been 
treated differently or less favourably. If we think someone has been treated unfairly, we can 
set out what we think is right to address this unfairness.
I can see Mrs L paid £201.34 when she originally took out the policy in 2016. The premium 
then increased each year to 2022 when the price was £405.51. It isnt disputed that, after 
taking out the original policy, the policy then auto-renewed each year and Mrs L didnt 
engage with Aviva about the cost of her insurance. She isnt someone who regularly 
shopped around, and it wasnt until Mr L started looking into Mrs Ls account that he realised 
Mrs L could find insurance that meets her needs for significantly less than she was paying 
before. 
When a consumer isnt engaging on the cost of their insurance, either through vulnerability 
or something else that stops them from doing this, wed say they are inert. And when looking 
at complaints brought by inert customers, we expect to see that theyve not been treated 
differently as a result. Aviva say theyve followed our services approach involving inert 
customers and have taken into consideration the point at which any new business discount 
had been recouped. Offering a new business discount is something which was common with 
insurance previously and where customers have had the benefit of a reduced premium when 
the policy is first taken out, it was fair for an insurer to increase the premium to recoup the 
discount applied. 
In this case, Aviva have fixed the price offered at the 2019 renewal of £315.48 and offered to 
refund the difference between this and the amount paid for the 2020 and 2021 renewal. This 
doesnt include the 2022 renewal as, although this was also above the fixed price, Mr L 
cancelled the policy and Mrs L received a premium refund. I cant see Aviva have 
demonstrated why Mrs Ls price changed as it did from 2019. In the absence of this, Im not 
persuaded she wasnt treated differently because of her lack of engagement. And I think she 
lost out as a result as she wasnt treated fairly. On this basis, I think Avivas offer to refund 
the difference in what Mrs L paid for insurance from 2019 onwards until 2021, together with 
8% simple interest on this amount, represents a fair and reasonable way to put right the 
unfairness of Mrs L being treated differently. 
I understand Mr L is concerned the policy auto-renewed each year and he questions if 
theres a limit on the number of times an auto-renewal can apply. I do acknowledge Mr Ls 
concern but its not uncommon or unusual for insurers to apply an auto-renewal feature to an 
insurance. Often this is originally selected by a customer, but the key benefit here is that it 
avoids a situation where a customer might potentially be left without cover should they forget 
to renew. In this case, Aviva explain Mrs L selected auto-renewal at the point she purchased 
the insurance. Aviva say, on this basis theyll continue to renew using this method unless 
theyre informed otherwise. Ive also looked at the renewal letters sent to Mrs L and, as well 
as being sent a few weeks in advance of the renewal date, they do explain clearly that the 
policy will continue to auto-renew. The renewal letters also explain the auto-renewal process 
and how Mrs L is able to opt out of this process. 
Mr L is also concerned that he was able to find an Aviva policy, offering similar cover, for 
£97.49  so he feels it was unfair for Aviva to quote £405.51. Aviva say they havent been 
able to locate any quotes completed for Mrs L and I cant see Mr L has provided evidence of 
this quote and whether it was like for like. So, in the absence of this, I cant say Aviva were 
offering a like for like policy which met Mrs Ls needs and was cheaper. 
I acknowledge Mr L has provided information which shows he received quotes from other 
insurers which were cheaper than Avivas quote. Its for a business to decide what risks 
theyre prepared to cover and how much weight to attach to those risks - different insurers 
will apply different factors. Thats not to say an insurer offering a higher premium has made 
an error compared to an insurer offering a cheaper premium  but rather, it reflects the 
different approach theyve decided to take to risk.   Aviva accept they got things wrong and acknowledge there was poor service and delay 
when Mr L spoke with their customer service team on five occasions. Theyve offered £150 
compensation  and I think thats fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
I wish to reassure Mr L Ive read and considered everything he has sent in, but if I havent 
mentioned a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent seen it or thought 
about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my decision. This isnt 
intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our service.
Putting things right
Ive taken the view that Aviva have treated Mrs L unfairly by increasing her premium during a 
period where she wasnt engaging with Aviva about the cost of her insurance. I also think 
Avivas offer of compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So, Aviva should 
take the following steps to put things right:
Take the 2019 price for Mrs Ls insurance (£315.48) and refund anything paid in 
excess of this until and including 2021. 
Pay 8% simple interest on the amount paid above. For each policy year premium 
being refunded, the interest should be applied from the date the premium was paid to 
the date of settlement. Aviva should provide Mrs L with a certificate showing any 
taxation deducted. 
Pay compensation of £150 to Mrs L. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. Aviva Insurance Limited must take the steps 
in accordance with what Ive said under Putting things right above.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 August 2023.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman