DRN-3795442
The complaint
Mrs Z is unhappy that CB Payments Ltd wont refund money she lost as a result of a scam.
What happened
In September 2019, Mrs Z fell victim to an investment scam. As part of the scam she opened 
a CB Payments account and deposited funds into it from her bank account. She used those 
funds to purchase cryptocurrency from a separate business, Coinbase UK. That 
cryptocurrency was deposited into a cryptocurrency account provided by the same firm 
before being sent off the Coinbase platform to the fraudsters. She lost over €60,000 between 
September 2019 and February 2020. 
Mrs Z complained to Coinbase. It responded on behalf of both CB Payments and Coinbase 
UK and said that it had no relationship with the recipient of her cryptocurrency, it couldnt 
recover her money and as shed carried out all of the activity herself, it wasnt responsible for 
her loss. 
Mrs Z referred the matter to our service. CB Payments argued that we had no power to 
consider the complaint as it didnt relate to the electronic money activities provided by CB 
Payments, but rather the unregulated cryptocurrency activities provided by Coinbase UK. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. They thought there were aspects of it that 
we could consider  specifically those which related to whether CB Payments had carried 
out adequate checks when she opened her account and whether it had properly monitored 
her account for unusual or out of character activity. But, having reviewed those aspects of 
Mrs Zs complaint, the investigator concluded that CB Payments hadnt made a mistake.
 
Mrs Z didnt agree. In summary, she said:
- As her account was newly opened with a significant deposit of funds, she should 
have been provided with a warning about the dangers of trading in cryptocurrency.
- There are various pieces of good industry practice and guidance which CB Payments 
has failed to adhere to.
- Taking that guidance into account and the amounts, nature and frequency of the 
transactions which took place, CB Payments ought to have found the activity on her 
account suspicious.
- While she accepts that anti-money laundering (AML) regulations arent primarily 
designed to prevent scams, CB Payments still ought to abide by them.
- There is little point in any of the obligations the investigator accepts CB Payments 
has if it simply lets all payments through without challenge.
As no agreement could be reached, the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im very sorry to hear about whats happened to Mrs Z and that shes lost money to a cruel 
scam. But, Ive carefully considered whats happened and Im afraid that Im unable to hold 
CB Payments responsible for her loss. Ill explain why.
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that our service cannot consider the actions of 
Coinbase UK, so I dont need to comment on this further. Neither is it in dispute that Mrs Z 
made the purchases of cryptocurrency from her CB Payments account herself. So, the 
starting point is that she, rather than CB Payments, is responsible for the loss.
However, in line with good industry practice, I agree that CB Payments should monitor its 
customers accounts for activity that might suggest a customer was at risk of financial harm. 
This should include monitoring account activity for transactions that are unusual or out of 
character. In some circumstances, it should take additional steps, or carry out additional 
checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases decline to make a payment 
altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm from fraud.
Ive carefully reviewed Mrs Zs submissions but I dont agree that CB Payments should 
reasonably have been expected to detect that she was at risk of financial harm from fraud. 
Some of the guidance shes pointed to does not apply to CB Payments, but much of the rest 
of it only really supports what Ive already accepted  that is that CB Payments has 
obligations to try and protect customers from financial harm from fraud. 
I dont think the fact her account had only recently been opened meant that she was 
necessarily at higher risk of fraud. In fact, because the deposits that were related to the 
scam were the only deposits Mrs Z made, CB Payments were in no real position to notice a 
concerning pattern of spending. 
Its important to state that CB Payments accounts arent like current accounts  there are no 
regular credits or spending and they have only one purpose  that is to purchase 
cryptocurrency from a linked Coinbase account and withdraw those funds back to a bank 
account. In addition, a purchase of cryptocurrency is, in effect, a transfer between two 
accounts under the customers control. Taking all of that into account, Mrs Zs use of her CB 
Payments account was unlikely to have appeared high risk to CB Payments and Im unable 
to consider whether Coinbase UK should have considered whether the onward transfers of 
cryptocurrency were suspicious. 
AML regulations do apply to CB Payments, but theres little dispute that Mrs Z opened the 
account herself and deposited her own, legitimate funds. While I accept that AML regulations 
put obligations on a business beyond confirming the identity of the account holder and the 
source of their funds, those obligations are not primarily intended to prevent customers from 
falling victim to scams. Their primary purpose is to prevent criminals from laundering money. 
That means that even if CB Payments had concerns about the possibility of money 
laundering (though I dont think there was any reason for it to have concerns here), it doesnt 
necessarily follow that it would have uncovered the fact a scam was taking place. 
In order for that to happen, I think CB Payments would have had to have made some fairly 
detailed enquiries of Mrs Z  asking her about the ultimate destination of the funds and the 
circumstances surrounding the payments.
While trading in cryptocurrency clearly does carry some risk, I think it would be an onerous 
obligation to expect CB Payments to question every customer about the activity they were 
undertaking. Instead, I think it should have done that only where it had grounds to think the 
activity on her account indicated she was at risk of financial harm from fraud. Though I accept the deposits and purchases she made were significant in size, for the reasons Ive 
explained, I dont think this was enough for CB Payments to suspect fraud and, as there was 
no contact between Mrs Z and CB Payments during the period the fraud was taking place, I 
cant see any other reason it should have suspected she was falling victim to a scam.
Finally, Im satisfied that CB Payments could not have recovered Mrs Zs money as it was 
sent off the Coinbase platform in cryptocurrency and such transactions are irrecoverable. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs Z to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Rich Drury
Ombudsman