DRN-3964963
The complaint
Mr C complains about the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when 
applying for a credit card account.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C applied for a credit card with Nationwide requesting a limit of £3,000. The application 
was approved with a limit of £5,000 subject to Mr C providing proof of the £50,000 he had 
declared as income.  
Mr C provided a copy of his pension statement however Nationwide didnt accept this as 
proof of income. Mr C explained that the £50,000 was income he was drawing down from his 
pension in the near future. Nationwide wanted to see pension credits or a bank statement 
with the funds available at that time, and I think this was a reasonable request. 
Unhappy with the situation Mr C cancelled his application.
When assessing credit applications income is one of the factors businesses consider and 
they must be satisfied the amount declared is correct. Asking for proof of income isnt 
particularly unusual and it is what I would expect a responsible lender to do.   
The application was cancelled by Mr C before the pension drawdown was deposited into his 
account so its not possible to say what Nationwide mightve done at that time.
Mr C feels he was treated unfairly, and that Nationwide called his character into question 
and also says they shouldve accepted his pension information as income. 
I can see why he might feel this way, however Nationwide were performing their underwriting 
checks to verify the information Mr C had declared. They were unhappy with the information 
provided as it didnt meet their underwriting requirements and it didnt confirm the amount of 
income declared at that time. I cant say that Nationwide acted incorrectly here as they are 
free to set their own underwriting criteria and its not my role to interfere with such 
commercial decisions.
Having carefully considered everything that happened Im satisfied Nationwide treated Mr C 
fairly and reasonably so wont be asking them to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 May 2023. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman