DRN-3601766
The complaint
Mr M says Home Retail Group Card Services Limited, trading as Argos Financial Services 
(Home Retail Group), irresponsibly granted him an Argos store card. He has requested 
that the interest and late payment charges he paid on his account be refunded. 
What happened
This complaint is about an Argos store card account provided by Home Retail Group to 
Mr M. The account was opened in March 2010 with Mr M being given an initial credit limit 
of £1080. This limit was then increased five times, reaching £4000 in November 2018. 
Mr M made no further payments to his account after June 2019. The account was sold on 
to a third party in March 2022. 
Mr M says hes unhappy that Home Retail Group allowed him to open an account and 
continued to increase his credit limits when he was experiencing financial difficulty. 
Our adjudicator didnt think Home Retail Group had acted unfairly in the way it managed 
the account. 
As Mr M didnt agree his complaint has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Home Retail Group will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice 
we consider when looking at a complaint concerning unaffordable and irresponsible lending. 
So, I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision. Information about our 
approach to these complaints is set out on our website. 
When looking at this complaint I have also reviewed information Mr M provided in relation to 
other complaints he has with this service, as well as further information he sent in after our 
adjudicator looked into the complaint.  
In making my decision Ive looked at the overall pattern of Home Retail Groups lending 
history with Mr M, so as to see if there was a point at which Home Retail Group should 
reasonably have seen that further lending was likely unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. If 
so, that would mean Home Retail Group should have realised that it shouldnt have granted 
him the account or gone on to further increase Mr Ms credit limit.
Based on what Ive seen about this complaint, Ive reached a conclusion thats similar to 
that of our adjudicator. Thats because I dont think Home Retail Groups actions have 
caused Mr M financial loss. Ill explain why. 
Home Retail Group told us that it no longer holds information from the time of the account 
opening  it has only been able to provide information from January 2015 onwards. Prior 
to providing credit and increased credit to Mr M, Home Retail Group says it carried out a 
credit check  to determine the amount of credit it was able to offer. Home Retail Group 
also told us it monitored the way Mr M managed his account and used this information to 
help assess if credit limit increases on the account would be affordable. Its certainly 
possible that Home Retail Group may not have carried out checks at the time of the 
account opening and any initial credit limit increase that were as thorough or sufficient as 
they might have been. But without having information from the time Ive no way of 
knowing. 
In January 2015 Mr M had a credit limit of £1080. From the limited information Ive seen 
about Mr Ms circumstances at the time, Im not able to say that this level of credit was 
unaffordable for Mr M. Ive also noted that he cleared his balance in November 2015.
Ive noted that at the time of the next credit limit increase to £1,620 in June 2017. At that 
point Mr M was making regular payments and using only a relatively small proportion of 
his available credit. 
Mr Ms credit limit was then increased again in October 2017, to £1,995. At this point, 
Mr M was continuing to manage his account well and had cleared his balance in that 
month. And given that this was a relatively modest increase, I again dont think better 
enquiries by Home Retail Group might have resulted in a different decision. 
Mr M had further increases in February 2018 (to £2,995), July 2018 (to £3,995) and 
November 2018 (to £4,000). In February 2018, Mr M again made a payment that was 
large enough to clear the card balance. Nevertheless, given that on each occasion these 
were relatively high credit limit increases, I think that Home Retail Group ought to have 
taken steps to verify Mr Ms income and committed outgoings before granting him these 
increases.  
Ive seen that during this time Mr M did not allow his credit to exceed his credit limits, and 
that his monthly payments were in the main at the level of or above the minimum 
requested. Up until June 2019, Mr M also didnt have any arrears from missed payments 
and from what Ive seen doesnt appear to have incurred any late payment fees. 
I think at the time of each increase it would have been sensible for Home Retail Group to 
carry out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr Ms financial situation was such that 
he could afford these increases. Ive also noticed that in July 2018 took out a short term 
high interest loan, which ought to have alerted Home Retail Group to the fact that Mr M 
might be struggling financially. However, Ive kept in mind that whether the credit limit 
increases were reasonable or otherwise is something that is less relevant for this 
particular complaint. I say that because financial redress is designed to put someone back 
in the position as if the failing had not happened. In this case Mr Ms credit usage never 
went over the level of the June 2017 credit limit increase. So, even were I to think the later 
credit increases were unreasonable, there would not be any redress to pay. This is 
because Mr M has suffered no detriment as a result of the actions of Home Retail Group.   
It follows that, in the specific circumstances of this complaint, I dont think the actions of 
Home Retail Group in managing the account and increasing the credit limits between 
2017 and 2018 have caused Mr M to lose out. And Im not persuaded that further 
enquiries into Mr Ms circumstances would have led Home Retail Group to conclude that 
it should have taken a course of action that was significantly different to what it did. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 August 2022. 
Michael Goldberg
Ombudsman