DRN-4120443
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Unum Ltd (Unum) hasnt settled a claim Mrs H made fairly.
What happened
Mr and Mrs H have a dental insurance policy, which covers the cost of various dental 
treatments up to pre-determined limits in each policy year. In particular it pays up to £350 
towards root canal treatment and 80% of the cost of crowns up to a ceiling of £2,000.
Mrs H had root canal treatment and had a crown fitted. Unum agreed to pay for part of both 
costs. It paid a total of £465 towards the total bill, which was £1325. It paid £65 towards the 
cost of the root canal treatment and £400 towards the cost of the crown. It said the root 
canal amount was reduced because Mrs H had already used up some of that years £350 
limit and £65 was the amount remaining. It paid 80% of the cost of the crown as provided in 
the policy.
Mr and Mrs H dont think this is fair. They think Unum has unfairly assessed the two 
treatments as separate treatments, when in fact one (the crown) was dependent upon the 
other (the root canal treatment). They say Mrs H needed a crown  and couldnt have it 
without the root canal treatment, so both should be included in the cover available for 
crowns.
When they complained, Unum didnt change its stance, so they asked us to review their 
complaint.
Our investigator compared the information on the invoices with the terms and conditions and 
concluded Unum had paid the claim in line with the terms and conditions in the policy. So he 
didnt think Unum had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs H disagree. Mr H sent us some information about how a claim hed made with 
Unum had been settled, and maintains his and Mrs Hs claim that the claim should have 
been paid under the cover for crowns.
Ive been asked to decide this complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Unum, like most insurers, needs to limit its liabilities under any policy it sells. It will do that by 
providing a set of terms and conditions that will apply to any claims. Mr and Mrs H dont 
dispute the terms and conditions. Instead they think Unum has applied them incorrectly by 
separating the crown treatment from the root canal treatment when they believe the crown is 
dependent upon the root canal treatment.
Ive looked at the invoices provided by the dentist. There are several weeks between the root 
canal treatment and the fitting of the crown, although thats not unusual. But the treatments 
have been billed and paid for separately. 
Mr and Mrs H say one treatment was dependent upon the other. I cant say whether thats 
the case or not, as Im not a dentist or other relevant medical professional. But I dont think 
that means I cant reach a fair conclusion here. Even if one treatment was dependent upon 
another, that doesnt mean they become one treatment for the purposes of an insurance 
claim. Ive looked at the terms and conditions in the policy, and they do clearly set out limits 
for the two different types of dental work, and theres nothing that suggests the categories of 
work can be combined in order to increase the amount paid. Im satisfied Unum paid the 
claim in line with the limits in the policy.
Mr H sent us some comments about how a claim he made was settled. But I can only take 
into account what Unum did in the particular circumstances of this complaint, so I wont 
comment on this. Nor can I take into account any future complaint he might make to Unum, 
because this service can only look at whether a customer has been treated fairly after the 
relevant complaints process has ended.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 July 2023.
 
Susan Peters
Ombudsman