DRN-1429196
Complaint
Mrs B says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
What happened
Mrs B bought the policy in 1997, at the same time as taking out a credit card. It covered her 
in case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.
Having done that, I dont think this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Bs credit card application had a section for PPI, amongst other optional extras. It 
offered her the choice to buy PPI or turn it down. The option to buy PPI was ticked, the 
option to decline it was left blank, and Mrs B signed the application to confirm her choices. 
So I think its most likely that Barclays made Mrs B aware she had a choice about buying the 
PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time  though I can understand if she no longer 
recalls doing so after so long.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mrs B, which means they had to check it was right for 
her. And based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like it was. For 
example, it looks like Mrs B was eligible for the cover and wasnt affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mrs B says she may have had work benefits, though she couldnt remember exactly how 
much those were. She told Barclays she reckoned she was entitled to three months sick pay 
and six weeks redundancy pay. So it seems likely that like the PPI wouldve covered her for 
far longer, and it paid out on top of her existing benefits. Mrs B also had a different insurance 
policy, but it covered different things to the PPI, so Im afraid its not relevant here. Overall, it 
looks like the PPI couldve been useful for Mrs B in case she was off sick or lost her job.
Its possible that the information Barclays gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. The question, then, is whether I think better information was likely to have 
changed her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs B chose to take out the policy, which indicates she 
wanted this type of cover. As I explained above, it doesnt look like she was affected by any 
of the policys main exclusions or limitations, and the policy could have been useful for Mrs B 
in case something went wrong. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis, so Mrs B could cancel it at any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think better information about 
the PPI was likely to have put her off taking it out.
My final decision
For the reasons I explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2020.
Adam Charles
Ombudsman