DRN-1089916
The complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr P says 
Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI. 
What happened
Mr P applied for a credit card with Lloyds in 1999. At some time between then and 2000, PPI 
was added to his account that was designed to help protect his repayments if he couldnt 
work due to disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold. As Mr P didnt agree with the 
adjudicator, the complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps case.
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold because:
Unsurprisingly, given how long ago the PPI was sold, there are gaps in the information 
available from the time. Mr P says he was sold the PPI in-branch. Lloyds cant confirm 
how it was sold. From experience of how Lloyds sold PPI between 1999 and 2000 
across all its sales channels, Ive no reason to think it was added without him having 
been told it was optional and agreeing to it.  
If Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr P, it had to check that the PPI was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time and knowledge of the 
terms of the PPI sold by Lloyds, I think that it was. For example, hed have been eligible 
for the policy and I cant see that hed have been affected by any of the exclusions to, or 
limits on, the PPI cover. Nor would Mr P have found that being self-employed made it 
more difficult for him to claim on the policy. 
The PPI benefits would have paid out on top of any sick pay he was entitled to (although 
if he was self-employed thats unlikely to have been significant), and for up to 12 months 
per claim. Mr P said he had savings of between £200 and £300  so not a substantial 
amount in relative terms. Overall, I think hed have found the security the PPI provided 
useful. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr P about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But I think it likely he chose to take it out  so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover. And it appears it would have been useful for him if something went wrong. I 
also cant see that hed have found it unaffordable. So, I dont think better information 
would have stopped him taking the PPI.
Taking everything into account, I dont believe Mr Ps lost out because of how Lloyds sold 
him the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman