DRN-3970907
The complaint
Ms S complains that Northern Bank Limited (trading as Danske Bank) failed to refund 
£30,000 she lost as part of an investment scam.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat everything 
again here. Instead, I will provide a brief summary and focus on giving the reasons for my 
decision.
Ms S fell victim to an investment scam with a clone of Citibank (posing as Citibank Wealth 
Management) in May 2021 after she was encouraged to invest in ESG bonds after seeing 
an advert on social media. She made five payments from her account with Danske Bank 
totalling £30,000, which was paid to the scammer via an e-money account (Kiyanpay).
Danske Bank refused to refund the money Ms S had lost as it said she had authorised the 
payments. Our investigator also didnt uphold the complaint. He didnt think the transactions 
were unusual enough to have warranted an intervention by Danske Bank to ask further 
questions, so he didnt consider it to be liable to provide a refund. Ms S disagreed, so the 
matter was passed to me to determine. 
I issued my provisional decision on 2 February 2023. I said I was minded to uphold it and set 
out the following reasoning:
It isnt in dispute that Ms S authorised the disputed payments she made to Kiyanpay 
from her Danske Bank account (where her funds were subsequently transferred on to 
the scammers). The payments were requested by her using her legitimate security 
credentials provided by Danske Bank, and the starting position is that banks ought to 
follow the instructions given by their customers in order for legitimate payments to be 
made as instructed.
However, Ive considered whether Danske Bank should have done more to prevent 
Ms S from falling victim to the scam, as there are some situations in which a bank 
should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding a 
particular transfer. For example, if it was particularly out of character. 
I am satisfied there were enough triggers in this case to have alerted a responsible 
regulated firm such as Danske Bank that Ms Ss account was being subjected to 
unusual and uncharacteristic activity. On 24 May 2021, she made a payment of 
£3,500 to a new payee (Kiyanpay) and then made a further £6,000 payment soon 
after. Danske Bank ought to have known that multiple payments being made in quick 
succession to a new payee can often be indicative of fraud. 
Ms S also did not have a history of making any such large payments either. Her 
statements show that the only large transfers made out of her account were into her 
savings account. There are not any other significant payments made from her 
account in the 12 months prior to the scam, and certainly nothing of around £9,500 in 
one day, which is the cumulative total she transferred on 24 May 2021. I dont think 
the first payment of £3,500 would have been unusual enough to have prompted an 
intervention. But by the time she came to make the second payment of £6,000 to the 
same payee, it then became an odd pattern of spending that Danske Bank should 
have identified as being unusual an uncharacteristic. 
If Danske Bank had contacted Ms S and asked her further questions and for more of 
the basic surrounding context, I have no reason to doubt she would have explained 
that she was investing in bonds through what she thought was Citibank.
Ms S has explained that the Kiyanpay account she made the payments to was not 
hers; it belonged to the scammer and I can see they had directed her to send funds 
to this account in order to make the investment. If Danske Bank had asked what the 
payment was for, it would have discovered that she was paying an e-money account 
with Kiyanpay that belonged to someone else, rather than depositing her funds 
directly with Citibank. This would have alerted any reasonable banker that something 
was not right and would have indicated she was at risk of financial harm. It could 
have also asked how she came across the investment, where she would have 
explained it was through an advert on social media, which is another common 
hallmark of an investment scam. 
Danske Bank could have issued Ms S with a scam warning and asked her to carry 
out further checks on the people/company she thought she was dealing with, where 
its likely she would have discovered the regulatory warnings placed online about 
clone firms of Citibank (see the warning published by the FCA in March 2020, for 
example). I think this would have likely prevented her from making any further 
payments. Im therefore satisfied that a relevant and meaningful warning from 
Danske Bank would have likely exposed the scam and prevented Ms Ss loss. So, I 
intend asking it to refund the money she lost from the £6,000 payment on 24 May 
2021 (i.e. the point it ought to have intervened) onwards. 
Ive also thought about whether Danske Bank did enough to try and recover the 
funds after Ms S reported the fraud. I can see that it reached out to Kiyanpay the 
same day Ms S got in contact, but it has not been able to recover the funds. So, I 
dont think there was anything more the bank could have done to try and recover the 
money.
Ive also considered whether Ms S should be held partly responsible for her loss, as 
there is a general principle that consumers must take responsibility for their 
decisions. In this instance, I do think that Ms S is partly responsible for her loss. I 
appreciate she carried out a basic level of research into the investment bonds, but it 
doesnt appear she carried out much due diligence on the company she was in 
contact with. 
There were also several red flags that ought to have alerted her that something was 
not right, such as the email address of the advisor not matching that of Citibanks, 
and the fact that she was having to pay an e-money account with Kiyanpay. It ought 
to have appeared odd that a multinational firm such as Citibank would require such 
an intermediary. The investment brochure also does not contain any contact details 
or website addresses for Citibank. However, it doesnt appear that Ms S acted upon 
any of these warning signs, and there was enough information in the public domain 
about the clone firm that would have put her on notice that she was likely being 
scammed. I therefore consider a reduction of 20% of her total refund is reasonable in 
these circumstances.Ms S said that she was looking for somewhere secure to invest her money following 
her divorce where she could protect it for the future. She has said that if she hadnt 
lost her money to the scam, she would have still likely invested in a similar legitimate 
ESG (environmental, social, governance) scheme. Ms S says she was looking for a 
secure investment, so it seems more likely than not that she would have opted for a 
low-risk option, such as a green fixed rate savings bond. However, the rates Ms S 
was promised by the scammer (i.e. around 5%) would not have been available at the 
time she was looking to invest, and the only low-risk options would have been at 
around the Bank of England published rate for fixed rate bonds.
Given Ms S originally looked to invest in May 2021, this means she has been 
deprived of the interest she would have otherwise earned in a fixed rate bond for 
around two years (assuming she would have taken a two-year fixed rate bond). I 
therefore intend asking Danske Bank to pay compound interest on the total award at 
the Bank of England published rate for two-year fixed rate bonds as of May 2021 
(that being the rate published at the end of April 2021  0.31%). 
I invited both parties to respond. Ms S accepted my provisional decision, but Danske Bank 
disagreed. In summary, it considered the loss to be out of scope for it to be held liable as 
Ms S had paid a Kiyanpay account that was held in her own name, meaning that the loss 
originated from this point rather than her account with Danske Bank. With regards to Ms Ss 
contributory negligence, it also submitted that the rate of return offered was implausibly high.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have also taken into consideration the points that Danske Bank has raised in response to 
my provisional decision. But they have not changed my overall conclusions. Ill explain why.
Danske Bank says Ms S knowingly and willingly transferred funds to her own account at 
Kiyanpay, and that this is not disputed by her. However, this is very much disputed by Ms S. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, she said that the account was not hers and that it 
belonged to the scammer. She had simply been told where to send the funds.
I appreciate Danske Bank may have received onboarding documentation from Kiyanpay to 
show that the account was in Ms Ss name. But just because the account was in her name, it 
does not mean that she opened it herself. We often see scams where the scammer requests 
the customer's identification as part of the investment, which is then used by them to open 
an account in the customer's name without their knowledge or consent, which appears to be 
the case here.
 
Ms S has confirmed that she did not open any account with Kiyanpay, and that the scammer 
sent her the payment details and simply said it was an intermediary account where they 
would collect the funds before sending to Citibank. This is corroborated by the evidence 
Ms S has provided in the form of the invoice sent by the scammer, which includes payment 
instructions to send the money to a Kiyanpay account. None of these details include her 
name or indicate that the account was held in her name. And if Ms S was aware of the 
account, she seemingly wouldn't have needed payment instructions to have been sent to 
her, as she would have already been in possession of these. 
I've also seen no evidence or testimony to suggest that Ms S sent the funds from the 
Kiyanpay account to the scammer either. She has further stated that she reached out to 
Kiyanpay to complain when she realised she had been scammed, but that they refused to deal with her. This further leads me to believe that she didn't open the account, otherwise 
there would be no reason why Kiyanpay wouldn't be able to respond to her directly if she 
was indeed a customer of theirs. All these factors lead me to believe that it was the scammer 
who opened the account, which may well have been in Ms Ss name, but was likely done 
without her knowledge or consent.
Therefore, I dont consider the loss to be out of scope for Danske Bank to be held liable 
here. In any event, even if Ms S did open the account herself, that still wouldn't mean this 
would fall out of consideration for Danske Bank to be held liable, as the point of loss can still 
be said to have originated from her Danske Bank account. Our service has a well-
established approach in this respect, and we have published many decisions on our website 
setting this out. 
Ive also considered Danske Banks submissions regarding Ms Ss contributory negligence, 
as it submits that the rate of return she was offered was unrealistic. But while I accept it 
would have been unrealistic compared to fixed rate savings bonds that were on offer at the 
time, I don't think the rates she was offered could be considered too good to be true for the 
sort of bonds she was looking for. The rates she was offered ranged from 3% to 6.5%, for 
example, which I don't think can be considered implausible. So, I'm satisfied the 20% 
deduction I originally proposed in my provisional decision for Ms Ss contributory negligence 
is appropriate in the circumstances. 
As a result, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions reached in my provisional 
decision, and I uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold this complaint and direct Northern Bank Limited  
(trading as Danske Bank) to refund the payments Ms S made to the scammer  from (and 
including) the £6,000 payment made on 24 May 2021 onwards  less a 20% deduction for 
Ms Ss own contributory negligence.
Danske Bank should also pay annually compounded interest on this total amount at the rate 
of 0.31% from 24 May 2021 to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 
Jack Ferris
Ombudsman