DRN-3163021
The complaint
Mr K says Brewin Dolphin Limited (BDL) failed to provide him with effective advice about 
accessing tax-free cash (TFC) from his uncrystallised pension funds and the associated 
operation of the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) regime. He says this has caused him financial 
detriment.
What happened
Mr K had used BDLs services for over 10 years. This included receiving regular reviews 
about his financial circumstances, objectives and risk appetite. As well as investment advice, 
matters such as retirement and inheritance tax planning featured in the discussions.
Mr K had two pension plans held in a Curtis Banks (CB) Self-invested Personal Pension 
(SIPP) wrapper. Around the time of the events complained about, the first plan had two 
crystallised elements (a pre A-Day and a post A-Day chunk). It also had a non-crystallised 
component. 
In February 2016 Mr K contacted BDL because he was concerned about speculation the 
Government would make changes to pension regulations and consequently his ability to take 
TFC. Amongst other questions, he also asked what action would be required as his funds 
approached the LTA.
In January 2017 BDL wrote to Mr K and recommended that he apply for Fixed Protection 
2016 (FP16) - this enabled those who wouldnt be making further contributions to their 
pensions to benefit from fixing their LTA at £1,250,000. At the time the total value of Mr Ks 
SIPP was £1,125,919. BDL also confirmed that Mr K had already utilised 26% of his LTA. 
BDL told Mr K that he would be below his protected LTA by £124,081.
BDL issued a Client Service Review to Mr K in July 2017. It noted thered been no changes 
to his financial objectives, the first of which was:
maintenance of your standard of living in retirement through drawdown, with tax efficient 
investment planning also reducing your tax burden. Providing for grandchildrens education 
is also of interest, as is Inheritance Tax planning.
The Review noted the value of Mr Ks SIPP was now around £1,193,000, so nearly £70,000 
higher than it had been 6 months earlier. Theres no commentary around the LTA nor when 
Mr K should access his TFC, in light of his objectives.
Mr K had a meeting with BDL in February 2018. Its recorded there had been a number of 
significant developments with his financial circumstances. He had sold a property, cleared 
his liabilities and planned to gift significant sums to his children. His SIPP was worth around 
£1,157,000 at the time, around £36,000 less than 7 months earlier.
On 18 July 2018 Mr K contacted BDL and noted that a few days earlier the value of his SIPP 
had reached around £1,244,000. He said he thought the time had now come to access the 
remainder of his TFC. He asked for confirmation of the amount. He also set out his intention 
to move the TFC in stock to another platform.
BDL responded on 19 July 2018 and confirmed that it would get confirmation of the split 
between the crystallised and uncrystallised funds in his SIPP from CB. It said it would 
contact Mr K as soon as it had the figures so that they could start the process. 
On 23 July 2018 BDL confirmed the split of his funds was around £953,000 uncrystallised 
and £287,000 crystallised  total SIPP funds of around £1,240,000. It said this meant he had 
a TFC entitlement at that point of about £238,000 (25% of his uncrystallised fund). But it 
didnt provide any information about the measurement required against his LTA. It asked 
Mr K how he wanted to proceed.
Mr K said, on 24 July 2018, that he wanted to transfer his TFC in-specie to a self-trade 
platform. BDL responded the same day. It seemed to suggest hed have to take his lump 
sum in cash. And it confirmed it would put together the recommendation for fully crystallising 
his SIPP.
The audit trail over the next 6 months is patchy. CB wrote to BDL in August 2018 with a 
review of Mr Ks SIPP. BDL was in contact with CB in October 2018 to ask about whether 
TFC could be taken in-specie from his SIPP  it could. And in November 2018 there were 
exchanges between Mr K and BDL about problems with CBs website and the ability to view 
up to date values for his SIPP  although it appears he did have access to the information 
via a separate portal.
In February 2019 BDL issued a client service review  this didnt make recommendations for 
crystallising Mr Ks SIPP. 
Mr K contacted his adviser in April 2019 to confirm he wanted to crystallise the benefits in his 
SIPP. BDL contacted CB noting he was approaching 75 and wanted to minimise any excess 
LTA charge on his SIPP. It requested values for the various components of his pension pot.
CB responded to BDL on 4 April 2019. The communication between these parties is 
contested. The former says it made clear Mr K had already used 26.5% of his LTA. BDL 
says it was told hed only used 19%.
BDL sent Mr K a report and recommendations on 17 May 2019. This confirmed he had FP16 
and an LTA of £1.25 million. It said hed previously utilised 19% of his lifetime allowance and 
therefore had 81% (£1,012,500) remaining. The sum to be crystallised at that time was 
around £982,000, which would generate TFC of about £245,000. BDL said its 
recommendations would ensure there was no excess LTA charge.
It wasnt until 4 July 2019 that Mr Ks largest uncrystallised plan, worth £919,000, was used 
to release TFC of about £230,000. But his smaller plan remained uncrystallised. The 
following month he turned 75, the point at which everyone has their pension provision tested 
a final time against the LTA. His uncrystallised pension plan and some growth on his post A-
Day crystallised pension plan was taken into account for the calculation.
CB calculated that as he had exceeded the LTA limit by around £114,000, hed incur an 
excess tax charge of 25%, or about £29,000. Mr K raised a complaint against BDL because 
hed not been made aware of the charge and he said it had made mistakes in advising him 
about taking his TFC and the LTA regime.
BDL said it wasnt responsible for the charge and that if it had been given the correct 
information by CB about his remaining allowance in April 2019, it wouldve made him aware 
that a tax charge was payable. I issued a provisional decision explaining that I thought Mr Ks complaint should be upheld 
for the following reasons:
I didnt agree that BCL had been given incorrect information from CB about the LTA 
Mr K had already used. But that BDL had misunderstood it.
Although I could see Mr K first enquired about crystallising benefits in 2016 I didnt 
think it was clear that any decision had been made at that stage.
I thought that Mr K made his intention to crystallise his benefits in his email to BDL on 
18 July 2018 clear.
In spite of it being clear that Mr K was concerned with exceeding his LTA, BDL never 
made it clear to him that he needed to make sure that his uncrystallised fund plus 
any growth on his Post A-Day crystallised fund didnt exceed £918,750  his 
remaining LTA.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im grateful to both parties who have considered and responded to my provisional decision. 
Mr K accepted what Id said. BDL disagreed and set out its objections. Ive considered all of 
the points raised and reviewed the case again. For the following reasons, I still think that 
BDL made mistakes and should look to put things right.
Ive considered the extensive regulation around relationships like those between Mr K and 
BDL. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for businesses, which it says are 
fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.
- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers 
and treat them fairly.
So, the Principles form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the relevant time. 
They must always be complied with by regulated firms like BDL. As such, I need to have 
regard to them in deciding this case.
My starting point is the disagreement between CB and BDL about the communication 
between them on 4 April 2019 about how much of his LTA Mr K had utilised at that point. So, 
its helpful to review the message in dispute. As well as confirming the value of the various 
elements of Mr Ks pension pots CB told BDL the following (bolding is my emphasis):
The ceding scheme have previously confirmed that the post A-day BCE was for £120,000 
with £30,000 PCLS paid and 7.5% LTA used. They also carried out a pre-A day LTA 
reduction calc and determined that 19% of the LTA has been used.
BDL said that CB gave it incorrect information, but I dont agree. I think BDL were informed 
that Mr K had used 26.5% of his LTA at that point. So, rather than having £1,012,500 
remaining as BDL advised him, he had around £918, 750 left from his LTA. This obviously 
affected both calculations for the available TFC and managing his LTA position.
BDL never corrected its misunderstanding of Mr Ks remaining LTA. In spite of an email from 
BDL on 8 April which said:I had, as discussed, asked CB for clarification of what percentage you have used of the LTA 
(they said 19% but then said you had 74% of the allowance left) and for them to confirm 
what is required for them to pay the tax free cash as an in-specie transfer of assets to the 
portfolio of your choice.
This misunderstanding meant that BDL went on to give Mr K an incorrect estimate of the 
amount of tax free cash he was still entitled to. And meant that the actual amount he was 
over his LTA came as a surprise to him in the end.
In my provisional decision I noted that BDL told Mr K, in 2017 correspondence, that hed 
used 26% of his LTA. Which makes it more surprising that it failed to correctly interpret the 
figures it received in April 2019. But also makes it unclear why, prior to the April 2019 
misunderstanding, BDL didnt have a better understanding that Mr K was already close to or 
exceeding his LTA.
BDL has said that the misunderstanding about Mr Ks LTA was only introduced following 
CBs email to BDL on 4 April 2019. Which I agree was more likely than not the case. But, as 
Ive said, BDL already thought that Mr K had used around 26% of his LTA. So had around 
74% of his LTA remaining. Mr K had made it clear to BDL that he wanted to take his benefits 
in a tax efficient way. And told BDL on 18 July 2018 that he wanted to take his tax-free cash 
then. 
I cant see that BDL ever made it clear to Mr K that to avoid a LTA charge he would need to 
make sure that his uncrystallised fund plus any growth in his crystallised post A-Day funds 
didnt exceed his available allowance of £918,750. And it should have. 
Instead the letter BDL sent Mr K in January 2017 informed him that by applying for FP16 his 
hed be about £124,000 under his LTA with the SIPP valued around £1,126,000. This wasnt 
necessarily correct. Although BDL indicated that Mr K had used around 26% of his LTA at 
that time, this estimate doesnt seem to have given any consideration to the remaining LTA, 
or to how the SIPP was divided between crystallised and un-crystallised parts. It meant that 
BDL didnt properly explain to Mr K what his LTA position was.  
It follows that I dont think BDL exercised due care and skill in its dealings with Mr K on these 
matters. It knew he wanted his pensions managed in a tax efficient manner. He wanted to 
maximise his TFC and avoid as far as possible any excess LTA charge.
I recognise the point that BDL makes when it says there were queries from Mr K to get to the 
bottom of and that because he wanted his TFC in-specie, this complicated matters. But Ive 
concluded these things werent the root cause of the delays here. I think its more likely than 
not the primary reason things took so long to progress was because BDL didnt have a grip 
on the true situation with Mr Ks LTA position. Had it done, I think they should have made 
Mr K aware of his being over his LTA when he asked on 18 July. And both Mr K and BDL 
would likely have proceeded with more urgency and focus.
When Mr K gave a clear instruction to crystallise his benefits In July 2018 the value of the 
uncrystallised fund was around £953,000. If Mr K had taken his TFC at this point then its 
likely he still wouldve exceeded his LTA limit, but the excess may have been less than 
materialised the following year. And so, I think its reasonable to conclude had Mr K been 
properly informed about his LTA at that point, he and BDL would have proceeded to 
crystallise his pension with greater urgency.
Putting things rightIn assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr K as close as reasonably 
possible into the position he would probably now be in if hed been given suitable advice. In 
order to put things right Brewin Dolphin Limited should:
- Calculate Mr Ks position had the process to crystallise his remaining pension 
benefits started from 18 July 2018. In doing so, BDL should work to its usual service 
level standards in terms of the time taken to execute the transaction. And it should 
assume he wouldve taken the same decisions as he did a year later, for example 
taking his TFC in-specie.
- I understand Mr K has already settled the excess LTA charge. If BDLs calculations 
show that crystallising his pension, up to his LTA limit in July 2018, meant hed have 
paid a lower LTA recovery charge, then BDL will need to make good the difference. 
To this sum, it will need to add 8% simple interest from the date Mr K paid the charge 
until it settles his complaint.
- Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If BDL considers its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to deduct income tax, it should tell Mr K how much its 
taken off. BDL should also give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
BDL should provide the details of the calculation to Mr K in a clear, simple format.
Ive not considered the position of investment growth/loss on Mr Ks uncrystallised pension 
pot between 2018 and 2019. Clearly, had he taken his TFC a year earlier the movement of 
his funds wouldve been somewhat less. That said we know his TFC wouldve been taken in-
specie, and it wouldve been subject to similar market movements.
I also think that BDL should pay Mr K £250 compensation for the trouble and upset they 
have caused him.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, I uphold Mr Ks complaint about Brewin Dolphin Limited and 
direct them to compensate Mr K as I have set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2021.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman