DRN-2237632
The complaint
This complaint is about Mrs and Mr Js Halifax-branded mortgage with Bank of Scotland plc. 
When they agreed with Halifax to use an accrued overpayment balance to replace their 
monthly instalment for a period, Mrs and Mr J say they werent told that interest would 
continue to be charged on the mortgage debt.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round.
In a recent submission, Mrs and Mr J have said Halifax has been slow to make more recent 
changes to the mortgage. My decision can only deal with issues raised in the complaint that 
was addressed in the final response and referred to us in 2019. If Mrs and Mr J are unhappy 
about acts or omissions since then, they would need to raise a fresh complaint with Halifax 
and refer it to us for separate consideration if not happy with the banks response.
This complaint is simpler than its been made to look. The contractual position on any 
mortgage is that interest is charged on the outstanding balance until such time as the debt 
has been repaid. Thats the starting point in my consideration of the complaint, and so when 
assessing whether Halifax has misled Mrs and Mr J in any way, the question I have to 
decide is not whether it told them interest would still be charged. 
What this complaint actually turns on whether Halifax gave Mrs and Mr J any reason to 
believe interest wouldnt still be charged on their mortgage whilst they were using up their 
over-payment balance. Having considered everything that both parties have said and 
provided, theres nothing that would cause me to find that Halifax had created such an 
expectation.
As to changes in the account balance, its important to remember that where overpayments 
have been made, their effect is to have reduced the balance by more than was scheduled. If 
regular payments are then suspended to use up those overpayments, the balance gradually 
increases again until monthly instalments are resumed again. 
Halifax accepts this wasnt all made fully clear to Mrs and Mr J, but theyve given no 
indication of what theyd have done differently if it had been. So I cant readily conclude that 
Mrs and Mr J have suffered any detriment. Halifaxs response to the complaint was to pay 
Mrs and Mr J £200. That was a reasonable settlement, and had it not been made, I wouldnt 
have awarded more.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint or make 
any order or award against Bank of Scotland plc. My final decision concludes this services 
consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration 
or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs and Mr J to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman