DRN-1720376
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her the PPI. 
What happened
Mrs B applied for a credit card in 2006, at the same time she was sold a PPI policy. The 
policy covered Mrs B against not being able to work due an accident, sickness or 
unemployment. If Mrs B had made a successful claim the policy would have paid a monthly 
benefit of 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 months. If Mrs B had died the policy 
would have cleared the outstanding balance.
In 2019 Mrs B complained to HSBC about the sale of the policy. HSBC said the policy was 
not mis-sold, but it offered Mrs B £3,356.80 for undisclosed commission that was more than 
half the cost of the policy.
Mrs B remained unhappy with HSBCs response, she thought the policy was mis-sold to her 
and wanted HSBC to repay all the premiums she paid for the PPI.
Mrs B was self-employed. Her representative told us this would have meant she would be 
unlikely to be able to make a claim on the policy.
An adjudicator from this service thought the policy had not been mis-sold and thought the 
commission offer was fair. Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Bs employment status would 
have made it difficult for her to make a claim on the policy. Mrs Bs representatives 
requested a copy of the policys terms and conditions.
In response to the adjudicators opinion Mrs Bs representative told us her work was quite 
casual and she could go months with no work at all. Therefore she did not meet the policys 
eligibility requirement of working at least 16 hours per week.
The adjudicator requested Mrs B provide any evidence she had of her working pattern in 
2006.
Mrs Bs representative told us they had spoken with Mrs B who said she had no set hours 
but could work for one day one week and then three days the next but definitely less than 16 
hours. Due to the time that had passed Mrs B could not send us any documentary evidence 
of her working hours.
The complaint has now been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case.Where there is limited information, I will make my decision based on whats more likely to 
have happened, taking into account  the evidence available, what  both parties have told me 
and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
HSBC hasnt got any of the original paperwork completed at the time of the sale. And it cant 
confirm to us how Mrs B took out the credit card and was sold the PPI. It couldve been in a 
branch, over the telephone or by post using a postal application. Similarly Mrs B cant recall 
how the PPI was sold to her.
From what I know of the way HSBC sold PPI around 2006 Mrs B would likely have been told 
the PPI was optional and would have needed to actively select PPI on any application form 
she completed.
I note Mrs B took out the credit card in 2006 and the PPI remained on his account for many 
years. The PPI premiums would have appeared on her statements as purchases. So if it was 
something she didnt want, know about or agree to, Id expect her to have questioned the 
premiums at an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence that she did so.
Overall I think HSBC likely made it clear that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember this.
Ive assumed HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs B as this places more responsibility on 
the business. It means HSBC had to check that the PPI was right for her.
Mrs B was self-employed. To be eligible for the policy the policyholder needed to be working 
at least 16 hours per week.
Ive thought carefully about this point. Unfortunately Mrs B hasnt been able to show us any 
evidence of her working hours in 2006. And HSBC has no records from the time about Mrs 
Bs employment when she applied for the credit card. I note Mrs Bs recollection that she 
worked less than 16 hours. Mrs Bs representative has told us she could go months without 
work, later Mrs B clarified that she worked between one and three days a week.
Ive no doubt that Mrs Bs working week would have varied given the nature of her job. But 
she successfully applied for the credit card so I think its likely she did have a regular income 
from her self-employment at the time. I do accept it is possible Mrs B was working less than 
16 hours per week. But weighing everything up Ive not seen enough persuasive evidence 
for me to conclude Mrs B was working less than minimum required to be eligible for the 
policy. So I think it is most likely Mrs B was eligible for the policy.
And Ive not seen anything else in the policy terms and conditions to make me think Mrs B 
would have found it difficult to make a claim if she couldnt work.
As a self-employed person Mrs B would not have received any employers sick pay if she 
couldnt work. So I think shed have found the policy useful if things went wrong.
I note Mrs B has told us she had life cover in place already so didnt require the life 
insurance element of the PPI. But she would have taken the life cover to protect her existing 
liabilities. The credit card was a new financial liability so I dont think the extra life cover 
would have duplicated her existing arrangements.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
Which means HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because HSBC didnt tell Mrs B, that was unfair.
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But HSBC UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman