DRN-4201836
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) wont refund him for a holiday he
booked and paid for using his NatWest credit card.
What happened
On 16 May 2022, Mr S booked a package holiday for him and his wife, Mrs S, to travel on 23
May 2022 and return on 31 May 2022. Mr S used an online travel website, who Ill refer to as
L, to make the booking and paid them around £1,150 for the holiday - this amount included
an outbound flight with airline J and a return flight with airline R, as well as hotel
accommodation.
Mr S wife had been in hospital a few weeks before they were due to depart with a heart
condition and Mr S says she was discharged on 5 May 2022. Mr S contacted airline J on 19
May 2022 to ask for special assistance at the airport for Mrs S.
On 21 May 2022, airline J asked Mr S to provide medical confirmation from Mrs S doctor to
confirm she was fit to fly. Mr S said he tried to get hold of the doctor on more than one
occasion but wasnt successful. Eventually, Mr S was able to obtain a signed letter
confirming Mrs S could fly in the afternoon of 23 May 2022 (the day they were due to depart)
which meant Mr and Mrs S missed their flight.
Mr S says he feels airline J prevented him and Mrs S from flying. Airline J said they issued
Mr S with a voucher of £206.40, as a gesture of goodwill, which they said covered his and
Mrs S flight with them. Mr S said this voucher hasnt been used.
Mr S contacted L on 21 May 2022 (the same day J asked for medical confirmation from Mrs
S doctor), to let them know airline J wouldnt let them fly without a fit to fly confirmation for
Mrs S. So, Mr S asked L for a refund.
Mr S and his wife were due to return on 31 May 2022 with airline R. Mr S made an alteration
with his booking with airline R for new flights from 5 to 16 June 2022. Mr S paid £81.60 for 
this amendment on 25 May 2022. Mr S said he presumed he could use the £840 he
originally paid for the hotel, towards this booking. But the hotel said they couldnt return him
his money and that hed lost it.
Mr S says he made a claim with his travel insurer for the costs he incurred as a result of
airline J refusing to let him and his wife fly. But this, unfortunately, wasnt successful. Mr S
says he raised a chargeback and also a claim under Section 75 of The Consumer Credit Act
1974 (CCA) with NatWest to see if he could receive a refund of the losses he incurred as a
result of airline J not allowing him and his wife to fly without a fit to fly certificate. These costs
include:
The package holiday booking amount of around £1,150 he paid to L,
The £81.60 he paid airline R for amending his booking,
The payment of £49 to airline J on 18 May 2022 for what seems to me to be seat 
reservations,
£40 doctors fee for the fit to fly confirmation.
NatWest responded to Mr S claim and said all parties involved acted in line with their terms
and conditions. They went on to say:
There were no chargeback rights for the transaction with airline R, as airline R 
provided the tickets and the service was still available.
Similarly, there were no chargeback rights for the transaction with airline J as they 
provided Mr S with a voucher. And that J acted in line with their terms and conditions 
which Mr S agreed to when making the booking.
Also, there was no chargeback rights against L as the payment was non-refundable, 
and Mr S cancelled the booking at short notice.
NatWest say they asked Mr S for further information about the hotel part of the 
booking, but he didnt provide this. So, no chargeback could be attempted for this 
part of the booking.
In relation to Section 75, Mr S hadnt provided any evidence of a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation to enable his claim to succeed. NatWest also said they could 
have declined Mr S claim as they didnt think the necessary debtor-creditor-supplier 
(DCS) relationship was in place for a valid Section 75 claim. They said this was due 
to L acting as a booking agent regarding the hotel booking, so the hotels cancellation 
terms were relevant here.
Our Investigator looked into Mr S concerns. In summary, she said having reviewed the
terms and conditions for L, airline R and airline J, it didnt seem Mr S was entitled to a
refund. Similarly, she couldnt agree there had been a breach of contract by the parties
involved. So, she didnt think NatWests responses to Mr S chargeback and Section 75
claims were unfair.
Mr S didnt agree with our Investigator. He said he didnt think it was fair for someone to
steal his hard earned savings, in particular the hotel payment and the extra payment he
made to amend his flight with airline R. Mr S reiterated that this issue had all arisen from
airline J refusing to let him and his wife fly. So, the complaint has been passed to me to
decide.
I issued a provisional decision setting out the below:
Im sorry to read Mr S and his wife werent able to go on the holiday they saved up for. I can
understand this was frustrating and also upsetting for them, Id like to offer my empathy to Mr
S for what has happened.
This complaint is about NatWest, as Mr S credit card provider. Its not about the supplier of
the booking, who arent a financial service provider and so dont fall within my remit.
There is no automatic obligation on a credit card issuer to provide redress where one of their
customers uses their facilities to make a purchase, and something then goes wrong with that
purchase. However, there are typically two avenues via which the credit card issuer,
NatWest in this case, can help or may have a legal liability. The first one is chargeback.
A chargeback is a way in which payment settlement disputes are resolved between card
issuers and merchants. These disputes are dealt with through the relevant card scheme
rules, in this case Mastercard. In certain circumstances, the process provides a way for
NatWest to ask for a payment Mr S made to be refunded. Those circumstances include
where the goods or services arent supplied, not as described, or credit not processed
(which applies in situations where customers claim they are owed a refund).However, a chargeback doesnt guarantee a refund. L would be entitled to defend any
chargeback claim made by NatWest. And if they did so, the chargeback wouldnt succeed.
Where a chargeback is defended, NatWest can ask for the card scheme to arbitrate in order
to make a decision as to whether it ought to succeed or not.
It's important to highlight that there is no obligation on NatWest to process a chargeback
through the card scheme. However, I would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be
attempted where the right exists and there is a reasonable prospect of success. In this case,
NatWest didnt submit a chargeback because they didnt think there were any grounds to do
so as they concluded essentially, most of the parties involved in the booking acted in line
with their terms and conditions. Having considered the available evidence and
circumstances, I agree with NatWest and Ill explain why.
As Ive set out above, there are limited circumstances in which a chargeback can be
submitted. The reason for the chargeback would need to fit within one of the relevant
chargeback rules. Ive already highlighted the three most appropriate reasons which might
apply to Mr S payment. However, I dont think any of those would have had any
reasonable prospect of success for the following reasons.
Mr S holiday didnt go ahead as a result of not taking the outbound flight due to airline J
asking Mr S to provide a fit to fly certificate for Mrs S, which wasnt supplied in time of the
flight. Having looked at airline Js terms and conditions, they say It is your responsibility to
ensure you are medically fit to travel and fly. We reserve the right to request a fitness to fly
certificate. As set out, airline J were able to ask for a fit to fly certificate for Mrs S. Mr S
booking confirmation shows the flight with airline J was non-refundable. This is further
reiterated in Ls terms and conditions that 100% of the value of flights is non-refundable from
the point of booking.
I understand Mr S concern that J asked for him to supply a fit to fly confirmation just two
days before Mr S and his wife were due to depart. But I dont think this timeframe was
unreasonable. I think it was unfortunate timing as Mr S booked the holiday one week before
departure. Additionally, having thought about what J knew about Mr S wifes health when Mr
S contacted J for special assistance at the time, I dont think the request was necessarily
unreasonable. It was very unfortunate Mr S wasnt able to provide the requested document
in time. Overall, the flight was still available, and it also wasnt refundable. So, even though
NatWest said Mr S didnt have chargeback rights as he received a voucher from J, Im of the
opinion that there wasnt a reasonable prospect of success in raising a chargeback about
this part of the booking under the scheme rules - ultimately, the service was still available
and Mr S wasnt due a refund for reasons Ive explained.
As a result of not getting on the outbound flight, Mr S and his wife werent able to go on the
return flight with airline R. However, despite not using this service, I havent seen any
evidence to suggest it wasnt still available. In fact, having done some of my own research,
Ive seen evidence to show the return flight Mr S booked with airline R went ahead as
planned. And the booking confirmation also showed this flight was non-refundable, which is
a term reiterated in Ls terms and conditions for flight cancellations. Ive looked at the
schemes rules and I dont think NatWest had any reasonable prospect of success in raising
a chargeback against L for this reason.
In relation to the part of Mr S booking for the hotel, I havent seen the hotels terms and
conditions. Ls terms and conditions explain cancellation charges will depend on whether Mr
S booked a refundable or non-refundable product. Mr S said the hotel themselves told him
they wouldnt be able to give him his money back  the hotel also told L this when L
contacted them to ask for a refund on behalf of Mr S. So, I think by the time Mr S asked tocancel the booking, it might not have been refundable. While NatWest asked Mr S to provide
further information, I dont think they acted unfairly in not pursuing a chargeback against L,
because I dont think it would have succeeded under one of the schemes rules.
Overall, NatWest are limited to following the card scheme rules when processing a
chargeback. And I cant see that any chargeback which might have been attempted would
likely have succeeded. Therefore, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably in not
attempting a chargeback.
NatWest considered Mr S request for a refund under Section 75  which is the other avenue
a credit provider can help their customer get a refund for a transaction. In this case, The
Package Travel and Linked Travel Arrangements Regulations 2018 apply as Mr S booked a
package holiday with L. These say the organiser (L in Mr S case) are liable to the traveller
for the performance of the travel services included in the package travel contract,
irrespective of whether those services are to be performed by the organiser (L) or by other
travel service providers (such as J and R in Mr S case). So, contrary to what NatWest said,
Im satisfied there was a valid DCS relationship in place here and the transaction amount
meets the financial limits as set out under Section 75.
However, for much the same reasons as to why I dont think a chargeback would have
been successful, I dont think NatWest acted unfairly or unreasonably in turning down Mr S
claim under Section 75. This is because Mr S hasnt demonstrated there was a breach of
contract or misrepresentation in this transaction.
As mentioned previously, J reserved the right to request a fit to fly certificate, knowing what
they knew about Mrs S health. This request wasnt J acting outside of their terms and
conditions, which then led to them failing to perform the travel services as agreed. So, I cant
reasonably say there was a failure on Js part to perform the contract. Therefore, Im not
persuaded theres been a breach of contract or misrepresentation.
Likewise, for Mr S return flight and hotel part of the booking, I havent seen anything to
suggest there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation which means Mr S should get a
refund for those portions of the booking. This is because the flight with R was still available,
Mr S and his wife just werent able to get on it. And I havent seen anything to persuade me 
the hotel wasnt able to fulfil the booking nor provide the service. Instead, Mr S cancelled the
booking with L, which meant the hotel part of the booking didnt go ahead.
All in all, while I appreciate my decision will likely come as a disappointment to Mr S, Im not
currently persuaded NatWest acted unfairly in how they handled Mr S request for a refund.
So, Im not thinking to ask NatWest to do anything to put things right.
NatWest responded to my provisional decision and said they didnt have any further 
comments for me to consider. 
Mr S responded and said he was disappointed with my decision. Mr S said he wondered if 
he should direct his complaint to J as they were the cause of what went wrong in May 2022. 
Mr S also said in my decision, I said I thought he did have time to address Js request for a 
fit to fly certificate. But Mr S clarified this wasnt the case and reiterated the request from J 
came on 21 May 2022, a couple of days before he and Mrs S were due to depart. As this 
date was a Saturday, Mr S said it wasnt possible to successfully reach the doctors. Mr S 
has provided us with a copy of emails between him and J, which Ive read and considered. 
Lastly, Mr S said he was reimbursed £206.40 from J for the cost of the outbound flight.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr S has commented on whether he should raise a complaint with J. But this isnt 
something I can advise on, unfortunately. If Mr S feels further steps need to be taken, thatd 
be his decision. But Im pleased to hear Mr S has been reimbursed by J for the outbound 
flight.
Mr S replied and said "the Ombudsman states that we did have sufficient time to address the 
J... 5 page Medical Report (MR), but that certainly was not the case." But I didn't say this in 
the provisional decision. To clarify, what I said was Mr S booked the holiday one week 
before he was due to fly. And under Js terms and conditions, they reserved the right to ask 
for a fit to fly certificate. Having considered things again, I don't think Js timeframe for asking 
for this was unfair  the evidence suggests the request for the fit to fly certificate was 
following Mr S email to Js special assistance team two days before. So, overall, I've seen 
nothing to persuade me J unreasonably delayed matters.
I appreciate Mr S point that he was unable to successfully reach a doctor for the fit to fly 
certificate. While I empathise with what Mr S has told us, I dont think NatWest could have 
raised a chargeback against L for that reason.
I appreciate my decision will cause Mr S further disappointment. But I still dont think 
NatWest acted unfairly in how they handled Mr S request for a refund. So, it follows that I 
wont be asking NatWest to do anything to put things right.
My final decision
For reasons explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2023.
 
Leanne McEvoy
Ombudsman