DRN-2943652
The complaint
 Mr W has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC charged him excessive amounts for his 
overdraft when he was in financial difficulty.
What happened
 Mr W complained to Lloyds that he was charged interest and fees for using his overdraft at 
a time when he was experiencing financial difficulties and could not afford to pay them. He 
says this led to him being unable to meet his living expenses. Lloyds didnt uphold the 
complaint. And as Mr W was dissatisfied he referred the complaint to our service.
Mr Ws complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that Lloyds ought 
to have realised that Mr W was experiencing financial difficulty by October 2014 and so 
shouldnt have added any more interest, fees and charges from this point onwards. Lloyds 
didnt respond so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds will be familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank treated a customer fairly and reasonably when applying 
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything provided, Im intending to find that Lloyds acted 
unfairly when it continued charging overdraft interest and associated fees after it renewed 
Mr Ws overdraft in October 2014. At this stage, it ought to have been clear that Mr W was in 
no position to sustainably repay what he owed within a reasonable period of time. 
By this point, Mr W was hardcore borrowing. In other words he hadnt seen or maintained a 
credit balance for an extended period of time. Lloyds own literature suggests that overdrafts 
are for unforeseen emergency borrowing not prolonged day-to-day expenditure. So I think 
that Mr Ws overdraft usage should have prompted Lloyds to have realised that Mr W wasnt 
using his overdraft as intended and shouldnt have continued offering it on the same terms. 
As Lloyds didnt react to Mr Ws overdraft usage and instead continued charging in the same 
way, I think it failed to act fairly and reasonably. 
Mr W ended up paying additional interest, fees and charges on his overdraft and this ended 
up exacerbating difficulties he already had in trying to clear it. So I think that Lloyds didnt 
treat Mr W fairly and he lost out because of what Lloyds did wrong. And this means that it 
should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Lloyds needs to do to put things right for Mr W
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Ws complaint for Lloyds to put things right by:
Reworking Mr Ws current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges 
applied to it after the renewal on 15 October 2014 are removed.
AND
If an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft once these adjustments have 
been made Lloyds should contact Mr W to arrange a suitable repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mr Ws credit 
file, it should reflect what would have been recorded had it started the process of 
taking corrective action on the overdraft on 15 October 2014.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest, fees and charges results in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mr W along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from 
the date they were made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made, then Lloyds 
should remove any adverse information from Mr Ws credit file. 
If the debt has since been sold on, then Lloyds should liaise with the debt purchaser to 
ensure the above is carried out. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ws complaint. Lloyds Bank PLC should 
put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 October 2021.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman