DRN-2797419
The complaint
Mrs T is unhappy that a car supplied to her under a hire purchase agreement with RCI 
Financial Services Limited was of an unsatisfactory quality.
What happened
On 6 March 2020, Mrs T was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with RCI. She paid a deposit of £1,250 and the agreement was for £17,104 over 49 months; 
with 47 monthly repayments of £278.80, a payment of £278.56, and a final payment of 
£6,015.98. 
On 5 November 2020, while she was driving on the motorway, the car lost all power. And 
when Mrs T turned it back on, warning lights were illuminated. At the time the car had 
travelled 9,761 miles. She drove the car home and it was recovered to the dealership the 
following day.
The dealership had the car from 6 to 27 November 2020, during which time Mrs T was 
supplied with a courtesy car. The dealership carried out extensive testing but couldnt 
replicate the fault with the car. Although there were a number of fault codes stored in the car, 
these werent linked to what happened on 5 November 2020. Because the dealership 
couldnt find anything wrong with the car, it was handed back to Mrs T.
Mrs T complained to RCI on 25 November 2020, but they didnt uphold her complaint. They 
said that, because the fault couldnt be replicated, they couldnt offer a repair. But they 
offered to get a second opinion to see if a fault could be found. Mrs T said she no longer felt 
safe driving the car, and either wanted to terminate the agreement or have the car replaced, 
at no additional cost. So she referred her complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said that, based on the evidence shed seen, there wasnt a fault with the 
car. For RCI to agree to a rejection, there has to be a fault with the car, and RCI would have 
the right to attempt a repair if a fault was found. So, she didnt think it would be reasonable to 
allow Mrs T to reject the car, especially as Ms T didnt agree to further testing.
Mrs T didnt agree with the investigator. And she asked for an ombudsman to make a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and (if appropriate) what I 
consider was good industry practice at the time. Mrs T was supplied with a car under a hire 
purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were 
able to look into complaints about it. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says, amongst other things, that the car shouldve 
been of a satisfactory quality when supplied. And if it wasnt, as the supplier of goods, RCI 
are responsible. Whats satisfactory is determined by things such what a reasonable person 
would consider satisfactory given the price, description and other relevant circumstances. In 
a case like this, this would include things like the age and mileage at the time of sale; and 
the vehicles history and its durability. Durability means that the components of the car must 
last a reasonable amount of time.
The CRA also says that goods must confirm to contract within the first six months. So, where 
a fault is identified within the first six months, its assumed that the fault was present when 
the car was supplied, unless RCI can show otherwise. But, where a fault is identified after 
the first six months, its for Mrs T to show that it was present when the car was supplied. So, 
if I thought the car was faulty when Mrs T took possession of it, and this made the car not of 
a satisfactory quality, itd be fair and reasonable to ask RCI to put this right.
While I dont doubt that Mrs T suffered an issue with the car on 5 November 2020, Ive not 
seen any evidence that this was caused by an underlying fault. From what Ive seen, the 
recovery company who took the car back to the dealership on 6 November 2020 werent 
able to identify a fault. And the dealership kept the car for around three weeks, doing 
extensive testing, and were unable to find a fault. There were stored fault codes, unrelated to 
the issue Mrs T has complained about, and these were cleared on the advice of the 
manufacturer. But I dont think that this alone is enough to say the car was faulty.
Ive seen that Mrs T was offered a second opinion from an alternative manufacturer 
authorised dealer; or the option to go on a test drive with a technician, to see if the fault 
could be replicated. But she refused these offers. And Mrs T hasnt provided any 
independent report that indicates a fault with the car. Nor has she said the issue has 
happened again.
While the CRA says that, where a fault has been identified, and that fault makes the car of 
an unsatisfactory quality, then RCI need to do something to put that right; in this instance no 
fault has been identified. So, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to 
Mrs T, I cant say the car was of an unsatisfactory quality when supplied, and I wont be 
asking RCI to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint about RCI Financial Services 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman