DRN-2626798
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy with the fact that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited declined 
to pay them anything in respect of water damage to their building after they made a claim 
under their home insurance policy. Theyre also unhappy that they didnt receive a 
settlement for their carpets or alternative accommodation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L made a claim to Lloyds after a burst water pipe in their loft caused a lot of 
damage to their holiday home in April 2018. At that time theyd just received conditional 
planning permission to demolish the house and build a replacement one. They told Lloyds 
they intended to demolish the house the following year and provided a quote for over 
£34,000 to repair the damage.
Lloyds rejected the claim on the ground that Mr and Mrs L hadnt complied with the policy 
conditions. 
By late 2018 the local authority had discharged the conditions in the planning permission 
and Mr and Mrs L were in a position to demolish the existing house and build a new one. 
Work started in January 2019.
In August 2019 after Mr and Mrs L complained to this service, Lloyds agreed to consider the 
claim. It accepted thered been damage caused by something covered under their policy (the 
burst pipe). It made an offer to settle the contents claim (other than carpets) which was 
accepted. Lloyds said carpets formed part of the buildings claim. It said it wouldnt settle the 
buildings claim in cash as it had evidence that the property was due to be demolished at the 
time of the loss and so Mr and Mrs L hadnt suffered a financial loss. It also refused to pay 
anything in respect of alternative accommodation costs because the property had been a 
holiday home.
As Lloyds didnt change its decision, Mr and Mrs L brought their complaint to this service. 
They thought Lloyds should pay their repair costs, £2,550 in respect of fitted carpets and 
eight months alternative accommodation costs. Our investigator didnt uphold their 
complaint. She didnt think Lloyds had treated Mr and Mrs L unfairly.
As Mr and Mrs L didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms of Mr and Mrs Ls policy set out how Lloyds would settle buildings claims. It said:
We will pay the cost of rebuilding or repairing your home which is damaged (using a 
suitable equivalent material wherever possible) but not more than the cost of completely 
rebuilding it in its original form. 
We have the option of giving you a money payment instead of repairing or rebuilding your 
home. We will either:
Pay the cost of repairing the damage less an allowance for wear and tear or;
Pay the difference between the open market sale value of your home prior to the 
damage and its open market sale value after the damage.
It doesnt seem reasonable to me to take Mr and Mrs Ls loss as the cost of repairing the 
property when Lloyds had the option of settling the claim on a different basis, namely the 
difference in value. In any event repairing the damage was no longer an option by the time 
the claim was accepted due to the demolition of the property. Ive taken into account the fact 
that Lloyds was at fault in not accepting the claim sooner. But even if it had settled the claim 
before the property was demolished, based on what Mr L told Lloyds at the outset of the 
claim of his intention to demolish, I doubt that Mr and Mrs L would have used any cash 
settlement for the buildings claim in actually repairing the damage.
So the next step is to assess what the difference is between the open market sale value of 
the property prior to the damage and its open market sale value after the damage. Lloyds 
argument seems to be that since Mr and Mrs L intended to demolish the building within a 
few months, the buildings had no value and so there was no loss. Based on what Mr L told 
Lloyds when he first notified them of the claim, I dont think thats an unreasonable 
assumption. He said theyd bought the property as it had development potential and they 
were planning to demolish it in early 2019. They didnt want to repair it.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy is an indemnity policy. That means the policy is intended to put the 
policyholder back in the position they were in just before the loss or damage happened. As 
its a policy of indemnity, Mr and Mrs L can only recover what theyve lost as a result of the 
insured event (in this case, the escape of water). Thats a well-established principle of 
insurance law. From a financial point of view I dont think Mr and Mrs L have shown the 
property was worth less to them after the damage than before. So I dont think Lloyds treated 
them unfairly in not offering them anything in settlement of the buildings claim.
Mr and Mrs L claimed £2,550 for fitted carpets. Lloyds said these were part of the buildings 
claim and refused to settle for them on the basis that Mr and Mrs L hadnt suffered a 
financial loss as a result of damage to the carpets. Technically it was wrong to class these 
as a buildings item, as carpets fall for cover under contents. However, having looked at 
photos of the carpets, they appear to me to be rather worn. I think its unlikely that, were it 
not for the burst pipe, Mr and Mrs L would have gone to the trouble and expense of 
removing, storing and re-laying them in their newly built holiday home. Again I dont think 
Lloyds acted unreasonably with regard to this.
The policy also covered alternative accommodation if the property couldnt be lived in as a 
result of something covered by the policy. Mr and Mrs L havent shown that they actually 
incurred these costs. Bearing in mind that the insured property was their holiday home and 
their main home was elsewhere, I dont think it would be reasonable in the circumstances to 
make Lloyds pay anything in respect of this.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 19 April 2021.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman