DRN-2130582
The complaint
Mr R and Mrs M complain HSBC Bank Plc unfairly restricted their access to multiple
accounts and that some of those accounts were closed unfairly. They would like
compensation for the embarrassment, financial loss and distress they were caused. And
they would also like to know the reason why their accounts were subject to review.
Background
Mr R and Mrs M are husband and wife. They were customers of HSBC for some time,
holding multiple accounts, some of which were in their sole names and some of which were
jointly held. On 13 June 2019 HSBC restricted access to all these accounts, meaning Mr R
and Mrs M couldnt access their funds.
Mr R and Mrs M discovered the restriction when Mrs M attempted to make a transaction
using her card and it was refused. She went into an HSBC branch and was told all the
accounts were blocked due to UK statutory requirements. Mr R says they had to borrow
money from a friend during this time, and important payments were missed. HSBC removed
the restrictions on 24 June 2019 after completing its review.
Unhappy with HSBCs actions Mr R and Mrs M started to move some of their accounts to
different providers, leaving some HSBC accounts still open. HSBC then gave the required
contractual notice to close their remaining accounts, except for their joint mortgage which
remains open.
Throughout this time Mr R and Mrs M say HSBC failed to provide a reason for its actions.
Mr R holds a senior position with a reputable and large employer, and he says he and Mrs M
operated their accounts in line with the account terms. He says the source and origin of
funds in the accounts was clear, so there was no reason for a review or suspicion.
HSBC say they were entitled to review the accounts Mr R and Mrs M held in order to meet
its statutory requirements. And it was entitled to freeze the accounts under its terms and
conditions.
An investigator considered Mr R and Mrs Ms complaint and decided not to uphold it. In
summary they found:
- HSBC can review accounts and restrict access to them. It has a variety of regulatory
obligations it must meet, and reviews help to ensure its complying with those
obligations. It didnt need to provide any more reasons than it had, despite Mr R
wanting to know why the accounts were reviewed.
- Mr R and Mrs M may have suffered some financial loss and distress when they
couldnt access their accounts, but HSBC were entitled to freeze those accounts.
And HSBC hadnt caused unnecessary delays when conducting its review.
- HSBC has the discretion to exit a customer relationship if it wants to. It had complied
with the terms of the accounts in giving the correct notice period, so it hadnt done
anything wrong. Again, HSBC wasnt obliged to give its reasons for closing the
accounts.
Mr R and Mrs M strongly disagree with the outcome the investigator reached. They say they
have a right to know the reasons as to why their accounts were blocked. Mr R suspects it
was because he has dual nationality, which wouldnt be a legally justifiable reason. They
have asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed to
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr R and Mrs Ms complaint for broadly similar reasons to those
given by the investigator. I understand this will come as disappointing news to Mr R and
Mrs M, so Ill explain why.
Account Block
The investigator was right to point out that HSBC has important legal and regulatory
obligations it must meet when providing accounts to customers. These obligations are
ongoing, so do not only pertain to when an account is opened. To comply with its obligations
HSBC may need to review an account and/or restrict its customers access. If HSBC didnt
on occasion take action it could risk serious sanction.
I appreciate Mr R and Mrs M were longstanding customers of HSBC, but this didnt prevent
HSBC from undertaking its review or mean it shouldnt review their accounts. And having
considered HSBCs reasons for reviewing the accounts and the information its provided, Im
satisfied its decision to restrict access to them was reasonable. And I also understand why it
wanted to review the accounts.
Mr R wants to know why the accounts were reviewed, which is understandable, but HSBC is
under no obligation to disclose its reasons. So, I wont be requiring it do so either. Mr R
suggests the reason must be because he is a dual-national, which I dont doubt he believes.
Indeed, basing a decision to restrict an account because of someones nationality is likely to
be unreasonable. But, considering everything Ive seen, Im satisfied the other nationality Mr
R holds wasnt the reason for the review.
I also find HSBC didnt cause any unnecessary delays when conducting its review. I dont
doubt not having access to the account caused Mr R and Mrs M financial difficulty and
distress, for which they have my sympathy. But I dont find it was wrong for HSBC to restrict
their accounts, so its not something Im going to direct HSBC to compensate them for.
Account closure
Much like Mr R and Mrs M decided to close several accounts with HSBC, so too could
HSBC decide it no longer wanted them as customers. Its discretion on who it wants as a
customer is not something I would generally interfere with. But HSBC should still ensure it
closes accounts in line with their respective terms, and that its decision to close isnt based
on improper reasons.
After considering the account terms, Im satisfied HSBC reasonably applied them. It gave Mr
R and Mrs M the required notice under each account, which I also consider was adequate
time for them to find other account providers. Im further satisfied its decision to close theaccounts was a legitimate exercise of its discretion.
HSBC refused to allow direct debits to automatically switch to new accounts which led to
Mr R having to take time to do this manually. But I find HSBC was under no obligation,
contractual or otherwise, to agree to automatic switching of payments. So again, I am not
awarding compensation on this basis.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Liam King
Ombudsman