DRN-2215230
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited. Hes unhappy that he wasnt 
told that a pension transfer would result in a reduction in value.
What happened
Mr P held two pension policies with Aviva. The largest (the PO fund) was worth around 
£70,000 and the smaller policy (the AV fund) was worth around £21,000. Mr P says that the 
PO fund wasnt visible to him when he accessed his accounts online. The PO fund was an 
older policy which Aviva had inherited from another business. Mr P enquired about joining 
the policies together so they could be viewed simultaneously. Mr P says that he asked if 
there would be any loss associated with merging the policies and Aviva told him, on 
numerous occasions, that here would be no loss as it was purely an internal transfer.
The transfer was arranged and the two polices were merged. But Mr P noticed that the final 
value was over £700 less than he had expected. He raised this with Aviva, and it responded 
explaining that when the PO policy had been transferred this had resulted in a loss of some 
of the loyalty bonus that would have been payable. Aviva accepted that Mr P hadnt been 
told about this and accepted that he may not have transferred if he had known. But it 
added that he had been informed of the loyalty bonus before and he had also said that he 
had taken financial advice. Aviva upheld the complaint and offered £200 for the 
inconvenience it had caused.
Mr P didnt accept and referred his complaint to this service.
The complaint was considered by an investigator. He didnt think the complaint should be 
upheld. In summary he said:
It was clear Mr P wanted to have all funds in one location.
He said he wanted to be able to drawdown on the funds each year until he reached 
60 when he would be able to rely on another pension.
The PO policy didnt allow regular withdrawals penalty free.
Aviva hadnt provided the correct information, but even if it had Mr P would probably 
have gone ahead anyway.
He wanted to drawdown on the funds, he couldnt do that without transferring the PO 
policy. That was the larger of the two policies.
Mr P didnt agree. He said that he had been given incorrect information about the transfer 
value and he had only ever wanted to have the plans in one place so he could view them 
together. Hes had other resources to call upon until he reaches 60.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree with the investigator and with his reasoning which Ive summarised above. I dont 
uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Aviva accepts that Mr P wasnt fully informed of the consequences of making this transfer 
before it went ahead. What I must determine is whether that lack of information actually 
made a difference, so that he has lost out as a result. I need to decide what was likely to 
have happened if he had been fully informed. Would Mr P have transferred the PO policy 
even if he had known that it would result in the loss of some of the loyalty bonus, at a cost of 
£700? Having considered all of the evidence, I think the answer to that question is, in all 
probability, yes.
Mr P says that his main, or only, motivation to transfer the PO policy was so that his plans 
were in the same place and could be viewed online together. If that had been his only 
motivation, then I can see that he may not have been prepared to pay £700 for it, as 
although it would have been convenient, he may not have thought it was worth that price.
However, I dont think that was Mr Ps only motivation. Its clear from the documents that he 
completed that he wished to merge the two policies so that he could drawdown from them 
each year until he reached 60. In his own words on the transfer paperwork he said:
I want it (the money) to be in one place where I can draw it down.
I think the ability to drawdown on the pension funds until he reached 60 was a significant 
factor in Mr Ps decision making. That is the clear impression gained from what he wrote on 
the transfer paperwork. Im satisfied that if Mr P had been fully informed about the loss of 
loyalty bonus on transfer of the PO policy he would, most likely, still have gone ahead with 
the transfer. I think he would probably have considered the option of, and availability of 
drawdown to be worth that cost.
Aviva accepts that it failed to fully inform Mr P and it has offered him £200 for the loss of 
expectation he suffered as a result. Mr P clearly understood he would be receiving the full 
value of the PO policy after transfer. To see that wasnt the case, and that he had lost out 
would no doubt have been very disappointing for him, particularly when he seems to have 
gone to great lengths to check there would be no cost to him. But overall, I think the offer of 
£200 is fair in these circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Aviva should pay Mr P £200 if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2020.
 
Keith Taylor
Ombudsman