DRN-4284075
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that Lloyds Bank PLC wont refund the money they lost after they fell 
victim to an Authorised Push Payment (APP) scam.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known by both parties, so I wont repeat it here. But 
in summary I understand it to be as follows.
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr and Mrs B fell victim to a scam when they were 
looking to purchase a vehicle. Which resulted in them making a payment, in August 2022, to 
an account which was held with Lloyds.
Mr and Mrs B complained to Lloyds as they didnt think it had done enough to check the 
person wasnt a fraudster before they opened the account, and Mr and Mrs B believe there 
was information, which was known to Lloyds, that their account holder was a fraudster.
Lloyds looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint, but didnt uphold it. In summary it didnt think it 
was liable under the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code (CRM Code) and that relevant 
account opening checks were completed. Lloyds also confirmed it had done everything it 
could to get Mr and Mrs Bs money back.
Unhappy with Lloyds response, Mr and Mrs B brought their complaint to this service. One of 
our Investigators looked into things but didnt recommend that it be upheld. In summary, he 
said as the beneficiary account was opened before 31 January 2019, he couldnt comment 
on the account opening. He added that, having looked at the activity on the beneficiary 
account, he didnt see anything that he thought ought to have given Lloyds cause for 
concern. Alongside this, he was satisfied that Lloyds had taken appropriate actions when it 
was notified of the scam.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with our Investigators view, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First, to clarify, this decision focuses solely on the actions of Lloyds  as the Receiving Firm  
of the account where Mr and Mrs B made their payment to.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but Im not upholding their complaint about Lloyds. I 
know they have been the victims of a cruel scam, but I dont believe Lloyds has acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in its answering of the complaint. Im satisfied Lloyds has met its  
requirements under the CRM Code and therefore isnt liable to refund Mr and Mrs B the 
money they sadly lost. Ill explain why.
Among other things, regulated firms receiving payments like Lloyds, are required to conduct  
their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for Businesses 2) and to  
comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering the financing of  
terrorism requirements.
Those requirements include maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive policies and 
procedures to identify, assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through 
customer due diligence measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business relationship 
(including through the scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the 
relationship).
And, more generally given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, as 
a matter of good industry practice at the time, I think firms should reasonably have had 
measures in place to detect suspicious transactions or activities that might indicate fraud or 
financial abuse (something also recognised by the Banking Standards Institutes October 
2017 Protecting Customers from Financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse 
Code of Practice).
And Im satisfied that this good practice requirement meant not just looking out for situations 
where a customer might be the victim of fraud, but also situations where the customer might 
be the perpetrator of fraud or a money mule.
Also relevant in this case, as mentioned earlier, is the CRM Code that Lloyds has signed up 
to. The relevant considerations for Receiving Firms under the CRM Code sets out the  
following:
CRM Code: Payment Journey  Receiving Firm
SF2 Receiving Firms should take reasonable steps to prevent accounts from being used 
to launder the proceeds of APP scams. This should include procedures to prevent, 
detect and respond to the receipt of funds from APP scams. Where the receiving 
Firm identifies funds where there are concerns that they may be the proceeds of an 
APP scam, it should freeze the funds and respond in a timely manner.
Prevention
SF2(1) Firms must take reasonable steps to prevent accounts being opened for criminal 
purposes.
Detection
SF2(3) Firms must take reasonable steps to detect accounts which may be, or are being, 
used to receive APP scam funds.
Response
SF2(4) Following notification of concerns about an account or funds at a receiving Firm, the 
receiving Firm should respond in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best 
Practice Standards.
In considering all of the above, and to determine if Lloyds met the standards required of it  
under the CRM Code, I have looked at whether Lloyds opened the receiving account  
correctly, whether there was anything in the way the account was being used that should  
have given it any cause for concern and finally; once notified of fraud did it act appropriately and in a timely manner. And if I consider there were failings in relation to any of the above, I 
have to consider whether Lloyds acts or omissions fairly resulted in Mr and Mrs Bs loss.
I would like to point out to Mr and Mrs B at this point, that while Lloyds has provided our 
service with information about the receiving bank account  it has done so in confidence. 
This is to allow us to discharge our investigatory functions and Lloyds has provided that 
which is necessary for the determination of this complaint. Due to data protection laws our 
service cant share any information about the beneficiary, the receiving bank account or any 
investigation and action Lloyds subsequently took. However, I would like to assure              
Mr and Mrs B, I have thoroughly reviewed and considered all the information provided before 
reaching my decision.
Complaints about receiving banks and any acts or omissions came into our jurisdiction from 
31 January 2019. Ive seen evidence from Lloyds to show that the receiving bank account 
was opened prior to 31 January 2019. This means I cant comment on whether there were  
any failings by Lloyds when the account was opened.
Ive gone on to consider whether the activity on the receiving bank account ought reasonably  
to have caused Lloyds any concern and Ive looked at the account history for the beneficiary 
account. I cant say there was any account activity that I think would reasonably have stood 
out to Lloyds as suspicious or significantly outside of what might be expected for an account 
of that type.
Im also satisfied there was no notification of fraud on the account prior to the payment       
Mr and Mrs B made into the account. Alongside this, Im not persuaded there were any other 
red flags where it could reasonably be argued that Lloyds might have had sufficient grounds 
to suspect fraud and refuse execution of their customers payment instructions.
For Mr and Mrs Bs benefit, Lloyds wouldnt have known that the incoming credit to the 
account was as a result of fraud and that its account was being used fraudulently. Personal 
and business accounts receive incoming credits, and in this case, I think it is reasonable to 
say that there was nothing to indicate to Lloyds that there was anything suspicious going on 
with the beneficiary account. It follows that I dont think Lloyds ought reasonably to have had 
concerns where I would have expected it to have intervened, so I cant fairly say that it could 
have prevented Mr and Mrs Bs loss.
Finally, Ive thought about Lloyds response when it was notified of the scam. The Best 
Practice Standards set out that a Receiving Firm must take appropriate action, in a speedy 
manner, upon notification of APP fraud and notify the Sending Firm if any funds remain for 
recovery. Here, once notified of the scam, Im satisfied Lloyds took the necessary actions 
required of it and did so in a timely manner. Unfortunately, no funds remained in the account 
that could be recovered as they had already been moved on / withdrawn from the account.
So, taking the above into consideration Im satisfied, following notification of APP fraud, that 
Lloyds responded in accordance with the procedures set out in the Best Practice Standards. 
And I dont think I can fairly say Lloyds didnt do enough to respond to the alleged APP 
fraud.
Overall, while Mr and Mrs B were the unfortunate victims of a scam, Im satisfied that Lloyds 
met the standards required of it under the CRM Code. I also dont think Lloyds couldve done 
anything more as the Receiving Firm to have prevented the loss of Mr and Mrs Bs money. 
And it responded appropriately once notified of the fraud. So, it follows that I dont think 
Lloyds is liable to reimburse Mr and Mrs B for their loss under the CRM Code or otherwise.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Stephen Wise
Ombudsman