DRN-4364734
The complaint
Ms M and Mr R have complained about the way in which Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd 
(RSA) settled their claim for fire damage under their touring caravan insurance policy.
What happened
In September 2022, Ms M and Mr Rs caravan was unfortunately damaged by fire following 
an incident at the caravan site where their caravan was located on a seasonal pitch. The 
caravan was insured by RSA at the relevant time. The damage was caused by fire spreading 
from a neighbouring caravan.
Ms M and Mr R said that the caravan had been in pristine condition before the incident, but 
the fire had caused substantial and unrepairable damage to their caravan, so that it was 
written off. They believed that RSA should have claimed against their neighbour's insurance 
and that they should be paid the like-for-like purchase value for the caravan. They also didnt 
think that the claim should affect their own insurance policy, as should be recorded as a non-
fault claim.
RSA didnt uphold the complaint and Ms M and Mr R therefore referred the matter to this 
service. The relevant investigator concluded that RSA had acted fairly and reasonably in the 
handling of this insurance claim. She recognised that the incident wasnt Ms M and Mr Rs 
fault. However, she also noted that RSA was unable to hold the third-party legally liable for 
the damage caused. She concluded that it wasnt unreasonable for RSA to then have 
recorded the matter in the way that it did and not to reimburse an excess of £250. She also 
didnt consider it reasonable to expect RSA to pay travel expenses to source a new caravan. 
Ms M and Mr R remain unhappy with the outcome of their complaint. The case has therefore 
been referred to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The key issue for me to determine is whether RSA applied the terms and conditions of the 
policy in a fair and reasonable manner. I consider that it has done so, and Ill explain why. In 
reaching this decision, Ive also considered the parties submissions as summarised below.
Ms M and Mr R explained what had happened in September 2022 when the adjacent 
caravan, awning and car were all destroyed in the incident. The intense heat from the fire 
then melted the entire facing side of Ms M and Mr Rs caravan. RSA informed them that due 
to being insured for market value this was all we were entitled to, despite this being no fault 
of our own. Ms M and Mr R said they were then contacted by RSA with an increased offer. 
They were also given the opportunity to buy the caravan back, an offer which was 
subsequently retracted as RSA decided to write off the caravan, even though RSA hadnt 
viewed the damage. The person who collected it said there was no way the caravan was a 
write-off. In the meantime, Ms M and Mr R had been trying to find a replacement, and this 
caused immense stress and financial outlay going up and down the country.
Due to the way RSA had treated the claim, Ms M and Mr R said that the cost of their policy 
had increased as they had to make a claim. Initially, they were also declined insurance 
following the incident, until Ms M and Mr R had explained the situation in detail. In summary, 
they felt that RSA hadnt treated them fairly and that they should have been able to claim 
against their neighbour's insurance. They also felt they should be able to claim for travel 
costs and wanted to claim the cost of paying for a pitch they were unable to use to full 
capacity, and compensation for the stress involved. In conclusion, they didnt think they 
should be out of pocket and have a claim recorded against them due to no fault of their own.
As to service issues, Ms M and Mr R said theyd been promised a final response by a 
date towards the end of April 2023, however this wasnt received, and they had to chase 
RSA on various occasions and general communication problems. They also had to find 
information for RSA, for example about the owner of the adjacent caravan, which took time.
I now turn to RSAs submissions regarding the matter. It partly upheld Ms M and Mr Rs 
complaint regarding service issues but didnt uphold the substantive complaint about the 
level and manner of settlement. 
Firstly, it considered that the caravan was beyond repair and therefore a total loss. It 
determined that Ms M and Mr R should be paid the market value of the caravan in 
accordance with the terms and conditions of the relevant policy. As to recovery against the 
insurers of the adjacent caravan, it acknowledged that this was abandoned as were unable 
to hold the third party liable. Following its enquiries, it said it was established that the fire 
safety officer considered that the fire had been caused by a power surge, and that the third 
party couldnt be deemed liable for negligence.
As to the question of having a claim showing on Mr M and Mr Rs record, RSA referred to 
the wording of the relevant policy to the effect that when it was told about an incident, it had 
an obligation to refer the matter to the relevant agencies. It said that the purpose of 
insurance was to protect customers against insurable eventualities, and it was unable to 
change how the claim had been recorded. 
As to the settlement amount, RSA again referred to the terms and conditions and also to the 
policy schedule which; clearly states your cover is based on the market value. RSA said 
that as confirmed by Ms M and Mr R, the caravan was insured up to a specified amount on 
the policy. It said this was the limit of liability in the event of a loss. RSA said that when Ms M 
and Mr R disputed the settlement amount, it considered whether any uplift was appropriate, 
and it allowed a percentage uplift in all the circumstances.
As to salvage of the caravan, RSA acknowledged that it had made a mistake. As the 
caravan was deemed beyond economic repair, and then fell into a certain category, Ms M 
and Mr R couldnt then retain the caravan. It said this was because the category was 
deemed to consist of major structural damage and not viable for use, except for parts sold by 
a licensed salvage company. In recognition of the distress and inconvenience the caused, it 
awarded £50 compensation. 
Finally, as to overall handling of the claim, RSA acknowledged that it hadnt maintained a 
strong level of communication, which has only accentuated the situation and resulted in you 
calling us on numerous occasions, to obtain the present position of the claim. RSA accepted 
it could have been more proactive in communication throughout the claim and that Ms M and Mr R had to contact RSA on numerous occasions to chase progress. It said this wasnt 
acceptable and not the expected level of service and awarded a further £50 compensation. 
Having considered all the evidence and submissions I now provide the reasons for my 
decision. The starting point for complaints of this nature is the wording of the policy 
documents. I note that in this case, the wording states; It is your responsibility to ensure that 
the sum insured shown on your schedule represents the full market value of your property, 
as we will not pay more than the sum insured. I conclude that the settlement amount was in 
line with the terms and conditions of the policy. I also consider that the percentage uplift 
provided by RSA was a fair and reasonable response and I dont consider that it could 
reasonably be expected to reimburse other costs such as travel to source a new caravan.
As to the fact that the claim was recorded against Ms M and Mr R and the excess charged, I 
cant say that this was unfair or unreasonable, and this is in accordance with normal and 
standard insurance practice. Whilst I can understand why Ms M and Mr R feel aggrieved, as 
the damage to the caravan occurred through no fault of their own, insurance is in place to 
cover such eventualities. Theres no evidence that the damage occurred due to the fault of 
the owners/occupiers of the adjoining caravan either and the evidence shows the fire was 
caused by a power surge. If it could be established that the surge was caused by the 
negligence of any third party, then Ms M and Mr R may be able to pursue a claim for 
uninsured losses against such party. However, this would be a matter for Ms M and Mr R to 
consider separately. As to RSAs actions however, I cant say that it acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in not pursuing recovery against the insurers of the adjoining caravan.
I note that RSA acknowledged its service failings. It awarded compensation in relation to its 
error as it initially indicated that the caravan could be salvaged. It also awarded 
compensation for its lack of proactive communication. I consider that the total compensation 
of £100 is in line with the services guidelines as to the appropriate level of compensation for 
such service errors.
I appreciate that this decision will come as a disappointment to Ms M and Mr R. However, 
incidents of this nature, as well as the claims process, inevitably cause some stress and 
inconvenience and the issue here is whether any unnecessary additional stress and 
inconvenience was caused by the insurers handling of a claim. I consider that additional 
inconvenience had been cased, however I cant say that RSA acted in an unfair or 
unreasonable manner in relation to its response to the service failings with payment of £100.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Ms M and Mr Rs complaint and I dont 
require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Ltd to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 November 2023.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman