DRN-3308200
The complaint
Mrs B complains about invoices she has received from Gladstone Brookes Limited (GBL) 
for work theyve carried out on a complaint for mis-sold Payment Protection Insurance 
(PPI). She says she never instructed them and wants them to cancel their invoice. 
Mrs B has a representative acting for her, but for simplicity Ill refer to the representatives 
actions as being those of Mrs B.
What happened
Mrs B received a letter from Lender B confirming they had upheld her complaints about mis-
sold PPI on two loans and offered her compensation. She then received invoices from GBL 
asking for their fees in dealing with the complaint against Lender B. Mrs B says she never 
instructed GBL to look into any PPI complaints against Lender B and they had acted without 
instructions, so she complained. 
GBL responded and explained Mrs B applied online for a PPI search against various lenders 
 one of the lenders listed was company L credit card. GBL said complaints about 
company L credit card are investigated by Lender B. They said, for each lender selected by 
Mrs B, they sent a Letter of Authority (LoA) to Mrs B to be signed electronically. GBL said 
the LoA asked Lender B to look into credit cards, loans, mortgages and overdrafts. Lender B 
then responded and confirmed they had found two loans with PPI. So, they said the work 
theyd carried out had led to two successful complaints against Lender B.   
Our investigator looked into things for Mrs B. She thought GBL hadnt acted unreasonably in 
pursuing Mrs Bs complaint and charging her a fee. Mrs B disagreed so the matter has come 
to me for a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mrs B will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Its clear theres a dispute here about whether Mrs B instructed GBL to handle her complaint 
against Lender B for mis-sold PPI. Mrs B says, while she did ask GBL to look into PPI 
against some lenders, she never instructed them to look into PPI against company L credit 
card as she has never held an account with them. 
GBL say Mrs B selected which lenders she wanted them to make enquiries with and 
company L credit card was one of the lenders selected. GBL say company L credit card 
accounts are investigated by Lender B so a LoA was sent to Mrs B for Lender B which she 
signed. Given the different accounts, Ive looked at the evidence and what I think is more 
likely to have happened than not.  
GBL have provided an extract from their online journey which a customer will see when they 
ask GBL to make enquiries for PPI. This asks the customer to select names of lenders from 
a list, it says Please include all lenders you would like us to check for you  most of our 
clients choose at least 5 lenders. It goes further to say, You only need to add one lender for 
each banking group, we will check all lenders and products contained within this banking 
group. This page says, once a customer selects a lender, it will be added to a table. GBL 
say Mrs B selected five lenders  and one of these was company L credit card. I can see 
this lender does appear on the list in the online journey. And, next to this lenders name, it 
says the banking group is Lender B. I note Mrs B says she never held an account with 
company L credit card so she would never have selected them. I do acknowledge this but 
the work being carried out by GBL is on a no win no fee basis, which means they wouldnt 
get paid for work which doesnt lead to a successful outcome. So, in view of this, I dont think 
GBL would pursue a complaint against a lender unless the customer had selected that 
lender from the list. 
GBL say they then sent Mrs B a LoA for her signature. Ive seen this signed and dated LoA 
which notes all lenders belonging to a particular banking group - this includes Lender B. And, 
theres a X marked against different products indicating which products Lender B should 
look into  this includes, loans, credit card, mortgage and overdraft. GBL say the LoA clearly 
indicates Lender B as one of the lenders and this was sent to Mrs B for an electronic 
signature. I dont think it was unreasonable for GBL to include Lender B on the LoA as the 
instructions in the online journey say they will check all lenders and products contained 
within the same banking group as a lender selected by a customer.    
   
I note Mrs B has concerns about the signature and date on the Lender B LoA. She says she 
did instruct GBL to look into a complaint against Lender S and signed this LoA but not the 
LoA for Lender B. GBL have provided a copy of the Lender S LoA and Ive compared this to 
the Lender B LoA. The signature and date on both forms is written identically which 
persuades me that its more likely than not to have been done electronically. And, given that 
Mrs B selected five lenders from GBLs list, Ive compared the signature to the other three 
LoAs and, again, the signature and date is written identically  so I believe this was 
completed electronically. 
I note Mrs B points out the placement of the signature differs between the forms. I agree 
there is a difference here in that the signature on the Lender S LoA is positioned centrally in 
the signature box whereas on the Lender B LoA its towards the bottom of the box. And, its 
the same for the date. I understand why this would concern Mrs B but GBL say this mightve 
been a technical issue with the e-sign feature. I havent seen any evidence which suggests 
the signature on the Lender B LoA has been fabricated. All five LoAs are dated the same so 
I believe, its more likely than not, they were all sent for electronic signature.
Im persuaded the signature on the Lender B LoA belongs to Mrs B. I say this because, as 
part of the complaint process, GBL sent Lender B Mrs Bs LoA. Generally, a lender will verify 
a customers signature against what they have on their records. So, given that Lender B 
have offered to settle the complaint, they mustve accepted the LoA as an authentic 
signature of Mrs Bs. 
While I do understand signatures can vary over time, I believe its more likely than not, that a 
lender wouldve raised a concern if they felt the signature was different to the one they have 
on their record. And, given that I believe Mrs B did select the company L credit card lender 
 and therefore the particular banking group - from the list on GBLs online platform, I think 
on the balance of probabilities Mrs B did sign the Lender B LoA.  
  I note Mrs B says she contacted Lender B direct and this is what led to the complaint being 
upheld. I can see our investigator approached Lender B direct and they confirmed they had 
received contact from Mrs B prior to GBL becoming involved, but this was for a separate 
product. Lender B confirmed the upheld complaints in relation to the two loans was as a 
direct result of GBLs involvement and the LoA submitted by them on behalf of Mrs B.  
I wish to reassure Mrs B that I do understand why shes concerned about GBL having 
pursued a complaint against Lender B when she didnt specifically ask them to. And, I can 
see how this has led to some confusion. But, when Mrs B was asked to select which lenders 
she wanted GBL to make enquiries with, the instructions on this page did set out that GBL 
would consider the complaint against all lenders belonging to a particular banking group  
and Mrs B selecting a lender in the same banking group as Lender B led to GBL pursuing a 
complaint against them.
 
Taking this all into account, I dont think its unreasonable for GBL to have acted in the 
complaint against Lender B. And, given the complaint led to a successful outcome, its not 
unfair for them to issue invoices which are in line with their terms and conditions.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 April 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman