DRN-2823211
The complaint
This complaint is about an abortive mortgage application Mr and Mrs J made to Leeds 
Building Society. Leeds originally issued a mortgage offer but then withdrew it, saying that 
following further checks, it had decided the mortgage wasnt affordable. It reimbursed 
Mr and Mrs J £995, to cover the fee theyd paid to their broker to source a mortgage.
Mr and Mrs J dont think thats a fair response; they were very close to exchanging contracts. 
They ended up taking a more expensive mortgage from a different lender.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
New rules came into force in March 2017 that make it much harder for a lender to withdraw a 
mortgage offer once its been issued. But the new rules dont mean lenders cant withdraw 
an offer after it has been made. They can still do so, if new information comes to light that 
wasnt available before the offer was issued but which would have affected the decision to 
lend if it had been.
I dont think Leeds acted unreasonably when it withdrew the offer. It could do that the offer 
itself said this - and Im satisfied Leeds didnt act unfairly when it decided, on reflection, that 
the mortgage was unaffordable. That was Leeds judgement to make, and its not my role to 
second guess it. 
But I also think Leeds had enough information such that it probably could have exercised 
that judgement before the offer was issued, rather than after. I cant see that the post-offer 
review and change of decision was prompted by new information that wasnt already 
available before the offer was issued. Rather, it looks like a re-assessment of the information 
already at Leeds disposal when it initially agreed to lend.
In that context, Mr and Mrs J are due fair compensation for having had their expectations 
wrongly raised. Overall, however, I consider the £995 Leeds has already paid them to be 
more than fair. Typically, Id be minded to award between £200 and £300, and Mr and Mrs J 
have already received significantly more than that. 
I dont find that they should be compensated for the alternate mortgage being more 
expensive. That would still have happened if Leeds had declined Mr and Mrs Js application 
before the offer was issued. 
Also, whilst I appreciate Leeds decision would have caused Mr and Mrs J greater problems 
if they had already exchanged contracts, the fact is they hadnt. We dont award 
compensation for something that could have happened, but didnt.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes this services consideration of this 
complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 June 2021. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman