DRN-2776209
The complaint
Ms P complains about a chargeback claim that hadnt been progressed by Santander UK Plc 
(Santander).
 
What happened
On 4 August 2020 Ms P says she used her Santander debit card to complete a transaction 
for an item which had been charged to her account twice, but for slightly different amounts. 
Ms P also says she received two of the items even though she only purchased one.  
Santander have provided copies of bank statements from Ms Ps account which shows 
transactions for £30.81 and £38.49 on 4 August 2020. Santander has highlighted these as 
the transactions being disputed by Ms P.
Ms P says when she contacted Santander to query the transactions, she was told that shed 
need to complete a disputed transaction form and send the item back to the seller in order 
for Santander to process her chargeback claim. Santander have provided a copy of a 
disputed transaction form that had been completed by Ms P.
Ms P explained that Santander decided not to progress her chargeback claim because she 
hadnt returned the disputed item to the seller.
Ms P complained to Santander about their decision not to progress her chargeback claim.
On 10 November 2020 Santander provided their final response (FRL) to Ms Ps complaint. 
They didnt uphold Ms Ps complaint. Santander explained that they needed to see proof that 
Ms P had attempted to return the disputed item and allow the seller 15 days to resolve the 
matter before they could progress the claim.
Ms P disagreed with Santander, so she brought her complaint to us here. Ms P explained to 
us that she didnt want to pay the postage costs to return the item and was concerned that 
the return address was based abroad. 
One of our investigators looked into Ms Ps complaint. They didnt uphold it because they felt 
that Santander had acted fairly in how they dealt with Ms Ps chargeback claim.
Unhappy with the investigators view Ms P asked that her complaint be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is the process by which settlement disputes are resolved between card issuers 
and merchants under the relevant card scheme rules. And the card scheme is the business 
that runs the payment network and the chargeback scheme for credit and debit cards. 
The chargeback scheme isnt a contractual entitlement for Ms P. But while its not something 
the card issuer has to do, where a chargeback right exists its good practice for a card issuer 
to assist where possible. As Ms P contacted Santander to dispute a transaction that was 
made on her debit card, Im satisfied that it was appropriate for Santander to follow the 
chargeback process in the circumstances. 
Ive considered whether Santander acted fairly when applying the chargeback process in Ms 
Ps case, which informs whether Ms P had been treated fairly by Santander in the 
circumstances.
With this in mind, it seems to me there are two key issues for me to consider in relation to 
this complaint:
what are the rules for chargeback claims?
did Santander apply them fairly?
what are the rules for chargeback claims?
Ms P made the original purchase using her debit card which was issued by Santander. This 
is made clear from her Santander bank statements. So, in the circumstances of Ms Ps 
complaint, the rules of the card scheme relating to Ms Ps debit card, apply here. 
The card scheme rules say that in order for a chargeback claim to be processed, the buyer, 
in this case Ms P, must provider the card issuer, Santander, with information relating to the 
transaction and goods that were purchased. In this instance Ms P completed a disputed 
transaction form, which provided much of the information required. 
However, in addition to this the rules say that the buyer must also provide proof of the return 
of the goods to the merchant.
did Santander apply them fairly?
Santander has provided us with copies of correspondence they sent to Ms P requesting she 
provide proof that shed attempted to return the item. However, as Ms P hadnt done so 
Santander say there were unable to continue with her claim.
Chargeback claims are submitted to, and managed by the relevant card scheme. So, the 
decision of whether or not to uphold a chargeback claim is down to the relevant card 
scheme. And Santander isnt able to amend these rules.
From the information provided Im satisfied that Santander followed the appropriate card 
scheme rules and applied them fairly in Ms Ps case.
I acknowledge that Ms P says she didnt want to return the item because she was suspicious 
of the return address, however, Ive seen no evidence to say that the return address of the 
item is not the correct address.
I also acknowledge Ms P hadnt wanted to spend any more money on postage, however, 
without providing proof that shed attempted to send the item back, Santander, in the 
circumstances were unable to carry out the chargeback claim because they were bound by 
the rules set out by the card scheme.My final decision
Having thought about everything above, along with what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances, I dont uphold this complaint. So, I wont be instructing Santander UK Plc to 
do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2021.
 
Benjamin John
Ombudsman