DRN-3060195
The complaint
Mrs and Mr M are unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) declined 
their claim for water damage to their patio following an underground leak. Mrs and Mr M had 
buildings and contents insurance with Lloyds. While the policy was in joint names, for ease 
and because he dealt with the claim, Ill refer only to Mr M.
What happened
Briefly, Mr M noticed water leaking onto his patio was causing damage. He reported the 
matter to the water company. After nine months waiting for the leak to be identified at a 
neighbouring property, and then repaired, Mr M made a claim under his policy for the 
damage to his patio. He said the leak caused 2-inch holes, faded slabs and an uneven 
surface.
Lloyds investigated but it declined Mr Ms claim because there was no evidence that the 
patio was damaged by the leaking water. Lloyds acknowledged that it hadnt kept Mr M up to 
date with progress of his claim as well as it couldve done and offered him £75 
compensation. Mr M said that didnt resolve his complaint and he wanted Lloyds to accept 
his claim and repair his patio.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. She said Lloyds hadnt received any 
evidence that the leak caused the damage, so it was reasonable that it declined Mr Ms 
claim. Our investigator also said Lloydss offer of £75 compensation was fair and she didnt 
think it needed to do any more.
Mr M didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr M will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold his complaint. Ill 
explain.
My role is to decide whether Lloyds declined Mr Ms claim fairly, for the reasons it gave, and 
in line with the policy.
The issue is that Mr M doesnt think it was fair that Lloyds declined his claim for damage to 
his patio which he said was caused by a leak from a neighbouring property. Lloyds didnt 
dispute the existence of a leak, but it explained to Mr M that he hadnt demonstrated that he 
suffered a loss. That is, he hadnt provided evidence of damage to his patio.
Lloyds declined Mr Ms claim because he hadnt met the terms of the policy. It relied on the 
wording set out on page 9 of the policy booklet, which says:
How do I make a claim?
3. What youll need to give us
We may also ask you for more information to support your claimAcceptable proof would 
bea photo. 
I note that this is stated again in the policy Claims conditions on page 29 under the heading 
Proof of loss or damage:
You must be able to prove and substantiate your loss. To assist with this we may request 
you to provide reasonable additional information at your own expense.
So, Im satisfied that Lloyds was entitled to ask for proof of the damage before accepting Mr 
Ms claim.
Moving on, Ive looked at all the photos Mr M provided of his patio. I agree that they show 
some damage, such as puddling, fading, cracks and holes. Lloyds hasnt said the patio isnt 
damaged. What it has said is that Mr M hasnt provided evidence that the leak caused the 
damage. As its Mr Ms responsibility to prove he suffered an insured loss, its reasonable 
that Lloyds declined his claim.
Lloyds has offered to consider any photos Mr M can provide to show the condition of his 
patio before the leak. I think thats fair and I see he has since provided some photos. 
Lloyds offered Mr M £75 compensation for its failure to keep him up to date with progress of 
his claim. Lloyds didnt attend on a day of dry weather as requested and it didnt contact the 
water company as soon as it couldve done. Having considered the evidence, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds offer was fair in the circumstances, and in line with awards wed ordinarily make 
for similar shortfalls. I see no reason to ask Lloyds to increase the award. As Mr M declined 
it, hed need to let Lloyds know if he decides to accept its compensation offer now.
Overall, Im satisfied that Lloyds declined Mr Ms claim fairly and in line with the terms of the 
policy, and its compensation offer was reasonable under the circumstances. I wont be 
asking it to do any more.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 January 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman