DRN-4138348
The complaint
Mr N complains about what happened when he paid off his mortgage with The Mortgage 
Works (UK) Plc (TMW). He said he was overcharged interest on his loan, and wasnt sent 
a redemption statement. He wanted the extra charges refunded and £500 in compensation.
What happened
Mr N said hed been overcharged when he redeemed his mortgage, because the payments 
he made didnt go directly towards his mortgage. He said hed asked TMW for information on 
the charges hed incurred, and it wouldnt give him this. He said he never got any sort of 
statement after redemption. So he wanted TMW to pay back all the overcharged interest, 
plus £500 in compensation.
TMW said that Mr N had asked on 24 August for a redemption figure for his mortgage as at
1 September. TMW couldnt do that on a call, it takes a few days to get this ready, so it said
it would send this out to Mr N.
TMW said Mr N didnt make one large payment to clear the mortgage, he made a series of
payments. Thats fine, but it does mean the balance reduces more slowly, as payments are
received. So it would continue to charge interest until the balance was completely cleared.
TMW said that Mr N hadnt asked for the redemption statement to be sent by email on 24
August, but it did email the statement when he requested this on 2 September. He then
called again and TMW told him that he was still making payments to clear his mortgage on 2
September, so it didnt think too much interest had been charged.
TMW said it knew Mr N had sometimes waited a while to be connected to an agent, when he
called. It was sorry about this, and it was taking steps to improve. It offered him £75 in
compensation, but wouldnt pay the £500 he wanted.
Our investigator didnt think this complaint should be upheld. She didnt think Mr N had been
wrongly charged. He was sent a redemption statement on 30 August, which detailed the cost
to redeem the mortgage on 1 September. Mr N paid a little more than this, in a series of
payments received by TMW on 1 and 2 September. Because his mortgage wasnt redeemed
until 2 September, Mr N was charged a little more interest. He received a refund, and our
investigator said there was nothing to make her think what TMW did was wrong.
Mr N said he still hadnt received a closing statement, and couldnt see what he had been
charged. Our investigator sent Mr N the redemption statement that TMW had sent to us, but
he said that he wanted the statement he should have been sent after the mortgage was
redeemed. He still hadnt received that, and he said hed repeatedly asked TMW for it.
Because no agreement was reached, this case came to me for a final decision. I then 
reached my provisional decision on this case.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Mr N asked TMW for a mortgage redemption statement in late August. I can see internal
notes from TMW which say this was sent to him by post on 30 August, but Mr N says he
didnt receive it until it was sent by email on 2 September. I dont think it was 
unreasonable for TMW to take a few days to supply a redemption statement, and I dont 
think its TMWs fault if Mr N didnt get this. I do think it was posted. Im glad to see that 
TWM was able to email this to him too, once Mr N requested that.
Mr N made payments on 1 September 2022 and 2 September 2022, which cleared his
mortgage, and also overpaid slightly. 
Mr N then appears to have contacted TMW, on 5 September, to ask about the 
redemption. I think what was said on this call is key to understanding the complaint Mr N 
has since made.
TMWs own internal notes say it told Mr N on 5 September that his mortgage was still
outstanding, he owed just under £50,000. Mr N complained about this, because he said 
he shouldnt still be paying daily interest, some days after hed paid TMW everything he 
owed it. 
We know that by this time, Mr N had actually already paid enough money to TMW to 
clear his mortgage, plus a little more. I can see from its internal system screenshots that 
TMW received all these payments on 1 and 2 September, the dates they were sent, so 
its not clear why Mr N was told on 5 September that around £50,000 hadnt yet been 
received.
Mr Ns redemption was then processed on 15 September. Its not unusual for  
redemptions to be processed some days after the last payment is made, and I dont 
think theres anything wrong with TMW doing that here. But that doesnt seem to me to 
explain why Mr N had been told, ten days earlier, that not all of his payments had been 
received.
Mr N seems to have been concerned that he was still paying interest as late as 5
September, and perhaps even after that. I think thats an understandable concern, given
what TWM had told him then.
I would expect Mr N would stop paying interest on the day that his final repayment was
made. I think thats what was actually done here, but I note that the letter TMW issued to
confirm Mr Ns redeption doesnt appear to have explained this to him. It just said hed
overpaid slightly, and TMW was paying back £27.86.
Mr N also said to our service, in late February 2023, that hed never received a closing
statement. TMW has since sent our service the email it sent to him on 22 December, 
which included his final mortgage statement, and a reply that Mr N sent on the same 
date, saying that the information hed been given was insufficient. He wanted to know 
what interest rate had been applied to his account, and when. Mr N said his interest rate 
rose on 1 September, from 1.99% to 5.74%, so he wanted to know what he had been 
charged.
So, I think there are two issues outstanding  firstly, did TMW actually do anything 
wrong when it redeemed Mr Ns mortgage, and secondly, did it explain things to him sufficiently clearly to correct the mistake it had made on 5 September? Ill look at each 
of those issues in turn.
TMW has sent us a screenshot from its internal systems, which shows what actually
happened each time Mr N made a payment. So I can see that on 1 September Mr N 
made five payments of £5,000 each, one payment of £6,000, and one payment of 
£25,000. I can see that all of these payments were credited to his mortgage on that day, 
reducing his debt.
Then on 2 September Mr N paid £33,886.39, then two payments of £10,000 each, then
£6,000, what looks like one payment of £50, and finally a last payment of £25,000.
The redemption administration fee of £90 was applied to Mr Ns account, as detailed on 
his redemption statement. That statement had said the amount to redeem Mr Ns 
mortgage was £140,886.39 if he paid on 1 September. And it explained that he would 
pay a further £22.14 per day in interest, if he redeemed the mortgage later that month.
Ive checked with TMW if this interest amount is still right, because Mr Ns mortgage 
debt was substantially reduced on 1 September, before he cleared the debt entirely on 2
September. TMW has explained that Mr Ns mortgage interest for the following month 
was calculated based on the amount he owed on the first of each month. Its shown us 
the terms of his mortgage which set this out. So I think thats right.
Mr N had understood his mortgage interest rate would rise on 1 September. But he 
doesnt appear to have been clearly told that this new rate, of 5.74%, was only charged 
for a single day, on 1 September 2022. He paid no interest after this, and his mortgage 
redemption took effect from 2 September, when the rest of the money he owed was 
paid.
Mr N paid £140,936.39 in total, with the final payments arriving on 2 September. So he 
was exactly £50 over the amount on the redemption amount due on 1 September. And I 
can see Mr N was charged £22.14 for that additional day, one amount of the daily 
interest detailed on his redemption statement. Out of his £50 overpayment, TMW 
returned £27.86 to him.
So I cannot see that TMW has delayed in applying any of the payments Mr N sent to his
mortgage, or that it has wrongly charged him additional interest. But I do think it told him
otherwise, on 5 September. So that brings me on to considering the second question 
here - whether TMW did enough to put things right, after it gave Mr N some wrong 
information?
And I think there, TMW has let Mr N down.
This isnt a decision that theres something wrong generally, with the documentation that
TMW sent to Mr N before and after his redemption. But, I do think that in these particular
circumstances, where TMW had given Mr N some wrong information about when his
mortgage payments were received, it then needed to set out very clearly for Mr N, when
each of his payments was received, and when those payments were applied to his 
account.
TMW had the opportunity to put things right when it wrote to Mr N in response to his
complaint. It could have let Mr N know that all of the payments he made to his mortgage 
had actually been applied to that mortgage right away, despite what it had said on 5 
September.But instead, this complaint response letter just repeats an earlier mistake. The letter said 
As per your call with us on the 5th September it was confirmed that you had made two
payments as of the 2nd as well as a payment of £25,000 in which you had already
transferred. But the internal TMW account screenshots I can see show Mr N made five
payments on 2 September.
I think thats why Mr N wasnt satisfied with this response, or with the final statement he 
was subsequently sent, which didnt break down the interest hed been charged. Mr N 
was still concerned hed been overcharged.
I hope what Ive set out above makes clear that I dont think Mr N was overcharged. But 
I also dont think that Mr N should have had to bring this complaint to our service, to get 
that reassurance. And, taking account of the number of different times that Mr N has 
asked TMW to explain this to him, and that he only needed this additional explanation 
because of wrong information TMW originally gave him, I think that the amount of £75 
that TMW offered isnt quite the right amount to resolve this complaint. Instead, I think 
that a payment of £250 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome here. So Ill ask 
TMW to pay that. TMW can count towards this sum the amount of £75 which it has 
already offered, if it has since paid this to Mr N.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TMW replied, to say it would accept my decision, and increase the total compensation to 
£250. 
Mr N replied to thank me for my detailed examination of his complaint. He said that my 
upholding his complaint, and understanding why he had complained in the first place, not 
only vindicated him but also made him feel like he hadnt spent all this time in vain. Mr N said 
that for the sake of other account holders, he hoped TMW would use this as an opportunity 
to improve. Mr N closed by saying that he accepted and fully supported my provisional 
decision. 
Neither side has offered any further evidence or argument, and I havent changed my mind. 
Ill now make the decision I originally proposed.My final decision
My final decision is that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc must pay Mr N £250 in 
compensation. The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc can count towards this sum the amount of £75 
which it has already offered Mr N, if it has since paid this to him.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 June 2023. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman