DRN-1931937
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited (CSH) delayed paying an 
invoice relating to her claim, causing her inconvenience. 
My references to CSH will include its agents. 
What happened
In October 2018 Mrs C received private medical treatment. She made a claim against her 
policy with CSH and this was accepted. Following her claim, Mrs C received chaser letters 
from the treating clinic, as its invoice hadnt been paid. 
Mrs C contacted CSH in April 2019 and said shed received an email from the clinic about 
the outstanding bill. CSH said it hadnt received the original invoice. And Mrs C said she 
would contact the clinic about it. 
CSH has said it didnt receive a copy of the invoice from the clinic until July 2019. And it 
settled the invoice in August 2019.
Mrs C complained to CSH. CSH responded and said it didnt think it had done anything 
wrong or caused any delays. 
Unhappy with CSHs response, Mrs C brought her complaint to this service. She said she 
thought she shouldnt have to get involved with the payment of invoices, and wanted to be 
compensated for the stress and inconvenience shed experienced. 
An investigator here looked into what had happened. And he said he didnt think CSH had 
done anything wrong. 
Mrs C didnt agree with the view and asked for a decision from an ombudsman. CSH didnt 
respond.
And so the case has been passed to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with the investigator, that I dont think CSH has done 
anything wrong. Ill explain why. 
CSH said it first became aware of the outstanding invoice following contact from Mrs C in 
April 2019. Mrs C said she contacted CSH several times earlier in 2019 about the unpaid 
invoice, asking it to take action. However, Mrs C has been unable to provide any further 
details of these calls, and CSH has said it has no record of them. Because of this, Im not 
persuaded that CSH was aware of the issue of the outstanding invoice prior to April 2019. 
CSH provided a call recording from April 2019, in which Mrs C said she would contact the 
clinic further about the invoice. So I dont think its unreasonable that CSH didnt take any 
action at that stage. 
Mrs C has shown the clinic said it posted its invoice to CSH in April and June 2019. And then 
sent this again by email in July 2019. However, CSH said it had no record of receiving the 
invoice before July 2019. 
I cant know why CSH didnt receive the earlier invoices sent by post, but Ive seen no 
evidence of them being received. And when CSH did receive the invoice by email, it acted 
on it promptly. So I think if CSH had received the invoice before July, it would have dealt with 
it. And I accept CSH didnt receive the earlier invoices sent by post. 
CSH evidenced that it received a call from the clinic about the unpaid invoice on 9 July 2019. 
And after CSH advised it hadnt received the invoice, the clinic sent it again by email on the 
same day. CSH said it then had to request an updated invoice from the clinic due to 
incorrect coding. And after the updated invoice was received on 10 August 2019, CSH 
settled it on 14 August 2019.
Based on the evidence Ive been provided with, Ive not seen anything which persuades me 
that CSH caused an unnecessary or unreasonable delay. I dont know why CSH didnt 
receive the original invoices sent by post, but once the invoice was received, I think CSH 
acted promptly.  
I appreciate that it must have been concerning for Mrs C to be chased by the clinic due to 
the invoice being unpaid. And I accept it was inconvenient for her to have to contact CSH 
and the clinic about this. However, I cant reasonably hold CSH responsible for her 
inconvenience, as Ive not found that it did anything wrong. And so I dont think CSH needs 
to pay Mrs C any compensation. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given its my final decision that I do not uphold this complaint. And 
I make no award against Civil Service Healthcare Society Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 October 2020.
 
Gemma Warner
Ombudsman