DRN-1891029
The complaint
Ms Q complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt warn her that the fixed term discounted 
rate on her mortgage was coming to an end and then gave her misleading information. Ms Q 
would like Barclays to refund the extra interest she had to pay and the new mortgage 
arrangement fee.
What happened
Ms Q has a buy to let mortgage with Barclays with a fixed rate mortgage product. The term 
of her fixed rate product ended on 2 November 2019. Barclays didnt warn her in advance of 
this but sent a letter dated 4 November 2019 telling her that her mortgage was coming to an 
end although at that stage it had already ended. Ms Q contacted Barclays after returning 
from holiday shortly afterwards and was reassured that if she made application then for a 
new fixed rate mortgage product  which she did  that the mortgage would move 
seamlessly onto that product. But Ms Qs application was put in the queue for buy to let 
applications and although she got a new fixed rate offer beginning in December, she had to 
pay the standard variable rate (SVR) on her mortgage for the month of November. The 
difference between what she was paying and what she had to pay for that month was about 
£3,000.  
 
Barclays sad that it wasnt required to advise when buy to let rates are coming to an end, but 
it said that there were other issues with the service it provided to Ms Q and offered 
compensation of £400. Our investigator didnt think that Barclays was required to advise Ms 
Q in advance that the term of her discounted mortgage product was coming to an end but 
agreed that there were service issues and the amount of compensation was appropriate. Ms 
Q disagreed saying in summary that Barclays had set a precedent by sending a letter to her 
in August 2017 when her previous product was coming to an end; there were a series of 
service failings and that she was promised a full refund and that is what she should get.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Q has a buy to let mortgage and she had the advantage of a discounted fixed term 
mortgage product both before 2017 and when she renewed it to run from 3 September 2017 
until 2 November 2019. Ms Q lost out by not renewing it before the end of that period and 
the real question is whether Barclays owed her any duty to inform her before that term ran 
out. 
Buy to let mortgages are treated differently by the regulators than residential mortgages. 
This may be because they are businesses and theres an expectation that the business 
owners will be conscious of the costs - in this case that cost is the rate of interest - and dont 
require the amount of regulatory protection that residential house owners do. So, the 
expectation of the regulator is that buy to let mortgage holders dont require to be alerted to 
when the mortgage rate will change. They should already know that from their records when 
they took out the last mortgage product.
Ms Q, rather than organising a new discounted mortgage rate based on her own records 
seems to have waited until she got an alert from Barclays. I note that she got an alert in 
August 2017 before she took out the new product that September. But that letter doesnt 
actually say when the term is going to end. It refers to the payments changing but the date 
that the product ends isnt on the documentation. Neither does the letter of November 2019 
say what date the products ends. Both letters in my view seem to be alerts to Ms Q that 
Barclays are going to take increased payments from her bank account in the following month 
rather than telling her when the discounted period ends. That being the case I cant agree 
with her that the August 2017 letter set a precedent whereby Barclays accepted a role of 
alerting her to the date that the discounted term ended. Im afraid that the onus of informing 
herself when the discounted period ended lay with her. Barclays doesnt appear to have 
accepted that responsibility nor did the regulator put that burden on Barclays.
I can see that when she became aware that the discounted period had ended that Ms Q was 
active in trying to get put on a new discounted rate as soon as possible. Barclays staff gave 
her hope that she could avoid a period on the SVR, and Ms Q spent a good deal of the time 
in negotiations with several members of staff. In addition, some problems were caused 
because a gone away marker was erroneously pit on her account. 
But Ms Q had failed to anticipate the date that her mortgage product ended and that meant 
that until she took out a new mortgage product, she would be on the SVR and I see no error 
from Barclays on charging her that interest rate. An employee seems to have made an error 
in suggesting that she could get a refund, Ms Q should be compensated for the upset 
caused by realising that she wouldnt get the refund together with a number of other service 
issues. Ive looked at these and how they would have affected Ms Q and I agree with our 
investigator that £400 is appropriate compensation for that. But I cant fairly uphold her 
complaint that the duty on alerting her to the end of the discounted mortgage rate lay with 
Barclays and so I cant fairly uphold this complaint. 
      
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms Q to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 January 2021.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman