DRN-3160382
The complaint
Mr P says AvantCredit of UK, LLC lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
In March 2016 Mr P took out a 48-month instalment loan from AvantCredit for £3,800.
The monthly repayment was £152.36 and the total repayable was £7,313.14.
Mr P says he took out the loan to repay other debt but he struggled with the repayments and 
ended up in more debt.
The investigator said Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. He said had AvantCredit 
completed better checks it would have most likely seen Mr P was having problems 
managing his money and that he would be unlikely to be able to make his loan repayments 
sustainably.
AvantCredit disagreed saying the correct checks were completed. The loan would have 
consolidated 55% of Mr Ps total debt and he would have £551 remaining each month before 
using the funds for consolidation. 
It asked for an ombudsmans review so the complaint was passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when AvantCredit lent to Mr P. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged AvantCredit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, AvantCredit was required to carry out a
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr P could afford to repay what he
owed in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment
or an affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So AvantCredit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr P. In other words, it wasnt enough for AvantCredit to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr P.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to 
make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether AvantCredit did what it needed to before agreeing
to lend to Mr P, and have considered the following questions:
 
did AvantCredit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing     
Mr Ps loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did AvantCredit make a fair lending decision?
did AvantCredit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
AvantCredit asked for some information from Mr P before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income and checked this against a copy of his recent bank statements. It
asked about his living costs and it checked his credit file to understand his existing credit
commitments and his credit history. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which
was debt consolidation. From these checks combined AvantCredit concluded Mr P
would have monthly disposable income of around £550 and so the loan would be affordable.
I dont think these checks were proportionate given Mr P had a relatively low income and 
needed to be able to make repayments sustainably over a four-year period. I think it ought to 
have completed a fuller financial review, particularly given some of the information it 
gathered as part of its initial checks. 
Mr P has provided a copy of his full credit file which allows me to understand more about his 
financial position at the time of application. This shows he was reliant on high-cost short-
term credit, having taken out his most recent loan in the month before and one each month 
for the six months prior. I think this, combined with data AvantCredit already had from its 
credit check, ought to have alerted the lender to the fact Mr P was having problems 
managing his money. It knew from its own credit check that Mr P had taken out at least 62 
short-term high-cost loans in the past six years. Whilst that report showed they were all 
settled, from that volume of loans AvantCredit ought to have realised Mr P was in a harmful, 
long-term cycle of borrowing to repay.  And giving this loan would extend and prolong his 
reliance on high-cost credit for a further 48 months.
I have thought carefully about the point that this loan was for debt consolidation so Mr Ps 
outgoings would be reducing. But I cant fairly conclude in the circumstances of this case 
that meant giving the loan could not cause adverse financial consequences for Mr P. 
AvantCredit could see Mr P had taken out larger, longer-term loans in the past, yet he had not managed to break his reliance on payday loans and continued to have problems 
managing his money. 
And Ive seen no evidence the lender took any steps to understand which debt Mr P was 
looking to repay to know that its loan would be financially beneficial, not harmful. And it also 
doesnt seem to have assessed how much any debt consolidation would reduce Mr Ps 
monthly credit commitments by. Mr Ps debt was in excess of £6,800 so he would still have 
debt to service. So this does not change my conclusion.
In addition, AvantCredit could see on the bank statements it had that Mr P was frequently 
gambling. There were 29 gambling transactions in a 30-day period, and whilst they were all 
low value, I think they were further evidence that Mr P was having problems managing his 
money.
Overall, I think it was irresponsible of AvantCredit to lend to Mr P. It should not have given 
the loan to him.
I havent found any evidence that AvantCredit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way.
Putting things right
Its reasonable for Mr P to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and AvantCredit needs to put things right.  
I understand AvantCredit has sold the debt so it should try to buy it back. If thats not 
possible it must work with the new owner to achieve the same outcome as the steps set out 
below.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments Mr P 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ps loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then AvantCredit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking Mr Ps loan account results in there being an outstanding capital balance
AvantCredit should work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr P.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AvantCredit to deduct tax from this interest. AvantCredit should
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ps complaint. AvantCredit of UK, LLC trading as Avantcredit must put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman