DRN-4345109
The complaint
Mr S complains that PrePay Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions (PrePay) 
wont refund him in full after he fell victim to a scam.
What happened
Mr S is represented in this case but for ease Ill refer to Mr S throughout my decision.
Mr S says that he was looking for a job through certain recruitment companies and received 
a message via a messaging app about a job with a company Ill call E in this decision. E was 
an e-commerce platform and Mr S was told hed earn commission for completing tasks that 
would boost certain products. He was required to buy cryptocurrency and send it to a 
platform to release the tasks. 
Mr S says that he made two small payments from another account and received £148 back. 
He was added to a group chat and saw messages from other people who said they had 
earned good money. E also had a customer support team that helped him to make deposits. 
Mr S was meant to complete 40 missions after which he was told he would get back the 
money he paid in plus commission. 
Mr S made the payments in the table below. Recipients one to four were individuals Mr S 
bought cryptocurrency from via a peer to peer platform and F was a cryptocurrency 
exchange platform. 
Payment Date Amount Recipient
1 07/01/23 £170.82 Individual 1
2 07/01/23 £200.78 Individual 2
3 07/01/23 £391.50 Individual 3
4 12/01/23 £724.62 F
5 12/01/23 £1,300.60 F
6 12/01/23 £2,000.56 F
7 12/01/23 £4,200 Individual 4
Total £8,988.88
Mr S realised he was the victim of a scam when he tried to make a larger payment that was 
stopped by PrePay. At this point he established that the genuine company E didnt have a 
platform or ask for payments to release tasks. He didnt report what had happened to 
PrePay but instructed a representative to send a letter of complaint in January 2023.
PrePay considered Mr S complaint and said that Mr S authorised the payments and ignored 
the warnings it provided. It went on to say there was no evidence of fraud.  
Our investigation so far
The investigator who considered this complaint recommended that it be upheld in part. He 
said that when Mr S made the payment of £2,000.56 PrePay should have picked up on 
unusual features about it and gone further than providing a generalised scam warning that 
didnt cover payments for cryptocurrency. In particular, the investigator referred to:
- the value of the transaction
- the pattern of increasing payments in a short timeframe from an account that had 
hardly been used in the 12 months before
- the fact it was clear the payment was for cryptocurrency
- the fact that before each transaction there was a credit to Mr S account with the 
reference BUY BITCOIN
The investigator said liability should be split with Mr S from this point as the opportunity 
offered to him was too good to be true, there was no contract, reviews suggested it was a 
scam, contact with E was unprofessional, the payments were much greater than any return 
offered to Mr S and because it was clear that Mr S had concerns but didnt take further steps 
to allay his fears. 
Mr S accepted the investigators findings but PrePay did not. In summary, it said:
- Although incoming transactions had the reference BUY BITCOIN the outgoing 
transactions had the reference FAMILY FRIENDS. When PrePay automatically 
stops payments it considers the reference for outgoing payments only and its unfair 
and impractical to expect PrePay to give tailored warnings based on incoming 
payments. 
- Excluding the three payments to F, the payments were all to separate individual 
accounts and each time Mr S set up a new payee he got a new payee warning.
- The only way the last two payments could have been stopped was by human 
intervention but there was no indication this was required. 
- It warned Mr S to check this wasnt a scam before making the payment and he failed 
to do so. 
The complaint has been passed to me to issue a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear Mr S was the victim of a scam and of the impact the scam has had on him. I 
can understand why he wants to do all he can to recover the money he lost. But I can only 
direct PrePay to refund Mr S loss if it can fairly and reasonably be held responsible.
It is accepted that Mr S authorised the scam payments from his PrePay account. So, 
although he didnt intend the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services 
Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr S is presumed liable for 
his loss in the first instance. And under the terms and conditions of the account, where a 
valid payment instruction has been received PrePays obligation is to follow the instructions 
that he provides. 
However, taking into account the law, regulatory rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and good industry practice, there are circumstances where it might be appropriate 
for a bank or electronic money institution like PrePay to take additional steps or make 
additional checks before processing a payment in order to help protect its customer from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud. An example of this would be if a payment instruction 
is sufficiently unusual or uncharacteristic for the usual use of the account. Mr Ss account was opened in 2018. Ive considered his payment history for the 12-month 
period before the scam. Having done so, Im not persuaded that the first five scam payments 
were so unusual or out of character that PrePay needed to do anything more than provide 
the generalised scam warning it gave each time Mr S set up a new payee. The transactions 
were for relatively small amounts and PrePay had no reason to know Mr S was buying 
cryptocurrency when he made the first three transactions because of the method used to do 
so (peer-to peer). As far as PrePay was concerned, Mr S was transferring funds to a named 
individual. 
Although the fourth and fifth payments were to a cryptocurrency platform, they were 
relatively low in value, and Im not persuaded PrePay ought to have taken any additional 
steps. Theres a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. Whilst banks have obligations 
to be alert to fraud and scams and to act in their customers best interests, they cant 
reasonably be involved in transactions like the ones Mr S made as to do so would cause 
significant disruption to many legitimate transactions. 
By the time Mr S made payment six though, hed already paid £2,025.22 to F and was 
seeking to make a third payment in the same day which would take the total value of the 
transactions to £4,025.78. All three of the payments were to a cryptocurrency exchange. 
This was significantly out of character given that all transactions in the 12-month period 
before the scam were for less than £50. A pattern of transactions consistent with a 
cryptocurrency scam had also emerged with payments increasing in value. 
By January 2023 many leading firms had recognised that payments for cryptocurrency carry 
an increased risk of being related to a fraud or scam, particularly given the widespread 
media coverage and their experience, and placed blocks or restrictions on cryptocurrency 
related transactions. I consider PrePay ought reasonably to have been aware of this 
elevated risk and gone further than providing the kind of generalised warnings given to Mr S.
Im not persuaded that the fact the payments were going to Mr S own account and so 
appeared to be going somewhere safe and within his control should have satisfied PrePay 
that he wasnt at risk of harm. This is because by January 2019, banks had, or ought to have 
had, a good enough understanding of how these scams work  including that a customer 
often moves money to an account in their own name before moving it on again to the 
scammer - to have been able to identify the risk of harm from fraud.
Im satisfied that if PrePay had gone further and provided a warning tailored to 
cryptocurrency scams the scam would have been uncovered at this point and Mr S further 
loss prevented. Mr S was starting to have concerns about what he was being asked to do 
and the funds he had lost so I consider a warning would have resonated with him. Its also 
clear that if PrePay had intervened by asking Mr S more about the payment, as it did when 
he attempted to make a larger payment soon after the transactions listed above, Mr S would 
have answered any questions honestly. When the later payment was blocked Mr S said that 
he wasnt trading in cryptocurrency and that the payment was for work so he could get paid. 
So he didnt have a cover story and explained exactly what he thought he was making 
payments for. 
I agree with the investigator that Mr S shouldnt receive a full refund of the final two 
payments for the following reasons:
- Mr S found out about the employment via a message sent from a messaging app. 
This channel isnt regularly used for legitimate employment opportunities. Although 
Mr S had registered with employment agencies there is no suggestion the role with E 
related to these registrations. 
- There was nothing to link the platform used by the scammer with a genuine 
company.- Mr S wasnt provided with any documentation and didnt receive a contract to show 
what was agreed between the parties. This was unusual and I think Mr S should 
have had concerns.
- The reason given for the payments wasnt plausible and I havent been given a 
reasonable explanation for the need to pay in cryptocurrency.
- Mr S was told that the person who was supporting him earned £600 to £1,000 a day 
after nine months in the role. I consider Mr S ought reasonably to have had concerns 
about what he was being offered to complete simple tasks. This was too good to be 
true and I consider Mr S ought to have approached the opportunity with more caution 
as a result. 
- Mr S didnt complete any independent research to satisfy himself the opportunity was 
genuine.
Im satisfied PrePay should refund Mr S 50% of payments six and seven plus interest as set 
out below.
Overall, Im sorry Mr S has lost money to a cruel scammer, but I cant reasonably hold 
PrePay responsible for the remainder of his loss.
My final decision
I require PrePay Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions to:
- Refund Mr S £3,100.28
- Pay interest on the above amount at the rate of 8% simple per year from 12 January 
2023 to the date of settlement. 
If PrePay Technologies Limited trading as PrePay Solutions is legally required to deduct tax 
from the interest it should send Mr S a tax deduction certificate so he can claim it back from 
HMRC if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman