DRN-3436202
The complaint
Mr S complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc, trading as Virgin Money, unfairly ended his credit 
card agreement.
What happened
In 2021, Mr S attempted a balance transfer between his Virgin Money card and another 
credit card that he held elsewhere. But the transfer didnt go through as planned, despite 
Mr S initially being told otherwise by Virgin Money staff. So, he complained.
Virgin Money accepted that Mr S had been given some wrong information and, to resolve 
that complaint, it reinstated an introductory offer and processed the balance transfer. After 
the balance transfer went through, Mr S didnt take things any further.
A few weeks later Mr S received a letter from Virgin Money. It said it had decided to end the 
business relationship because of the way Mr S had spoken to its staff. Virgin Money said it 
had decided to end the agreement immediately, and it pointed to the relevant terms and 
conditions that it had relied upon. 
Mr S complained to Virgin Money about its decision, and he also approached our service for 
an independent review. An investigator here looked at what had happened, but she didnt 
think Virgin Money had acted unreasonably. 
In summary, she said that  while she could understand his unhappiness at the issues with 
his balance transfer  she thought Mr S had used abusive language when speaking to staff, 
and that this was unacceptable. The investigator explained that Virgin Money was entitled to 
end the agreement immediately in such circumstances, as per the credit card terms and 
conditions. So, overall, she didnt think it had done anything wrong.
 
Mr S remained unhappy, and he asked for an ombudsmans decision. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator for largely the same 
reasons. Ill explain why.  
At the outset, I think its important to point out that its not our role to tell Virgin Money who it 
should or shouldnt offer its services to. But when it decides to end a business relationship 
with a customer, we can look at whether it has done so both fairly and reasonably.
Virgin Money told Mr S that it was ending his credit card agreement immediately because 
hed used abusive language towards its staff. Ive checked the terms and conditions of 
Mr Ss credit card agreement, and Im satisfied that Virgin Money can indeed end the 
agreement immediately in such circumstances.  
 
In its letter to Mr S, Virgin Money explained that it will not tolerate abusive language or 
behaviour. I dont think thats at all unreasonable, and Ive listened to the calls that 
Virgin Money has highlighted as being of concern. During one call, Mr S raises his voice on 
several occasions and uses deeply unacceptable and derogatory language. So, I can 
certainly understand why Virgin Money considered some of his comments to be abusive. 
With that in mind, I dont think Virgin Money treated Mr S unfairly when it decided to end his 
credit card agreement. I know Mr S has acknowledged in correspondence with this service 
that he was angry at the time, but that doesnt excuse his behaviour or render 
Virgin Moneys decision to end his credit card agreement unreasonable.
 
Mr S has said that  if Virgin Money always planned to end the agreement because of his 
behaviour  the complaints handler he spoke with to resolve his balance transfer issue 
shouldve said so at the time. But as our investigator has explained, theres no indication that 
the complaints handler was aware  at the time  that the decision to end Mr Ss credit card 
agreement would be taken. And, in any event, Mr Ss balance transfer is a separate issue to 
Virgin Moneys decision to end the business relationship  which is what Ive considered 
here. 
It follows that, while I know what Ive set out will disappoint Mr S, I dont find that 
Virgin Money has treated him unfairly. So, I dont require it to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman