DRN-2939481
The complaint
Ms H complains about the early repayment charge (ERC) that applied to her buy-to-let 
mortgage with Santander UK Plc. 
Ms H is represented by a third-party, but I will refer to her throughout my decision.
What happened
In 2019 Ms H took out a buy-to-let mortgage with Santander. It had a fixed rate and an ERC 
was payable if the mortgage was repaid on or before 2 October 2021.
In January 2021, Ms H contacted Santander and said that due to a change in her personal 
circumstances she was forced to sell the mortgaged property. She said she was unaware 
that the mortgage had an ERC. And the ERC is many times more than the interest that 
Santander would have received. 
Ms H considers the ERC is unfair and excessive. I understand the mortgage was repaid in 
April 2021.
The investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Ms H didnt accept what the investigator said. She said that Santander was being inflexible 
to maximise its profits. She had explained that there were exceptional circumstances that 
meant she had to sell, and she wasnt aware of the ERC at the time of the sale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id note that the mortgage was sold by a broker  not Santander. The broker was 
responsible for giving Ms H advice and explaining the terms of the mortgage.
Santander did send the mortgage offer. This was an important document and there was a 
reasonable expectation that Ms H would read it  particularly as this was a rental property. 
The ERC, the way in which it would be applied and that maximum amount that would be 
charged were set out clearly and prominently in the offer. When Ms H took out the mortgage, 
she entered into a contract with Santander to pay the ERC if the mortgage was repaid on or 
before 2 October 2021. So Santander was entitled to apply the ERC as the mortgage was 
repaid before then.
As this is a buy-to-let mortgage, the same rules dont apply as with residential mortgages. 
But Santander has presented the ERC in the way it would if this was a residential mortgage. 
The ERC represents an estimate of the cost to Santander of the mortgage being repaid 
early. There is a cost to mortgage lenders in lending to borrowers at a fixed interest rate. 
There is the cost of funding the mortgage in the first place and administrative and other costs 
related to the running of the mortgage. The intention is that these costs will be recovered 
over the full term of the fixed rate. So if the mortgage is repaid early, the lender will not 
recover those costs  and there are likely to be other costs to it. 
While I understand why Ms H considers that the ERC is much more than she would have 
had to pay in interest, Santanders loss might be more (or less) than that. The point of the 
ERC is that it gives both the lender and the borrower certainty of what would happen if the 
mortgage is repaid in the fixed rate period. I think that is fairer than the alternative where Ms 
H could be left exposed to pay Santanders actual losses, that she could not have known 
when she took out the mortgage and which might have been higher still.
In any event, I think it is fair for Santander to apply the ERC. It has no obligation to reduce 
the ERC because Ms Hs circumstances have changed  just as it wouldnt be fair for me to 
say that Ms H should pay more if Santanders circumstances changed. And based on the 
information available to me I cant see that Ms Hs circumstances were such that it wasnt 
fair for Santander to apply the ERC she agreed to.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Ken Rose
Ombudsman