DRN-4027406
The complaint
Mr H and Mrs P complain about the way that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) handled a claim 
they made on a travel insurance policy.
As Mr H made the complaint, for ease of reading, Ive referred mainly to him throughout this 
decision.
What happened
The background to this complaint and the timeline of events are well known to both parties, 
so I havent set them out in detail here. Instead, Ive focused on a summary of the main 
events.
Mr H and Mrs P hold travel insurance as a benefit of a packaged bank account.
In July 2022, Mr H and Mrs P were due to go on holiday. Unfortunately, before they left the 
UK, their motorhome and all of its contents were stolen. They obtained a crime reference 
number and made a claim on their policy.
UKI looked into the claim. It asked Mr H to provide some information, which Mr H duly sent 
in. UKI asked Mr H for further information throughout the life of a claim, before giving Mr H a 
settlement figure of around £3547 in September 2022. However, a short while later, UKI told 
Mr H that due to lack to proof of ownership of the items hed claimed for, it would likely look 
to settle the claim at around 50% of the claim value. It went on to settle around 50% of the 
claim.
Mr H was unhappy with the settlement UKI had paid and he provided additional evidence to 
substantiate his claim. He was also unhappy with the way UKI had handled the claim. UKI 
agreed to pay Mr Hs claim in line with the applicable policy limit and paid a second sum of 
money. However, UKI had calculated the settlement incorrectly and so after Mr H pointed 
this error out to UKI, it paid him a further amount. The final settlement was paid on 20 
October 2022.
UKI accepted it had made mistakes in the handling of the claim. It had repeatedly asked Mr 
H for information hed already provided; it hadnt called him back when its call handlers had 
said it would; it had failed to let Mr H know early on that if he didnt substantiate his claim, 
settlement was likely to be limited to 50% of the claim value, and it had incorrectly calculated 
the settlement due. So it paid Mr H £250 compensation to recognise its errors.
Mr H didnt think the compensation UKI had paid was enough to recognise the impact of the 
errors it had made. Nor did he think UKI had provided a satisfactory explanation for those 
errors. He was concerned that UKI had deliberately sought to pay him a lower settlement.
Our investigator didnt think UKIs compensation payment was enough to put things right, 
given the errors it had made. So he recommended that UKI should increase its total payment 
to £450.
Mr H accepted the investigators findings, although he remained concerned about UKIs 
practices. And he didnt think the settlement reflected the level of incompetence, or 
deliberate mismanagement UKI had shown throughout the life of the claim.
UKI didnt accept the investigators recommendations and it maintained that its payment of 
£250 was fair and reasonable.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that UKI must pay Mr H and Mrs P a total of £450 
compensation and Ill explain why.
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And 
that they must provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and 
appropriate information on its progress. Ive considered those rules, amongst other things, 
when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
At the outset, I must make it clear that our service has no power to fine or punish the 
financial businesses we cover. Neither can we direct a financial business to change its 
processes or procedures. Thats because were not the industry regulator. My role is to 
consider whether UKI treated Mr H and Mrs P fairly, in the individual circumstances of this 
complaint. And, if I dont think it did, then I need to consider what fair compensation should 
be.
In this case, UKI acknowledges that it made clear mistakes in the handling of this claim. 
Generally, its for a policyholder to provide enough evidence to show that they have a valid 
claim on their policy and to provide evidence to show they owned the item(s) theyve claimed 
for. I accept that UKIs policy terms state that policyholders are required to substantiate their 
claims. 
However, I dont think UKI made it sufficiently clear to Mr H from the outset that hed need to 
provide proof of ownership of the items hed claimed for. So he provided only limited 
evidence. It wasnt explained to Mr H that hed need to provide evidence of ownership of his 
items until mid-September 2022  around two months after hed made the claim. This had 
followed ongoing claims correspondence between Mr H and UKI. So I think UKI had several 
opportunities to explain to Mr H what information and evidence it required in order to deal 
with his claim. I also think it had opportunities to inform Mr H that if he couldnt substantiate 
the items hed claimed for, settlement would be limited at around 50%. Based on what Ive 
seen, I think if UKI had told Mr H what evidence it needed at the outset, hed likely have 
provided it upfront. This means that the claim couldve been fairly settled far sooner than it 
was.
I dont doubt that being asked for information at a relatively late stage in the claim, followed 
by a significant reduction in the value of the original settlement, (in addition to requests for 
information Mr H had already sent in) caused Mr H unnecessary frustration and 
inconvenience.
It's also clear that even when UKI did accept that Mr H had substantiated his claim and 
recalculated settlement, it made an error in the payment it made and paid Mr H less than it 
shouldve done. Mr H had to point this out to UKI in order for the settlement to be corrected. Again, I think this is likely to have caused Mr H additional frustration and annoyance, on top 
of the issues hed already experienced.
UKI acknowledges too that it didnt provide Mr H with the customer service it ought to have 
done. It accepts it failed to call him back when it said it would; it failed to make a note of a 
conversation Mr H had had with a call handler; and directed him to try and obtain a Police 
report which it ought to have known couldnt be provided. Mr H felt that one call handler 
lacked empathy and I note that UKI apologised for this in its final response to Mr Hs 
complaint. And UKI also agreed that the claim should have been assigned to one claims 
handler, for continuity purposes. In my view, this wouldve likely made Mr Hs claims journey 
far smoother than it was. I note too that UKIs claims team wrongly told Mr H that he couldnt 
contact its customer relations team regarding the matter  which was incorrect.
Ive carefully considered all of the errors UKI made. And Ive thought about the impact I think 
theyre likely to have had on Mr H. Ive seen no evidence that UKI deliberately sought to 
reduce the settlement Mr H was entitled to  I think its mistakes were down to human error. 
But it seems to me that Mr H spent a great deal of unnecessary time and trouble in providing 
information and in contacting UKI  over and above the day to day inconvenience of making 
a claim. I think the service he received, over a period of months, is likely to have caused Mr 
H significant upset. I note that Mr H was also having to correspond with UKI about his claim 
during a holiday  which I feel is likely to have impacted on his overall enjoyment of it. 
Taking all of these factors into account, Im persuaded that UKIs handling of this claim did 
cause Mr H material distress and inconvenience and that in these circumstances, £250 
compensation doesnt go far enough to reflect this. So I agree with our investigator that a 
total compensation award of £450 (less the £250 UKI has already paid) is a fair and 
reasonable way to put things right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct UK Insurance Limited to pay Mr H and Mrs P total compensation of £450 (less the 
£250 its already paid them).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 2 June 2023.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman