DRN-3260335
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the amount of compensation that Black Horse Limited, trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services, has offered her in relation to a car that was supplied to her 
under a hire purchase agreement. Her husband is also involved with her complaint.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 8 December 2021 in which I described 
what had happened as follows:
A new car was supplied to Mrs M under a hire purchase agreement with Land Rover 
Financial Services that she electronically signed in March 2019. The price of the car 
was £60,353.92, she paid a deposit of £15,200 which included a traded-in car which 
had a value of £13,200, and she agreed to make 47 monthly payments of £550.92 
and a final payment of £27,270. She returned the car to the dealer five times 
between June 2019 and February 2020 because of issues with the infotainment 
system, cameras and sat-nav and she complained to Land Rover Financial Services 
in February 2020 and said that she wanted to reject the car.
It said that it would accept her request to reject the car and close the agreement. It 
said that it would apply a usage charge for fair usage of the car, calculated at 45p per 
mile  so would retain £8,100 from her total repayments and refund £714.72 of her 
repayments with interest. It also said that it would refund the deposit of £15,200 but 
would only pay interest on the cash deposit and not on the part-exchange deposit. It 
said that it would pay £300 for any trouble and upset caused and £300 for any loss of 
enjoyment.
Mrs M didnt accept that offer and complained to this service. Her husband says that 
interest should be paid on the full value of the deposit and that the fair usage charge 
should be 25p per mile. Our investigator recommended that Mrs Ms complaint 
should be upheld. She recommended that Land Rover Financial Services should pay 
interest on the full deposit amount paid towards the agreement by Mrs M of £15,200 
and that it should only charge her excess mileage at a rate of 28p per mile plus VAT.
Land Rover Financial Services has asked for this complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman. It says that Mrs M made a cash contribution of only £2,000 and the 
remaining £13,200 of the deposit was the part-exchange value of a car  and its only 
required to pay interest on a cash amount where the customer may have been 
deprived of interest since the time the amount was paid by them and a car is an 
asset which doesnt accrue interest. It also says that the 28p per mile rate is an 
excess mileage charge that would apply if Mrs M exceeded the 40,838 mileage 
allowance stipulated in the agreement. It says that the loan is ending prematurely 
and the mileage covered is considered to be usage and not excess miles.
I set out my provisional findings in that provisional decision which were as follows:
Land Rover Financial Services has accepted that Mrs M can return the car and end 
the agreement so I dont consider that theres any need for me to consider whether or 
not the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mrs M. The decision 
that I need to make is about the amount of compensation that it should pay her. 
Land Rover Financial Services has agreed to refund to Mrs M the deposit of £15,200 
that she paid under the hire purchase agreement. That deposit included a cash 
deposit of £2,000 and £13,200 from the part-exchange value of a car that she traded-
in. It says that it will pay interest on the £2,000 but not on the £13,200.
The car that has been part-exchanged has been accepted as part of the deposit that 
Mrs M paid for the car. If she had sold the car before entering into the hire purchase 
agreement she would have contributed the value of the car in cash and Land Rover 
Financial Services would have then paid interest on the full value of the deposit. But 
it agreed to accept her car instead of a cash payment and I dont consider that its fair 
or reasonable for it to only pay interest on the cash deposit. The interest is 
compensation for being deprived of the use of the money and I consider that Mrs M 
has been deprived of the use of the cash deposit of £2,000 and also the part-
exchange value of the car of £13,200. So I find that it would be fair and reasonable 
for Land Rover Financial Services to pay interest on the full amount of the deposit of 
£15,200.
I understand that Land Rover Financial Services offer was to refund to Mrs M the 
monthly payments that she made under the agreement and that it would charge her 
45p per mile for the use that shed had from the car. It has confirmed that thats its 
offer. Its clear that Mrs M has had considerable use from the car. She still has it and 
has continued to use it and her husband has confirmed that its mileage in November 
2021 was 34,298. He says that the mileage is higher than estimated when Mrs M 
entered into the agreement as they moved house which increased their commute to 
work. I consider that its fair and reasonable that Mrs M should pay for the use that 
shes had from the car.
In circumstances such as these I would consider it to be fair and reasonable for Land 
Rover Financial Services to have kept the monthly payments as payment for the use 
that Mrs M has had from the car. But the offer that its made to her is more generous 
than that as its original offer also included a refund of £714.72 of her monthly 
payments with interest. Mrs M has now had the car for more than 32 months and, if 
shes made all of the monthly payments, is likely to have made monthly payments 
totalling £17,629.44. Based on a mileage of 34,298, the usage charge at a rate of 
45p for each mile would be £15,434.10.
I consider it to be fair and reasonable for Land Rover Financial Services to refund to 
Mrs M the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement and for it to 
charge her for the usage that shes had from the car based on the cars mileage 
when its retuned and a rate of 45p for each mile. Land Rover Financial Services 
offer to Mrs M included interest on the refund of £714.72. Her monthly payments and 
usage of the car have both been spread over the period since the car was supplied to 
her and Im not persuaded that it would now be fair or reasonable for me to require it 
to pay interest on the amount to be paid to her as a refund of her monthly payments 
less a usage charge.
Land Rover Financial Services offer to Mrs M included £300 for any trouble and 
upset caused and £300 for any loss of enjoyment. I consider that it would also be fair 
and reasonable for it to now make those payments to Mrs M. Subject to any further comments from Mrs M, her husband or from Land Rover Financial 
Services, my provisional decision was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mrs Ms 
husband has responded to my provisional decision in detail but Land Rover Financial 
Services hasnt responded to it.
Hes described the issues with the car and says that the 45p per mile usage charge is 
unreasonable because:
theres no mention of a usage charge of 45p per mile in the agreement but it refers to 
a 28p per mile excess charge and he felt that this was a fair benchmark to use for a 
fair usage charge and why he suggested that 25p per mile would be appropriate;
charging almost double that amount for a car that is depreciating is unreasonable;
if 45p per mile was a fair usage charge then it would be for a car that was in full 
working order  which the car supplied to Mrs M wasnt and theyve been caused 
significant inconvenience by the car;
it was Mrs Ms intention to purchase the car when the agreement ended so she paid 
a large deposit but she opted to reject it because of the issues with it and she was 
keen to work with Land Rover Financial Services to try to resolve matters but they 
dont feel that the same has been returned and it wasnt interested in negotiating on 
its offer; and
he appreciates that the pandemic has impacted on the time taken to review Mrs Ms 
case and he contacted Land Rover Financial Services to discuss the possibility of 
returning the car to stop payments and allowing Mrs M to purchase a new car but it 
said that she would incur a £7,000 fee if she returned the car  which wasnt 
reasonable; 
He says that Mrs M will agree with my final decision as she wishes to return the car and 
move on but he asks that these points are taken into consideration.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Land Rover Financial Services has accepted that there are issues with the car and it has 
agreed that Mrs M can reject it and it will end the hire purchase agreement. I consider that 
the offer that it made to Mrs M was fair and reasonable. The agreement had a term of 49 
months, Mrs M paid a deposit of £15,200 and agreed to make 48 monthly payments of 
£550.92 so the total payable under the agreement for the 49 months would have been 
£41,646.16. The permitted maximum mileage was 40,833 so the cost per mile was £1.02. 
The excess mileage charge of 28p (plus VAT) per mile would only apply at the end of the 
agreement if the car was being returned and its mileage at that time was greater than 40,838 
 and Mrs M would have already paid £41,646.16 and the excess mileage charge would be 
in addition to that. I have carefully considered Mrs Ms husbands comments about a charge 
of 25p per mile, based on the excess mileage charge, but Im not persuaded that that would 
be fair or reasonable, particularly as Mrs M has been able to use the car to drive more than 
34,000 miles. 
I consider it to be fair and reasonable for Land Rover Financial Services to refund to Mrs M 
the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement and for it to charge her for the 
usage that shes had from the car based on the cars mileage when its retuned and a rate of 
45p for each mile. Land Rover Financial Services has agreed to refund the deposit that Mrs M paid for the car and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay interest on 
the full amount of that deposit. I consider it to be fair and reasonable for it to also pay Mrs M 
£300 for any trouble and upset caused and £300 for any loss of enjoyment. 
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasonable for Land Rover Financial Services to take the 
actions described in my provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint and I order Black Horse Limited, trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services, to:
1. End the hire purchase agreement and arrange for the car to be collected from Mrs M 
 both at no cost to her.
2. Refund to Mrs M the deposit of £15,200 that she paid for the car.
3. Refund to Mrs M the monthly payments that shes made under the agreement less a 
usage charge of 45p for each mile that the car has been driven when its collected 
from her.
4. Pay £300 to Mrs M to compensate her for the trouble and upset that shes been 
caused.
5. Pay £300 to Mrs M to compensate her for the loss of enjoyment of the car.
6. Pay interest on the amount at 2 above at an annual rate of 8% simple from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Land Rover Financial Services to deduct tax from the 
interest payment referred to at 6 above. Land Rover Financial Services must give Mrs M a 
certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks it for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 February 2022.  
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman