DRN-3603970
The complaint
Mr E complains that UK Credit Limited (UK Credit) lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
What happened
Mr E was given a guarantor loan by UK Credit in October 2019. He borrowed £10,000 and 
agreed to repay this over 48 months. Mr E has a balance to repay.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July 2022. Both parties have received a 
copy of that provisional decision, but for completeness I include an extract from the decision 
below. I said;
UK Credit gathered some information from Mr E before it agreed to lend. It called Mr E to 
discuss his income and expenditure. It carried out a credit check and used this to work out 
his credit commitments. Those checks suggested Mr E had enough disposable income each 
month to afford the loan repayments. 
Mr E was entering into a significant commitment with UK Credit. He was agreeing to make 
monthly repayments for a period of 4 years. So, I think it is right that UK Credit wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mr Es financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. I think that the checks it did were sufficient to 
achieve that aim. I think UK Credits checks were proportionate. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt always enough. A lender also needs to
react appropriately to the information those checks show. Those results might sometimes 
lead a lender to undertake further enquiries into a consumers financial situation. Or, in some 
cases, the results might lead a lender to decline a loan application outright. So, Ive looked at 
what UK Credit gathered to see whether it needed to ask for more or whether it made a fair 
lending decision. 
I have looked at the credit search that UK Credit conducted. The search showed that Mr E 
had made extensive use of credit available to him. He had 10 live accounts including a 
mortgage 4 loans, 2 credit cards and 4 other accounts. Mr E had a county court judgement 
listed from 2017 and 2 defaulted accounts. One was from 2015 and it looks like Mr E had 
been steadily repaying the balance outstanding. The second was for a nominal amount of 
£19.
I have listened to a call between the parties, where UK Credit went through the credit search 
and also asked Mr E about his income and expenditure. I can hear that UK Credit asked Mr 
E about his defaulted accounts. It didnt though ask further about the arrears Mr E had 
accrued on one of his credit cards. I agree with the investigator and also with UK Credits 
findings in its final response letter, that it should have done more and obtained further 
information from Mr E to assure itself that he could afford the new loan repayments in a 
sustainable way. 
As I have concluded that UK Credit should have done more and carried out further checks, I 
need to consider what it would have seen if it had done so. In these circumstances I would 
normally request bank statements from Mr E to see what UK Credit would have most likely 
seen. But in this instance, UK Credit have asked Mr E for bank statements for the 2 months 
leading up to him taking out this loan, as part of its response to his complaint. So, I have 
been able to look through these. 
Having done so, I can see that Mr Es account was well managed. There were no late 
payments or returned direct debits. There was no other adverse financial information that I 
can see. Mr E also had enough disposable income based on what he was earning and his 
essential expenditure. I do acknowledge that Mr E did have some adverse information on his 
credit file such as his CCJ and 2 defaults. But these were largely historical or in the case of 1 
of the defaults, with a nominal balance. On balance, I dont think UK Credit carried out 
proportionate checks. But if it had done so, I think it would have seen the loan was 
sustainably affordable for Mr E.
So, it follows, that I dont currently think UK Credit was wrong to give the loan to Mr E.
I asked both parties to let me have any comments, or additional evidence, in response to 
my provisional decision. UK Credit responded and said it has no further comments. Mr E 
responded and said all of his other loans are now with a debt management company and 
the only reason he could afford to repay up to now is because of this. He says he is now 
struggling to repay all his commitments due to rising costs. He has given further 
information about his current situation and says he has already paid back more than the 
capital amount of the loan. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have read Mr Es response to my provisional decision carefully. I am sorry that he is 
currently having difficulties and acknowledge what he has said. 
I have concluded that UK Credit carried out proportionate checks when Mr E asked for a 
loan with it in October 2019. And with the information it gathered from these checks, I can 
see that it assessed the loan repayments to be affordable for Mr E. And although there was 
some adverse information on Mr Es credit report at the time, this was largely historical at 
that time. There isnt anything from the time of the application that I think ought to have 
prompted UK Credit to either ask for more information or not give Mr E the loan. So, with this 
being the case, I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2022.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman