DRN-4339254
The complaint
Miss M complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited didnt carry out proper 
affordability checks before approving a loan.
What happened
In November 2021 Miss M applied for a loan with Omni Capital to fund a purchase with a 
third party P. Her application was approved and in February 2022 Omni Capital released a 
little over £7,000 to P.
In July 2022 Miss M contacted Omni Capital to complain about its decision to lend to her. 
She thought the lending had been irresponsible, saying that her take home pay had been 
insufficient to sustain her existing credit commitments and other household expenditure. 
Miss M said that as a result she was struggling to feed her family. She asked Omni Capital 
to write off the loan balance.
Omni Capital wasnt willing to do so. It acknowledged Miss Ms current income and 
expenditure showed her financial position was unsustainable. It took steps to assist with her 
difficulties, including accepting reduced payments and referring her to debt management 
charities. But Omni Capital didnt think the situation was attributable to deficiencies in its 
lending process. It said it had undertaken suitable affordability checks, which included 
reviewing Miss Ms existing credit arrangements as well as her income and ability to meet 
the loan repayments.
Miss M referred the matter to us. Our investigator thought that while Omni Capitals 
affordability checks were insufficient, more detailed checks wouldnt have made any 
difference. That is, even if it had had a fuller picture of Miss Ms situation, it would still have 
agreed to lend to her. Miss Ms bank statements, for example, showed that in addition to her 
own income she was receiving significant sums from her partner, and that the loan payments 
werent obviously unsustainable.
Miss M did not accept the investigators assessment. She asked that an ombudsman review 
the case, explaining that the money her partner was paying into her account was his 
contribution towards household bills and for her to pay his credit commitments. Miss M didnt 
think it was appropriate for Omni Capital to take her partners income into account given that 
the loan was in her name only. She maintained that her monthly income had been 
insufficient to meet her commitments, let alone the loan payments to Omni Capital.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders should take steps to ensure that lending is affordable and sustainable before 
agreeing to it. The Financial Conduct Authoritys Handbook contains provisions in relation to 
consumer credit (known as CONC), which require creditworthiness checks to be reasonable 
and proportionate. What those checks involve will depend on the circumstances of the 
lending.
In this case, it was reasonable for Omni Capital to accept what Miss M had said about her 
income without enquiring further  for example, by examining bank statements or seeking 
copies of payslips. There was no particular reason to doubt what Miss M had said. And even 
with the benefit of having sight of Miss Ms bank statements, they support what she told 
Omni Capital.
I can see that the checks Omni Capital made showed a substantial number of existing credit 
commitments. Although Miss M has pointed to additional commitments (including a 
mortgage) that Omni Capital should have taken into account, I need to determine whether 
Omni Capital was remiss in the checks it did undertake.
Ive no reason to conclude that Omni Capital ought to have had cause to think there were 
other credit commitments that werent shown on the credit information it obtained. I accept it 
could have done more to establish the true level of Miss Ms non-discretionary expenditure 
(including matters such as her day-to-day living expenses). This is something it would be 
expected to do under CONC 5.2A.17R.
However, I share our investigators view that it would have been reasonable for Omni Capital 
to take into account income Miss M was receiving from her partner to assist with these costs. 
CONC 5.2A.18G indicates this is an acceptable practice. And its reasonable to think that 
Miss M was also taking this additional income into account when making her own decision 
about whether she could afford the loan repayments.
I accept that Miss M is having difficulty repaying the loan, although I havent investigated 
how Omni Capital has dealt with that aspect as it wasnt part of Miss Ms complaint to us. But 
even if the loan was unaffordable from the outset, it doesnt mean Omni Capital acted 
irresponsibly in the checks it undertook.
Overall, while I recognise Omni Capital could have done more checks, Im satisfied that the 
creditworthiness assessment it carried out was reasonable and proportionate in the 
circumstances, and that its lending decision wasnt irresponsible.
In my view, the appropriate way to deal with the current situation is for Miss K and Omni 
Capital to discuss a mutually agreeable plan for repaying the balance, which may require the 
involvement of a third party debt management charity as Omni Capital has already 
suggested. Im therefore not making any direction in relation to reducing the loan balance or 
waiving interest (though this doesnt prevent the parties from either option forming part of 
any such repayment plan).
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 November 2023.
 
Niall Taylor
Ombudsman