DRN-3307444
The complaint
Mr R complains about Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BOS) and the service they 
provided when he attempted to withdraw funds from his closed account.
What happened
Mr R held a current account with BOS, which they decided to close. So, on 27 July 2021, Mr 
R attending a BOS branch to withdraw the accounts outstanding balance. But BOS 
explained they were unable to process this request on that day and advised the transaction 
should be ready to complete in 2-3 days. So, Mr R returned to the branch on 30 July. But the 
funds were still unable to be withdrawn. Mr R says a staff member at the branch took his 
number and promised to call him back when the withdrawal was ready. But no call back was 
received.
So, Mr R called BOS customer service line on 6 August to raise his concerns. Mr R says the 
advisor stated he would speak to the branch manager and get back to him. But again, no call 
back was received. Mr R called the advisor again on 9 August, who explained the branch 
manager was on leave. But Mr R says the advisor told him the branch had failed to follow 
the correct procedure which had resulted in the delays.
On 12 August, Mr R returned to the branch and his funds were withdrawn. But Mr R says the 
staff in branch acted unreasonably towards him when he requested to speak to the branch 
manager about his concerns. So, he raised a complaint.
Mr R was unhappy with the delays he encountered when trying to receive his funds. And he 
was unhappy with BOS failure to call him back as promised on more than one occasion. Mr 
R also felt the branch had discriminated against him as theyd been intimidating and 
threatened to call the police unless he left the building, with no reasonable reason to do so. 
So, initially, Mr R wanted to be compensated for this and his flight from India to be 
reimbursed to him. But Mr R then offered to accept £500 compensation, before reducing this 
to £250.
BOS responded and upheld Mr Rs complaint. They recognised there had been delays when 
Mr R had tried to withdraw his funds. And they accepted the branch manager had failed to 
call Mr R back when they shouldve done. They appreciated the frustration this wouldve 
caused and offered Mr R £150 to compensate him for this. But they didnt think their branch 
staff had acted unfairly when asking Mr R to leave the premises or explaining they would call 
the police if he failed to do so. They explained their staff arent expected to tolerate rude or 
aggressive behaviour and are entitled to take necessary action if a customer acts in this 
way. 
So, BOS were satisfied this why Mr R was asked to leave, not because of any form of 
discrimination. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint. Mr R remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They explained our service 
had already investigated Mr Rs complaint about the account closure. And within this, our 
service decided BOS shouldnt reimburse Mr R for the costs of his flight. So, our investigator 
explained they hadnt considered this further. And our investigator explained were unable to 
make a determination on whether Mr R had been discriminated against. Instead, theyd 
thought about whether BOS had acted fairly and reasonably.
And having done so, they thought BOS had acted fairly when asking Mr R to leave the 
branch considering the testimonies of both parties. And they thought the £150 BOS offered 
to acknowledge the delays and lack of communication was fair. So, they didnt think BOS 
needed to do anything more.
Mr R initially didnt agree. And he was unhappy BOS had failed to provide CCTV footage of 
his visit to branch as part of Data Subject Access Request (DSAR) he made, which he felt 
supported his view. So, he wanted this to be obtained. But following further discussion with 
our investigator, Mr R explained he wanted to accept the outstanding offer of £150 but still 
disputed this was enough to compensate him for the upset hed been caused. As Mr R 
wasnt happy with the £150 as resolution to his complaint, its been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr R. I appreciate Mr R has 
needed to travel to branch on more than one occasion to withdraw the funds from his closed 
account. As it was BOS own decision to close the account, I recognise Mr R had no plans to 
do so and so, he has needed to take time and effort out of his day to ensure he received the 
funds. I understand why this wouldve been frustrating for Mr R and why hed want to raise 
his concerns both in branch and through BOS complaint process.
But for me to say BOS should do something more than the £150 theyve already offered; Id 
need to be satisfied the £150 isnt enough to compensate Mr R for the things BOS did 
wrong. And I dont think thats the case on this occasion. And Ill explain why.
Before I do this, I think itd be useful for me to explain exactly what Ive been able to 
consider. Mr Rs complaint about the closure of his complaint has already been considered 
by our service. And it was decided within this that BOS didnt need to reimburse Mr R for the 
cost of his flight from India. So, I wont be considering this any further. 
I can also see Mr R has concerns about CCTV footage not being made available when he 
submitted a DSAR to BOS. Ive seen BOS have already explained CCTV footage of the 
incident isnt available. And the purpose of a DSAR is for a business to provide a customer 
with personal information they hold about them. As BOS have explained they dont hold this 
CCTV footage, I wouldnt expect it to be provided. And so, my complaint is based on the 
evidence and testimonies available to me.Im aware BOS have already accepted there were failures in communicating with Mr R when 
his funds werent available to withdraw. As this has been accepted, I dont intend to discuss 
this any further. Instead, before thinking about the offer BOS have made, Ive considered 
any other complaint points that remain in dispute.
And Im aware Mr R feels BOS discriminated against him in branch, which BOS reject. Im 
unable to make a determination on whether Mr R was discriminated against, as this is a 
criminal activity that could only be considered in a court of law. But what I can do is consider 
the testimonies provided by both parties and decide whether I think BOS acted fairly and 
reasonably. 
As Ive explained above, BOS have said no CCTV footage is available. So, without this or 
any audible evidence, Ive had to think about the testimonies provided and decide what I 
think was most likely to have happened.
And having done so, I think its reasonable for me to assume Mr R was frustrated when he 
attended the branch, as hed already raised concerns with BOS customer service and had to 
wait an extended period of time for his funds to be withdrawn. And he hadnt received call 
backs as promised. So, when Mr R wanted to raise these issues in branch, I think its more 
likely than not this frustration was apparent. 
BOS have explained their branch staff are able to ask a customer to leave the premises if 
they deem the customers behaviour to be rude or aggressive. And the testimony of the 
branch staff say this is their reasoning for asking Mr R to leave. And when Mr R refused to 
do so, this is why they say they threatened to call the police.
So, considering Mr Rs frustration and the testimony of the branch, I dont think Im able to 
say BOS acted unfairly or unreasonably as they took steps they were entitled to do. While I 
am in no way suggesting Mr R purposefully acted rude or aggressive, and I recognise he 
doesnt he think he did, I think its most likely the branch staff perceived Mr Rs behaviour in 
this way. And as theyre entitled to ask a customer to leave a branch in this situation, I cant 
say theyve acted unfairly.
The testimony of BOS also suggests Mr R refused to leave at this point, which is why he was 
taken into another room by another member of staff. And Mr R himself has agreed he held a 
separate conversation in a separate room with one member of staff in particular.. So, on the 
balance of probability, I think its more likely than not that Mr R did refuse to leave at this 
point. So, I dont think I can say the staff acted unreasonably when suggesting the police 
would be called if he didnt follow their request. 
Because of the above, I dont think I can say BOS branch staff acted unfairly and so, I dont 
think Mr Rs complaint about this should be considered when I think about the offer of 
compensation BOS have already made.
So, Ive then thought about the £150 BOS have offered. I think its clear Mr R has been 
inconvenienced as hes had to travel to branch unnecessarily on one occasion. And as he 
didnt receive call backs as promised, hes felt the need to call BOS customer service directly 
for updates. And even then, I can see call backs werent fulfilled as promised. And I do think 
this wouldve been both frustrating and upsetting for him.
But considering this against the relatively short period of time between Mr R attending 
branch and obtaining his refund, and the efficient way in which BOS responded to Mr Rs 
complaint after the withdrawal had been completed, I think the £150 BOS have already 
offered to recognise this is a fair one, and in line with what I wouldve direct had it not 
already been made. So, I dont think BOS need to do anything more on this occasion.I understand this isnt the outcome Mr R was hoping for. But I hope hes able to see his 
comments have been considered at length and that this brings some closure to him.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint about Bank of Scotland plc 
trading as Halifax.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman