DRN-3612660
The complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain that they have been charged too much interest on their Together 
mortgage and unsecured loan. Their lender is now Topaz Finance Limited, trading as 
Heliodor Mortgages.
What happened
In April 2007 Mr and Mrs T took out a Together mortgage with Northern Rock. They took a 
secured loan of £112,495 plus fees, and a linked unsecured loan of £30,000. Both loans 
were to be paid on a capital and interest repayment basis over a term of 35 years.
Both the secured and unsecured loans were on an initial fixed interest rate of 5.99% until 1 
February 2012. After that, the interest rate was a variable rate below Northern Rocks 
standard variable rate, as long as Mr and Mrs T kept their mortgage and loan with Northern 
Rock or its successors.
In 2008, Northern Rock collapsed and was later nationalised. Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage and 
loan were transferred to NRAM. In November 2019, Mr and Mrs Ts unsecured loan was 
sold to Heliodor (by that time they had repaid their secured borrowing). Heliodor, as the 
current loan owner, has responded to this complaint.
The mortgaged property was a one-bedroomed house, and Mr and Mrs T wanted more 
space. They let the property for a few years, with the lenders consent, and then sold it in 
early 2014 for £96,000. This wasnt enough to repay the secured loan in full, and Mr and Mrs 
T had to borrow from family in order to do so. The unsecured loan remained outstanding.
Mr and Mrs T took out a new mortgage with another lender in order to buy their new home. 
They have explained that the new property had been purpose-built for them by family 
members, who let them buy it at cost price rather than market value, with the difference in 
values treated as a gifted deposit. Mr and Mrs T have said they would have preferred to 
keep their Together mortgage, and they asked the predecessor lender about doing so, but it 
wouldnt accept the gifted deposit and said this didnt meet its lending policy.
When the mortgage was repaid in 2014, an interest rate premium of 8% above the variable 
rate Mr and Mrs T had been paying began to apply to their unsecured loan. This resulted in 
a loan interest rate of 12.79% per year initially. The unsecured loan is still running, and the 
interest rate has remained at a similar level since 2014. 
In November 2019, Mr and Mrs T complained. They had been in touch with a claims 
company which said they had been overcharged interest on their mortgage, so they wanted 
this looked into. They also complained that they were trapped with Heliodor paying a high 
interest rate on their unsecured loan as they had been unable to take their mortgage with 
them when they sold the mortgaged property in 2014.
Heliodor said the interest rates that would apply to the mortgage and loan were set out 
clearly in the agreements and it had done nothing wrong. Mr and Mrs T asked the Financial 
Ombudsman Service to look into the matter.
Our Investigator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He explained that we dont audit 
accounts, but he found nothing to indicate interest had been applied wrongly to either the 
secured or unsecured loans. He concluded that the interest rate premium applied when the 
loans were delinked wasnt inherently unfair, and that Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
circumstances meant they would always have needed to take a mortgage with a different 
lender to buy their new home  so he didnt think they had ended up having to delink the 
loans and pay the interest rate premium as a result of being borrowers with an inactive or 
closed book lender not offering new loans.
Mr and Mrs T didnt accept that conclusion and asked for an Ombudsman to make a 
decision. They said theyre trapped paying the loan to Heliodor at an excessive rate of 
interest, and this isnt acceptable.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I realise this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs T are hoping for and they 
will be very disappointed, Ive come to the same overall conclusion as the Investigator did, 
for much the same reasons. 
First of all, Mr and Mrs T have complained that theyve been overcharged interest on both 
the secured and unsecured parts of their loan. They consulted a third party who told them 
they had been overcharged by around £9,500. Ive looked carefully at what the third party 
company has said, but it hasnt explained how it has come to the figure it has or on what 
basis Mr and Mrs T have paid too much.
As our Investigator explained, the Financial Ombudsman doesnt provide an auditing 
service. I have, however, examined the records of Mr and Mrs Ts loans and the interest 
applied to them, alongside the loan documents and rates. Having done so, I find nothing to 
suggest there have been mistakes in the application of interest to either loan  so theres no 
basis on which I can fairly uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Ts complaint.
I turn now to the delinked unsecured loan and the 8% interest rate premium which has been 
applied since 2014. I recognise that this premium has resulted in Mr and Mrs T paying 
interest at a much higher rate than they had been used to while their secured loan was in 
place. But that, of itself, doesnt make the 8% premium or the overall rate inherently unfair. 
The mortgage offer and unsecured loan agreement issued in 2007 set out what would 
happen to the interest rate on the unsecured loan if the secured and unsecured loans were 
delinked. The mortgage offer said, at section 12, that if Mr and Mrs T took the £30,000 
unsecured loan which was available to them:
There are no Early Repayment Charges for this unsecured borrowing. However, if the 
secured mortgage is repaid in full, or transferred to another Northern Rock product, which 
does not have an unsecured facility, the rate of interest charged for the unsecured loan will 
increase to 8.00% above Northern Rocks Standard Variable Rate for mortgages at that 
time. This would make the interest rate payable 15.34% based on the current Standard 
Variable Rate.
The fixed-sum unsecured loan agreement also set out the 8% interest rate premium that 
would apply if the secured loan were repaid.I think the documents set out clearly the circumstances in which the premium would apply. 
So I find that the contract entitled the lender to apply an extra 8% interest above its standard 
variable rate if the loans delinked. 
However, thats not the end of the matter. I must also consider the fairness of the lenders 
decision to apply the increased interest rate in Mr and Mrs Ts particular circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs T have said they had no choice but to take a mortgage with another lender in 
order to buy their new home. They have said they asked their existing lender  then NRAM, 
Heliodors predecessor  about keeping their mortgage with it, but it told them it wouldnt 
accept gifted deposits and it wouldnt agree a mortgage on that basis. Some other lenders 
Mr and Mrs T approached had the same policy. Mr and Mrs T have also said they asked the 
predecessor lender what would happen to their payments to the unsecured loan if they 
repaid the secured element, and were told they would be unaffected and they could continue 
to pay the unsecured loan as they had been until it was repaid in full. In the event, they were 
able to keep the unsecured loan in place, but it was subject to an extra 8% interest.
Following Northern Rocks collapse and subsequent nationalisation, it couldnt offer new 
lending or new interest rate products to its existing customers. This, of course, isnt a 
situation that Mr and Mrs T could have foreseen when they took out the Together product in 
2007, and I can certainly see that they were left with fewer options than they expected when 
they wanted to move home. However, there was never any guarantee that Northern Rock 
would continue to offer new interest rate products or agree to further lending. 
Mr and Mrs T have said they needed to borrow more money in order to buy their new home. 
They also needed to find a lender which would accept a gifted deposit, and that limited their 
options  although they were ultimately able to take a new mortgage with a high street 
lender. They had a unique opportunity to buy a property purpose-built for them at a discount 
 but to get a new mortgage in order to make that purchase, I think the specifics of their 
situation, including the gifted deposit, meant they would always have had to move to a new 
mortgage lender. 
I note as well that Mr and Mrs T repaid the secured part of their borrowing by way of the 
proceeds of the sale of the mortgaged property, plus some money they borrowed from 
family. They havent told us exactly when they took the mortgage on the new property, but 
they had been letting the property they had bought in 2007 for some time.
Against this background, I dont consider that Mr and Mrs T had no choice but to repay the 
secured part of their Together borrowing and take a new mortgage with another lender just 
because their existing lender was closed book and no longer offered new products or 
lending. They would always have needed to take the action they did in order to proceed with 
their new purchase with a lender which would accept the unusual nature of the transaction.
Mr and Mrs T have said that they didnt know they would have pay the 8% interest rate 
premium on the unsecured loan until it was too late and, had they known sooner, they could 
have made different decisions. In the circumstances, however, Im not persuaded that they 
would have done anything differently given the unique opportunity they had to buy a property 
built for them and at a discount. I also think they should reasonably have been aware of the 
extra 8% interest before they repaid the secured loan, and they had time to consider their 
options before they went ahead.
As Ive already said, I think the circumstances in which the premium would apply were clear 
in the mortgage and loan documents. They were also included in Mr and Mrs Ts annual 
mortgage statements, which said:If you decide to repay your mortgage and any secured loans in full, leaving the balance of 
your unsecured loan with us, the rate of interest charged for your unsecured loan will 
increase. Please refer to your Offer of Loan for further details.
Heliodor has said that Mr and Mrs T phoned the predecessor lender in December 2013, 
asking whether the unsecured part of their borrowing could be put onto a fixed rate, as they 
were concerned that the rate would increase once the secured loan had been repaid. The 
representative they spoke to said no products were available. The contemporaneous records 
Ive seen of the call reflect this, and also say that copies of the secured and unsecured loan 
documents were sent to Mr and Mrs T following the call. The predecessor lender also wrote 
to Mr and Mrs T before they completed on the sale, reminding them about the delinking 
premium. 
In considering what has happened in this case, Ive taken account of the additional risks to 
the lender when the unsecured Together loan is delinked from the mortgage. Im satisfied 
that there are some risks, such as the risk of default being higher on an unsecured debt 
rather than a priority mortgage debt. And I note there are no early repayment charges or 
other barriers to exit should Mr and Mrs T look to move the loan elsewhere onto more 
favourable terms or should they be in a position to repay it. I can see why they might be 
keen to do so given what is a very long term for an unsecured loan and the overall interest 
cost that would result in if they keep the loan for the full term.  
Mr and Mrs T havent said that they have tried to refinance over the years and been unable 
to do so, for example. They have maintained payments to the unsecured loan since 2014, 
and I cant see that the interest premium has resulted in financial difficulty or left them 
without any options to improve their position.
In all the circumstances, I dont consider interest has been applied unfairly or out of line with 
the contract to either the secured or unsecured part of Mr and Mrs Ts Together borrowing.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 January 2023.
 
Janet Millington
Ombudsman