DRN-3589682
The complaint
Mr B complains an appointed representative of Quilter Financial Limited gave him unsuitable 
advice to move his pensions to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) to invest in a high-
risk investment.
What happened
Mr B says he received a cold call from a Mr W at Bridgewater Financial Services Ltd who 
told him hed be better off if he transferred out of his current pensions into a SIPP. He says 
he was initially advised to invest in a hotel resort, but Mr W then changed his mind and said 
the best option was an investment called Verdant Australian Farmland (now Global 
Agricultural Services). He says he was told hed receive 12% returns a year with a bonus at 
the end of the fixed period along with the return of the investment. And he says he was told it 
was a low to medium risk investment which fit with the level of risk he was prepared to take.
Bridgewater was an appointed representative of Paradigm Financial Advisers Limited 
between 26 November 2009 and 27 January 2011. Paradigm later changed its name to 
Caerus Financial Limited and then to Quilter Financial Limited. For the purposes of this 
decision, Ill refer to the business as Quilter throughout. And Ill refer to the investment as 
GAS.
The SIPP application form was signed on 14 January 2010. The transaction history for the 
SIPP shows:
The SIPP was opened on 9 March 2010.
IFA fees of £867.39 were paid to Bridgewater on 18 March 2010.
Mr Bs Zurich pension (£21,784.65) was transferred on 19 March 2010.
Mr Bs two Barclays pensions (£50,281.87) were transferred on 22 March 2010.
IFA fees of £2,007.27 were paid to Bridgewater on 24 March 2010.
£65,000 was invested into GAS on 30 March 2010.
Returns of £4,216.16; £233.33; £466.15; and £160.25 were received from the GAS 
investment on 26 October 2012; 14 October 2013; 17 September 2014; and 3 
November 2015 respectively.
No further returns were received, and it seems the GAS investment was revalued to £1 in 
2017. Mr B complained to Quilter on 4 March 2019 about the advice he said Bridgewater 
had given him and brought his complaint to this service.
Quilter said it isnt responsible. In particular, it said Mr B had made his complaint too late 
because the events complained about were more than six years before he complained and 
he was sent a letter about the investment on 8 October 2014 that should have caused 
concern and this was more than three years before he complained.
Mr Bs representative said hed never received the 8 October 2014 update. An investigator 
was satisfied we could consider Mr Bs complaint against Quilter and that the complaint 
should be upheld. In summary, she said:
Mr B didnt know he had cause to complain more than three years before he did. And 
theres nothing to say he ought reasonably to have. Theres no evidence the 
8 October 2014 update was sent to Mr B and theres nothing to suggest the value of 
the investment dropped more than three years before Mr B complained.
Bridgewater advised Mr B and theres nothing to suggest Quilter isnt responsible for 
that advice.
The advice to move his pensions to a SIPP to invest in the GAS investment wasnt 
suitable.
If everything had happened as it should have, Mr B would have left his pensions 
where they were.
Quilter didnt agree. The issue has therefore been passed to me for a decision.
My findings  jurisdiction
Ive considered all the evidence thats been provided. Having done so, Im satisfied this 
complaint is in the Financial Ombudsman Services jurisdiction.
Was the complaint made too late?
This service cant look at all complaints. Our ability to consider complaints is set out in 
Chapter 2 (DISP 2) of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook of Rules and 
Guidance.
DISP 2.8.2R says:
The Ombudsman cannot consider a complaint if the complainant refers it to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service
(2) more than:
(a) six years after the event complained of; or (if later)
(b) three years from the date on which the complainant became aware 
(or ought reasonably to have become aware) that he had cause for 
complaint;
unless the complainant referred the complaint to the respondent or the 
Ombudsman within that period and has a written acknowledgement or some 
other record of the complaint having been received;
unless:(3) in the view of the Ombudsman, the failure to comply with the time 
limitswas as a result of exceptional circumstances.
Its not clear exactly when the advice complained about was given. But as set out above, the 
SIPP application form was signed on 14 January 2010. So, the advice must have happened 
on or before 14 January 2010.
Mr B complained to Quilter on 4 March 2019. So, the complaint is outside the first part of the 
time limit  i.e. it was made more than six years after the events complained about.
The issue for me to decide is therefore whether the complaint was also made outside the 
second part of the time limit  i.e. whether it was made more than three years after Mr B 
knew, or ought reasonably to have known, he had cause for complaint.
Quilter says on 8 October 2014 Mr B was sent A REVIEW from the Board of GAS Global 
Agricultural Services which read:
PRESENT REDEMPTION OF INVESTMENTS
The Board is of the opinion that the market for wheat producing farmland in Australia 
is very weak. Discussions with farm managers, banks and lawyers indicate that the 
market is very parochial. The values of the farms are difficult to determine 
professionally as there are several repossessions available at reduced cost and there 
is poor demand.
The present set up of the Fund renders sales difficult; the Fund is regarded as a long 
term investment and the plot holders are locked in by the terms of their investments 
with realisation dates ranging from 2018 to 2020.
LONG TERM REDEMPTION
The consideration of short term selling also led the Board to reconsider the exit 
plan. If, as the previous paragraph implies he weakness of the Western Australian 
farm Market is its parochialism, then, when the Fund comes to sell the various farms 
under the terms of the Investor contracts, it is a concern that the knowledge the Fund 
is having to sell by the due date may determine a lot weaker price.
LIQUIDITY OF INVESTMENT
In short, the Fund is illiquid in trading terms and the requests for redemption are 
extremely difficult to satisfy. In addition, the previous sources of funding, i.e. UK 
pensions, financial advisors etc. are neither available or acceptable to the Board.
It says this letter ought reasonably to have made Mr B aware of cause for complaint. 
However, I havent commented on the content of this letter because it would only be relevant 
if I was satisfied Mr B most likely received the letter. Taking everything into account, Im not 
persuaded this is most likely. Mr B has consistently said he didnt receive the letter and only 
received SIPP statements. Quilter hasnt been able to provide any evidence of the letter 
being sent. And the SIPP provider has told us it cant evidence the letter being sent to 
consumers. I therefore havent put any weight on the letter in deciding what Mr B knew, or 
ought reasonably to have known.
Mr B did however say he received a few statements over the years. Unfortunately, he hasnt 
kept these statements and Quilter has only been able to provide the 2012 and 2017 
statements as the SIPP provider doesnt have copies of the others. Ive carefully considered the 2012 SIPP statement thats between provided. It included a line 
The value of your fund as at 30th March 2012 is: £68038.27. Whilst this is slightly lower 
than Mr B would have been expecting to see based on the returns hed been told hed get, I 
dont think this is sufficient to say he ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint 
at that point. And whilst the value of the fund had fallen significantly by the time of the 2017 
statement, Mr B did complain within three years of that statement. I havent seen anything 
that persuades me the content of any of the statements between 2012 and 2017 ought 
reasonably to have concerned Mr B.
Mr B says first knew something was wrong when he contacted his SIPP provider before it 
went into administration because hed stopped receiving statements. The SIPP provider 
went into administration in 2018 and its been confirmed that because of the value of Mr Bs 
SIPP, he didnt receive any statements after 2017. Mr Bs explanation of what prompted him 
to complain seems plausible in the circumstances and Ive seen nothing that satisfies me he 
ought reasonably to have known of cause for complaint before 2017.
Im therefore satisfied Mr B made his complaint within the time limits.
Responsibility
To carry out regulated activities a business needs to be authorised (Section 19 of the 
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA)). Bridgewater wasnt directly authorised. 
Instead it was an appointed representative of Quilter. Quilter is an authorised firm. Its 
authorised by the FCA to carry out a range of regulated activities including advising on 
investments and arranging deals in investments. We can therefore consider complaints 
about Quilter. And this includes some complaints about its appointed representatives.
But this service cant look at all complaints. Before we can consider a complaint, we need to 
check, by reference to the DISP rules and the legislation from which those rules are derived, 
whether its one we have the power to look at.
DISP 2.3.1R says we can:
consider a complaint under the Compulsory Jurisdiction if it relates to an act or 
omission by a firm in carrying onregulated activitiesor any ancillary activities, 
including advice, carried on by the firm in connection with them.
Guidance for this rule at DISP 2.3.3G says that:
complaints about acts or omissions include those in respect of activities for which the 
firmis responsible, to the same extent as if he had expressly permitted it, for 
anything done or omitted by the representative in carrying on the business for which 
he has accepted responsibility.
And Section 39(3) FSMA says:
The principal of an appointed representative is responsible, to the same extent as if 
he had expressly permitted it, for anything done or omitted by the representative in 
carrying on the business for which he has accepted responsibility.
The responsibility of a principal was considered by the judge in the case of Anderson v 
Sense Network [2018] EWHC 2834 (this case was the subject of an appeal, but the Court of 
Appeal issued a decision agreeing with the earlier decision). In the High Court, 
Mr Justice Jacobs said, at paragraph 33:There is no indication in the wording of section 39, or in the case-law, that indicates 
that the business for which responsibility is accepted is to be determined not by 
reference to the contract, but by reference to the authorisations granted to the 
principal which are to be found in the Financial Services register.
So, a principal isnt automatically responsible for the actions of its appointed representatives 
and its necessary to go beyond looking at the activities Quilter was authorised to do. 
Whether Quilter is responsible for the actions of Mr W here is determined by considering the 
terms of the contract between Quilter and Bridgewater  the appointed representative 
agreement.
To decide whether Quilter is responsible here, there are three issues I need to consider:
What are the specific acts Mr B has complained about?
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
What are the specific acts Mr B has complained about?
Mr B complains he was given unsuitable advice to switch his pensions to a SIPP to invest in 
a high-risk investment.
Are those acts regulated activities or ancillary to regulated activities?
Section 22 FSMA defines regulated activities as follows:
(1) An activity is a regulated activity for the purposes of this Act if it is an activity of a 
specified kind which is carried on by way of business and 
(a) relates to an investment of a specified kind;
(4) Investment includes any asset, right or interest.
(5) Specified means specified in an order made by the Treasury.
The relevant Order is the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated Activities) 
Order 2001 (RAO). Advising on investments is a specified activity under Article 53 RAO. And 
arranging deals in investments is a specified activity under Article 25 RAO.
Its clear that Mr W was involved in making arrangements for setting up the SIPP, the 
pension switches and the GAS investment. Im satisfied its also most likely Mr W advised 
Mr B to switch his pensions to the SIPP to invest in the GAS investment.
Although suitability reports are one of the indicators that advice was given, the absence of 
one doesnt mean advice wasnt given. I think its highly unlikely Mr B would have taken the 
decision himself to switch his pensions to a SIPP without receiving advice. Hes plausibly 
and consistently said Mr W advised him and that hed been happy with the pensions until 
that point. Im persuaded by Mr Bs recollection of events. 
The SIPP and Mr Bs previous pensions are specified investments, so Im satisfied that 
advising on and arranging the switch are regulated activities. And given the timeline of events here, and what Mr B says happened, Im satisfied the advice to invest in GAS was 
either part of that advice and arranging, or ancillary to it.
Did Quilter accept responsibility for those acts?
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied Mr W was most likely holding himself out as 
acting as Bridgewater  a representative of Quilter  at the time of the events complained 
about.
I say this because:
The SIPP application form Mr B signed on 14 January 2010 said:
In return for the services to be provided by TLSC, I agree that TLSC may 
deduct from my fund the charges set out in the leaflet and such additional 
charges as I have agreed with BRIDGEWATER FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD 
and may realise any of the investments held for my benefit in order to pay 
their fees and any third party costs/fees relating to those investments or 
advice I receive in respect of this arrangement
I hereby appoint BRIDGEWATER FINANCIAL SERVICES LTD as investment 
managers for the purposes of the Lifetime SIPP and fully understand and 
agree that in all circumstances I am solely responsible for all decisions 
relating to the purchase, retention and sale of investments held under the 
SIPP for my benefit.
Mr W wrote to the SIPP provider with the documents for the SIPP on Bridgewater 
headed paper on 5 March 2010.
The SIPP provider sent an email to Mr W at Bridgewater on 16 March 2010 saying:
Today we received a cheque from one of the two ceding schemes; Zurich 
issued a cheque for £21,784.65. I have spoken toBarclays and the funds 
look to arrive by the end of this week.
This case is close to be finalised  good news.
The SIPP provider confirmed the IFA was listed as Bridgewater.
Ive therefore gone on to consider the agreement that was in place between Quilter and 
Bridgewater. Unfortunately, I havent been provided with a copy of the appointed 
representative agreement that would have been in place at the time of the advice here. 
However, Quilter hasnt made any arguments that Bridgewaters actions werent allowed 
under the appointed representative agreement. And from a later version of the agreement 
that has been provided on other cases, I can see that Bridgewater was authorised to give 
investment and pension advice and there arent any restrictions that I think would be relevant 
in the circumstances here.
So, I think Quilter did accept responsibility for the acts conducted by Bridgewater.
My decision on jurisdiction
For the reasons discussed above, my decision is that the Financial Ombudsman Service can 
consider this complaint.My findings  merits
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the complaint should be upheld.
Mr B says Mr W didnt review or discuss his existing pensions and the focus was simply on 
the returns of the GAS investment. He says his attitude to risk was low-medium and he now 
knows the GAS investment involved more risk than he was prepared to take. As previously 
mentioned, a fact find from the time unfortunately isnt available. I havent seen any 
justification for switching pensions that it seems Mr B was happy with. It seems Mr Ws only 
reason for recommending the switches was so that Mr B could make the GAS investment. 
And I havent seen any documentary record of why this recommendation was made.
The GAS investment was an unregulated, esoteric, high-risk investment. It took the form of a 
land purchase contract which involved a company based in Cyprus leasing plots of 
agricultural land in Australia to investors. Crops were to be planted on the plots, and the 
objective was to provide an income to investors through the sale of those crops and capital 
growth through the sale of the plot of land. 
Investments such as this carry significant risks and a lack of protections. Mr B says he was 
self-employed at the time of the advice earning approximately £22,000 a year and had no 
investment experience. He was 50 years old and he says he couldnt afford to lose his 
pensions as he had no savings, investments, or major assets.
Everything Ive seen suggests Mr B was an ordinary retail investor and theres nothing that 
suggests to me he was the sophisticated type of investor for which unregulated high-risk 
investments would be suitable. Theres also nothing that suggests he could afford to take 
significant risks with his investments. Mr W should have known all of this.
In these circumstances Im satisfied advice to switch Mr Bs pensions to a SIPP to invest in 
the GAS investment wasnt suitable and should never have been made as a 
recommendation. 
Im persuaded by Mr Bs evidence that he wasnt looking to move his pensions and had been 
cold called. So, Im satisfied that if Mr W hadnt given unsuitable advice, Mr B would have left 
his pensions as they were.
Putting things right
My aim is that Mr B should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he hadnt been given unsuitable advice. I take the view that Mr B wouldnt have 
moved his pensions if everything had happened as it should have. Im satisfied that what Ive 
set out below is fair and reasonable.
In summary, Quilter should:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the switches and 
investment.
2. Take ownership of the GAS investment held in the SIPP if possible.
3. Pay compensation for the loss into Mr Bs pension in respect of his pension losses. If 
that isnt possible, pay compensation for the loss to Mr B direct. In either case, the 
payment should take into account necessary adjustments set out below.4. Pay Mr Bs SIPP fees for the next five years, in the event hes not now able to close 
his SIPP.
5. Pay compensation of £500 for the trouble and upset caused to Mr B.
6. Pay interest on the above if fair compensation isnt paid within 28 days of notification 
of acceptance by Mr B.
Ill explain how Quilter should carry out the calculation set out above in further detail below:
1. Calculate the loss Mr B has suffered as a result of making the switches and 
investment
To do this, Quilter should work out the likely value of Mr Bs pensions as at the date of this 
decision, had he left them where they were instead of switching to the SIPP.
Quilter should ask Mr Bs former pension providers to calculate the current notional transfer 
values had he not switched his pensions. If there are any difficulties in obtaining notional 
valuations, then a benchmark of 50% of the FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return 
Index and 50% of the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by 
the Bank of England should be used to calculate the values. That is likely to be a reasonable 
proxy for the type of returns that could have been achieved if the pensions hadnt been 
switched.
The notional transfer values should be compared to the transfer value of the SIPP at the 
date of this decision and this will show the loss Mr B has suffered.
Any additional sum that Mr B paid into the SIPP should be added to the notional transfer 
value calculations proportionately at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the SIPP should be deducted 
proportionately from the fair value calculations at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculations from that point on. If there is a large number of regular 
payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if Quilter totals all those payments and 
deducts that figure at the end.
2. Take ownership of the investment
Ideally, the asset in the SIPP  the GAS investment  could be removed from the SIPP. Mr B 
would then be able to close the SIPP, if he wishes, and avoid paying further fees for the 
SIPP. For calculating compensation, Quilter should agree an amount with the SIPP provider 
as a commercial value for the investment. It should then pay the sum agreed plus any costs 
and take ownership of it.
If Quilter is able to purchase the GAS investment, then the price paid should be allowed for 
in the current transfer value (because itll have been paid into the SIPP to secure the 
investment).
If Quilter is unable, or if there are any difficulties in buying the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. Provided Mr B is compensated in full, 
Quilter may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment the SIPP might receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow for the 
effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr B may receive from the investment and any 
eventual sums hed be able to access from the SIPP. Quilter will need to meet any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
3. Pay compensation to Mr B for the loss hes suffered in (1)Since the loss Mr B has suffered is within his pension, its right that I try to restore the value 
of his pension provision if thats possible. So, if possible, the compensation for the loss 
should be paid into Mr Bs pension plan. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the 
pension if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance. Payment into the 
pension should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. This may mean 
the compensation should be increased to cover the charges and reduced to notionally allow 
for the income tax relief Mr B could claim. The notional allowance should be calculated using 
Mr Bs marginal rate of tax.
If its not possible to pay the compensation into Mr Bs pension, the compensation should be 
paid to Mr B direct. But had it been possible to pay the compensation into the pension, it 
would have provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation for the loss paid to 
Mr B should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have 
been paid. The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Bs marginal rate of tax in 
retirement. For example, if Mr B is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, the 
notional allowance would equate to a reduction in the total amount equivalent to the current 
basic rate of tax. However, if Mr B would have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the 
notional allowance should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
4. SIPP fees
If Mr B is unable to close his SIPP once compensation has been paid, Quilter should pay an 
amount into the SIPP equivalent to five years worth of the fees (based on the most recent 
years fees) that will be payable on the SIPP. I say this because Mr B would not be in the 
SIPP but for the unsuitable advice. So it wouldnt be fair for him to have to pay the fees to 
keep it open. And Im satisfied five years will allow sufficient time for things to be sorted out 
with the GAS investment and the SIPP to be closed.
5. Trouble and upset
Pay Mr B £500 for the trouble and upset caused. Im satisfied Mr B has been caused 
significant upset by the events this complaint relates to, and the loss of, in effect, all of his 
pension fund. I think that a payment of £500 is fair to compensate for that upset.
6. Pay interest
Quilter should pay fair compensation as set out above within 28 days of being notified that 
Mr B has accepted this decision. If it doesnt, interest on the compensation due is to be 
paid from the date of this decision to the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple interest 
per year. Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Quilter deducts income tax 
from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much has been taken off. Quilter should give Mr B 
a tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr B asks for one, so he can reclaim the 
tax on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
Where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business to 
pay compensation of up to £160,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider 
appropriate. If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £160,000, I may recommend that 
Quilter Financial Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation 
should be calculated as set out above. My decision is that Quilter Financial Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £160,000 (including 
trouble and upset but excluding costs) plus any interest on that amount as set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation 
exceeds £160,000, I recommend that Quilter Financial Limited pays Mr B the balance plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
Quilter Financial Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple 
format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 August 2022.
 
Laura Parker
Ombudsman