DRN-2007490
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint about Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money (Clydesdale) relates to 
Clydesdale continuing to send him correspondence by post which he cannot read as he is 
registered blind.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr W and Clydesdale, so there is no need for me to repeat it here in any 
detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not mentioned 
something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its of direct 
relevance to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr W told Clydesdale that he was registered blind and that he would require all 
correspondence to be by email so that he could use assistive technology to read it. Mr W 
says this request was ignored and as a result he missed a payment on his credit card which 
affected his credit score. Clydesdale agreed that it made an error in not properly recording 
his correspondence preference and apologised and offered to pay Mr W £25 compensation.
Mr W was unhappy with Clydesdales final response and so approached this service to see if 
we could assist in resolving the dispute. One of our investigators looked into the complaint, 
and having done so, concluded that Clydesdale hadnt done anything wrong and although 
there had been poor service by Clydesdale, the amount of compensation Clydesdale offered 
Mr W was enough to put things right. Mr W didnt agree with our investigators view and 
asked for the complaint to be passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate. I have considered 
both sides views in considering whether Clydesdale acted fairly and reasonably. Ive looked 
at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. Where evidence is not 
complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the light of the evidence 
which is available. I must make an independent decision about what I think is right for each 
case, and thats what Ive done here. In this case, I dont think that Clydesdale has done 
anything wrong and Ill explain why.
The accepted facts are that Clydesdale failed to correctly record Mr Ws correspondence 
preferences. However, I do not think that failure caused Mr W to miss his payment to his 
credit card. The reason this occurred was because Mr W sadly became ill and was unable to 
carry out a necessary transfer to enable his direct debit to be met. 
I can see from the evidence supplied that fortunately he was able to make the payment very 
shortly after it was meant to have been paid, and because he did so Clydesdale have confirmed that this hasnt impacted on his credit score. Clydesdale also refunded the late 
payment fee of £9.00 and re-instated the 0% interest rate Mr W had enjoyed, therefore 
returning him to the position he would have been in. But I recognise that Clydesdale didn't 
have to do this.
In his response to our investigators view Mr W said he has accepted parts of the view given, 
although not specified which. But, he has gone on to say that he does not consider the 
compensation offered to be acceptable and I note from earlier communication with this 
service he had indicated the Vento Guidelines for awarding compensation ought to be 
used. As Mr W has not raised any specific issue regarding the investigators view,and given 
his indication, I am assuming that, save for the amount of compensation, he broadly accepts 
it. As I have said above my view of the evidence is that there has certainly been a service 
failure in relation to not recording the communication preferences, but I cannot see that this 
led to him missing a payment. In any event the direct impact of that missed payment has 
been nil, since he is now in the position he once was.
As Mr W doesnt believe that the offered compensation is enough to put matters right, Ive 
given some further thought to what might be an appropriate, fair and reasonable level of 
award. I have taken account of the fact that Mr Ms instruction was overlooked and he was 
put to the time and trouble of making a second request. Problems and issues such as these 
very often lead a customer to experience frustration, annoyance and inconvenience, which 
we as a service term trouble and upset. When we find this has occurred we think about 
what a business could do to put matters right, and awarding compensation is one way of 
doing that. But awards for the trouble and upset need to be balanced and measured against 
the ups and downs of daily life we all face when dealing with other people, businesses and 
organisations, and recognising that that can be inconvenient at times. 
I have noted Mr Ws view that the Vento Guidelines ought to be used, but I dont think that 
would be appropriate. This isnt a case of disability discrimination, none being alleged, and 
this service makes its awards for trouble and upset on a very different basis to that of the 
Courts and Tribunals. Ive considered the level of awards this service has made for trouble 
and upset in similar cases, and also in the light of my findings, the impact the error is likely to 
have had on Mr W. So, although Mr W will probably be disappointed with my decision, and 
whilst Clydesdale have indeed made errors, I cant say Clydesdale has subsequently acted 
unfairly or unreasonably here and Im not upholding this complaint. I think the sum 
Clydesdale offered was fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 August 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman