DRN-3899976
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited didnt offer to renew 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S and Mrs S had home insurance underwritten by Lloyds which they first purchased in 
2019.
When the latest renewal was due, in late 2022, Lloyds advised Mr S and Mrs S that they 
wouldnt be offering to renew the policy.
Mr S and Mrs S werent happy with this and complained to Lloyds. Lloyds maintained their 
position and said cover wouldnt be offered because of the number of claims Mr S and Mrs S 
had made previously. 
Lloyds admitted poor customer service. They said theyd failed to communicate very clearly 
and paid Mr S and Mrs S £150 in compensation.
Mr S and Mrs S remained unhappy about Lloyds decision not to offer renewal of the policy 
and brought their complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think Lloyds had done anything wrong.
Mr S and Mrs S disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for our service to tell insurers who they should insure and at what price. Those are 
decisions for the insurer, based on what risk  as they see it  they are willing to cover. 
The insurance market is a relatively competitive one. If some insurers dont want to take on 
certain risks, others usually will. And if prices are unreasonably high, customers can and will 
look elsewhere for insurance cover. 
Lloyds have shown us documentation which sets out their underwriting criteria. Thats 
potentially commercially sensitive information, so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to share it 
in full here. 
However, it is clear from that documentation that Lloyds would never offer cover at renewal 
(after first renewal) if a customer has made more than three claims which were paid within 
the previous five years, including at least one paid claim in the last year.
Mr S and Mrs S know their own claim history, so they are aware that they do not meet the 
criteria for renewed cover from Lloyds because of the number of claims made within the last 
five years.
Mr S and Mrs S have made the point that those claims were relatively small, in terms of the 
amount paid. And that their premiums over the years are more than equal to the amount 
theyve claimed.
Lloyds underwriting criteria are very clear that what they are concerned about  what they 
think indicates a higher risk, to put it as straightforwardly as I can  is the number of paid 
claims within a given period, irrespective of the individual or cumulative value of those 
claims.
As I say, its for Lloyds to decide how to calculate risk in the cover they provide. And what 
level of risk they will agree to cover (and at what price).
In all the circumstances, I cant reasonably conclude that Lloyds have treated Mr S and 
Mrs S unfairly in deciding not to offer renewed cover. Mr S and Mrs S have been treated in 
exactly the same way any customer would be treated, in line with pre-determined criteria.
I agree that Lloyds might have been clearer with Mr S and Mrs S about why they wouldnt 
renew the policy. But Lloyds paid Mr S and Mrs S £150 in compensation for their trouble and 
upset, which Im satisfied is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
One phone call and some email correspondence was less clear that Lloyds would have 
wanted. That might have been frustrating and annoying for Mr S and Mrs S  hence the 
£150 compensation - but ultimately that had no impact at all in terms of whether Lloyds were 
going to offer renewed cover to Mr S and Mrs S.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 February 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman