DRN-4220111
The complaint
Mrs C says One Insurance Limited didnt pay her enough for her written-off car when she 
made a claim on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mrs Cs car was damaged in a collision with a lorry. One Insurance decided it was a total 
loss and got a valuation of £3,090 from one of the national trade guides. But it only offered 
Mrs C £1,995 for the car. It said the car had high mileage and that there were advisories on 
the cars last MOT assessment that affected its pre-accident market value. Mrs C wasnt 
happy with that, or with the deduction of a further £400 for the policy excess. 
One of our investigators reviewed Mrs Cs complaint. He looked at the valuations in four of 
the national trade guides, which were between £3,090 and £3,575. He said the guides factor 
in age related wear and tear and mileage, so a reasonable valuation for the car would have 
been £3,300. He didnt think I was fair to make a deduction for advisories on an older car.  
As One Insurance disagreed, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We normally look at the valuations given in several of the national trade guides in order to 
check what a vehicles pre-accident market value is most likely to have been. I think its 
reasonable in this case to conclude from the guides that the cars market value would have 
been around £3,300. The valuations took into account the mileage on Mrs Cs car - and the 
guides make an allowance for the expected wear and tear on an older vehicle.
One Insurance says the advisories arent part of the normal wear and tear seen on older 
vehicles. It says had Mrs C tried to sell the car before the accident, a dealer would have 
deducted a sum from the offer it made her as a result of them. I dont think we can be certain 
about what is likely to have happened. Some dealers may have made a deduction, but if so I 
think its likely to have been a small one, and I dont think some dealers would have made a 
deduction at all. One Insurance deducted over £1,000. 
In our view, its reasonable for an insurer to make a small deduction from a cars market 
value if a car doesnt have a valid MOT certificate. And if an insurer can show that a car 
wouldnt have passed an MOT assessment, we think its reasonable to deduct what it would 
have cost to get the car to pass it. But Mrs Cs car had a valid MOT certificate, so it was 
roadworthy in all respects. I think many cars of its age would have advisories following an 
MOT test. The issues highlighted may have needed attention at some point, but on a car of 
its age I think they are unlikely to have made any appreciable difference to its market value. 
So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for a deduction to be made for them from it. 
I think it would be fair and reasonable for One Insurance to pay Mrs C £3,300 for her car 
(minus the policy excess of £400, which is payable on all claims) plus interest. Mrs C may be 
able to reclaim the policy excess from the other drivers insurer in due course.
Mrs C says One Insurance offered her £100 for poor service and she hasnt yet received it, 
but I think its likely to pay the promised sum shortly. Mrs C has also told us she disputes the 
liability decision made after the accident. We cant look at that until One Insurance has had 
the time to issue a final  response letter. If it doesnt, or if she doesnt accept its resolution of 
her complaint, Mrs C can then complain to us.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require One Insurance Limited to pay Mrs 
C £3,300 for her car (minus the policy excess, so £2,900). 
It should add interest to that sum, from the date it first offered her a settlement sum, to the 
date the increased settlement sum is paid, at the simple yearly rate of 8%.
If One Insurance has already paid Mrs C a lower settlement sum, it should pay her interest 
on the difference between that sum and £2,900, from the date the first sum was paid until 
the increase is paid, at the simple yearly rate of 8%.
If One Insurance thinks it needs to deduct tax from the interest paid, it should tell Mrs C how 
much is deducted, so she can claim it back from HMRC if appropriate. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2023. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman