DRN-2951751
The complaint
A charity, which Ill refer to as K, complains about the handling by Bank of Scotland plc of its 
CHAPS request.
Ms P, a trustee of K, brings the complaint on K's behalf. K has also been represented by 
Ms M, who was significantly involved in Ks interactions with Bank of Scotland.
What happened
The events giving rise to the complaint are not in dispute. In summary, in October 2019, K 
sought to make a large CHAPS payment to purchase a property. Representatives of K made 
several visits to their local Halifax and Lloyds branches in Birmingham. However, they were 
told that it was impossible for the payment to be authorised and advised to visit a Bank of 
Scotland branch in Glasgow. The representatives of K went to Glasgow but the trip proved 
fruitless as payment still could not be taken due to an error on the account mandate. This 
has since been corrected but, due to the short and strict time period in which payment had to 
be made, the purchase could not go through as intended. K made alternative arrangements 
which resulted in it owning much less of the property.
Bank of Scotland has accepted its error. It has paid K £308 in compensation for the direct 
costs incurred by K in the wasted trip to Scotland, and £500 for the inconvenience caused by 
its mistake.
However, K argued the mistake warranted much more. It said that the error had lost K a 
significant investment opportunity, which it had been planning for many years. It said the 
bank should compensate the lost future income, and the reputational harm caused to K 
through having to call on its partners at the last minute to step in to complete the purchase.
Bank of Scotland disagreed. It said the future losses claimed by K were unsubstantiated
and were not reasonably foreseeable by the bank when it failed to process the CHAPS 
payment. It said that the effect on the charitys future investment plans were undetermined 
as alternative investment opportunities could arise. It therefore refused to increase its award.
Not content with this response, K brought its complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered Ks complaint but said that, in his view, the bank didnt need to 
do any more. He said that the compensation Bank of Scotland had paid to K for the direct 
costs of the trip to Glasgow had fairly addressed that loss. And he said that as K still had the 
money it would have invested in the property available for other investment opportunities, it 
was not possible to quantify any loss and the £500 paid to K was fair. He said that no further 
action was required. 
In response to our investigators view, K submitted that the property it was seeking to 
purchase had been identified as unique in a number of ways, for example in being close to 
the existing activities of the charity, and adaptable to suit the multifunctional nature of the 
planned activities. It had also come onto the market ringfenced for community use and 
development, and K said it was the kind of building for which it had been searching for a very 
long time. K noted that if a similar building came on the commercial open market, the charity 
would not be in a position to afford it.
As K didnt agree with the view of our investigator, the matter has been passed to me to 
decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the facts of the case are not in dispute and Bank of Scotland has recognised its error, the 
question for me to consider is the appropriate redress to put things right. And as the 
compensation of £308 paid by Bank of Scotland to K to cover the costs incurred in the trip to 
Glasgow is also not in dispute, I do not address that element further. Rather, my focus is on 
the lost investment opportunity for K, any reputational harm, and the inconvenience caused 
to K by the banks mistake.
I wrote to both K and Bank of Scotland through our investigator to indicate my provisional 
thinking that the compensation offered by Bank of Scotland to K to put things right should be 
increased from £500 to £1,000. Bank of Scotland accepted this view and was willing to pay 
the additional £500 to K to settle the matter. However, for the same reasons as already set 
out above, K disagreed. I invited K to provide any further evidence before I reached my final 
decision.
K took this opportunity and explained the challenges it was facing in finding an alternative 
suitable property. It set out the increased cost of these properties relative to the property it 
had failed to acquire, and why these alternative properties were less desirable. It also 
explained the considerable time the process was requiring from its staff (around half a 
managers time), which was ongoing.
Having considered the matters carefully, including the further evidence provided by K, I have 
reached largely the same view as our investigator, and for similar reasons, but I believe the 
compensation due to K to put things right should be higher than it has already paid. I have 
explained my reasoning below.
Lost investment opportunity
K said that the property was intended to provide council-funded accommodation, with a 
substantial annual income. K said that the loss of this income had negatively impacted the 
viability of the enterprise. However, K didnt provide calculations showing the running costs 
of its services or maintenance costs, and it was not clear how this lost income compared 
with income available through other investment opportunities.
Bank of Scotland said that in its policy terms, it was liable for reasonable losses where they 
arose directly from the banks error, but only to the extent that they might reasonably have 
been expected to result from that error. It said that the losses claimed by K were 
unsubstantiated and not reasonably foreseeable. 
It appears to me that, as a result of Bank of Scotlands mistake, K has lost out on purchasing 
the property it wanted. And I can appreciate that this property was highly desired by K for all 
the reasons it has set out. However, it is not clear what the financial impact of not purchasing 
this property will be on K in the future. K had aspirations for the property, but they were not 
fixed. K has purchased part of the property, which it is developing with its partners, and it is 
not clear how that shared use will develop over time. Importantly, K also still has the funds which it would have used to purchase the whole property, which it is looking to invest in 
other opportunities. While I acknowledge that K believes the properties it is currently viewing 
are less desirable than the one it failed to acquire, it is not clear whether the eventual 
outcome will be less or more favourable to K.
I understand that there were some features of the property K had sought to acquire which it 
believes will be hard to find in an alternative property, and that this property would have 
enabled K to achieve their charitable objects as well as generate income. However, overall, 
while I acknowledge the frustration of Ks trustees and representatives, and the 
inconvenience caused to K, I do not believe it is reasonably foreseeable what if any financial 
losses will arise from this lost investment opportunity.
Reputational harm
K also said that it suffered reputational harm due to a loss of trust from its partners and 
community lenders which will affect its opportunity to agree any similar deal in future. 
While I acknowledge that K had to rely on its partners to complete the transaction, which 
would likely have been a cause of some embarrassment, K has not provided evidence to 
indicate how its reputation with its partners and lenders has been damaged. Rather, it 
appears that K is continuing to work with its partners, eg in the development of the property.
Therefore, it is not apparent that K has suffered any material reputational harm.
Inconvenience
It is clear that this episode has caused Ks representatives considerable distress. However, 
the complainant in this case is K and, as K is a charity and not an individual, I am unable to 
award it any compensation for distress. Rather, my focus is on the inconvenience to K. 
It is also clear that Bank of Scotlands error has caused K material inconvenience. Its 
representatives had a wasted trip to Scotland, and there were branch visits and numerous 
phone calls to bank staff and Ks partners. Most significantly, K has been faced with seeking 
an alternative investment opportunity, which could take it some time to find.
While I acknowledge the considerable time and effort which Ks staff are putting in to finding 
an alternative property to purchase, I dont think the banks compensation should be tied to 
an estimate of this cost. The consequences of the banks mistake could have taken a long or 
a short time to address, and this was not reasonably foreseeable. Moreover, as explained 
above, while K has set out why the properties it is currently viewing are less desirable than 
the one it failed to acquire, it is not clear whether the eventual outcome will turn out to be 
less or more favourable to K.
Therefore, I am not persuaded that the bank should compensate K to the extent that K would 
like. Rather, I believe the redress for the inconvenience caused to K should be increased but 
from £500 to £1,000, as previously communicated.
Summary 
I believe Bank of Scotlands error was a cause of material inconvenience to K, and the 
effects of the error will be felt for some time. However, I dont think it follows that Bank of 
Scotland should be responsible for any loss which may or may not derive from Ks lost 
potential income from the property, which is very uncertain, and I have seen no evidence to 
indicate that K has suffered material reputational harm.Overall, I believe that, in addition to the amounts already paid by Bank of Scotland to K as 
compensation for its mistake, it should pay K an additional £500 to put things right.
 My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Bank of Scotland plc to pay K an additional £500.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask K to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Andy Wright
Ombudsman