DRN-4104107
The complaint
Mr G complains about Highwood Financial Services (Highwood) advice in connection with 
his desire to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit (DB) occupational scheme to his 
existing Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP).
What happened
Our investigator partly upheld Mr Gs complaint. Mr G disagreed with the investigators 
opinion. The complaint was then passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision saying that I thought it should be partly upheld in line with 
the investigators conclusion  but I wanted to expand on my reasoning. A copy of the 
background to the complaint, and my provisional findings, are below in italics and form part 
of this final decision.
What I said in my provisional decision
What happened
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint are known by both parties, 
so I havent set everything out in detail here. And for the sake of clarity, I understand that 
around the time in question Mr G also received advice from Highwood about transferring an 
existing personal pension to his SIPP. Because this doesnt form part of this complaint, Ive 
not referred to this here. The following sets out what I consider are the key points.
In 2021 Mr G approached Highwood for advice about his DB pension scheme because he 
was interested in transferring the benefits to his existing SIPP to ultimately access a lump 
sum to facilitate the purchase of a holiday property and pay off his mortgage.
In February 2021 Mr G completed a fact-find to help Highwood understand his personal 
circumstances at the time. Amongst other things, this recorded that:
Mr G was soon to be 54, he was married and employed as a director in his own 
company.
He owned his own home, which had an outstanding mortgage of around £276,000 at 
a monthly cost of around £1,900.
Mr Gs household income was around £1,465 a month with essential expenditure of 
around £4,400 a month. Mr G wasnt drawing an income from his business.
In addition to his DB pension, which had a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) 
of around £300,000, Mr G had an existing SIPP valued at around £474,000 and a 
personal pension valued at around £34,000.
On 8 September 2021 Highwood produced its abridged advice report referring to a meeting 
of July 2021. The report confirmed the information contained within the fact-find completed in 
February 2021 and it also referred to a DB transfer questionnaire Mr G completed in June 
2021. The report said that Mr G had agreed a purchase price on his investment property, 
which hed part financed with a bridging loan. It said he intended to clear the loan using his 
tax-free lump sum from his pension when he reached age 55.
The report also set out Mr Gs objectives for wanting to transfer his pension into three 
categories  Financial and lifestyle planning, death benefits and a reduction in benefits due 
to insolvency of sponsoring employer. Under the first heading, the report provided more 
granular detail about Mr Gs objectives, which included improving his personal cashflow; 
repaying his bridging loan; clearing his credit card balance; repaying or reducing his 
mortgage; and helping his children with further education fees and assisting them with 
getting onto the housing ladder.
The report set out the details of Mr Gs DB scheme including what he could expect to receive 
at normal retirement age  it also referred to cashflow planning analysis reports carried out 
by the adviser as part of the advice. The report concluded by saying that, based on the 
analysis and Mr Gs current financial situation, the adviser wasnt satisfied that remaining in 
his DB pension scheme met his current and expected future income and expenditure needs 
and the associated objectives. The report gave the reasons why, which included that in the 
advisers opinion, transferring Mr Gs DB pension benefits into a personal pension 
arrangement could improve his day-to-day cashflow and his ability to absorb unexpected 
expenditure. The report recommended that Mr G proceed to full advice.
In October 2021 Highwood issued its Pension Planning or suitability report. In summary it 
recommended that Mr G remain in his DB pension scheme. The report set out a number of 
considerations and reasons for the recommendation  but in short the adviser didnt believe 
giving up a guaranteed and inflation proof pension at a time of entering an inflationary period 
was in Mr Gs best interests because he didnt have the capacity to absorb investment loss. 
It said that while a transfer might meet Mr Gs stated objectives, these were pre-retirement, 
working life objectives. The adviser considered that remaining in the DB scheme would meet 
Mr Gs in-retirement objectives without jeopardising his financial security.
In early 2022 Mr G complained to Highwood about the advice he received. In summary he 
said that he believed hed lost out as a result of the advice not to transfer; hed had to pay 
significant fees when he believed there was only ever going to be one outcome; and he 
believed the full advice report would recommend the transfer based on what hed been led to 
believe by the adviser beforehand. And he said it was on this basis that he decided to take a 
bridging loan to fund the purchase of his investment property.
Highwood didnt uphold the complaint. It provided a detailed response to Mr Gs complaint 
points. But in summary it said that it believed its advice was suitable.
It said that Mr G was clearly told about the fees; the abridged advice letter was clear that the 
adviser needed to proceed to full advice to see whether a transfer was in Mr Gs best 
interests; it disputed that Mr Gs decision to fund his property purchase was based on what it 
had told him  it said he decided on the funding option several months before the abridged 
advice was given; and while it understood Mr Gs viewpoint about his financial needs now 
being greater than those later in life, it said it couldnt recommend a transfer at the expense 
of his future retirement needs.
Mr G then brought his complaint to our Service. One of our investigators looked at 
everything and they recommended Highwood pay Mr G £300 in compensation. In summary 
they thought Highwood had gone further than it should have done when it delivered its 
abridged advice to Mr G. They said Highwood gave a strong indication that it thought it 
would be in Mr Gs best interests to transfer his DB scheme and the reasons why. They said this overstepped the regulators guidance and they thought Mr G had been misled. But they 
didnt think hed been misled to the extent that he wouldnt have otherwise proceeded to full 
advice  they believed Mr Gs intentions to use his pension funds for his investment property 
meant he wouldve still gone ahead if things had happened as they should have. And they 
didnt think Mr G entered into a bridging loan based on any advice Highwood gave  they 
said Mr G entered into the agreement to buy the investment property before any advice and 
recommendation was given. But overall they thought Mr G had suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result of Highwoods wrongdoing, so they recommended it pay Mr G 
£300.
Highwood accepted the investigators findings.
Mr G disagreed. While I have read in detail everything Mr G has said, in summary he made 
the following key points:
The advice process was drawn out - it took from February until June 2021 for the 
initial engagement letter to be sent by Highwood.
He set out what he wanted to do in an email on 10 May 2021, but he wasnt told at 
this stage that it wasnt a good idea or might not be possible.
He says the adviser told him on three occasions during Zoom meetings prior to the 
abridged advice report that they would facilitate the transfer.
He says he would not have entered into a short-term bridging loan if hed had any 
doubt that the funds wouldnt be released from his pension. He says he wouldve 
taken out a buy-to-let mortgage, which he ultimately had to do. He says these extra 
costs need to be considered  he effectively raised finance twice. It is incorrect to say 
that he took out the bridging loan before he received advice.
He had to transfer his existing SIPP funds to cash in December 2021 to repay the 
bridging loan in March 2022. Because it was not re-invested by Highwood hes lost 
out on possible investment growth.
He ended up transferring his SIPP to another provider, which incurred costs. He feels 
these need to be considered as part of the compensation for Highwoods 
wrongdoing.
The current transfer values are likely to be significantly less, which also needs to be 
recognised.
The £300 compensation does not reflect the financial loss incurred or the toll the 
whole matter has taken on his health.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account relevant law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice, and what I 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.The applicable rules, regulations and requirements
The below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of Highwood's actions here 
PRIN 6: A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19 which specifically 
relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive provisionally decided to 
uphold this complaint in part and award Mr G compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
My reasons are set out below.
The regulators position
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, Highwood 
should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in 
Mr Gs best interests.
Abridged advice
In providing Mr G with advice on his DB pension, Highwood first took him through an 
abridged advice process as permitted under FCA rules. Mr G says that it was during this 
stage of the process that Highwood said it would recommend he transfer the benefits of his 
DB pension.
Abridged advice was introduced by the FCA in 2020. Its aim is to provide advice at a lower 
cost. And while it begins the same way as full advice, including a full fact-finding exercise, it 
can only result in two outcomes. COBS 19.1A sets out what these two outcomes are and 
how a business, like Highwood, should act in giving abridged advice:
A firm giving a retail client abridged advice must either:
(1) Make a personal recommendation that the client remains in their ceding arrangement; or
(2) do all the following:
(a) inform the client that they are unable to take a view on whether it is in the clients best 
interests to transfer or convert without undertaking full pension transfer of conversion advice, 
even when the firm considers that it may be in the clients best interests;
(b) check if the client wants the firm to provide full transfer or conversion advice and check 
that the client understands the associated cost
Highwoods abridged advice outcome was communicated to Mr G in a letter of 8 September 2021. As I set out in the background section above, the letter referred to cashflow planning 
analysis reports  both savings and income and expenditure - in which the adviser also 
considered the scenario of a transfer of Mr Gs CETV to a theoretical personal pension. The 
reports conclusion was a recommendation that Mr G should proceed to full advice to allow 
for a full transfer analysis. But in reaching this conclusion, the adviser said the following:
Based on the analysis and your current financial situation I am not satisfied that remaining 
in your defined benefit pension schemes meets your current and expected future income & 
expenditure needs and the associated objectives for the following reasons;
Your income is insufficient to meet your needs and is likely to remain so until state 
pension age (67), even if you draw your reduced scheme pensions at age 55.
If you draw your pensions at age 55 it is likely to impact on eligibility for universal 
credit especially when combined with the [X] Property.
In the interim your income deficit will need to be met by savings you don't have and 
therefore have to be met by your existing personal pensions, significantly depleting 
the capital value.
There will undoubtedly be unexpected expenditure during this time, either in the form 
of emergency lump sum e.g. property or vehicle related maintenance, repairs, 
replacement or above inflation cost of living increases and I'm not sure how this 
would be met. You do not have an extravagant lifestyle so this lack of financial 
resilience does give me concern.
I have not conducted a full pension transfer analysis as this is not permitted by FCA 
rules where Abridged Advice is concerned. However, based on the outline theoretical 
analysis illustrated above, it appears that transferring the CETV's offered by the 
schemes into individual personal pensions could improve your day to day cashflow 
and your ability to absorb unexpected expenditure.
Your position is improved in the scenarios which assume that [Mr G] starts to draw or 
receive a regular net income of £2,000 per month from his 55*'' birthday until age 60, but this 
is not the current reality and to achieve it could compromise your business, work and health 
objectives.
On this basis, I recommend that you proceed to full advice so we can complete a full transfer 
analysis.
In my view the adviser went further than I think it was fair and reasonable to during the 
abridged advice service, which led to a reasonable expectation by Mr G that it was likely the 
full advice would lead to a positive recommendation to transfer the benefits from his DB 
scheme.
In my view the advisers analysis during this advice stage, while admittedly not full transfer 
analysis, went further than was necessary or appropriate. And in doing so I think this led 
them to reach and express findings that werent fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
 I accept the adviser did not go as far as saying here that they recommended Mr G transfer 
out of his DB scheme and its clear that its ultimate recommendation was to proceed to full 
advice. But instead of saying that they couldnt take a view on whether it would be in Mr Gs 
best interests to transfer, they said two things at the same time, which I think it was reasonable for Mr G to think likely meant that it would be. Firstly they said that they werent 
satisfied that Mr G remaining in his DB scheme would likely meet his current and future 
expenditure and associated objectives, and at the same time they also said a transfer of his 
CETV to a personal pension could improve his current income and expenditure needs. I 
dont think this was fair and reasonable way to treat Mr G  I think it gave him a strong 
indication (ultimately a false one) that full advice would likely lead to a recommendation that 
he transfer to a personal pension arrangement.
Im mindful here that in May 2021 Highwood set out in detail the advice journey it would take 
Mr G on in giving him DB pension transfer advice, including the interaction between abridged 
and full advice. It also indicated that full advice could ultimately lead to a recommendation 
that Mr G remain in his DB scheme. Indeed this was the advice Mr G had previously 
received from Highwood a few years earlier. But given the abridged advice report was 
issued to Mr G in September 2021, so several months after the May 2021 email, together 
with the fact that in my view it contained more specific and individual analysis and 
commentary as Ive already explained, I still think Highwood went beyond what was fair and 
reasonable here and raised Mr Gs expectations that the full advice would likely be a positive 
recommendation to transfer.
Nevertheless, Im not persuaded that Highwoods wrongdoing here impacted Mr G in the 
way he describes or that it is responsible for the losses he says he experienced. 
Firstly I dont think Mr G was misled by what Highwood concluded in its abridged advice 
report to the extent that, if things had happened as they should have, he wouldnt have 
proceeded to full advice. I think it is clear from what Mr G has said and the available 
supporting evidence that it was his intention and desire to use his pension funds towards the 
funding of his investment property. So I think if Highwood had said that it wasnt clear 
whether it was in Mr Gs best interests to transfer from his DB scheme and he should 
proceed to full advice, without also leading him to believe that it would recommend he 
transfer, he would still have likely proceeded to take full advice. For this reason its not fair 
that Highwoods advice fees should be refunded to Mr G.
Secondly, I can see that Mr G has made strong representations that it was on the basis of 
what Highwood indicated here, that he took out a bridging loan because he intended to use 
his pension monies to repay it once he reached 55. Mr G says he would otherwise have 
taken out a buy-to-let mortgage, which he had to do anyway, and so has effectively had to 
finance the purchase twice, which is the fault of Highwood. But Im not persuaded by Mr Gs 
argument. Mr Gs decision to purchase the property was set out in his email of 10 May 2021, 
in which he indicated that completion was due in July or August 2021. And while this got 
delayed, Mr G did not receive Highwoods written abridged advice report until 8 September 
2021. So the timeline doesnt fit  in my view I think its more than likely than not that Mr G 
wouldve had to organise the finance to enable completion of his property purchase long 
before Highwood issued its abridged advice.
Mr G has said that Highwood told him on at least three occasions in meetings leading up to 
the abridged advice report that it would be recommending he transfer his pension.
But Ive not seen enough evidence to support what Mr G says  so I dont uphold his 
complaint on the basis that Highwoods actions led him to take out a bridging loan when he 
wouldnt otherwise have done so. 
So I dont intend to award any compensation in relation to Mr Gs lending fees.
But I do think that Highwoods failure to act fairly and reasonably towards Mr G in giving its 
abridged advice did have an impact on Mr G. Ultimately the loss of expectation, disappointment and frustration Mr G suffered materialised when Highwood delivered its 
subsequent full advice that he should remain in his DB scheme later on. But I think it stems 
from Highwoods failings as I have described above at the abridged advice stage. I 
understand that Mr G feels the impact on him has been greater. But taking everything into 
account, I agree with the investigators conclusions here  I think an award of £300 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to Mr G in this matter is fair in all the circumstances.
Full advice  Highwoods recommendation
As I said above, Mr Gs ultimate disappointment and his complaint is about Highwoods full 
advice and recommendation that he should remain in his DB scheme. So Ive considered the 
advice Highwood gave him.
Having done so, I think the conclusion reached by Highwood that transferring Mr Gs DB 
scheme benefits was not in his best interests, was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Its clear from the advice paperwork and from what Mr G has said that, given his situation at 
the time, his short-term needs appeared more pressing than his longer term needs and that 
a transfer could likely satisfy them. But Highwoods role here wasnt simply to transact what 
Mr G wanted it to do. Its role was to advise Mr G, and in doing so it had to look beyond what 
Mr G wanted and his immediate needs and make a determination of what it believed was in 
his best interests overall.
From the recommendation report Highwood produced, its clear that it believed Mr Gs 
chosen path, which was to give up a guaranteed income in retirement for the opportunity to 
leave a higher legacy to his family, make debt repayment, address immediate cashflow 
needs and to support his children with university costs, wasnt in his best interests. 
Highwoods conclusion was that Mr Gs needs were all pre-retirement or working life 
objectives rather than retirement objectives and that remaining in his DB scheme and 
drawing a scheme pension would meet those objectives without jeopardising his financial 
security. I also note that Highwood expressed concern that Mr G would be giving up a 
guaranteed pension that protected him against inflationary pressures when it appeared 
those inflationary pressures were increasing, which would likely impact on companies profits 
and therefore investment performance. They said Mr G didnt have capacity to absorb 
investment loss. I think these were fair and reasonable conclusions for Highwood to make at 
the time.
I can see that one of Mr Gs priorities was for his family to benefit from his pension. But in 
giving advice, the priority for Highwood was to make a recommendation concerning Mr Gs 
retirement provision. Thats because a pensions primary purpose is to provide an income in 
retirement  thats what it is designed for. It is not designed to be primarily used as an 
inheritance planning tool. So I dont think it was unreasonable for Highwood to place greater 
weight on Mr Gs retirement income needs over potentially higher death benefits for his 
loved ones.
And in terms of Mr Gs concerns about the insolvency of the employer of his DB scheme 
driven by a family members experience of this, Highwood said that it didnt believe this was 
a concern given the funding levels, measures to reduce the current deficit and the protection 
afforded by the Pension Protection Fund. Again, I think this was a reasonable conclusion for 
Highwood to have reached and Mr Gs concern wasnt a compelling reason to transfer.
I understand that Mr G disagrees with Highwoods advice and recommendation. But Im 
satisfied Highwoods advice was based on Mr Gs circumstances and needs at the time and 
that having considered these it deemed it wasnt in Mr Gs best interests to transfer the 
benefits from his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. I dont think Highwood acted unfairly or unreasonably here.
I can understand why Mr G might be frustrated that he had to go through Highwoods 
complete advice process before he was given the recommendation to remain in his DB 
scheme. But Im satisfied it was necessary for Highwood to proceed to full advice to 
determine why it wasnt in Mr Gs best interests to transfer. I recognise that many of the 
reasons given by Highwood as to why it wasnt in his best interests to transfer were reasons 
it ought to have known at the abridged advice stage. But importantly Highwood could only 
carry out the full transfer analysis  i.e. the Transfer Value Comparator (TVC) and the 
Appropriate Pension Transfer Analysis (APTA)  at the full advice stage. And this showed 
that Mr G would likely be worse off at his desired retirement age as a result of transferring 
his DB scheme benefits to a personal pension arrangement and exposing them to 
investment risk. I think it was important that Highwood carried this out in formulating its 
advice and determination as to why it wasnt in Mr Gs best interests to transfer out of his DB 
scheme.
I can see that Mr G would like to go ahead with the transfer of his DB pension and he wants 
Highwood to allow him to do so as originally agreed. But in this case Highwoods advice is 
that Mr G should not transfer and it stands by its advice. It has also made it clear that it will 
not facilitate the transfer on an insistent client basis. Highwood isnt under any obligation to 
do so and I cant compel Highwood to do so. Mr G is free to approach another firm if he still 
wishes to transfer his pension.
For the sake of completeness, I want to address the other points Mr G raised for my 
attention and in response to the investigators findings.
I understand that Mr G had to transfer his existing SIPP funds into cash in December 2021 
to repay the bridging loan in March 2022. Mr G says that because it was not re-invested by 
Highwood, hes lost out on possible investment growth.
It appears from the series of emails Highwood has provided from around the time in 
question, that it was Mr G who instructed Highwood to invest his SIPP in cash and that 
because he hadnt yet decided on whether he intended to retain Highwood as his adviser 
Highwood was waiting for Mr G to instruct it before taking any further action. But in any 
event, Highwood has shown that by keeping his investment in cash in the run up to Mr G 
transferring his SIPP to another provider in June 2022, hes not lost out. So I dont think it is 
necessary to consider this matter any further.
Mr G has said that because he ended up transferring his existing SIPP to another provider, 
he incurred advice fees and charges and he feels these need to be considered as part of the 
compensation for Highwoods wrongdoing. But while I appreciate that Mr G felt that because 
his relationship had broken down he had no choice but to move things away from Highwood 
this was ultimately his decision. So I will not be instructing Highwood to compensate Mr G for 
the costs he incurred here.
Finally I understand that Mr G has expressed concern about the length of time the advice 
process took with Highwood. Hes also said that it is likely the current transfer value of his 
DB pension is significantly less, which also needs to be recognised. But Highwoods advice 
was that it was not in his best interests to transfer his DB pension  so Mr G has not lost out 
as a result of any delay there might have been in the advice process. 
And just because Mr Gs CETV might now be lower doesnt mean Highwoods advice to 
retain his DB pension was unsuitable. As I have set out above, I think the conclusions 
reached by Highwood that it was not in Mr Gs best interests to transfer his DB scheme to a 
personal pension arrangement was reasonable in the circumstances. But if Mr G still wishes to pursue a transfer he is free to seek advice from another firm.
My provisional decision
For the reasons I have set out above, I intend to partly uphold this complaint and make an 
award of £300 in Mr Gs favour.
Highwood accepted my provisional decision and said it had nothing further to add at this 
stage.
Mr G disagreed. In doing so, Mr G repeated many of the arguments hes already made, so I 
havent set everything out here again. In summary, Mr G referred to two emails of 
13 February 2021 and 10 May 2021 he sent to Highwood during their interactions, which he 
says I have overlooked. Mr G says I have ignored the delays Highwood caused and he 
repeated the point about the length of time it took Highwood to produce its initial report and 
the resulting financial loss hes incurred.
Mr G says that he had to undergo a medical as part of the advice process and doesnt 
understand why he had a medical screening in September 2021 if there was no intention to 
progress the transfer of the pensions. Mr G also said that Ive not recognised the fact 
Highwood missed the transfer value expiry dates.
Mr G expressed his dissatisfaction with the advice  in particular he made the point about 
how his pension will likely be worthless to his family because he was denied the opportunity 
of transferring his pension to a SIPP. Mr G also expressed his dissatisfaction with the award 
of £300. He says he finds it strange that I could find Highwoods advice to be wrong yet the 
firm keeps their fee. He says this doesnt return him to the position he wouldve been in.
Mr G concluded by saying that Highwood missed all of the statutory deadlines when dealing 
with his complaint and says there isnt any point in having them if there arent any 
consequences.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I understand Mr G will be disappointed and Im sorry to hear about his 
health issues, Ive not been given anything new or a reason to change my mind  Ive 
reached the same overall conclusion and for the same reasons as I set out in my provisional 
decision.
It is my view that Mr G has repeated the key arguments he made at the outset and his 
response to my provisional decision simply restates his position. As such I dont think it is 
necessary for me to repeat everything. 
I can assure Mr G that I have considered all of the evidence presented to me in this 
complaint in reaching my decision. And this includes the emails he referred to in his 
response to my provisional decision. 
In terms of the delays he says Highwood caused during the advice process - as I said in my 
provisional decision, Highwoods ultimate recommendation was for Mr G not to transfer his 
pension. So Mr G has not lost out as a result of any delay there might have been in the 
advice process. Im not persuaded that the medical screening Mr G has referred to was for the pension 
transfer itself  in my view this wouldnt be necessary for this kind of transaction. I think the 
need for a medical was in relation to Highwoods advice that Mr G should consider using a 
life assurance policy to provide lump sum death benefits to his family in the first instance 
rather than using his pension. The suitability report referred to Highwood submitting an 
application for underwriting to understand the cost of providing this type of cover to meet 
Mr Gs need. So I dont think this was unnecessary in the circumstances.
As I said in my provisional decision, I understand that Mr G is unhappy with the advice he 
received from Highwood because it wasnt what he ultimately wanted. But that doesnt mean 
the advice was wrong or that Highwood should refund any advice fee. In my view the 
conclusion reached by Highwood that it wasnt in Mr Gs best interests to transfer out his DB 
scheme was reasonable in the circumstances. And while I found that Highwoods abridged 
advice went further than it ought reasonably to have done, I still think it was necessary for 
Highwood to carry out the full advice process in formulating its advice and determination as 
to why it wasnt in Mr Gs best interests to transfer out of his DB scheme to a personal 
pension arrangement. In my view it would not be fair in these circumstances for Highwood to 
refund any advice fee.
Finally Mr G has referred to Highwoods complaint handling and says it missed all of the 
deadlines. But this isnt something I can consider here  complaint handling is not a 
regulated activity. It is ultimately a matter for the regulator.
Putting things right
Highwood should pay Mr G £300 for the distress and inconvenience caused during the 
advice process.
My final decision
For the reasons above, Ive decided to partly uphold this complaint. Highwood Financial 
Services should put things right as set out above. I make no other award.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 May 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman