DRN-4436899
The complaint
Mr W, who also acts on behalf of the estate of Mrs W, is unhappy with the service he and the 
late Mrs W received from Vitality Health Limited following a claim they made on a private 
medical insurance policy.
What happened
Mr W and the late Mrs W were covered under Mr Ws employers group private medical 
insurance policy. 
Mrs W was diagnosed with terminal cancer and claimed on the policy. Since the Financial 
Ombudsman Service began to consider this complaint Mrs W has sadly died. 
Mr W complains that the advanced cancer cover Vitality says it offers is misleading. He said 
that he had to raise money via crowdfunding for Mrs Ws treatment. Mr W also complains 
that Mrs W wasnt able to utilise a benefit to visit a spa retreat and says that Vitality caused 
distress by the way they treated Mr and Mrs W.
In their final response letter Vitality highlighted that there is no cover for treatment that is not 
established medical practice in the UK. They explained that Advanced Cancer Cover has 
been named in this way because they think it covers treatment that isnt commonly available 
on other Private Medical plans, for example preventative treatment. They also thought the 
terms and conditions were detailed clearly within the plan. Vitality also said the spa retreat 
was a complimentary offer made available to cancer patients who had recovered from 
treatment for safety reasons. They apologised if their previous response appeared 
dismissive and confirmed that Mr Ws concerns had been escalated. However, they said 
there would be no changes to the relevant literature and correspondence. Mr W complained 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what happened and didnt uphold Mr Ws complaint. He didnt 
think Vitality had acted unreasonably by naming the benefit Advanced Cancer Care. And he 
thought Vitality had fairly relied on the policy terms when declining to cover some of Mrs Ws 
treatment. Whilst he didnt think it was unreasonable for Vitality not to offer the spa retreat, 
he thought Vitality should pay £150 compensation for providing misleading and incorrect 
information on several occasions.  
Mr W didnt agree. In summary, he highlighted that treatment should be appropriate to the 
most accurate diagnosis and based on the most up to date treatment at the time. He 
questioned how a new treatment became established medical practice in the UK. Mr W 
commented that a consumer might reasonably expect a treatment which wasnt available on 
the NHS, due to economies of scale, to be available through a private policy. He 
emphasised that the NICE guidelines are guidelines and that the NHS could deviate from 
them (which they did in Mrs Ws case). Finally, Mr W reiterated that Mrs Ws diagnosis, and 
cause of death, was Grade 4 Astrocytoma, not Glioblastoma Multiforme (GBM) and that the 
£150 compensation was insulting in the circumstances.         
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the outset Id like to offer my condolences to Mr W and his family. I have a great deal of 
empathy for what theyve been through and Im very sorry for their loss. 
While Ive summarised the background to this complaint and Mr Ws submissions to us, Ive 
carefully considered all thats been said and sent to us. Within my decision though, I havent 
commented on each point thats been raised and nor do our rules require me to do so. 
Instead, Ive focused on what I think are the main issues which are central to the outcome of 
this complaint.
Is the cover unfairly described as Advanced Cancer Cover?
I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for Vitality to describe the policy as Advanced 
Cancer Cover. Vitality has explained that theyve expanded this level of cover to include, for 
example, preventative treatment which historically hasnt been available. 
I fully appreciate that it would have been very disappointing that Mrs Ws treatments werent 
fully covered. But insurance policies dont cover every eventuality and are designed to cover 
specific risks. Its not uncommon for insurers to place restrictions on treatments which arent 
established medical practice and, for example, to limit cover for treatment abroad or 
experimental treatments. 
Although other insurers may have offered cover for Mrs Ws treatment it doesnt mean that 
Vitality was unreasonable when they decided not to do so. Insurers have different terms and 
conditions. They also offer cover for different benefits. There are a wide range of reasons 
why some insurers may agree to cover a condition, and others dont. So, I dont think this 
means Vitality has acted unreasonably. 
I also think the policy terms make it clear what the scope of cover is and the benefits 
available under this section of cover. So, I think Mr and Mrs W had enough information to 
decide if the policy was right for them. 
Was it unreasonable for Vitality not to offer Mrs W a spa retreat? 
The offer of a spa retreat is a complimentary benefit offered to policyholders who have 
recovered from cancer. Unfortunately, as Mrs W received a terminal diagnosis, she was not 
able to utilise this benefit. 
Vitality say that they dont offer this benefit to patients who havent recovered due to safety 
issues, particularly bearing in mind the nature of the spa environment and that cancer 
patients may have issues with immune suppression. Mr W says that he and Mrs W visited facilities offered by the same provider, using a Vitality 
discount and no concerns were raised about Mrs W attending. I appreciate that Mr and 
Mrs W chose to do that and had input from their treating team about the safety of this. 
However, that was at their own risk.
I dont think it follows that Vitalitys position to restrict this benefit to patients who have 
recovered is unreasonable. Thats a commercial decision they are entitled to make and, in 
any event, Im satisfied Vitality has provided a reasonable explanation for their decision not 
to offer this benefit to policyholders such as Mrs W. I appreciate that Mrs Ws treating team 
were happy for Mrs W to go, but I dont think that means Vitalitys restriction of the benefit 
was unfair or unreasonable. This wasnt something specific to Mrs W but something it 
applied to all policyholders in her position. 
Was it unreasonable for Vitality to decline to cover some of Mrs Ws treatment?
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly. And, they shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. 
The policy terms and conditions say there is no cover for: 
Treatment that is not established medical practice in the UK
The plan does not generally cover drugs and treatment that is not considered to be 
established medical practice in the UK, or where there is insufficient evidence of 
safety or effectiveness.
This includes drugs that are used outside the terms of their UK or European licence 
or treatment that has not been reviewed and approved for general use in the NHS.
However, we may consider a contribution towards the costs of such treatment where 
this is part of a properly controlled UK clinical trial or where we believe there is 
adequate evidence that the treatment is safe and effective. We would expect any 
treatment to be recommended by an appropriate multidisciplinary team (MDT). An 
MDT is a group of professionals from one or more clinical disciplines who together 
make decisions regarding recommended treatment of individual patients. You must 
contact us before undergoing treatment to check what we will cover.
Theres also information on Vitalitys website about Advanced Cancer Cover. It says: 
Does Vitality cover cancer drugs that havent yet been approved by NICE? 
If theres enough evidence of their effectiveness, we cover the use of new drugs or 
other treatments, even if theyve not yet been reviewed or recommended by NICE 
(The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence). However, we dont cover the 
use of drugs outside the terms of their licence in the UK; or experimental drugs with 
no evidence of effectiveness; or any treatment not considered clinically appropriate in 
the UK. 
I think Vitality has given a reasonable explanation for their decision not to authorise some of 
the treatments Mrs W sought cover for. Ill refer to the four treatments as Treatment O, 
Treatment I, Treatment D and Treatment P. Based on the evidence Ive been provided 
with Im satisfied they fairly considered the evidence available including relevant clinical 
study data. Im satisfied that their decision was reasonable, and evidence based. The evidence provided by Vitality demonstrates that Treatment I and Treatment D were not 
licensed in the UK or Europe at the time Mrs W applied for the benefit for any condition. 
Treatment P held a licence for multiple tumours but was not licensed for use for 
astrocytoma. 
Vitality didnt think that Treatment O was eligible for cover on the basis that it wasnt 
established and proven practice within the UK and wasnt recommended for use in the NHS. 
They noted the NICE guidelines had rejected the use of tumour treating fields in the UK on 
both economical and clinical efficacy grounds. However, they offered a contribution towards 
Treatment O of £20 000 on the basis of phase three clinical study data which was available. 
As Mrs W didnt utilise this benefit Vitality agreed that this contribution could be utilised 
towards other preferred treatments as a gesture of goodwill. I think that was reasonable in 
the circumstances. 
Ive considered everything that Mr W has said about treatment being appropriate and based 
on the most up to date treatment at the time. Ive also thought about his comments that a 
consumer might reasonably expect treatment which isnt covered on the NHS to be covered 
under a private policy and that the NICE guidelines are just guidelines. However, these 
comments havent changed my thoughts about the overall outcome of this complaint. 
I think the reasons Vitality have given demonstrate that they fairly considered the available 
evidence about whether the treatment was established medical treatment, safe and 
effective. I dont think that having a private medical insurance policy means that treatment 
the NHS refuses to cover ought to be paid for  I think its reasonable that there are 
parameters to that. And, in any event, I think Vitality has fairly applied the terms in this case. 
Although there is discretion to depart from the NICE guidelines, I think Vitality has given 
persuasive reasons why they chose not to in relation to the treatments they declined to 
cover. I can also see that they considered sources other than the NICE guidelines, including 
information provided by the treating team. And, as Ive outlined above, they also agreed to 
make a payment towards some of the treatment on the basis of some of the clinical evidence 
provided.  
Did Vitality provide good customer service? 
Vitality acknowledges that there were occasions where their staff used different terminology. 
They also acknowledged during a call with Mr W that Mrs W had been told that she wouldnt 
be eligible for the spa benefit yet when she had a terminal diagnosis. I can understand why 
that was very upsetting in the circumstances. It is also clear from the calls that Mr W was 
finding the communication by email frustrating and at times he was struggling to speak with 
the people he needed to. 
I think Vitality responded to Mr Ws feedback about the communication  they agreed to give 
feedback to a staff member, discussed whether a new case manager would be appropriate 
and acknowledged the importance of calling Mr W rather than emailing him. 
Vitality also escalated Mr Ws feedback about the product literature and terms to the relevant 
team. Im satisfied they appropriately acknowledged the feedback Mr W gave. However, I 
dont think it would have been reasonable to make immediate or significant changes to the 
overall product design and literature. Thats something that would have an impact on a lot of 
customers and would need careful consideration and reflection. So, I dont think Vitality 
acted unreasonably in relation to this feedback.   Taking all of the above into account I think the £150 compensation fairly reflects the distress 
and inconvenience caused by the service issues and the impact on Mr and Mrs W during a 
very difficult and challenging time. 
Putting things right
Vitality needs to put things right by paying £150 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the customer service issues. 
My final decision
Im partly upholding Mr W and the estate of Mrs Ws complaint about Vitality Health Limited 
and direct them to put things right in the way Ive outlined above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W and the 
estate of Mrs W to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2023.
 
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman