DRN-2765534
The complaint
Mr W complains that TM Advances Limited irresponsibly lent him two loans.   
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the adjudicator for these reasons:
On the evidence, I think TM Advances should have taken its checks further by 
gaining a clear understanding of Mr Ws financial circumstances at the time, I say this 
because the number of unsecured loans its credit search revealed should have been 
concerning to it. I think the searches for both loans suggest that Mr W may have had 
wider financial problems and given the term of the loans, TM Advances should have 
done more to satisfy itself that Mr W could sustain the repayments over the terms. 
Ive reviewed Mr Ws bank statements from the time of the loans to get a better 
understanding of his financial circumstances, and these suggest that Mr W was 
gambling significant amounts on a regular basis, his gambling transactions were 
eroding his £4,600 income significantly. For example, in the month before loan 2, 
Mr W spent over £10,000 on gambling transactions.
Mr W was also borrowing from several short-term high cost lenders and the pattern 
of his spending suggests that he was taking out loans to repay other loans and fund 
his gambling habit.
Proportionate checks by TM Advances would have revealed this and it would have 
been aware that the lending wasnt sustainable for Mr W and in those circumstances, 
it has lent to Mr W when it shouldnt have.
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold Mr Ws complaint.  
Putting things right
To Put things right TM Advances should:
a. Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, fees and 
charges on both loans.
b. Add 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W which were 
considered as part of above, calculated from the date of payment if they were, to the 
date of settlement
c. If TM Advances chooses, it may  use the total of a plus b to repay any principal 
which it may have written-off.
d. Pay any remaining refund to Mr W. If there is no refund left and still a balance 
outstanding made up of written-off principal, it would not be fair for you to pursue this 
further. 
e. Remove any adverse information you have recorded on Mr Ws credit file in relation 
to the loans. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires you to deduct tax from this interest. TM Advances should give 
Mr W a certificate showing how much tax youve deducted, if they ask for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2021.
 
Oyetola Oduola
Ombudsman