DRN-3475637
The complaint
Mrs A complains with the help of a representative that Allied Dunbar Assurance Plc, now 
Zurich Assurance Ltd, gave her unsuitable advice to transfer out of her Occupational 
Pension Scheme (OPS) and into a Personal Pension Plan (PPP), and that they failed to 
properly put things right.
What happened
Mrs A was advised in 1993 by Allied Dunbar (now Zurich) to transfer out of her OPS into an 
Allied Dunbar personal pension plan (PPP). 
In 1994, the regulator at the time, the Securities and Investment Board, instructed authorised 
firms to review certain pension business, including pension transfers that happened between 
29th April 1988 and 30th June 1994. This arose from the widespread mis-selling of PPPs.
In August 1997 Mrs A contacted Allied Dunbar having seen the publicity about the review 
and asked for a review of the transfer advice shed received.
A review was completed, and it was found that the advice to transfer had been unsuitable for 
Mrs A. The outcome was sent to Mrs A in October 1997. Allied Dunbar said they had 
completed the review in accordance with the guidance issued by their regulators, the 
Securities and Investment Board and the Personal Investment Authority. The review had 
revealed Mrs A had lost out as a result of being advised to transfer from her former 
employers pension scheme. Mrs A was told theyd completed a redress calculation and 
were now making her an offer. 
The letter informing Mrs A of the outcome and the offer, invited her to contact their pension 
review team if she had any queries. It appears Mrs A did raise some questions and asked for 
a copy of the calculations, which was provided. Mrs A went on to accept the offer and the 
sum of £248.60 was paid into her PPP in 1997.
In November 2021 a complaint was made to Zurich on behalf of Mrs A. The complaint 
acknowledged the suitability of the transfer had already been considered under the review in 
1997. The thrust of the complaint was that the redress previously paid did not put Mrs A in 
the position she would be in without the unsuitable advice. In particular the complaint pointed 
to a specific purported failure in the redress calculation as it was said the age of 50 had been 
incorrectly used. 
Zurich rejected the complaint. They said theyd reviewed the calculations in light of the 
complaint. Zurich told Mrs A and her representatives that their calculation at the time had 
been properly completed in-line with the factors required by the regulator at the time. As 
such the retirement age (50) shown in part of the calculations reflected was purely part of the 
factual information recorded and reflected the age selected for the PPP. Zurich confirmed 
the calculation of redress had been completed using the normal retirement age (60) for the 
scheme, as they were required to.
The complaint was referred to this service. Mrs As representatives rely on the FCA's 2017 
FG17/9 guidance. They say the FCA guidance applies "to determine appropriate redress 
upholds a complaint received after 3 August 2016 about a pension transfer between 29 April 
1988 and 30 June1994" where a firm "did not review the relevant pension transaction in 
accordance with the regulatory standards or requirements applicable for the review of the 
transaction at the time".
The investigator concluded that the calculation documents from the time demonstrated the 
normal retirement age of 60 was shown. And she was satisfied this had been incorporated 
into the calculation completed at the time of the review. There was nothing to demonstrate 
any error in the calculations as had originally been suggested on Mrs As part, and there was 
nothing that explained to her why Zurichs response wasnt agreed. A copy of the calculation 
information was sent to Mrs As representatives.
Mrs As representatives didnt accept the investigators view. They thought the original 
calculation documents which detailed the age of 60 were only showing the age that ought to 
have been used. They noted that Zurich had said the age of 50 was not the right age to use 
for the calculations.  
Mrs As representatives originally said that if an ombudsman intended to decline this case, 
they ought to be given the opportunity to provide an actuarys expert opinion. In April 2022 
Mrs As representatives told us they had decided to obtain an actuarys report, and this 
would be provided within the week. Nothing further was provided and the investigator 
contacted the representatives in May 2022. We were told the report had been delayed but 
would be provided by mid-May 2022. We have not heard from Mrs As representatives since 
then and nothing further has been provided. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I agree with the 
investigator, Im not persuaded there are grounds on which I can reasonably conclude Zurich 
ought to be required to revisit their calculation.
Under the Pension Review (both the SIB specifications and the updated FG17/9 guidance) if 
a firm has carried out a review and communicated this to the customer, it is not required to 
look at the matter again. I understand its said on Mrs As behalf that Zurich ought to be 
required to complete the calculation again and using the updated guidance, because the 
original calculation was not completed in accordance with the regulatory standards or 
requirements applicable for the review, (as they suggest the calculation was flawed) but I 
dont agree.
Zurich say they already considered Mrs As transfer in-line with their regulators guidance 
starting with Pension Transfers and Opt-Outs Review of Past Business (Statement of Policy 
on 25 October 1994) and updated by subsequent regulators. As such this means they are 
not required to revisit it. To support their position, they provided documentation from the 
time. Its not clear to me if the full calculation information was originally provided to Mrs As 
representatives, but this information was subsequently provided. It also appears to have 
been provided to Mrs A in 1997.
Based on the information provided I am satisfied the calculations for Mrs As review, applied 
the correct age (60) as part of the calculations. I dont consider there are persuasive grounds to suggest the review and calculations guidance as required at the time, were not followed. 
Ive looked with care at everything provided. I think the review most likely met the standards 
applicable at the time.
 
The pension review was designed, in general terms, to identify people who might have been 
unsuitably advised and invite them to have the relevant advice reviewed. Where a review 
was requested, this was to be completed in-line with the guidance and a calculation 
completed. 
Where loss was established, an offer in respect of redress was made and here Mrs A agreed 
to a final settlement in respect of the advice having requested further information at the time. 
As such this was intended to be a one- off exercise for Mrs A. There are only limited 
circumstances where I would look beyond that agreement. Here, I conclude Zurich carried 
out the pension review and offered appropriate compensation to Mrs A as required at the 
time by the regulator. Im not persuaded that there are grounds to require Zurich to revisit the 
matter now.
Prior to completing this decision, I considered what we were told in April and May 2022 
about Mrs As representatives seeking a report and when it was due, and the lack of contact 
since that time. There has been more than sufficient time for any report to be provided and I 
would have expected an update if this was still being sought. I also considered the full 
calculation information sufficiently clear on the application of the age of 60 and not 50. As 
such I didnt consider it was appropriate to delay completing this decision.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about Zurich Assurance Ltd.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman