DRN-1267072
The complaint
Mr G complains that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited is chasing him for a credit 
card debt that doesnt belong to him.
What happened
In early 2019 Mr G received several letters from Cabot to say it had been assigned Mr Gs 
credit card debt from a credit card company, A. In March it wrote again to Mr G to say there 
was an outstanding debt of £1,923.34 and Cabot would be responsible for helping Mr G 
manage the account and would receive future payments. 
Mr G, who lives at an address I shall refer to as DD, contacted Cabot to inform it that he 
wasnt the Mr G responsible for the debt. He said he had had the same issue in the past as 
his name and date of birth are almost identical to another person, Mr G(2) who lives close by 
at a different address, SC. 
Cabot investigated the matter and concluded that Mr G is the person who owns the debt. Mr 
G wasnt satisfied and brought his complaint to this service. He said he knows this debt 
doesnt belong to him and has informed Cabot of this on several occasions. He is unhappy 
that Cabot only relied on information from their own investigation and didnt request anything 
from him to support his claim. 
Our investigator requested information from Mr G and concluded that Cabot had made an 
error. She was satisfied that the evidence provided supported Mr Gs claim that the debt isnt 
his and the address was incorrectly linked.
Cabot rejected this view and provided additional commentary. It said Mr Gs residence at DD 
was never in question. It said the conjecture, based upon the data held, was always that it 
was likely that the SC address was the residence of  Mr Gs parents/family, and as such 
would pose little barrier to the opening and activity of the account. It went on to say that the 
credit agency data file initially used to locate Mr G shows there to have been an account 
movement from SC to DD in April 2015, regarding a revolving credit account that was still 
active.  
Our investigator sought more information and evidence including documents from Mr Gs 
mortgage provider (S) who had initially withdrawn a mortgage offer following discovery of a 
link to Mr G(2). The mortgage provider subsequently investigated and removed the link from 
Mr Gs credit file. The investigator issued a second view, still upholding Mr Gs complaint.  
She again concluded that based on the evidence presented to her Mr G(2) is linked to SC 
and Mr G is not the owner of the debt. She asked that Cabot now remove Mr G, living at DD, 
from its database and stop writing to him in relation to this debt. She also asked that it 
remove the default and any other negative entries in relation to this debt from Mr Gs credit 
file as well as paying Mr G £150 in compensation. 
Cabot again rejected the investigators view and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. It provided some additional comments and evidence which I have responded 
to below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive examined the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. If I 
dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on board and think 
about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the 
right outcome.
Mr G provided our investigator with several documents confirming his address as DD around 
the time when the credit card account opened, January 2016, going back as early as 2012. 
There is a rent statement dated 3 November 2014 to 22 February 2015. Mr G was looking at 
the option to purchase the property and there is a sales quote from the housing association 
relating to the proposed purchase of the DD property. This quote is dated March 2018 and 
addressed to Mr G. It confirms Mr Gs eligibility for a discount on the price of the property 
based on the length of his tenancy. It says for the purposes of discount your qualifying 
tenancy periods add up to eight years and 231 days. This indicates Mr G was a tenant at 
DD for some years prior to and throughout 2016. 
Mr G has provided two bank statements, number 16, dated 31 December 2015 and number 
17, dated 1 February 2016. There is also a warranty certificate for a car purchased in Mr Gs 
name at the DD address dated 9 January 2015 and a car insurance policy document dated 
12 January 2015.  
These documents are in addition to the photograph of Mr Gs picture and paper driving 
licence which has an issue date of 6 January 2012 and has Mr G at the DD address. Other 
documents relating to car finance and car insurance included in the file indicate Mr Gs 
address during 2016 as DD. The credit card statements relating to the debt being chased 
show the SC address throughout 2016. 
In addition, S released a number of documents to this service relating to Mr Gs application 
for a mortgage. His application was initially successful and then was declined when it went to 
the underwriter. This was because Mr G was linked to the SC address. Mr G provided 
evidence to S including a witnessed copy of his driving licence. S was satisfied that Mr G did 
not live at SC and agreed to remove the link. 
In response to this knowledge Cabot said it didnt feel that any evidence had been provided 
to show that its account was similar in any way to the account held by S and it did not think it 
was sufficient to state that because one company reached one conclusion this is the correct 
conclusion, especially as it had been provided evidence to show that the SC address is Mr 
Gs parents address and there are financial links between him and this address. 
I agree with Cabot that they are different types of account and of course its possible that two 
companies could reach different conclusions. But the evidence Mr G provided to S, the 
witnessed driving licence, is also relevant evidence in this complaint and supports Mr Gs 
testimony. Cabot has also said it was likely the SC address was the residence of the 
customers parents/family, and as such would pose little barrier to the opening and activity of 
the account. I havent seen any evidence to show that the SC address belongs to Mr Gs 
parents.  And its not clear to me on what basis it makes that assumption. 
Cabot has said that after reviewing the credit reference agency Es data file initially used to 
locate the customer, it shows there to have been an account movement from SC to DD on 5 
April 2015. This was regarding a revolving credit account that was still active at the address when its link was made. It said the latest data block received since still shows this to be the 
case. Cabot were not able to provide any details of this revolving account. 
I asked Cabot to explain the credit file link it was using to link SC to DD. It said E had 
evidenced an account that moved from SC to DD and that there was also a similar link with a 
second credit reference agency, which it described as a link created as a result of a financial 
movement that goes from one address to another. Cabot went on to say that both of these 
links have creation dates that far precede the Cabot address update which meant it was 
following data rather than creating it. 
In its communication to this service Cabot said there were a number of possible data 
requests it could have made to both the consumer and the vendors of the linked related 
assets that wouldve, in hindsight, strengthened any conclusion drawn.
Where evidence is missing or conflicting, its my role to decide based on the balance of 
probability, that is, Ill look at what information is available and the surrounding 
circumstances and base my decision on what I think is most likely to have occurred. Cabot 
has provided two credit reference agency data points relating to the same financial address 
movement and its possible that these form the correct link. But there is no information about 
this link. And Cabot has, by its own admission, not sought further information from any party 
to support its conclusions. 
I accept that it is possible for the link to be correct and for Mr G to be associated with the SC 
address at the same time as the DD address, as Cabot has indicated. But Im persuaded by 
the multiple documents Mr G has provided from different sources across a broad timeline 
that this is unlikely to be the case. And, although I havent relied on them to make my 
decision, Mr G also provided some social media screenshots dating back to 2011 with Mr 
G(2) discussing the confusion. This communication does support the document evidence.
So having considered this carefully I find it unlikely that Mr G is the owner of the credit card 
debt and Im satisfied that Cabot has made an error linking Mr G to the address SC.
Putting things right
Cabot must now:
remove Mr G who lives at DD from its database and stop writing to him in relation to 
this debt. 
remove the default and any other negative entries in relation to this debt from Mr Gs 
credit file.
pay Mr G £150 for the trouble and upset this has caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Maxine Sutton
Ombudsman