DRN-3568238
Complaint
G, a limited company, complains that Advanced Payment Solutions Limited (trading as 
Cashplus) didnt reimburse him after he fell victim to a scam. It is represented by its owner, 
Mr M.
Background
In June 2021, Mr M fell victim to a scam. He had been looking to buy a specialist commercial 
vehicle. He found a suitable vehicle advertised and went to inspect it in person. He was 
happy it and agreed to pay a deposit of £500. He expected to pay the balance at the time of 
collection.
He was told to expect an email from the company that had agreed to sell him the vehicle. 
One arrived with an invoice attached. It included instructions on to which Mr M needed to 
pay the balance. He followed those instructions and made two payments from his Cashplus 
account. The total value of those payments was £15,553.52. Unfortunately, that follow up 
email hadnt been sent by the seller of the van. It had been sent by a fraudster who had 
substituted their bank details for those of the legitimate seller. 
It only came to light that hed fallen victim to a scam when the intended recipient of the funds 
told him that no payment had been received into their account. Cashplus attempted to 
recover the money from the receiving account, but it had been moved on almost immediately 
and so recovery was impossible. It didnt think it needed to reimburse Mr M though. It said it 
had done everything it could to recover the funds from the receiving bank and noted that it 
had displayed a warning when Mr M was making the payment. 
Mr M was unhappy with the response from Cashplus. He referred his complaint to this 
service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. She said that the first payment 
Mr M made was for £10,000 (much larger than the typical payments from the account up 
until that point) and to a new payee. Cashplus ought to have recognised that there was a 
greater than usual risk of fraud. She thought it shouldve called Mr M to satisfy itself that he 
wasnt at risk of financial harm due to fraud. If it done so, it couldve warned him about the 
risks posed by email and invoice interception scams and he wouldve been prevented from 
transferring the total amount to a fraudster.
Cashplus disagreed with the opinion of the Investigator. It said that the payments to the 
scammer were typical of the activity on Mr Ms account. It also pointed out that this was a 
new business and higher expenditure at the outset wouldnt be particularly unusual.
Because Cashplus disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed 
to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point under the Payment Services Regulations 2017 and the terms of his 
account is that G is liable for payments its authorised. However, taking into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time, I consider Advanced Payment Solutions should fairly and 
reasonably:
- Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
- Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which payment service providers are generally more familiar with than the average 
customer. 
- In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some 
cases decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
In summary, Cashplus was expected to be on the lookout for transactions that were unusual, 
out of character or where there was clearly an enhanced risk that its customer was at risk of 
financial harm due to fraud.
I agree with the Investigator that these payments did carry a higher risk of fraud. They were 
considerably larger than any other payments that had been made from the account. While 
Mr M had only recently set up the account, there had been a steady stream of activity on it 
for the four months it had been active. The next largest payment was for £1,000  the first 
payment Mr M made to the scammer was for £10,000.
I dont think the payment shouldve been processed without an employee of the business 
first contacting with Mr M to satisfy themselves that he wasnt at risk of fraud. I accept that a 
warning was displayed during the payments process. The text of this warning was quite 
general, and I dont think it wouldve done anything to make Mr M reconsider sending the 
payment. Invoice and email interception scams such as this one are, sadly, widespread and 
Id have expected an employee of the business to identify how Mr M had received the 
account details and appropriately warn him about the risks of an email interception.
I find it very unlikely that Mr M wouldnt have verified the account details before making the 
payment. This was a significant payment for him and obtaining a suitable vehicle was 
essential for him to be able to carry out a contract hed already agreed to carry out days 
later. It seems unlikely that hed have been willing to take a risk in those circumstances. 
Final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I uphold this complaint.
Advanced Payment Solutions Limited should refund G the money it lost to the scam. It 
should also add 8% simple interest per annum to that sum calculated to run from the date 
the payment left its account until the date any settlement is paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 February 2023.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman