DRN-3062407
The complaint
Mr G complains that Equiniti Financial Services Limited (Equiniti) did not allocate him the 
shares he was entitled to following a rights issue.
What happened
Equiniti contacted Mr G on 11 September 2020 to tell him about a rights issue for shares he 
held in a company which I will refer to as A. It outlined the terms and the timetable and said 
it would send a further message when it needed his instructions. Mr G said he received a 
further message on 17 September telling him he had until midnight on 21 September to 
provide Equiniti with his instructions. Mr G wanted to clarify the offer and make it clear that 
he wanted to purchase his maximum allowance of shares, but he couldnt get through on the 
phone.
Mr G says that he purchased 2,360 shares under the offer, and he received a contract note 
which showed the overall cost to be £396.61. But he says the shares were never added to 
his account and Equiniti told him the rights had lapsed. He wants the shares credited to his 
account and for Equiniti to pay him some compensation for the distress hes been caused.
Equiniti said Mr G bought 2,360 rights on 21 September. It didnt receive any instructions 
from Mr G to purchase the new ordinary shares under the offer, so the rights on his existing 
shareholding, and the new rights hed bought, both lapsed.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He couldnt 
conclude that Equiniti had done anything wrong.
Mr G didnt agree. He said, in summary, that:
He made the first payment, but Equiniti didnt tell him when he needed to pay the second 
and third payments.
Equiniti should have known what he wanted to do, because hed made the first payment.
He cant afford to lose the first payment he made, and this has been very upsetting for 
him because of his personal circumstances.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im sorry to disappoint Mr G, but Ive come to the same conclusion as our 
investigator for the following reasons:
Mr G told us he received Equinitis message dated 17 September 2020. This said:
If you wish to subscribe for any New Shares please notify us by secure message or 
telephone no later than midnight on 21 September 2020.
I find that Mr G did not contact Equiniti. So he didnt give instructions to subscribe for new 
shares by the deadline.
Mr G says he couldnt get through to Equiniti on the phone. And whilst I appreciate this 
would have been frustrating for him, he could have given his instructions by secure 
message. And, if he had any questions, he could have used the online chat facility. I dont 
find his failure to get through to Equiniti on the phone stopped him from giving instructions by 
the deadline.
Mr G says he made a payment, but Equiniti never told him when the second and third 
payments were due. I do find theres been a misunderstanding here. The payment Mr G is 
referring to is £396.61. But this is the cost of the additional rights that he purchased in the 
market. The information Equiniti sent Mr G about the rights issue makes no mention of three 
separate payments. It told him that payment of the total cost will be collected from your 
account. It seems to me that Mr G wrongly thought he was giving instructions to take up the 
rights when what he actually did was to buy additional rights in the market. Im sorry that he 
misunderstood this. But I dont find the misunderstanding was due to a mistake by Equiniti. 
I think its communication about the rights issue was reasonably clear.
Equiniti didnt receive Mr Gs instructions to subscribe for the new shares. So his rights, 
including the ones hed purchased in the market, lapsed. I dont find that Equiniti is obliged to 
refund Mr G the cost of the rights he purchased.
I understand this has been distressing for Mr G and I thank him for sharing his personal 
circumstances with us. Ive taken this into account but, as I dont find Equiniti did anything 
wrong here, I dont find it is obliged to pay him any compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2021.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman