DRN-3031029
complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002 (card ending 8436.)  Mr S says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (BoS) mis-
sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading up to this complaint, which includes Mr S 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed. So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint. And they said that, although BoS 
says it didnt do anything wrong in relation to the commission on the policy, its made an offer 
as if it had.
Mr S representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr S. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding Mr S complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided BoS didnt need to tell Mr S about 
the commission it received - so BoS doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr S 
paid for the PPI. But in any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI, so I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. Ive summarised my reasons for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are:
I think BoS made it clear that Mr S didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it 
out. I say this because this was a sale by branch meeting  not via the internet as Mr S 
remembers  and BoS has provided a copy of Mr S credit card application from the time. 
Looking at this I can see there is a printed X in the box to indicate that Mr S wanted 
PPI.
Im mindful that the cross is printed and not handwritten  but so is the other information 
on the application. My understanding of BoS sales process at the time was that the 
application was printed by the representative at the end of the meeting reflecting the 
questions asked during the meeting. And this includes the question about whether PPI 
was required or not.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence that 
something very different happened in Mr S case, I think its likely that he chose to take 
out PPI and did so without undue pressure.
BoS says it recommended the PPI to Mr S - so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him. And the evidence about Mr S circumstances at the time, shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr S was eligible for the 
cover and he wasnt affected by the significant exclusions on or limits to the cover such 
as those for unusual employment circumstances or existing medical conditions. There 
were also no additional restrictions or requirements on making claims for back or mental 
health conditions.
Mr S told us he didnt have any means to fall back on in the form of enhanced sick pay, 
savings, or other policies to make the repayments on his credit card if he wasnt working 
- so I think he had a need for cover. Because of this I dont think it was wrong for BoS to 
have recommended PPI.
Its possible the information BoS gave Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr S as I concluded above, or too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought he was buying from the information he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr S would have declined the 
cover had BoS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr S would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could provide a 
useful benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think the policy 
was sufficiently close to what its likely he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr S representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good faith meant BoS should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But Mr S representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr Ss individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr S particular case. But 
these points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided BoS didnt need to disclose the commission it received  but in 
any event BoS has paid back some of the cost of PPI, so theres nothing more it needs to 
do. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
Mr S representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr S should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: BoS failed to tell Mr S about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr S wouldnt have taken out the policy had they 
known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the premiums he 
paid.
But in this case, BoS has told us that the commission for Mr S PPI was less than half of 
what he paid for each premium. Weve looked at how BoS has worked this out and based on 
what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission in Mr S case was less than half the cost 
of the PPI.
As thats the case, taking into account:
- the effect of section 140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin and the conclusion in that case; and
- The FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think BoS needed to tell Mr S about the commission. So it follows that I dont think the 
non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think BoS treated Mr S unfairly. 
This means BoS doesnt need to pay Mr S back any of the commission he paid for the PPI. 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipBut in any event BoS has paid back to Mr S some of the cost of the PPI to compensate Mr S 
as if it had treated him unfairly. So I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of Mr S complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax didnt need to disclose 
the commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr S paid for 
the PPI.
But Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr 
S. So Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax doesnt need to do anything more.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman