DRN-3804344
The complaint
Mrs J and Mr M complain Santander UK Plc sent statements to their old address and then 
restricted their account.
Mrs J and Mr M are represented by their daughter, Miss M.
What happened
Mrs J and Mr M hold a joint savings account with Santander. Mrs J changed her address 
with Santander in July 2021. Mr M says he went into a branch to change his address. 
Santander says it has no details of his address being changed around this time. 
Mrs J and Mr M say that several weeks after they changed their address, they were 
contacted by the people living at their old address saying theyd received a statement for 
their savings account from Santander. The people living at her previous address had opened 
the statement.  Mrs J says she complained to Santander about this. 
Santander wasnt satisfied that it was Mrs J calling to raise this complaint. So, it restricted 
both the savings account and Mrs Js sole account. This service has considered a complaint 
about the actions on Mrs Js sole account. I issued a final decision considering that particular 
complaint. So, I wont be revisiting that here. This decision will focus purely on the restricting 
of the joint account and the statements being sent to an incorrect address.   
Santander explained Mrs J and Mr M would need to visit a branch to have the account 
unblocked. Mrs J explained to Santander that she was now living abroad and in the process 
of applying for residency so couldnt return to the UK. She asked Santander to allow her to 
unblock her account another way, but Santander refused.
The complaint was referred to us by Miss M on behalf of Mrs J and Mr M. We understand 
that Mrs J and Mr M have since been able to access their funds and the address correctly 
changed. Santander has explained that whilst the address was changed for Mrs J, it wasnt 
changed for Mr M and, as he was the primary account holder, the statement for was sent to 
their old address. 
Our Investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He noted that Mrs J and Mr M 
hadnt had access to their savings account for over a year. And he thought that Santander 
shouldve provided Mrs J and Mr M with a way of unblocking their account which didnt 
involve returning to the UK. He also noted that Mrs J and Mr M wouldve been caused 
distress by knowing their statements had been sent to an incorrect address and been seeing 
by people they didnt know. Overall, he thought Santander should pay a total of £350 
compensation.
Neither Santander or Mrs J and Mr M confirmed acceptance of the Investigators opinion. 
So, its been passed to me to review and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cant know for sure whether Mr M did change his address with a Santander branch. If he 
did, then its clear Santander made a mistake in not actioning this. But, even if he didnt, I 
think Santander shouldve made it clearer when Mrs J changed her address that 
correspondence wouldve still gone to their old address until Mr M changed his address. It 
hasnt shown us that it did so. Im satisfied that, on balance, its made a mistake in this 
regard.
Moving on to the blocking of the account. I made a finding on this in my decision regarding 
Mrs Js sole account. However, Ive reconsidered that in relation to the joint account. I find 
myself coming to the same conclusions for the same reasons which Ill explain. 
Santander is required to protect its customers money. And for this reason, its entitled to 
block accounts if they think they are being used by other people.
Santander has said it thinks that there were calls made by both Mrs J and someone 
pretending to be her. Unfortunately, Santander hasnt been able to provide us with all of the 
calls regarding Mrs Js account. However, its provided some. Ive reviewed two of the calls 
that Santander has provided us with. And I agree its likely these are two separate people. Of 
course, I cant know for sure who was using the account. However, the person pretending to 
be Mrs J had access to her passcodes and other information. But wasnt able to provide 
more specific answers to questions such as details on recent transactions.
Based on this, I dont think Santander was wrong to be concerned that someone other than 
Mrs J was trying to access the account. Santander has also provided me with evidence that 
someone was accessing Mrs Js online accounts from the UK whilst at similar times using 
the debit card abroad.
During our dealings with both Mrs J and Miss M, neither has seemed particularly concerned 
by reports that someone else has been trying to access the accounts. Taking this into 
account, and having listened to the calls provided by Santander and the calls our 
Investigator had with Miss M, I think it was more likely than not that it was Miss M pretending 
to be her mother and accessing Mrs Js accounts from the UK whilst Mrs J was abroad.
I dont doubt Miss M was simply trying to assist Mrs J, and that Mrs J was aware of this 
happening. But this doesnt mean it didnt give Santander cause for concern which would 
warrant blocking Mrs Js account for security purposes. And Santanders account terms dont 
allow for the sharing of security information in this manner, even between family.
In summary, Im satisfied that Santander was entitled to block the account to protect
Mrs Js money. 
However, taking all of the above into account, it was still over a year that Mrs J and Mr M 
didnt have access to their savings account. And I do think Santander shouldve taken more 
steps to help them have their accounts unblocked without the need to return to the UK.
Im aware that access had been restored to the account. But, I think that Santander should 
pay some compensation for the distress an inconvenience caused by the address change. 
This meant a stranger recieved their bank statements which wouldve been upsetting and 
worrying to them. Santander should also pay compensation for the lack of flexibility it 
showed when Mrs J and Mr M were trying to unblock their savings account. They were trying to buy a property abroad at the time and this wouldve made things much more difficult. Ive 
also taken into account the fact that Mrs J and Mr M must bear some responsibility here for 
allowing their account to be operated outside of the terms and conditions by someone other 
than them.  
Ive thought carefully about this, and I agree with our Investigators opinion that £350 fairly 
reflects the distress and incovneience caused in this situation in relation to Mrs J and Mr Ms 
joint savings account. 
Im also aware that Santander has since closed both accounts. This is subject to a seperate 
complaint. So I wont consider this here or comment on this further.
Putting things right
Santander UK Plc should pay Mrs J and Mr M £350 for the distress and inconvenience this 
matter has caused.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Santander UK Plc to pay compensation as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 December 2022.
 
Rob Deadman
Ombudsman