DRN-2212286
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK plc (Santander) provided poor customer service as a 
result of him being unable to access his bank accounts online.
What happened
Mr M says on two occasions he was unable to access his bank account to check if direct 
debits needed cancelling to avoid his account going overdrawn. Mr M says he also tried 
telephoning Santander but was kept waiting too long. As a result, Mr M says he had to 
borrow money from friends to ensure he didnt go overdrawn causing embarrassment and 
inconvenience. 
Mr M has requested that Santander pay him a total of  £130 by way of compensation for the 
inconvenience and upset caused. 
Santander says that they have no record to show that their internet banking service was not 
available on the dates Mr M refers. Santander says that Mr M had other options available to 
him such as telephoning the bank and while he may have needed to wait for an available 
member of the team that in itself didnt justify a compensation payment. 
Mr M was unhappy with Santanders response and referred the matter to this service.
The investigator looked at the all the information available but didnt uphold the complaint. 
He felt that while there had been some inconvenience caused there was no financial loss to 
Mr M and the extent of the inconvenience wasnt reason for a compensation payment to be 
made.  
Mr M wasnt happy with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be referred to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same outcome as the investigator and I will explain how 
I have come to my decision.
I can see that it would have  been frustrating for Mr M to be unable to gain access to his 
bank accounts on line on more than one occasion and then to find he was kept on hold when 
trying to make contact by telephoning Santander to check if a direct debt was cancelled or 
not. Mr M says that as a result on both occasions in February and March 2020 this resulted 
in him borrowing money from friends and this was embarrassing and inconvenient. 
I have considered these points and when looking at the information made available to me, I 
can see that in February Mr M did have access to his account on the day in question 
although thats not to say that later in the day he may have experienced problems. I can see 
that Mr M has provided information to show that he did have error messages when logging 
into the website in March 2020. Santander have pointed out Mr M may have pasted the web 
details into his browser and this could have been a cause of logging in difficulties as they 
have no record to show their website suffered issues on the dates in question.
Mr M says he was also inconvenienced in having to wait when trying to call Santander to 
establish if a direct debit had been cancelled.  
While I can understand Mr M may have been inconvenienced on both these occasions that 
doesnt necessarily mean a compensation payment is due. We all have times when we face 
inconvenience and given the current climate with COVID 19, I would say that there is likely 
to be extra pressure put on banks telephony and online banking systems as a result. What 
happened here was Mr M took the decision to check if the direct debit payment had been 
cancelled when in fact the information provided to me shows this was already cancelled prior 
to both attempts on his part to check it was. While I understand that wouldnt perhaps have 
been known to Mr M, there was no likelihood of any financial loss to Mr M and there hasnt 
been as a result of any IT or telephony failures by Santander.  
I am satisfied, on balance, that if Mr M had waited for a while longer on the telephone his 
query would have been dealt with and I cant see that Santander can be held responsible for 
the fact he chose not to. Mr M took the decision to borrow money from his friends although it 
seems there was no necessity to do so and it follows, I cant hold Santander responsible for 
any costs he may have incurred as a result. 
As I have said not all inconvenience demand a compensation payment to put matters right 
and I dont think there is a case for that here. I know Mr M will be disappointed with my 
decision, but it follows I wont  be asking anymore of Santander. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2020.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman