DRN-3159043
The complaint
Mrs Gs representative Mr G complains that HSBC will not refund disputed transactions 
carried out on Mrs Gs account.
What happened
Mrs G had an account with HSBC. In 2018 Mrs G passed away. Mr G noticed a number of 
transactions he believes were completed without Mrs Gs consent by a family member 
Miss R. The transactions in dispute were made between 2015 and 2018 by cheque and 
telephone transfer totalling £18,561.
Mrs G lived with Miss R abroad. The HSBC account was used by Mrs G to receive her 
pension and rental income from her UK property. A year before her death Mrs G moved into 
an assisted living complex and her house in the UK was sold. 
Mr G was added as a third party on Mrs Gs account in 2007. Miss R was also added as a 
third party on the account in 2007.
After Mrs G died, Mr G looked at the account statements. He didnt think the pattern of 
spending were those of a 90-year-old, so he complained to HSBC. He thought HSBC should 
have been suspicious at the time, because of the unusual nature of the spending. 
HSBC investigated the complaint that Mr G made. They said they didnt think the 
transactions were fraudulent and they thought Mrs G had authorised them, so they didnt 
refund the estate.
Mr G was unhappy, so he complained to our service.
Mr G provided some evidence indicating Miss R had been appointed as Power of Attorney 
(POA) to Mrs G. After the sale of the UK property in January 2018, the proceeds of sale 
where forwarded to Miss Rs account which she held jointly with Mrs G. Mr G thinks that 
Miss R used the POA to instruct the solicitors to forward the proceeds of sale to the joint 
account instead of the HSBC account which was the original instruction.
Mr G and his brother have said they are in the process of pursuing Miss R though the courts 
in a foreign jurisdiction because of this.
Mr G also provided us with a report from a handwriting expert which he says shows Mrs G 
didnt authorise the cheques.
 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint she said HSBC hadnt done anything 
wrong as Mrs G most likely authorised the transactions. And there is no evidence to suggest 
that she didnt write the cheques and make the phone transfers herself.
Mr G was unhappy with the investigators view so the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have seen documents that relate to Mrs G sale of property in the UK in 2018. The 
correspondence suggest that Miss R had the proceeds of sale of the house paid into her 
own account, the amount was close to £600,000. Mr G has alleged that the documents 
necessary to arrange the transfer to Miss Rs account instead of Mrs Gs account with HSBC 
were falsified by Miss R. This is a very disturbing allegation. I understand from Mr G that 
there are court proceedings being pursued in relation to this and the Power of Attorney. 
However, these allegations are not relevant to the subject matter of the present complaint.
I appreciate that Mr G is suggesting that Miss R more likely than not was defrauding Mrs G 
of her funds. I accept that given the documents presented and what happened with the 
proceed of sale of the house something untoward may have taken place.
Despite that I need to establish if HSBC should be held liable for the transactions that were 
carried out from the HSBC account between the relevant dates.  
As Ive said I dont propose to make any comment about the sale of the UK property and the 
proceeds of that sale. HSBC were not involved in this as the proceeds did not go into 
Mrs Gs HSBC account.  So, I wont be dealing with this point. The matter is the subject of 
proceedings in another jurisdiction. 
I will be limiting my findings to the disputed cheques and telephone transfers.
HSBC is under a duty to carry out their customers instructions. This means that HSBC had 
an obligation to process the cheques and transfers that Mrs G or someone authorised by her 
requested.  HSBC can decline to process a customers instructions but the circumstances 
that allow this are very limited. HSBC would need to be concerned that a fraud was being 
committed. So, I need to consider if the bank should have stopped the transactions as 
suspicious.
Generally, HSBC can hold Mrs G liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not, she made or authorised them herself. The regulations 
relevant to this case say that to enable HSBC to hold Mrs G liable, she needs to have 
consented to the transactions. So, I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests 
its more likely than not Mrs G consented to the transfers being made. 
I am satisfied from the banks technical evidence that Mrs G was likely the signatory of the 
cheques in dispute and that the telephone transfers were made by the customer or someone 
who had all the security details at their disposal.  Mr G has suggested that Mrs G didnt sign 
the cheques and that Miss R must have forged her signature. To this effect Mr G has 
engaged the services of a handwriting expert. 
Having considered all the evidence, I think its more likely than not Mrs G consented to the 
disputed transactions. I say this because:
Mr G has said he thinks Miss R signed the cheques pretending to be Mrs G. So I 
have looked at the signature on the cheques - Mr G thinks that this isnt his mothers 
signature but looking at the signature on the cheques that were disputed and the 
signature on the mandate I cant see that there is a marked difference that would 
indicate fraudulent activity.
I have seen information provided by the bank that suggest they checked the 
signatures against the original signature and these matched.
Despite Mr G engaging the services of a handwriting expert to analyse his mothers 
signature the evidence was inconclusive. This together with the evidence of the bank regarding the signatures leads me to conclude that the cheques were most likely 
signed by Mrs G and not by Miss R impersonating Mrs G.
Looking at the statements Mrs G would regularly write cheques to Miss R so I dont 
think the bank would have spotted the transactions as out of the ordinary.
The number of cheques that have been queried are written over a period of 5 years 
and arent excessive in amount - so I can see how this wasnt queried by the bank.
Some of the transactions disputed were telephone transfers. Unfortunately, the bank 
no longer has copies of the calls, but I have seen a note by the bank that suggests 
the phone calls were voice matched to the genuine customer.  
Miss R was a third party on the account  this means she could use the account in 
the same way as Mrs G did.
I cant see that the bank did anything wrong in allowing these cheques and transfers to go 
through.  There was no suspicion about the signature or the telephone transfers. And the 
amounts were not so large as to suggest anything untoward.
Because of the age of the case I havent been able to see statements belonging to the 
period before Mrs G lived abroad with Miss R. But I have seen statements from 2013 to 
2018 and I cant see that anything arouses suspicion here. I appreciate that cheques were 
being written, but as the amount were rarely over £2,000, I dont think that HSBC would have 
queried this. There is nothing in the evidence to suggest that HSBC were informed of Mrs G 
being vulnerable and indeed there is nothing to suggest that she was.
Taking all this into consideration I dont think that HSBC should be held liable for the 
disputed transactions because I think its more likely that Mrs G authorised these. It follows I 
wont be asking HSBC to do anything here. 
I appreciate that Mr G will be unhappy with my decision. I appreciate the situation he is going 
through is stressful and he is trying to find out what happened to his mother during the last 
few years of her life. But I dont think HSBC should be held liable for what happened to 
Mrs G.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman