DRN-2599585
The complaint
Mr E complains about the way Soteria Insurance Limited trading as The Co-operative 
Insurance (Soteria) handled claims under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
The background circumstances are known to the parties, so I wont rehearse all the details. 
In summary, Mr Es car was damaged in two accidents and two claims arose, the main 
issues are as follows;
- Lack of choice over which garage would repair the car; courtesy / hire car problems
- Standard of repairs to the car
- Problems cashing a cheque issued to Mr E
- Communication, delays and no individual handler was assigned to the claim, so Mr E 
had to repeat himself every time
- The policy was cancelled unfairly
Our investigator didnt think Soteria had done much wrong at all  he did think 
communication should have been clearer. He said Soteria had accepted several points it 
could have been clearer on, and this he felt would have managed Mr Es expectations better. 
He felt Soteria should pay an additional amount of £200 compensation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I will use the points identified above, and which I consider to be the main issues, as ones 
necessary in determining an outcome that I consider fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. Although I wont comment on every issue Mr E has raised thats not because 
I havent considered them, or any discourtesy, its because theyre not material to the 
outcome I consider to be fair and reasonable.
- Lack of choice over which garage would repair the car; courtesy / hire car problems
Im satisfied Mr E was given enough information about the repairing garage. His options 
were made apparent, but he voiced reticence about the approved repairer given previous 
dealings. And he was told that if he didnt use an approved repairer then he wouldnt benefit 
from a courtesy car. This is in line with what the policy says about circumstances when hed 
benefit from the use of a courtesy car. The hire car matter is something Mr E has been 
referred to the provider and thats not something we can look at in this complaint.
-Standard of repairs to the car
The main aspects of this relate to the bonnet and alloy wheel. 
Regarding the bonnet, the issue concerned alignment issues. The question though is 
whether that was caused in the accident claimed or by the repairer who dealt with repairs. 
From the initial inspection report (done from images) its noted that impact was light. And 
the repairers who carried out repairs were of the view that the alignment issues were not 
related to the accident as described but by previous repairs done poorly. Soterias repairer 
carried out some adjustments to make alignment better but only as a gesture given the 
alignment wasnt considered to be claim related. 
Im not persuaded the impact as reported caused alignment issues. Ive accepted there are 
issues but not that theyre related to the claim or actions of the approved repairer. And in 
these circumstances the policy clearly doesnt cover the repair.
There were some delays in accepting the alloy wheel damage, but that was understandable 
in the circumstances as they were potentially an undisclosed modification. Authorisation 
eventually came and so Im not persuaded theres anymore for Soteria to do.
-Problems cashing a cheque issued to Mr E
Cheques are valid for six months from date of issue  if Mr E has had problems and the 
cheque is out of date and uncashed, he can return to Soteria and ask for it to be re-issued. 
-Communication, delays and no individual handler was assigned Mr E had to repeat 
himself every time
How an insurer sets itself up to handle claims is a matter for it. It must though be mindful of 
its duties which include handling a claim promptly and fairly. The fact that Soterias process 
is not to have an assigned handler is a matter for it. Mr Es outlined in detail to Soteria the 
problems hes faced and his unhappiness at having to repeat himself regularly. Soteria has 
accepted some of its communication was poor and led to delays (including Mr E being told 
the alignment issue wasnt considered claim related; misleading information about what was 
said about the approved repairer; an error in how an engineer had been instructed and the 
wrong registration given). It made an offer for £150 compensation, but I agree an additional 
£200 fairly reflects the distress and inconvenience caused to Mr E. Ill comment more about 
this in the next section.
-The policy was cancelled unfairly
Soteria cancelled the policy based on a policy term that permits this where Mr E behaves in 
a threatening, abusive or inappropriate manner towards its staff, representatives or 
providers. And where it does this it will provide a percentage refund based on the period left 
except for where a claim has been made.
Mr E is aware of the telephone call that led to Soteria cancelling his policy. He disagrees 
with how the call should be perceived. Ive listened to the call and its very clear that he 
wasnt prepared to give the representative a chance to speak and continually spoke over 
her. The representative said many times she wanted to help Mr E, but his approach was to 
repeatedly talk over her, and she eventually had to come off the call as a manager took over. 
This isnt the only call Mr E conducted himself in such a way. Indeed, even when a manager 
spoke to him, they had to adopt a robust approach and tone to be heard, warning that the 
call would be terminated if Mr E continued his unhelpful and inappropriate conduct. And 
there are other calls where Mr E took a similar approach. While Mr E was a customer of 
Soteria he doesnt have a right to treat staff unreasonably whether he agreed with its 
process or not. Because of this Im satisfied Soteria was entitled to cancel the policy and did so fairly. As Mr E had made two claims no refund was due.
Putting things right
Soteria must pay Mr E an additional £200 compensation.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 June 2021.
 
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman