DRN-3798714
The complaint
Mr J is unhappy with how Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, managed his switching 
application for a reward account and its subsequent actions.  
What happened
Mr Js application for a reward account was declined. He was given conflicting information as 
to why this was, and feels it wasnt investigated properly. Mr J also says Halifax failed to 
respond to his DSAR (data subject access request) and he says his complaint about these 
issues was not handled well. After he brought his complaint to us Halifax accepted its 
service fell short of what Mr J was entitled to expect and offered £150 compensation.
Our investigator felt this was a fair settlement. She said Halifax could not now say with 
certainty why Mr Js application declined but it seems it may have been because he has an 
old Halifax account with a nominal balance. But it was not, as it first said, due to missed 
payments on his credit card account. She accepted there were times Mr J had to chase the 
bank for a response, and that his DSAR had still not been fulfilled.
Mr J disagreed with this assessment. He asked for an ombudsmans review saying this offer 
does not nearly recognise the time he has spent on this and the number of calls he has had 
to make, or the number of times promised call backs did not happen. He should not have 
had to chase the bank; it should not have ignored his request for the DSAR. He asked if we 
think Halifaxs complaints process is acceptable. He also asked that the old account be 
closed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read and carefully considered everything Mr Js sent us when looking at his complaint. 
Its clear Mr J has spent many hours trying to resolve things. And Id like to thank Mr J for 
providing the medical evidence that gives information about his circumstances and health. I 
am sorry he is suffering in this way.  If I havent directly mentioned something thats 
happened or responded to each point raised it isnt because I havent considered it. I have. 
But in line with our role as a quick and informal dispute resolution service, and as our rules 
allow, I am focusing here on the key issues that I find to be material to the outcome of this 
complaint. 
I am upholding Mr Js complaint, but I agree a £150 compensation payment is appropriate. 
Ill explain why.
When Mr J applied for the reward account on 14 December 2021, to benefit from a switching 
incentive of £125, he was instead offered a basic account. He was incorrectly told the 
downgrade was due to the status of his credit card account. I can also see the application 
process wasnt efficient for him as he started online but there were technical problems, and 
when he tried to call in he was cut off. 
Mr J complained about this and a final response letter was issued. Unhappy with the 
explanation in the letter about the downgrade, Mr J contacted Halifax many times by email 
and phone to follow up. I can see the bank was not responsive. This was not acceptable, 
and whilst Halifax has acknowledged this, I cannot see it has apologised to Mr J. Mr J asked 
which calls had been listened to but I am satisfied from the contact notes, and Halifaxs own 
admission, that the service fell far short of what Mr J is entitled to expect. Our rules (DISP 
3.5.8) allow the ombudsman to define what evidence should be required and reviewed.
I know Mr J wanted a better explanation as to why he was declined for the reward account, 
and the bank has been unable at this stage to give a certain reason, other than to say it was 
most likely because of an old unused account that Mr J had. I can see this must be 
frustrating, but I have no more certain information I can provide to him. And we would not 
interfere in the banks application policies  who to accept onto what product is its 
commercial decision. I also note Mr J made another switching request through another of the 
banks brands that was accepted in June 2022 and he successfully received a £125 
incentive, so it seems plausible it was the old Halifax account that was the problem here.
So, overall, I agree there were problems with inaccurate information after his application, 
and then unresponsive service when he tried to follow up on what had happened. However, I 
find £150 compensation to be reasonable in the circumstances, taking into account the 
duration and impact of the issue. Mr J has translated this into a pro-rata payment for the 
hours he has spent on this issue but that isnt how we approach the awards we make. I note 
the investigator previously sent a link to the section on our website that sets out our 
approach in more detail. And this award is in line with our approach.
Mr J asked if we are happy with Halifaxs complaint handling. But there is a difference 
between a complaint about a financial service and a complaint about how a firm has handled 
a complaint. I can only look at the former. Mr Js concerns about how Halifax responded to 
his complaint is not a complaint about Halifaxs provision of or failure to provide a financial 
service  its distinctly about complaint handling.  And under our rules I cannot consider 
complaint handling.  
Halifax also failed to respond to Mr Js DSAR. It confirmed to our investigator on 25 
November 2022 that this was now in progress but if Mr J wishes to make a complaint about 
the delay he should contact the Information Commissioners Office (www.ico.org.uk).
Finally, Mr J asked if we could tell Halifax to close his old account. He would need to do this 
and I note he cannot easily visit a branch  but he can send his request in writing to Halifax 
Account Closure Team, PO Box 548, Leeds LS1 1WU. He should include the sort code and 
account number of the account to be closed; give clear instructions on whether the funds are 
to be transferred to another account (include details), or be returned by cheque; ensure the 
letter is signed and allow a minimum of five working days from the date the letter is posted 
for a transfer or ten working days if the money is to be sent by cheque. 
Putting things right
Halifax must pay Mr J £150 compensation and send a letter of apology to recognise its 
provision of incorrect information and the trouble and inconvenience its service caused Mr J.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Js complaint. Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, must put things 
right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2023.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman