DRN-1672475
 
The complaint
Mrs H has complained that she was mis-sold a critical illness policy by an advisor at Lloyds 
Bank PLC.
What happened
Mrs H took out an 18 year decreasing term Homecover life assurance plan, with living cover 
(critical illness cover), in April 1997. The sum assured was £23,622. The policy was 
attached to Mrs Hs mortgage, which had been taken out in 1995. The policy was arranged 
through a Lloyds advisor and underwritten through a third party insurer. Mrs H met with the 
Lloyds advisor in branch prior to taking out the policy. Mrs H cancelled an existing life 
assurance policy, taken out in 1995, and replaced it with this policy.  
Mrs H took out a second decreasing term Homecover plan, with critical illness, in May 1998. 
The sum assured was £10,700 and was for a term of five years. Mrs H had received a 
further advance on her mortgage and took out this second policy to ensure the entire 
mortgage was protected. 
Mrs H complained to Lloyds in 2019. She said she felt pressured to cancel her existing life 
assurance policy and to take out a new policy with critical illness cover. She said she didnt 
want or need this cover and felt she had to accept the advisors recommendations. 
Lloyds responded and said Mrs H met with the same Lloyds advisor to discuss her 
protection needs in both 1997 and 1998, when she was in the process of receiving a further 
advance on her mortgage. To meet these needs, the advisor recommended a decreasing 
Homecover plan with critical illness on both occasions. Lloyds said Mrs H accepted both 
policies and, in 1997, she cancelled her existing life cover. Lloyds said Mrs H signed 
documents on both occasions to show she understood she was under no obligation to 
accept any recommendations made. 
Lloyds said Mrs Hs cancellation rights were explained to her at both meetings, so she was 
given the opportunity to review the documents at her own leisure to decide if they really met 
her financial needs. If not, they could have been cancelled during the cooling off period. 
Lloyds said the critical illness benefit would have provided a lump sum if Mrs H had suffered 
a specified critical illness. It said Mrs H mentioned having sickness benefits through her 
employer but Lloyds said employment circumstances can change and employment benefits 
can cease. It said this type of cover cannot be regarded as permanent or stable for financial 
planning purposes. 
Mrs H was unhappy with the response from Lloyds and complained to this service. She said 
Lloyds didnt take into account that she had a monthly pension and death in service benefits. 
Mrs H also said her employer provided full sick pay for six months. In addition, Mrs H said 
she had the support of her parents and a small maintenance payment from her ex-husband. 
Mrs H said she told the advisor she didnt want and couldnt afford the new policy. Mrs H 
asked for all policy premiums to be refunded.  
When Mrs H complained to this service she said she was also unhappy about a family 
income benefit (FIB) policy that had been arranged at the same time as the Homecover 
policy. When this service contacted Lloyds, it said Mrs H hadnt yet complained to it about 
the FIB policy. It said it would look into the complaint and issue a second final response 
letter to Mrs H. Mrs H hasnt referred that complaint back to this service and so this decision 
deals only with the Homecover policies taken out in 1997 and 1998. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said the documents completed at the time 
the policies were sold show the advisor took Mrs Hs employers sick pay, her maintenance 
payments and pension into consideration. She looked at what Mrs H said about feeling 
pressured at the time the policy was taken out. However, she said the declaration on the 
suitability report for both policies was signed, confirming that Mrs H knew she was under no 
obligation to accept any of the recommendations made. 
Our investigator also said Mrs H opted to take out the second policy in 1998 through the 
same Lloyds advisor. Our investigator concluded that Lloyds didnt mis-sell these policies to 
Mrs H. She said when the policies were initially taken out, Mrs Hs objectives were to obtain 
financial protection for an unknown future risk. The type of policies recommend to her at the 
time were in line with her objectives to cover her mortgage and to provide financial provision 
for her son. 
Mrs H disagreed with our investigators assessment. She said she was vulnerable at that 
point in time and felt she had to agree to take out the policy in order to get a mortgage. She 
said shed originally applied to another bank for a mortgage and this had been turned down. 
She was in a difficult financial situation and was very concerned that this mortgage might 
also be turned down. Mrs H also felt the advisor was a forceful man who used scare tactics 
by outlining all the different critical illnesses that the policy provided coverage for. Mrs H said 
she was scared to cancel the policy. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint. I should emphasise that while Ive 
taken note of all the arguments and comments made, Ive limited my response to the issues 
I consider to be central to this complaint. That is to say, whether the critical illness cover was 
mis-sold to Mrs H in both 1997 and 1998, because Mrs H didnt want the policy and felt 
pressured into taking it out. 
When an advisor provides advice to a consumer, its usual for the advisor to complete a 
number of documents to show theyve looked at the consumers wants and needs. In this 
case, these documents date from over twenty years ago and are less comprehensive than 
we might expect them to be now. Nonetheless, the relevant documents were completed and 
they provide us with some information about what was discussed and why the particular 
recommendations were made. 
I can see these documents show Mrs H let the advisor know she had the benefit of 
employment related sickness cover and Mrs H told the advisor of any existing debts. 
Personal and income details were also taken. The advisor looked at whether Mrs Hs 
mortgage was covered in all circumstances, including death and serious illness and Mrs Hs 
budget was taken into consideration. 
Mrs H said she had adequate sickness benefits through her employer and so didnt need the 
critical illness policy. Mrs H says Lloyds didnt take this into account. But thats not the case. 
Mrs Hs employment benefits are detailed in the documents.   From what I can see, the recommendations made by the advisor in relation to critical illness 
cover were reasonable. The Homecover plan ensured Mrs Hs mortgage would be paid off in 
the event of her death or in the event of her getting a specified critical illness, so Im satisfied 
that the products recommended met Mrs Hs needs at the time. 
Mrs H also had the full benefit of the cover provided by these policies while they were in 
force. If Mrs H had needed to make a claim then, subject to her meeting the relevant criteria, 
the claim would have been payable. So these policies provided the cover Mrs H was told 
they provided. 
But Mrs H said she felt pressured to take out the policies and was concerned she might 
otherwise not get a mortgage. Whether or not Mrs H was pressured is not something that 
could be gleaned from the documents. I wasnt party to any of the conversations between 
Mrs H and the advisor and so I have to look at all of the evidence provided and decide 
whats most likely to have happened, on the balance of probabilities. 
When Mrs H responded to our investigators assessment, she said that just before speaking 
to Lloyds, she was turned down by another bank for a mortgage. She said this made her 
really very nervous of being turned down again. She said her family and financial situation 
was difficult and it was important for her to get a mortgage. 
So, from what Mrs H has said, she was experiencing some apprehension, prior to meeting 
the advisor, about the possibility of being turned down again and she was eager for this not 
to happen. So I think its fair to say that at least some of the pressure Mrs H was 
experiencing was because of her own concerns about her difficult situation and her 
eagerness to get this resolved.
I can see that Mrs H signed declarations in 1997 and 1998 saying that she understood she 
didnt have to follow the advisors recommendations. And Mrs H was also given the 
opportunity to consider the suitability of these policies away from the advisor. So if she 
hadnt wanted to follow the advisors recommendations, she could have cancelled the 
policies during the cooling off period. 
When Mrs H took out a further mortgage advance in 1998, she went back to the same 
advisor to discuss her protection needs. I can see why Mrs H would want to get the further 
advance from Lloyds, as she already had a mortgage with them and had difficulty getting a 
mortgage elsewhere. But I think if she had felt dissatisfied and pressured when she first saw 
the advisor, then its likely she would have asked to see a different advisor. 
To sum up, its always going to be difficult to say with certainty if someone was pressured, or 
not, into taking out a policy, in particular when such a lengthy period of time has passed. But 
Im satisfied, having looked at the information available, that Mrs H was provided with 
policies that were in line with her needs at the time; that Mrs H didnt cancel these policies; 
that they provided her with appropriate cover while they were in force; and that Mrs H signed 
documents to indicate she knew she didnt have to follow the advisors recommendations 
and was given a cooling off period when she could have cancelled the policies. So I cant 
see that Lloyds have acted unfairly towards Mrs H in 1997 and 1998 and I wont be asking it 
to take any further action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2020.
 
Martina Ryan
Ombudsman