DRN-3073246
The complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC was irresponsible in its lending to him.
What happened
Mr M was issued with a credit card by Lloyds with a credit limit of £3,200. He says at the 
time his credit file would have shown he had several other credit cards all at their limits, a 
mortgage and other loans. He says he has little money left over after paying his debts and 
his debts are causing him stress.
Lloyds says that Mr M applied for a credit card on 26 June 2019 and that based on his 
income and expenses information it was satisfied a credit limit of £3,200 was affordable for 
him. It says before it provides lending it uses its credit decisioning system which takes 
information from the credit reference agencies and applies an internal score. If this is of a 
certain level then the lending is approved. It didnt accept that it had done anything wrong in 
providing credit to Mr M.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He said that the credit check carried out before 
the credit card was provided didnt raise concerns that he thought meant the lending 
shouldnt have been provided. He noted the income and expenses information Mr M 
provided and thought the checks carried out were proportionate.
Mr M didnt agree with our investigators view. He reiterated that he had outstanding credit 
commitments at the time and said his credit score was below 500. He says that he shouldnt 
have been given any further credit at that time.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, when considering complaints about irresponsible lending I 
need to consider whether the checks carried out before the lending was provided were 
reasonable and proportionate and, based on these, whether the lending was sustainably 
affordable.
Mr M has said that given his other financial commitments at the time he applied for the credit 
card, he shouldnt have been provided with credit card with a £3,200 limit. I have looked at 
the information that was gathered before the credit card was provided and credit limit set. I 
can see Mr M declared an annual income of £40,000 and monthly mortgage payments of 
£580. Mr M was required to provide accurate information about his income and expenses 
and having looked at his bank statements from the time, this information seems accurate.
Lloyds has also explained that it has its own credit scoring system which uses information 
from the credit reference agencies. I have looked at Mr Ms credit file and I can see that at 
the time of his application he had other loans outstanding as well as other credit cards. I note 
he then took out further borrowing around the time of his application, but this is unlikely to 
have appeared on the credit check at that time. Based on what I think would have been 
available at the time of the credit check, I do not think that this would have meant that the 
lending shouldnt have been provided. 
Overall, I do not find I have enough to say that Lloyds Bank PLC was wrong to provide Mr M 
with the credit card and so I do not uphold this complaint. As Mr M has explained he is 
struggling financially, Lloyds should treat him sympathetically and positively in its ongoing 
communication with him. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman