DRN-3942350
The complaint
Mr W complains that Fortegra Europe Insurance Company Ltd (FEIC) wont repair his car 
under his insurance cover with them.
What happened
In July 2021 Mr W took out cosmetic accident repair insurance with FEIC. He said he 
purchased the insurance when he acquired his car and was told the insurance would cover 
minor scratches. In April 2022 Mr W said his car was hit on the right side by a motorcycle 
whilst he was driving around a roundabout. But in May 2022 Mr W said when he made a 
claim against the insurance policy he was told that the damage wasnt considered to be 
minor and so didnt fall under the scope of his insurance policy.
Mr W didnt agree as he said the damage was minor. FEIC said as the bumper was 
displaced it wasnt possible for their mobile technician to repair. But they would contribute up 
to the policy benefit of £150 per claim towards any repairs that Mr W had done. And as Mr W 
had made three claims they would contribute £450. Mr W responded by saying he would 
only look to make a claim for the damage to the wing of his car, but as hed been quoted 
£440 he asked FEIC to make up the shortfall. FEIC said the damage to the wing couldnt be 
repaired by them but they would contribute £150 towards the repair in line with Mr Ws 
policy, they considered the other two repair claims as closed. Mr W complained to FEIC.
FEIC said the offside front wing had been pushed in, the wheel arch moulding had come 
away and the bumper was out of alignment so Mr Ws car needed to be repaired in a body 
shop and couldnt be repaired by their mobile technician. They again offered to contribute 
the policy benefit of £150 towards the repair. 
Mr W referred his complaint to us as he said FEIC hadnt been clear about their services 
when the insurance policy was purchased. 
Our investigator said Mr W had been provided with FEICs terms and conditions and theyd 
acted fairly and reasonably in applying those terms to his claim.
Mr W didnt agree he said the terms hadnt been made clear to him so he wanted the 
insurance policy terminated with a full refund. He asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Mr W will be disappointed by my decision, while I empathise with the position he finds 
himself in, for me to say FEIC must do something different I must first be satisfied that 
theyve done something wrong. I cant see that they have here which is why I wont be 
asking them to do anything else. Ill explain why.
Mr W said that FEIC hadnt been clear as to the terms and conditions of the insurance 
policy. But from Mr Ws testimony I can see his understanding when he took out the policy 
was that it was a cosmetic insurance policy for minor repairs. 
Ive considered the policy documents Mr W has sent to us. These say that the insurance is 
to cover minor damage and that Mr Ws motor insurance wouldnt be affected. The terms 
and conditions go on to explain that if the damage cant be repaired using FEICs repair 
techniques but the damage falls within the conditions of the policy that they would contribute 
up to £150 per claim towards the body shop repair.
The terms and conditions give examples of minor damage: Minor damage means chip, 
minor dent, light scratch and/or scuffed bumper
And defines what is a minor dent, light scratch and scuffed bumper. Light scratch: a scratch 
not more than 30cm in length and 3mm in depth that doesnt cross more than 2 body panels. 
Scuffed Bumper means a scuffed or dented area on the bumper not more than 30cm in 
diameter, 3mm in depth and where the bumper is not distorted, perforated or cracked
FEIC said their repairers assessed the damage and decided the repair couldnt be done 
using their CARS Plus repair techniques as it needed to be repaired in a body shop, but 
offered a contribution up £150 in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr W sent photographic evidence of the damage caused to his car, having looked at this I 
can see that the wheel arching has come away and that the wing has been pushed in.
I know Mr W thinks the damage is minor and should be covered under the policy but hes 
said hes been quoted £440 for the damage to be repaired which I think shows the damage 
isnt just cosmetic. 
So, I think FEIC applied their terms and conditions fairly and reasonably in how they looked 
to settle Mr Ws claim. And I havent seen any evidence that shows the policy was unclear or 
offered anything other than cover for minor cosmetic repair.My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman