DRN-3864961
The complaint
Mr J complains about the way Santander UK Plc handled transfers he tried to make. 
What happened
On 2 March 2022 Mr J instructed an online international transfer for £50,000, to be 
exchanged into euros. The payment was picked up by Santanders fraud prevention systems 
for further checks and Mr Js online banking facility was temporarily blocked. Mr J spoke with 
Santander and it advised the payment was subject to a fraud review. 
Mr Js online banking was unblocked and in the early hours of 3 March 2022 he attempted 
another transfer and exchange, this time for £10,000. This transaction was also picked up for 
a fraud review. The online banking block was later removed by Santander.
Mr J also set up a payment for £8,000 to a foreign exchange company which led to his 
online banking facility being blocked again. Santander later declined the £8,000 transfer. 
Mr J spoke with Santander on various occasions. At around 15:50 on 3 March 2022 Mr J 
asked an agent to cancel both the £50,000 and £10,000 transfers. The agent Mr J spoke 
with agreed to email the International Payments team but advised he couldnt guarantee the 
transfers would be cancelled if theyd already been processed. 
Santander has supplied systems evidence that shows the fraud review for the £50,000 
transfer was completed at around 14:45 on 3 March 2022 and processed. The funds were 
converted to euros and sent to the beneficiary bank. The systems evidence shows the 
£10,000 transfer hadnt been processed and was cancelled in line with the agents email. 
Santander says the beneficiary bank sent the euros back on the basis the account 
identifying information was invalid.
Santander converted the euros it received back into sterling and paid the funds back into his 
account. But because of changes in foreign exchange rates Mr J received around £2,100 
less back. 
Mr J complained to Santander and it issued two responses. Santander advised that when 
Mr J spoke with the agent on 3 March 2022 and asked to cancel both transfers it was too 
late to stop the £50,000 transfer completing. Santander said the difference was caused by 
exchange rate changes and fees involved. Santander didnt uphold Mr Js complaint or offer 
to cover the difference between the original transfer amount and funds Mr J received back. 
But Santander says it offered Mr J £75 as a gesture of goodwill. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Js complaint. They thought Santander had dealt 
with Mr Js case fairly and didnt ask it to take further action. Mr J asked to appeal and said 
he was advised the transfers would not be processed and should be resubmitted. Mr J also 
said the back office teams had an obligation to contact him before processing the transfers. 
As Mr J asked to appeal, his complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware Ive summarised the events surrounding this complaint in less detail than the 
parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by my approach which reflects the informal 
nature of this service. I want to ensure all parties Ive read and considered everything on file. 
Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every point raised to fairly reach my decision. And if 
I dont comment on something, its not because I havent considered it. Its because Ive 
focused on what I think are the key issues. My approach is in line with the rules we operate 
under. 
It's clear from the information available that Mr J was proactive in contacting Santander after 
his initial transfer was held for checks. Ive listened to Mr Js calls with Santander and can 
hear he wanted to complete the transfer for business purposes and that it was important to 
process it without delay. When Mr J initially spoke with agents at Santander he was advised 
the transfer had been picked up for further checks. Some scams and fraud information was 
checked with Mr J and he confirmed the transfer was genuine. The agent then advised that a 
back office team would review the transfer and, if approved, it would be sent to the 
International Payments team for processing. The agent advised that if the payment was 
approved for processing, Mr Js online banking facility would be unblocked. 
In response to the investigator, Mr J said he was told the transfer would not be processed 
and he would need to submit it again. But thats not what I heard during Mr Js calls with 
Santander. The agent Mr J spoke with discussed the transaction with him and advised it 
couldnt be approved immediately. The agent said the transfer would be reviewed by the 
back office team and that it would need to be sent for manual approval. I didnt hear the 
agent advise Mr J to resubmit the transfer request when his online banking facility was 
unblocked.
Mr J has queried why no one from the back office or payments teams contacted him about 
the payment before approving it. But Mr J called Santander before it made contact with him. 
Santander talked to Mr J about the intended transfer, checked fraud and scam information 
with him and advised the transaction would be referred to the relevant back office team for 
review. The agent didnt advise Mr J that another call had to be completed in order to 
approve the transfer. Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I havent been persuaded Santander 
gave unclear information about the £50,000 transfer or how it would be processed. 
When the online banking facility was restored, Mr J attempted another transfer. The transfer, 
for £10,000, was again picked up by Santanders systems for further checks and Mr J spoke 
with Santander on 3 March 2022. At around 15:50 Mr J asked the agent to cancel both the 
£50,000 and £10,000 transfers. The agent explained theyd email the International Payments 
team to request the cancellation of both transfers but couldnt give a guarantee they wouldnt 
be sent. The email was sent but the £50,000 transfer had been processed at around 14:45 
on 3 March 2022, before Mr J called and asked to cancel it. The £10,000 transfer hadnt 
been processed and was cancelled as requested. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I havent found anything that shows Santander made a 
mistake when processing the £50,000 transfer. By the time Mr J spoke with it on 3 March 
2022 the payment had already been manually processed and approved. At that point, it was 
too late to cancel the transfer so it was converted to euros and sent. I know Mr J attempted another transfer, this time for £8,000, to another business. But the 
transfer didnt go through due to the available balance in Mr Js account. I havent seen 
anything that shows the transfer was incorrectly declined by Santander. 
The main transfer was ultimately returned to Santander by the beneficiary bank with a 
message that it contained invalid account identifying information. Weve been back to 
Santander on this point and its confirmed the payment was rejected by the beneficiary and 
sent back without its involvement on the basis it couldnt identify Mr Js account. Mr Js told 
us he included the right details within the instruction. But Im satisfied the transfer was 
returned to Santander by the beneficiary bank as claimed. 
Once the funds were sent back by the receiving bank, they were converted back into sterling 
at the prevailing rate on the day. I know that led to a loss for Mr J and I understand why hes 
upset. But I havent seen evidence that shows Santanders actions led to the payment being 
returned by the beneficiary bank. And as Mr Js account with Santander is in sterling, it had 
to convert the funds again in order to deposit them. I havent been persuaded that Santander 
made a mistake.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but as Im satisfied Santander dealt with his complaint fairly Im 
not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2023.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman