DRN-3689052
The complaint
Mr Ws complaint is about a claim he made on his Covea Insurance plc commercial trade 
insurance policy, which was declined.
Mr W says that Covea acted unfairly. He is helped by a representative on this complaint but 
for ease of reading I shall refer to all submissions made on his behalf as being his own.
What happened
In October 2021 Mr W made a claim on his Covea public liability insurance policy for help 
with some work his business had carried out for a customer earlier that year. Mr Ws 
business had installed a pump station for storm and foul water. The tank installed 
subsequently imploded. It was believed that this was because it was laid on pea gravel 
rather than a concrete base. Because of this Mr W looked to Covea to cover the cost of 
putting things right for his customer.
Covea considered the claim and concluded that it was excluded under the policy because it 
related to defective work. Mr W challenged Coveas position. He said hed never been 
provided with a copy of the policy terms and the policy certificate he held said it covered him 
for the consequences of defective workmanship. He also asked for Covea to appoint an 
expert to determine the cause of the tank imploding. Covea refused and said that if Mr W 
wanted this, he would have to pay for it himself.
Mr W then referred his complaint to this Service. In response Covea said they had arrived at 
their decision to decline his claim too quickly. They offered to reconsider things. They also 
told Mr W they would appoint a loss adjuster to consider the problem his customer was 
experiencing. 
 After considering things further Covea declined the claim again without appointing a loss 
adjuster. They said there was no cover under the policy for defective workmanship. Mr W 
was unhappy with this. He said the stress caused by Coveas refusal to meet the claim led to 
him experiencing anxiety and insomnia which he needed to see a Doctor for. He also 
stopped taking on new work and instead decided to work independently for another 
company. 
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. She 
acknowledged that the policy terms exclude defective work, but both parties agreed that Mr 
W wasnt sent these. She pointed out that the documents Mr W said he was sent by Covea 
were confusing; they key facts document set out that the cost of rectifying defective 
workmanship was excluded whilst the certificate of public liability stated the policy provides 
legal liability cover for the consequences of defective workmanship. Because of the 
ambiguity in the documents, she concluded they should be interpreted in favour of Mr W. 
Consequently she directed that Covea cover the claim and pay Mr W £150 in recognition of 
the trouble and upset caused to him by their actions. 
Mr W accepted the investigators findings but Covea didnt. They said the certificate of public 
liability didnt form part of their contract with Mr W and that he was sent enough information 
to direct him towards the policy terms, which set out that defective workmanship was 
excluded by the policy. The investigator considered this further and remained of the same 
view shed initially reached. She said that Covea hadnt provided a copy of the email they 
said theyd sent Mr W which directed him to the policy wording nor any instructions relating 
to the policy document. She also thought that the content of the public liability certificate 
meant the position was ambiguous and as such the terms should be interpreted in Mr Ws 
favour. 
Covea asked for an extension of time to reply to the investigator which she agreed to, but 
they didnt provide any further responses. In the absence of a response beyond their initial 
objection to the investigators view, the matter has been passed to me to determine.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in any dispute of this nature would ordinarily be the policy terms. In this 
case they say:
We shall not be liable under this Section in respect of: .
1. the cost of recalling removing repairing replacing reinstating or in any other way 
making good
or providing compensation in place of
(a) any Product if such liability arises from any defect therein or the harmful nature or 
unsuitability thereof
(b) defective work
In this case Mr W says he was never provided with a copy of the policy terms and didnt 
realise he hadnt been sent them by Covea until his claim was declined. Covea dont dispute 
that. So, Ive looked at what Mr W was sent. In particular, he received a copy of the policy 
summary. Page 4 of that document sets out a table showing that the following are excluded:
 (a) rectifying defective workmanship; 
(b) repairing or replacing faulty goods supplied or work carried out.
Taken in isolation, this document would lead a policyholder to believe they werent covered 
for the claim that Mr W was making. Matters are however complicated by the fact that Mr W 
was also sent a certificate of public liability. That says:
We confirm that the above numbered policy provides legal liability cover for:
7. Consequences of defective workmanship or materials.
The word Consequences is not defined in this document. In the absence of that, I think that 
document would naturally give the impression to Mr W that he would be covered for a claim 
like the one he was making- namely to make good the pump and resultant damage to Mr 
Ws customers property, rather than something else.Where there is ambiguity, we usually interpret the insurance in favour of the party who didnt 
draft the contract. In this case that would be Mr W. Covea has made the point that the 
certificate of public liability didnt form part of Mr Ws contract of insurance. Ive thought 
about this, but Ive also taken into account what theyve said about the document being 
provided as common market practice to enable policyholders to provide proof of insurance to 
a main contractor. So, whilst the document wasnt intended to form part of the insurance 
provided by Covea, it did serve to cause enough confusion both to him and potentially 
prospective contractors about what he was covered for. And in the absence of Covea 
providing Mr W with the correct policy terms when he renewed the insurance, I think that its 
fair and reasonable to interpret the content of the certificate in favour of Mr W. 
In reaching this conclusion Ive taken account of the fact that Covea recognised the 
certificate was one which caused conclusion. I say so because it recently provided Mr W and 
presumably all its policyholders with new certificates which omitted reference to 
consequences of defective workmanship being covered and instead referred policyholders to 
the terms of the policy. 
Ive also had regard to the fact that wed reasonably expect policyholders to check through 
the documents they were sent to ensure they understood everything theyd been sent and 
request a copy of any documents that were missing. From what Ive seen, Mr W was sent a 
variety of items but not the policy terms. The only document that refers him to them is the 
statement of fact which says: A Policy Summary and a copy of the Policy Wording
are available from Your broker upon request. As Ive said above, the policy summary was 
sent to Mr W, but the wording wasnt. Mr W could have asked his broker for a copy of the 
policy terms. But Im not persuaded this would have made much difference. They would only 
have echoed the content of the policy summary, which was at odds with the certificate of 
public liability. Because of this, I think the position would still have been confusing to Mr W or 
any other reasonable policyholder or contractor, such that the terms should be interpreted as 
Ive set out above. 
When reaching my conclusions, Ive taken into account the trouble and upset Mr W says 
Covea caused him and the impact hes told us it had on him. Like the investigator, I agree 
that an award of £150 is appropriate in the circumstances. This compensates Mr W for 
Coveas actions before the complaint was brought to us. When reaching this figure Ive 
balanced the award against the fact that the decline of the claim wouldve caused Mr W 
stress and inconvenience but its not something that I would reasonably consider would 
cause a policyholder to cease trading entirely, such that I would award compensation for 
this. 
Putting things right
In light of my findings, Covea should:
Cover the cost of Mr Ws claim as if it was covered under the terms of the policy, after 
deducting the most relevant excess;
Pay Mr W £150 in compensation for the trouble and upset caused by its actions.
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Covea Insurance plc to comply with my award of fair 
compensation set out above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.
 
Lale Hussein-Venn
Ombudsman