DRN-3732111
The complaint
Mr F is unhappy that CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV declined a claim made on 
his personal accident insurance policy.
What happened
Many years ago, Mr F was involved in a car accident. And was subsequently diagnosed with 
rheumatoid arthritis. 
In or around 2016, Mr F made a claim on his personal accident insurance policy (the policy) 
for the permanent total disablement benefit. His claim was declined by CIGNA at the time on 
the basis that he wasnt able to establish his claim. 
Unhappy, Mr F brought a complaint to our service. And in January 2018, another 
Ombudsman issued a final decision explaining why he wasnt upholding his complaint. He 
said that even if Mr Fs rheumatoid arthritis was caused by the accident - and it was his 
rheumatoid arthritis which was responsible for his ongoing symptoms - there was insufficient 
evidence to support that these symptoms totally prevented him from working. 
Mr F wanted to obtain further medical evidence in support of his claim. And at the end of 
December 2021, Mr Fs consultant rheumatologist provided a letter which said that hed 
never had a diagnosis of fibromyalgia and a recent assessment of his symptoms didnt fit 
with a diagnosis of fibromyalgia. The letter also listed the medication Mr F was on which 
generally keeps his illness under control however the rheumatoid arthritis is permanent. It 
concluded:
He does suffer with fatigue which is a common symptom with rheumatoid arthritis 
and can affect his ability to carry out physical activity, rheumatoid arthritis can also 
affect the ability to carry out physical work with worsening joint symptoms with 
physically active jobs but also on the other hand sedentary work is also not advisable 
as joints tend to stiffen up and become more painful. He has continued morning 
stiffness which again is a common symptom of rheumatoid arthritis and can make 
getting up difficult or having to do it very early in the day to function at usual work 
time.
Mr F forwarded this letter to CIGNA in support of his claim under the policy. The updated 
medical evidence was considered but CIGNA maintained its decision to decline the claim on 
the basis that it didnt support his claim for permanent total disability under the terms of the 
policy.
Mr F provided CIGNA with a further letter from his consultant rheumatologist dated April 
2022 but, ultimately, this didnt affect CIGNAs decision. So, he complained to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. As Mr F disagreed, his complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIGNA has an obligation to handle claims fairly and promptly. And it mustnt unreasonably 
decline a claim. 
The terms of the policy say the permanent total disablement benefit will be paid:
for any permanent and total disability which prevents an insured person undertaking 
paid work of any or every kind
The terms go on to say:
Before we pay benefit for any permanent and total disability which prevents an 
insured person undertaking paid work of any or every kind, the disability must have 
lasted for at least 52 weeks. We must also be sure that the disability is permanent 
and without any possible recovery.
Whilst the medical evidence supports that Mr F may have difficulties undertaking a physical 
and sedentary job, CIGNA has concluded that the medical evidence doesnt categorically 
confirm that Mr F is unable to work or that his rheumatoid arthritis prevents him from 
undertaking any job. And thats whats required under the policy for a claim for permanent 
total disability to be accepted. I dont think CIGNAs conclusion is unreasonable based on 
the evidence provided.
I know Mr F put statements to his consultant in April 2022 for them to agree  including a 
statement that hes unable to work and that most patients with rheumatoid arthritis are never 
able to return to work. The consultant responded to say their letter of December 2021 did 
already state the points Mr F wanted clarifying.
I dont think what the consultant said in April 2022, in combination with their letter dated 
December 2021, does support that Mr F is unable to undertake any paid work because of his 
rheumatoid arthritis. It sets outs out some of the difficulties Mr F has with morning stiffness 
which can make getting up  or working earlier in the day  more difficult.
Mr F has also said that his consultant has advised that Mr F should see an occupational 
physician as only they can give a reliable opinion on a persons ability to work. Mr F doesnt 
think its fair for him to have to meet the cost of an occupational health report  or any further 
medical report providing an opinion on whether his condition prevents him from undertaking 
paid work of any or every kind. Mr Fs consultant has also said that CIGNA can contact them 
for any further information. 
However, ultimately, its for Mr F to establish his claim and for the reasons set out above, 
based on the medical evidence set out above, I dont think CIGNA has unfairly concluded 
that the terms of the policy havent been fulfilled to successfully claim the permanent total 
disablement benefit. So, I dont think CIGNA needs to do anything more.
In the circumstances of this case, Im satisfied CIGNA has fairly and reasonably relied on the 
policy terms to maintain its decision to decline Mr Fs claim.
Mr F has recently asked if I need a medical report from 2013. As my decision focuses on 
whether CIGNA has fairly concluded that that Mr F doesnt meet the policy requirements to qualify for total disablement benefit, Ive placed more weight on the recent evidence hes 
provided from his consultant which I consider to be more relevant here. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mr Fs complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im 
required to ask Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 9 March 2023.
 
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman