DRN-3886319
The complaint
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision, for clarity, I 
repeat it here.
Mr E complains that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited (Lighthouse) recommended he 
switch his personal pension plan with Prudential and his Section 32 (S32) plan with NPI to a 
PIM Trustees Essential Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). He says he was then 
advised by them to invest in complex non-standard investments. Mr E believes the advice 
was unsuitable and would like to be put back in the same position as if the transfers had not 
taken place.
Mr E is being represented by a third party, but for ease, Ill refer to all representations as 
being made by Mr E.
What happened
In or around August or September 2003, Mr E approached Lighthouse to seek advice on his 
retirement planning needs. At that time, he was 60 years old, self-employed, and earning 
£24,000 (gross) per annum.
On 5 September 2003 Mr E signed an application form to move his NPI and Prudential plans 
into the PIM Trustees Essential SIPP. On 15 September 2003, Mr E then signed a fee 
agreement to pay Lighthouse 1% of the funds transferred to cover the cost of advice. This 
was countersigned by Adviser A, a Director at Lighthouse.
Mr Es SIPP then received £47,757 from his Prudential pension on 18 December 2003. On 
12 January 2004, Lighthouse received a fee of £477.57 for the advice provided, representing 
1% of the Prudential transfer. 
On 10 March 2004, some three months after receiving the Prudential transfer payment, Mr E 
extracted £10,204 in tax free cash and £715.50 net, in annual income from the SIPP.
On 31 December 2004, Adviser B (whose involvement Ill reference shortly) ceased being an 
Adviser for Lighthouse.
The S32 plan wasnt moved in 2003. Thats because it appears to have been subject to a 
complaint that was being looked into by the business that sold the S32 plan to Mr E. Mr E 
signed the NPI transfer form on 13 June 2005, to move his monies from that plan, into the 
SIPP. The transfer form was signed off by Person X, a Director at PIM Trustees. On 7 July 
2005, Mr Es SIPP received the £167,920.05 transfer payment from his NPI pension.
Further tax-free cash of £37,351 was then extracted on 22 July 2005. In September 2005, 
Person X (at PIM Trustees), wrote to Mr E stating that as Lighthouse had provided advice on 
the original NPI transfer, a fee of 1% was payable to them. After an issue arose with their 
internal payments system, Mr E was asked to sign a cheque making the 1% payment, 
payable directly to Adviser B, rather than Lighthouse.
In December 2005, Adviser B, who was no longer employed by Lighthouse, received the fee 
of £1,679.20 in respect of the NPI transfer. According to the FCA register, he was not an 
authorised adviser at any other firm at that time either.
Mr Es representatives have stated that on 30 June 2006, Mr Es pension fund, which at this 
point was valued at £101,100, was invested in Southbank Capital Limited 8% preference 
shares. Prior to then, the transfer monies appear to have been sat in cash earning a nominal 
amount of monthly interest.
Mr E explained to this service, he became aware there might be an issue with his SIPP 
investments back in 2018. He went on to say this happened when the level of income he 
was drawing had to be reduced. He said he had been trying to find out what had happened 
to his money by dealing with Person X of PIM Trustees Limited, however those discussions 
came to an end around 2019 when they stopped responding to him. Mr E says it was at this 
point he realised he should complain to Lighthouse about the initial advice to transfer to the 
SIPP. 
Mr E complained to Lighthouse on 26 March 2020. He told them, in summary, the original 
advice to transfer from Prudential and NPI to the SIPP was unsuitable and didnt take full 
account of his circumstances. He didnt feel the transfer, or the underlying investments were 
suitable for him. Lighthouse initially rejected the complaint. They said, in summary:
They accepted there was evidence Lighthouse had been involved in the opening of the 
PIM Trustees SIPP.
They didnt believe there was any evidence of their involvement in the management of 
the underlying investments and, in particular the investment in the Southbank Capital 
preference shares.
Mr E was unhappy with Lighthouses response so subsequently complained to this service. 
Lighthouse objected saying they considered the complaint had been brought outside of the 
permitted timescales. The case was then escalated to an Ombudsman who issued a 
jurisdiction decision on 27 May 2022. He determined this was a complaint we could look at.
The complaint was then considered by one of our Investigators. He concluded that 
Lighthouse had not treated Mr E unfairly. He also said, in summary:
There were enough indicators within the records hed seen to suggest the two pension 
transfers, were on the balance of probability, not unsuitable.
He didnt believe Lighthouse should be held responsible for the investments within the 
SIPP.
Mr E however, disagreed with our Investigators findings. In summary, he said he found the 
decision surprising. He also said the following:
He didnt believe the Investigator had fully understood the roles of each of the respective 
parties and the roles theyd played.
He felt the Investigator had drawn too many assumptions about the suitability of the 
original SIPP transfer recommendation; Mr E explained that he only took the SIPP out 
because Lighthouse told him it was in his best interests.He said that he took the SIPP out because he was told it would give a better return than 
an annuity.
Hes surprised there is very little documentation to show the involvement of Lighthouse. 
He believes they have removed or destroyed records and documents showing their 
involvement.
Our Investigator was not persuaded to change his view as Mr E did not present any new 
arguments hed not already considered or responded to already.
Mr E and his representative asked the Investigator to pass the case to an Ombudsman to 
review that outcome.
After carefully considering the complaint, I issued a provisional decision explaining that I 
planned to partially uphold Mr Es complaint. As my decision differed to the initial view 
provided by the investigator, I gave both parties the opportunity to respond with any further 
information they wished me to consider. Both the business and Mr Es representative 
responded explaining they accepted my decision with no further comment to make.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, I think theres two important elements at the heart 
of this complaint, whether it was right for Lighthouse to move Mr E from his existing plans 
with NPI and Prudential and also, whether the underlying investments that followed were 
appropriate. In summary, Im not persuaded the original advice to transfer to the SIPP was 
wrong and, secondly, I dont think Lighthouse are responsible for the investment in the 
Southbank Capital Limited preference shares that Mr Es plan ultimately invested in. 
However, Im minded to make a recommendation to compensate Mr E for the failure of 
Lighthouse to invest the funds transferred from Prudential, before they were eventually 
invested in the Southbank Capital Limited preference shares. Whilst I appreciate this may 
not be the response Mr E was hoping for, Ill explain why below.
At the time of Lighthouses advice to Mr E, he had recently turned 60 years old, was a self-
employed photographer and, according to the SIPP application form, was about to retire. 
Mr Es representatives have stated he was a standard retail investor with no investment 
experience. Theyve also explained the two pensions he held, represented a large portion of 
the customers wider wealth.
The advice to transfer the Prudential and NPI plans
In my provision decision, I explained that Id thought carefully about what had happened. 
Whilst I believe Lighthouse originally discussed the transfer of both the Prudential and NPI 
plans, Im satisfied that they actually only facilitated the Prudential transfer. I think thats the 
case because Mr Es representatives have submitted paperwork to this service that shows 
the NPI pension was subject to an ongoing complaint in 2003/4 with his previous Adviser. 
Theres also a letter within the file that shows a different IFA made a recommendation to 
park the protected rights element of the NPI plan in June 2005 with Scottish Equitable. The 
non-protected rights element of NPI S32 was then moved to the SIPP. So, whilst Lighthouse 
may have introduced the idea of transferring the S32 plan and discussed the possibility of 
this with Mr E, given he appeared to delay moving that whilst he awaited the outcome of his complaint, it was actually another firm, that facilitated that transfer nearly 2 years later. I 
dont think it is reasonable to hold Lighthouse responsible for the transfer of the NPI plan 
based on those early discussions alone. 
In addition, I think its really important to be very clear about the respective parts each 
individual played in the process. I say that because, when Mr Es SIPP received the second 
transfer payment, from the NPI plan, the 1% initial fee that was agreed at the time of the 
original advice in September 2003, wasnt paid to Lighthouse in 2005. The fee of £1,679.20 
in respect of the second transfer was paid directly to Adviser B. The FCA register clearly 
shows that at that time, he was no longer working for Lighthouse, or in any other capacity 
that required regulatory approval. So, whilst this payment likely recognised his earlier 
involvement, it isnt evidence that he advised Mr E to transfer the NPI pension whilst a 
representative of Lighthouse.
As this complaint is specifically about the actions of Lighthouse, and Ive found that 
Lighthouse isnt responsible for the transfer of the NPI plan, Ive therefore focused my 
decision on the Prudential plan which I believe the respondent is responsible for.
In my provisional decision, I explained that our usual starting point in determining whether 
the advice to transfer a pension was appropriate or not is, to refer to the supporting 
paperwork from the time. This typically includes reviewing the fact-finding document, 
suitability report, illustrations, ceding scheme information and supporting file notes. 
Unfortunately, in this instance, Lighthouse have stated that despite their best efforts they can 
find no records from the time of the original advice, although they do not dispute providing it.
Mr E states he doesnt recall being provided with any supporting paperwork by Lighthouse in 
2003 to move his two pensions. But just because a record isnt available, it doesnt 
necessarily mean the consumer wasnt provided with all the necessary documentation at the 
time. The Regulators rules around the indefinite retention of records relating to pension 
transfer advice were introduced in November 2007, and that was after this transfer took 
place. However, despite the best efforts of firms, records do go missing from time to time 
and inferences shouldnt be drawn from that.
In the absence of supporting documentation, we have to determine, on balance, what is 
most likely to have happened. Whilst there is not a file available, I see no reason why an 
Appointed Representative of a large national advice firm would not undertake the requisite 
know your customer fact-finding and issue a supporting suitability letter. Mr E said in his 
submissions to this service, he believes Lighthouse may have removed or destroyed 
records and documents. But I dont think thats likely, as a firm would have a far stronger 
chance of defending a complaint if it were to provide this service with records, even limited in 
nature, than no records at all. So, I am unable to agree with Mr Es contention on this 
particular point. Whilst a set a handwritten notes have been provided, those are undated and 
it isnt immediately clear who created them.
In the submissions made to this service by Mr Es representatives, theyve suggested as 
theres no evidence of any risk profiling or fact-finding, Lighthouse failed to fully understand 
his financial circumstances and are of the view he has no previous experience of 
investments and wanted to ensure a secure retirement. Allied to this, theyve stated the 
claimant was not prepared to take any risks with his pension. Having carefully considered 
the evidence presented to me, Im not wholly convinced by that viewpoint. Whilst there is no 
doubt Lighthouse have been unable to produce a file evidencing the discussions that took 
place at the time, Mr Es monies were already invested in stock market based investments 
before he took advice from them and therefore, he would have had some experience of risk 
based assets.So, I need to consider based on the limited information I have, what motivation and 
justification there may have most likely been, in enacting a transfer. I think a big factor in this 
case is the point it at which it was undertaken. The advice provided at the time was when 
schemes were less able to provide flexible features and benefits. Allied to this, I know Mr E 
had just passed his 60th birthday and was self-employed as a photographer. Given he 
extracted the tax-free cash almost immediately upon transfer along with an income, there 
was evidently a need for some degree of flexibility and some type of income stream rather 
than a fixed income that an annuity wouldve provided. The SIPP would therefore meet that 
need. 
Mr E later took another tax-free cash payment from the SIPP upon receipt of the second 
pension transfer and continued to extract an income from the plan thereafter. Whilst the 
SIPP is more likely to have cost more than the Prudential plan in charges alone, particularly 
at the point it was invested in pure cash, given the evident need for a flexible income, the 
SIPP recommendation alone doesnt appear unsuitable when compared to the existing plan 
or, an alternative annuity. 
Mr E states he took the SIPP out because he was told it would give a better return than an 
annuity. Whilst its difficult to determine what discussions were actually held about annuities 
at the time, moving to a SIPP would have, in the longer term avoided the necessity to make 
a decision about purchasing an annuity. And it gave Mr E the freedom to invest in a wider 
range of assets, as well as regular funds. Finally, I think thats a safe conclusion because in 
the letter his new IFA wrote to him on 23 June 2005, his adviser at that time does specifically 
state he didnt want to purchase an annuity. So, I think it unlikely his circumstances would 
have altered that significantly between the first and second transfers that wouldve made an 
annuity suitable at the time of the Prudential transfer.
Overall, I think the SIPP was a suitable recommendation for Mr E, given it allowed him to 
take tax-free cash and leave his remaining funds invested and so that he could draw-down 
an income as and when he needed it. Im satisfied that Mr E could not have achieved this 
through his Prudential plan so, despite the increased cost of a SIPP I think this aspect of the 
advice was suitable.
The underlying investments within the SIPP
Within Mr Es complaint, hes told us hes unhappy with how Lighthouse managed his 
money. He doesnt think the shares that were ultimately purchased were right for his needs. 
But I dont believe it appropriate to comment on the appropriateness of the investment into 
the Southbank Capital Limited preference shares. Thats because Im not satisfied that 
Lighthouse are accountable for the transaction. Ill explain why below.
Whilst I note on the SIPP application form that was completed at the time of the transfers, 
Lighthouse are recorded as providing investment management services to Mr E; Im not 
persuaded that they ultimately provided such a service to him because his funds remained in 
cash. I think though, thats problematic because, the Regulator has long held the view that 
providing pension transfer advice must dovetail providing suitable investment advice for the 
proceeds. Leaving the monies in cash would result in Mr E missing out on investment growth 
potential. 
The pension monies, once received from Prudential, were invested in a deposit fund on 18 
December 2003. Those monies remained on deposit until June 2006 when they were 
ultimately invested. The original application form that was completed at the time of the 
transfer, is silent on the nature of the proposed investments. But I think its hard to accept 
that leaving the monies in cash for so long was suitable, even if Mr E didnt wish to take 
much risk, particularly in light of the fees he was paying for the SIPP.The SIPP transaction statement provided to this service shows that Lighthouse, after 
receiving their initial fee from the Prudential transfer, have not taken or received, an ongoing 
charge from Mr Es SIPP. Their involvement appears limited to the original transfer advice of 
the Prudential pension. 
I went on to explain in my provisional decision that given Lighthouse have been unable to 
provide a suitability letter from the time of the original recommendation, well never know for 
certain what investment strategy was ultimately agreed but, whatever it was, it doesnt 
appear to have been enacted within the first several years of the SIPPs life. I think thats 
where Mr E has been let down by Lighthouse. As Ive already said, in its responsibility to 
provide suitable pension transfer advice, its also incumbent on them to recommend an 
appropriate investment for the monies. They were accountable for ensuring his monies 
werent sat in cash for a prolonged period of time, being impacted by both inflation and no 
investment growth potential. So, I think its fair that Mr E is compensated for this.
Ive seen no evidence to suggest Lighthouse are accountable for the purchase of the 
Southbank Capital Limited preference shares into Mr Es SIPP. Mr Es relationship with 
Lighthouse appears to have ended well before those shares and subsequent investments 
were purchased in 2006.
In a copy of the correspondence between Mr E and his representative thats been provided 
to this service, Mr E stated to them on 11 July 2022, that Person X/of PIM Trustees) 
explained to me his investment strategy and how all investments would be very sound and 
secure. It was a long process setting up the fund, whice (sic) was fine as there was no 
particular hurry. Person X popped into to see me at my house on several occasions. He 
went on to state I beleive (sic) that Adviser A was involed (sic) in the transfer of my NPI 
pension fund, and that Adviser B was only involved in the paper work this was why I was 
unhappy with the way I had to pay him.
We know that Adviser A of Lighthouse, who Mr E claims led the conversations about 
transferring his pensions, saw his authorisation at Lighthouse end in December 2004. 
Ive already mentioned theres a letter on the file from Mr Es IFA thats dated 23 June 2005 
that refers to person X. This letter together with the other letter Ive referenced below allows 
us to conclude that person X was managing Mr Es investments from 2005. This supports 
when I want to stop Lighthouses liability for the potential loss.
Paperwork submitted to this service shows that in 2007, Mr E later took up financial advice 
services from Mattilio Woods plc. A letter was issued to Mr E that states Whilst I am 
regulated to give independent financial advice in relation to the investments of your scheme, 
I believe this is currently being provided by Person X (at PIM). He went on to say For our 
file it would be appreciated if you could forward me the information in relation to your 
schemes Southbank Capital Limited  8% preference share investment
So, I think the evidence supports that it was Person X at PIM Trustees who took over the 
management of Mr Es pension funds from 2005. And for this reason, I think Lighthouses 
responsibility for Mr Es investment loss ended when Mr Es NPI funds were transferred to 
his SIPP.
Overall, for the reasons set out above, I dont think Lighthouse should have allowed Mr Es 
Prudential transfer funds to remain in cash for as long as they did. And it is for that reason 
that I am in part, upholding Mr Es complaint.Putting things right
My aim is that Mr E should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr E would have invested differently; I dont think he wouldve remained invested in 
cash for as long as he did. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, but 
Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given the limited information 
we hold about Mr E's circumstances at that time, the period he had to invest, his objectives 
and when he invested.
I am limiting the redress to the potential loss of investment growth on the Prudential 
transfer only as thats what Im satisfied Lighthouse are responsible for. I believe 
Lighthouses liability for any loss should end at the point when the NPI transfer took place 
because I believe its clear at that point, a new adviser had taken over responsibility for 
Mr Es investments.
What must Lighthouse do?
To compensate Mr E fairly, Lighthouse must:
Compare the performance of Mr E's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
Lighthouse should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
If there is a loss, Lighthouse should pay into Mr E's pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should 
allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not 
be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Lighthouse is unable to pay the compensation into Mr E's pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr E wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr E's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr E is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the 
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr E would 
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Lighthouse deducts income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr E how much has been taken off. Lighthouse should give Mr E a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr E asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From ("start 
date")To ("end 
date")Additional 
interest
Funds from 
the 
Prudential 
transferStill exists 
and liquidFor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from fixed 
rate bonds18 
December 
2003Date of NPI 
transfer  
7 July 20058% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the 
business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Lighthouse 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum that Mr E paid into the investment should be added to the fair value 
calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the portfolio should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the 
point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point 
on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Lighthouse totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr E wanted Income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.I consider that Mr E's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take 
a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr E into that position. It does not mean that Mr E would have invested 50% 
of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, 
I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr E could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Lighthouse Advisory Services Ltd should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Simon Fox
Ombudsman