DRN-4275946
The complaint
Mr S has complained that Western Circle Ltd trading as Cashfloat (Cashfloat) didnt carry 
out sufficient affordability checks before it granted loans to him.  
Mr S has also said that Cashfloat mis-used his personal information by sending an email to 
his works email address. 
What happened
A summary of Mr Ss borrowing can be found below. 
loan 
numberloan 
amountagreement 
daterepayment 
datenumber of 
monthly 
instalmentslargest 
repayment per 
loan
1 £500.00 03/11/2022 15/11/2022 4 £191.20
2 £1,000.00 25/11/2022 outstanding 10 £184.65
Cashfloat has issued two final response letters in response to Mr Ss complaints. The first 
one dealt with whether the loans were irresponsibly provided and Cashfloat concluded it 
hadnt made an error and had carried out proportionate checks. 
In relation to the email that was sent to Mr Ss works address, Cashfloat again says it didnt 
do anything wrong. But as a gesture of goodwill Cashfloat removed Mr Ss work email 
address from its system. 
Unhappy with these responses, Mr S referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman. 
The complaint was considered by an adjudicator, and she didnt uphold either element of it. 
In summary, this was because she thought the checks Cashfloat had carried out were 
proportionate  and they showed the loans to be affordable. She also said that Cashfloats 
offer to remove Mr Ss work email address from its system was reasonable.
Mr S didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment saying in summary:
He had defaults on his credit file at the time from one payday lender and a high-cost 
loan provider. 
Mr S had £4,000 of credit card debt and he was utilising over 90% of his available 
credit. 
There werent any active County Court Judgements (CCJ)s but there had been 3 in 
recent times.
Mr S provided a list of creditors which he had at the time of approaching Cashfloat for 
these loans including his credit card, loans and revolving credit facility. 
The way Mr S repaid loan 1 and then took loan 2 ought to have been of a concern to 
Cashfloat and prompted it to do more checks. 
Cashfloat increased Mr Ss outgoings by £300 and so this shows that the information 
he had provided was incorrect and ought to have led to further checks. 
Mr S said all emails had been sent to his personal email account and he would 
respond to any emails or calls from Cashfloat. So, there was no reason for Cashfloat 
to use his works email address. 
As no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to resolve. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat had to assess the lending to check if Mr S could afford to pay back the amounts 
hed borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate 
to the circumstances. Cashfloats checks could have taken into account a number of 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ss 
income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks 
might have been proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Cashfloat should have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr S. These factors include:
Mr S having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr S having a large number of loans and/or having these loans over a long
period of time (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the
borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable);
Mr S coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid
(also suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr S. The adjudicator didnt think this 
applied to Mr Ss complaint and I would agree as there were only two loans.
Cashfloat was required to establish whether Mr S could sustainably repay the loans  not 
just whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough 
money to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr S was able to repay 
his loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ss complaint. 
Before these loans were approved, Cashfloat took details of Mr Ss income and expenditure. 
Cashfloat recorded that Mr S worked full time and received a monthly salary of £2,788 when 
both loans were granted. Cashfloat says his declared income was checked with a payslip 
which confirmed the accuracy of it and it was this amount that was used for Cashfloats 
affordability checks. 
Cashfloat also made enquiries about his living costs, and the same amount was provided for 
both loans - £1,580. For loan 1, Mr S declared he spent £2,000 per month on food, which Cashfloat thought was too high, so it says that it contacted Mr S and he confirmed the figure 
was incorrect and ought to have been £200 per month.  
Cashfloat says it added a buffer of £300 to Mr Ss declared expenditure so for the 
affordability assessment Cashfloat believed that Mr Ss monthly outgoings came to £1,880. 
Even using the larger monthly outgoings along with the buffer, there was sufficient 
disposable income for Mr S to be able to afford the repayments for both loans. 
I dont think the fact Cashfloat added a buffer to Mr Ss expenditure  which still showed the 
loans to be affordable ought to have prompted further checks. 
It doesnt appear that Cashfloat carried out a credit search before these loans were 
approved. But there was no regulatory requirement to do one. So, the fact no credit search 
was likely conducted isnt a reason to uphold the complaint on its own.
Mr S has provided a list of creditors that he had at the time  and the total outstanding 
balances (including the account that had been defaulted) came to just over £9,500. But as a 
credit search doesnt appear to have been carried out Cashfloat wouldnt have known about 
them. But as part of his application Mr S declared that he spent a total of £700 per month on 
loan and existing credit commitments. 
Loan 1 was repaid much sooner than Cashfloat was expecting  and this was repaid without 
any obvious difficulties. 10 days later Mr S returned for a much larger loan, to be repaid over 
a longer term. Mr S says this ought to have been enough to have triggered Cashfloat to 
carry out further checks. 
But I dont agree. While the loan was taken out shortly afterwards, the monthly repayment 
Mr S was due to make was only marginally smaller. But thinking what a proportionate check 
may involve as well as what Cashfloat discovered through its checks wouldnt, in my view 
have led it to be believe that it needed to go further, such as reviewing bank statements or 
verifying the information Mr S had provided.
There also wasnt anything else, such as the way Mr S repaid his first loans, that wouldve 
led Cashfloat to believe that it needed to conduct further checks or to have declined his 
applications for credit. 
Taking account of the lending relationship  Mr S was only granted two loans I think it was 
reasonable for Cashfloat to have relied on the information Mr S provided to it and the results 
of its own checks. There also wasnt anything to suggest that Mr S was having either current 
financial difficulties or to indicate the loan repayments would be unsustainable for him. 
An outstanding balance remains due for the final loan, I would remind Cashfloat of its 
obligation to treat Mr S fairly and with forbearance, if needed. 
Taking everything into account, I do no not uphold Mr Ss complaint about Cashfloats 
decisions to provide the loans to him. 
Email address
Mr S has said he is unhappy that he received an email from Cashfloat to his works email 
address  rather than his personal email address, which was the one Cashfloat had been 
using. Cashfloat says that the works email address was provided as part of the loan applications 
and I can see from the application data provided by Cashfloat that Mr S did indeed provide 
his works email address. 
A copy of the email sent to Mr Ss work address hasnt been provided and I dont know why 
Cashfloat chose to send an email to his work address, when Mr S has said he responded to 
the ones sent to his personal email address. But to reach an outcome about this, I dont think 
I need to know why Cashfloat sent it. 
I say this because, Cashfloat was entitled to use the email address (either personal or work) 
to contact Mr S about his account. And Ive not seen anything to suggest that Mr S had 
asked Cashfloat (before the email was sent) not to use his work address. 
Therefore, Cashfloat removing his work address from its systems  as it outlined in the final 
response letter was the right and reasonable course of action to take and no further award is 
needed. I therefore do not uphold this part of Mr Ss complaint.
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I am not upholding Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
 
Robert Walker
Ombudsman