DRN-2235125
The complaint
Mr J, as director of E a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank PLC sent 
correspondence about the commercial credit card account by email, when he had opted out 
of email and text contact. 
What happened
E has a commercial credit card provided by Barclays. And in August 2020, Mr J complained 
about receiving correspondence from Barclays by email. 
Barclays apologised for the inconvenience this caused. It arranged to remove Es account 
from receiving any further marketing contact and added a note to the account information to 
say that E shouldnt be contacted by email unless it was specifically requested, and that only 
emergency contact should be made to the provided mobile number. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld. He felt 
that Barclays had responded to the complaint by stopping communications from being sent 
to the email address and mobile numbers. He said it was quick to update Mr Js preferences. 
The investigator said that he didnt feel compensation was warranted as the situation had a 
minimal impact; was resolved quickly and didnt have a material impact on the running of the 
company. 
Mr J didnt accept the investigators findings as he said he had opted out of contact by email 
or text. He said he had the right to his privacy. Mr J also said that hed received an email 
with the wrong card numbers in the subject heading. He felt hed wasted his time trying to 
contact Barclays and was still receiving emails and a text message which disturbed him and 
caused him great stress. He felt Barclays hadnt abided by data protection regulations.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do appreciate what Mr J has said about the contact E received from Barclays, and that he 
didnt want this and that it has been received at inconvenient times. As the investigator has 
explained, its not our role to decide if Barclays has breached data protection laws.
I can see that Barclays has put a marketing suppression on Es account which will stop 
mailing being sent to the company and Mr Js personal email addresses, as well as calls and 
text messages being sent to the mobile number on the account. This was actioned in August 
2020, however Barclays has told us that it can take up to eight weeks for this marketing to 
stop, as it is often prepared in advance. This may explain why Mr J may have received 
further marketing messages from Barclays after he made his complaint. 
Mr J has also said that he received an email with the wrong card numbers in the subject 
heading. I understand that he deleted this message, so Barclays wasnt able to check the 
details. However, it did explain that the business accounts have a reference number and 
then the credit card will have a different 16-digit number. I cant be certain whether these are 
the numbers Mr J is referring to, but I can see these two differing numbers are shown on the 
statements for the credit card. 
I acknowledge that it will have taken Mr J time and effort to contact Barclays about his 
concerns. However, Barclays has apologised that Mr J has been caused inconvenience by 
receiving this unwanted marketing and has taken prompt and appropriate action to stop this 
contact being made in future. Overall, I think this represents a fair resolution to this 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman