DRN-2381187
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sainsburys Bank Plc will not refund him for disputed transactions that 
took place on a credit card he didnt apply for. He wants Sainsburys to not hold him liable for 
the debt, remove the credit card from his name, correct his credit file and provide 
compensation.
What happened
In 18 December 2018 whilst using an ATM Mr S noticed his balance was lower than he 
expected. On checking his online banking Mr S noticed a payment had gone through to 
Sainsburys from his current account which he didnt recognise. The payment for £1,936.49 
debited his account on 17 December 2018.
He contacted his bank, which I will call Y, and they said the transaction had been done 
online using his wifes card details. Mr S confirmed that neither him nor his wife authorised 
the transaction. 
A few days later Mr S noticed that two direct debits had been set up on his account one with 
Sainsburys and one for a credit card with Bank M. As he hadnt applied for these cards, he 
cancelled the direct debits. 
He contacted Sainsburys on the 9 January 2019. And they initiated an investigation.
Mr S says he contacted Bank M when he got an arrears notice, they said they would 
investigate and revert to him in two weeks. After their investigation they said they thought 
Mr S had been the victim of ID fraud. They cancelled the credit card and removed it from his 
credit file.
Mr S contacted CIFAS who offer a protective registration service in cases of identity fraud.
As a result of the protective registration Mr S received a letter from another bank, Ill call B 
saying that a bank account had been opened in his name. Mr S visited the branch and 
confirmed that it wasnt him that had attempted to open the account. Bank B closed the 
account. In January 2019 Bank Y confirmed that they believed he had authorised the 
transaction so they would not be refunding the disputed amount.
Sainsburys confirmed the credit card was opened on 31 October 2018 and activated on 
7 November 2018. 
After investigating, Sainsburys said they thought Mr S had opened the account with the 
intention of committing first party fraud. They thought he authorised the transactions on the 
card and so wouldnt refund the transactions. Sainsburys accepted it had taken them ten 
months to carry out their investigation. But they said there was no evidence Mr S had been 
impersonated by someone else. And payments to the account had been made from a 
savings account in Mr Ss name. Sainsburys closed the account with a debit balance of 
£2,472.27 which they say needs to be paid by Mr S.
Mr S has told us that he noticed his credit score was poor and was unable to get a 
mortgage. He also has felt very stressed with the situation.
As he was unhappy with Sainsburys response Mr S complained to our service. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint and she thought it was most likely that 
Mr S hadnt applied for the credit card because: 
He was abroad at the time of the application to Sainsburys.
The application was made from an IP address near to Mr Ss actual address.
Mr Ss story has been consistent, he was proactive in contacting the banking 
organisations and CIFAS.
The phone calls provided by Sainsburys are of three different people who dont 
sound like Mr S. 
She said Sainsburys should cancel the debt, close the account, correct Mr and Mrs Ss 
credit file and pay £200 for the stress caused.
Mr S said the compensation was not enough because he had stress for a year and a half 
whilst dealing with this case and the issue had a bad impact on his credit score and his 
ability to get a mortgage.
Sainsburys disagreed with the investigators view. They said the pattern was not one likely 
used by an unknown third-party fraudster. As Mr S lives in a flat with his family and no one 
else has access to his flat, its unlikely a fraudster could access his details and his post.
They thought Mr S colluded with the fraudsters and that would explain why despite a secure 
home, the fraudster could access Mr Ss details as well as cards and PINs and make the 
application from an IP address in the area Mr S lives in. They say they would expect to see 
rapid spending on a fraudulent card, not paying off the balance on the card. They said they 
couldnt see why a fraudster would clear the balance on the card with Mr Ss account. 
Our investigator considered Sainsburys comments. She said she thought it was someone 
close to Mr S who had carried out the fraud because they would have access to his details 
and cards and PINs as well as knowing he was away. She said there is no set pattern to 
how fraudsters behave and so its difficult to say whether a particular behaviour is more or 
less likely.to be the behaviour a fraudster would use.
Following the view from our investigator further information was provided by both Mr S and 
Sainsburys.
Sainsburys said Mr S had provided two versions of events about when he became aware of 
the credit card. Firstly, he said he noticed the card when the direct debit attempted to collect 
on the 17 December 2018. On his second call to Sainsburys he said that he had noticed his 
balance was low when he used the ATM, he then went home and noticed the direct debit. 
There was also a discrepancy about when Mr S was supposed to have first contacted 
Bank Y to inform them of the fraud. Sainsburys said that Mr S hadnt contacted his bank 
straight away as hed said, but had waited until 9 January 2019 to contact Bank Y. This was 
the same day he contacted Sainsburys.
Mr S didnt mention the other fraudulent card with bank M on the call to Sainsburys nor that 
he had been away when the card was applied for.They were also concerned about a mistake in the application regarding Mr Ss date of birth. 
This same mistake was made by Mr S when his account with bank Y was opened. 
Sainsburys have said they think Mr S was aware of the application even if the application 
was done by someone close to him. They found it suspicious that the wrong date of birth 
was given in the card application and in the application for Mr Ss bank account with Y.
The card was activated, online banking was set up and paperless statements set up on the 
7 November 2018 the day after Mr S returned from his trip abroad.
Mr S told us that there had been visitors at his home when he was away who could have had 
access to his details and post. He also said his letting agent had access to his home.
As there was no agreement the matter has come to me for decision. On reviewing the case I 
came to a slightly different conclusion to our investigator. And I issued my Provisional 
Decision on the 23 October 2020 giving Sainsburys and Mr S until the 22 November 2020 to 
provide further comments. 
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I am minded to reach a 
different conclusion to that reached by the investigator and I will explain why below.
Generally, Sainsburys can hold Mr S liable for the debt if he applied for the credit card 
himself or authorised someone else to do it on his behalf.
So, I need to think about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not Mr S 
applied for the credit card or consented for the application to be made and should therefore 
be held liable for the debt. The evidence shows that the application was made using an IP 
address close to Mr Ss home. Mr S has provided evidence that he was abroad at the time 
the application was made. However, it is still possible for Mr S to have consented to the 
application even if he didnt make it himself.
I have also seen the credit card application form. It has Mr Ss correct name and address 
and his wifes name and address as an additional cardholder. The phone number and the 
email address are different to the ones we hold for Mr S. The occupation isnt Mr Ss 
occupation. So, I can see how this would suggest that a fraudster got his details and applied 
for the card pretending to be him.
But on balance from what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Sainsburys to 
conclude Mr S consented for the application to be made. I say this because:
Ive thought about how a fraudster could have gained access to his post box. Mr S 
lives in a gated community. His post is delivered to a locked post box and he has the 
key to it. I have seen evidence the card and PIN were sent by post. Im unable to see 
how someone without his permission could have accessed the post box. He 
suggested that he had other family and friends visiting during the time and they could 
have gained access to the post box. He has also told us that the letting agents have 
a key to his flat and could have gained access to his information. But I dont think this 
is plausible.Mr S has given Sainsburys two different versions of how he found out about the 
credit card. He told us that he went to an ATM and found his balance lower than he 
expected, he then became aware of the direct debit and contacted his bank. He has 
said he assumed they would contact Sainsburys. The direct debit left his bank on the 
17 December 2018.Sainsburys have said that he didnt contact them until the 
9 January 2019. On contacting Mr Ss bank, Sainsburys found that Mr S hadnt 
spoken to Bank Y until the 9 January 2019 the same day he spoke to Sainsburys. I 
think its possible Mr S might have been confused which is why hes provided two 
versions. But it seems Mr S didnt call the bank until three and a half weeks after the 
direct debit payment for the credit card left his account. If I accept that Mr S noticed 
his low balance in late 2018, I find it surprising that he didnt report this to either 
Sainsburys or Bank Y until over three weeks later.
I find it implausible that Mr S didnt contact bank M to let them know the card was 
fraudulently applied for and instead he waited to receive an arrears notice, especially 
since he was aware of a direct debit to them in mid-December. Mr S has said that he 
called Sainsburys before Christmas. The evidence from the bank shows Sainsburys 
didnt receive a call from Mr S until 9 January. When Mr S did contact Sainsburys, he 
didnt mention that another card had also been taken out fraudulently in his name.
Although it isnt possible to predict the behaviour of a fraudster. I find it unlikely that a 
fraudster would apply for a card in joint names to commit a fraud. Or clear the 
balance on the card from the victims current account. These behaviours would make 
it easier to detect the fraud, something a fraudster would try and avoid.
An online payment for the full balance on the Sainsburys credit card was made using 
Mrs Ss card details. Clearing a balance in full is very unusual for a fraudster. It also 
seems strange that the fraudster didnt then take advantage of Mrs Ss bank details 
to commit further fraud.
The card application shows an incorrect date of birth for Mr S. Its been suggested 
that this is the result of reading the date as month/day/year as is common in the US 
instead of as day/month/year as is common in the UK. The same mistake was made 
when Mr Ss current account with bank Y was opened 8 years ago. This suggests 
that the same person opened both accounts. I have also noticed that Mr S has used 
the US construction of month/day/year when he refers to dates in his 
communications with this service.
The person who phoned Bank Y to set up the payment to the Sainsburys credit card 
was able to give Mr Ss correct date of birth and not the date of birth on the 
application form. I think a fraudster wouldnt have been aware of the different dates.
Mr S has said that the people who phoned Sainsburys were not him. Our 
investigator agreed that the calls were made by people who sound very different to 
Mr S. I have listened to the calls and I agree they dont sound like Mr S. However, 
this doesnt change my view because Mr S could have directed someone else to 
make the calls on his behalf.
I have considered the plausibility of the evidence that has been provided to me by Mr S. 
Uppermost in my mind has been the behaviour of Mr S when learning of the fraudulent card 
applications and his delay in contacting the relevant institutions.
I have had to consider whether Mr S made the application himself or consented to it. He has 
said that he was abroad when the application was made. All the other evidence I have seen points me to think that it is more likely than not that Mr S consented to the credit card 
application. I am satisfied that Mr S knew about the card. Because of this I am minded to 
reject the complaint. It follows I will not be asking Sainsburys to do anything else.
Responses to my provisional decision
Sainsburys accepted my provisional decision. 
Mr S has provided extensive comments to my provisional decision. I thank him for his 
detailed submissions. Id like to reassure Mr S that Ive considered the whole file and what 
hes said. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is relevant. So, I wont be 
addressing every point in detail which Mr S has raised in his submissions. My findings will 
focus on what I consider to be the central issues. If I dont mention any specific point, its not 
because I failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it to reach what I think is the outcome. I have summarised Mr Ss main points 
below:
Mr S says he contacted Bank Y immediately when he learnt first about the 
transactions and not on 9 January 2019 as I have suggested.
Mr S has also provided reasons why he didnt contact the other two banks.
Mr S provided comments on how the fraudster accessed the card and PINs. 
Mr S hasnt derived any benefit from the fraud.
Mr S went to action fraud and to CIFAS.
Mr S says it doesnt make sense for him to be held liable by Sainsburys when Bank 
M and Bank B have exonerated him.
Mr S has made comments regarding the mistakes around his date of birth. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive not changed my original conclusion. 
Mr S says he contacted Bank Y immediately when he first learnt about the transactions and 
not on 9 January 2019 as I have suggested. Mr S says he visited the local branch of Bank Y 
with his wife on 18 December 2018. Mr S originally mentioned to us that he had phoned 
Bank Y to tell them that he didnt recognise the payments, he didnt mention that he had 
gone into branch. I would have expected Mr S to remember whether it was an in-person 
conversation or a telephone call he had with Bank Y on 18 December when he discovered 
the payment to Sainsburys. 
Mr S has said that due to the difficulty in communicating with Sainsburys he didnt mention 
that another fraudulent card had been applied for. I accept Mr S may have contacted Bank Y 
before Christmas, but I still think it strange that he didnt provide all the details to Sainsburys 
that may have provided them with a fuller picture of the situation.
Mr S originally mentioned that his house and post box were secure and then later that 
friends and family were staying with them at the time. Mr S has now provided us with a 
possible explanation about how a fraudster could have intercepted the cards and PINs. Hes 
suggested the post has been intercepted by a visitor or one of his neighbours. He thinks its highly likely that a fraudster had access to his details by hacking into his bank account with Y 
and then intercepted cards in order to commit a fraud. 
I appreciate Mr S providing this possible scenario however I find it highly implausible that a 
fraudster connected to Bank Y would hack into Mr Ss account and then go to his home and 
intercept the card and PIN possibly on two separate occasions. I think it unlikely that a 
fraudster having gone to so much trouble would not use the information to commit further 
fraud on both Mr Ss account and his wifes account. It is also extremely unlikely that a 
fraudster would set up a payment for the card balance or direct debits. 
Mr S says he didnt carry out the transactions and CCTV evidence would show this. I havent 
been given access to CCTV evidence and even if I had it would not provide evidence of 
whether Mr S consented to the application, as he could have consented to someone else 
making the purchases online and in store.
Mr S says he is a highly unlikely candidate to perpetrate fraud as he stands more to lose 
than to gain. Mr S has said that he went to action fraud and to CIFAS for protective 
registration and these are not the actions of a fraudster.  My investigation is based on trying 
to establish whether Mr S took out the card or authorised someone else to do so. So, I cant 
draw any conclusions from Mr S having reported the matter to action fraud or contacting 
CIFAS.
Mr S has said that it doesnt make sense that Sainsburys would hold him liable for the fraud 
when Bank M and Bank B exonerated him and were happy to accept that he was a victim of 
Identity fraud. I appreciate that this is frustrating for Mr S however each bank is entitled to 
carry out their investigation in the way they think most appropriate and I cant draw any 
conclusions based on the decision of Bank M and Bank B.
Mr S has mentioned the mistake regarding the date of birth, and he has said he was 
confused because he was new to the country. He has also said the fraudster might be 
someone who uses US date construction. I still think its unusual that the same mistake was 
made in both the genuine application to Bank Y eight years ago and in the fraudulent 
application to Sainsburys. I also think its relevant that the person who set up the payment to 
the Sainsburys credit card was able to give Mr Ss correct date of birth and not the one on 
the application form. I dont find the explanation Mr S has provided convincing and it doesnt 
change my mind. 
The evidence Mr S has provided has evolved over time. This is perhaps understandable 
since the events took place nearly two years ago. However, in his response to the 
provisional decision he has recently mentioned that his family were away on holiday from the 
18 December 2018 until the new year. This is new information and I find it difficult to accept 
that Mr S wouldnt have mentioned this before. Although it is possible that Mr S was 
confused, I think it reflects on the credibility of his story.
I have considered Mr Ss submissions carefully I have also reconsidered the evidence in this 
case. Having done so I have not seen anything to change my mind.
For all these reasons and the reasons outlined in my provisional decision, my view on what 
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2020.
 
Esperanza Fuentes
Ombudsman