DRN-2220625
The complaint
Miss N complains about what happened after TSB Bank plc said it was going to close her
account.
What happened
Miss N told us that TSB had said it was going to close her account. But it didnt. So Miss N
said that meant shed been incurring charges and her account is now overdrawn. TSB
wouldnt close her account until these charges are paid.
Miss N didnt feel she was responsible for these charges as they have only accrued due to
the bank not closing her account on the date it said.
Miss N wanted the account closed. She said at first TSB had offered to reimburse her for call
costs, then it said it wouldnt do that. And the account was now affecting her credit file.
On 22 March 2019, TSB sent Miss N a letter which dealt with several complaint points. It
also said that TSB thought the relationship between it and Miss N had broken down. So it
said it would close her account in two months time. That letter said Miss Ns direct debits,
standing orders, cheque books and debit cards would be cancelled then. And the letter
asked Miss N to go into a branch to clear any debt on the account. But it didnt explain what
would happen if she didnt do that.
TSB said it had taken this decision because of the unusual number of complaints Miss N had
raised. It said it had acted in line with the terms of Miss Ns account.
TSB said it couldnt close Miss Ns account at the end of May, as she still owed it money.
TSB had written repeatedly to Miss N, asking her to get in touch about the debt. When our
service started to look at this complaint, in December 2019, TSB said it was now going to
default Miss Ns debt, but it put that action on hold while our service considered the case.
At first, our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He did think it was
reasonable for TSB to decide to close the account. But he didnt think TSB had been fair
when he looked at what happened after that. He said Miss N owed a few hundred pounds
when the account was supposed to be closed. TSB hadnt paid any of Miss Ns direct debits
after this, but it had charged her for failed direct debits. Our investigator thought TSB
shouldve closed Miss Ns account when it said it was going to. He thought TSB should close
the account, and all interest and charges after 22 May 2019 should be reimbursed. Miss N
should then repay the outstanding balance.
TSB said that was wrong. It hadnt chosen not to close the account. It couldnt close it,
because it was overdrawn. It said Miss N hadnt been in touch about paying what she owed,
and it didnt think it was wrong of TSB to continue to apply charges under those
circumstances.
Miss N said that she had opened a new account. She hadnt received any of the letters TSB
sent asking her to pay the debt. She had moved house, but had redirection in place. And she
said that this debt was now affecting her mental health.
Our investigator issued a second view. He said TSB wasnt able to close the account down
while it was in debt. Miss N hadnt paid this off, or cancelled her direct debits. So our
investigator thought that interest and charges were incurred correctly. Miss N said she hadnt
got letters asking her to pay back the overall debt, but our investigator thought they were
sent to the address TSB held for Miss N. It wasnt TSBs fault if Miss N didnt get them.
Our investigator said he couldnt see any contact notes to support what Miss N said about
having spoken to TSB to extend the closure date, so she could make a payment in June
2019. But the notes did suggest Miss N was in contact with TSB between March and May
2019 to repay the outstanding balance.
Our investigator said it may have been fair at first to apply charges and interest, but he
thought the account shouldve been defaulted much faster than it was. He said TSB had
issued a default notice on 28 August 2019. Our investigator thought this action shouldve
gone ahead. He said that TSB should default the debt now, and backdate that to 27
September 2019. That would mean waiving all interest and charges after this date.
At first, TSB didnt agree. But our investigator stressed that TSB shouldve defaulted the
account when it said it was going to, and continuing to apply charges after this date was
unfair. TSB replied that it had now defaulted the account, on 23 March 2020. It had stopped
charging interest or fees then, but didnt think any other payments should be refunded.
Then TSB changed its mind, and said it would refund interest and charges to take the debt
back to where it was on 24 May 2019. Miss N would owe £299.00, which is what she owed
just before her account was due to be closed. And TSB would backdate the default to 27
September 2019, as our investigator suggested.
Miss N said that after all the stress this had caused her, she was annoyed by this offer. And
she said it had affected her health. Our investigator asked her how she would like to move
things forward, but Miss N hasnt responded. This complaint then came to me for a final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
I think that what TSB has offered to do now is essentially what it shouldve done back 
in May 2019. It didnt close Miss Ns account then, because the account was in 
overdraft. But it didnt have to keep applying interest and charges then. It had told 
Miss N that it was going to close the account, and that shed need to make 
alternative banking arrangements. Shes told us she did that.
If TSB was going to leave this account open, and to continue to charge Miss N 
interest if she didnt clear the balance by the end of May 2019, then I think it needed 
to be quite clear about this when it told her about the account closure. It wasnt. I 
think that it was wrong to continue to charge Miss N after this. So I am glad to see 
that TSB now proposes to refund any interest and charges it applied after 24 May 
2019.
TSB has also offered to backdate the default in this case. I dont think TSB has really
explained why default action wasnt taken promptly in this case. Miss N had made nopayments onto the account, and there had been no credits since early June 2019, 
not long after the date TSB gave for closing the account. So I think that backdating 
the default to 27 September is part of providing a fair outcome to this complaint, and 
Im glad to see TSB has now also agreed to do that.
Miss N will then owe TSB £299, which is what she owed just before her account was 
due to be closed. I know Miss N says she doesnt think she should pay anything. But 
that debt is a mix of money Miss N has spent or transferred elsewhere, and fees and 
charges applied before the account was closed. I havent seen anything that 
suggests to me it would be unfair for TSB to ask for that money back.
That puts Miss N back in the position I think she shouldve been in, if TSB had acted 
fairly from the outset in this case. But it doesnt recognise that Miss N has had to 
complain to our service to get this issue sorted out. Miss N said the stress of all this 
made her unwell. I think TSB should pay Miss N £100 in compensation to make up 
for the impact this has had on her.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side has replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. Ill now make the award I originally proposed.
My final decision
My provisional decision is that I intend to tell TSB Bank plc to refund any interest and
charges applied to Miss Ns account after 24 May 2019, to backdate the default of this
account to 27 September 2019, and to pay Miss N £100 in compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October 2020.
 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman