DRN-4298389
The complaint
Miss H complains about HSBC UK Bank Plcs handling of her Data Subject Access Request 
(DSAR) and their service.
What happened
Miss H submitted an irresponsible lending complaint to HSBC and then to our service. This 
complaint has been dealt with separately but in connection with this Miss H submitted a 
DSAR to HSBC.
Miss H was dissatisfied with the way HSBC handled her DSAR, so she submitted a 
complaint to them. However, Miss H was dissatisfied with the outcome as:
She didnt get all the information she required
HSBC refused to give her their CEOs details and she didnt get a response from the 
CEO as requested 
The £75 compensation she received was insufficient considering her time and 
HSBCs delay and poor service
HSBC were satisfied their explanations and compensation were fair, but Miss H disagreed 
and referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered HSBC to have acted fairly by apologising for the delays
and compensating Miss H with £75.
As Miss H remains dissatisfied, this case has now been referred to me to look at.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
I should first explain that:
I cant tell a business to make alterations to their systems, procedures or processes, 
including the data and information they provide and retain. I say this because we 
arent the regulator of the financial services industry and businesses can make 
commercial decisions.
Our service doesnt have the power to issue fines or penalties for complaints about 
DSAR delays or omissions, however a complainant does have the option to refer 
allegations of breaches to the Information Commissioner's Office (ICO). 
There are rules (known as DISP Rules) laid down by the Financial Conduct Authority 
which means complaint handling is not a regulated activity. So, specific complaints 
about HSBCs complaint handling, including response procedures, cant be 
considered by our service. 
What we can do is consider each individual case and decide what should be done to 
put right any financial or non-financial losses that a consumer has experienced. And 
we can ask a business to pay a proportionate level of redress.
I first considered Miss Hs dissatisfaction over the information provided. I can understand 
Miss Hs frustration at having to calculate fees and interest payment information, however 
Im satisfied HSBC dont specifically hold the figures she requires. Also, this information can 
be obtained from statements theyve provided. So, in these circumstances I dont think its 
unreasonable of a business not to provide a manual calculations service.  
Regarding the call recordings, it isnt that HSBC havent provided Miss H with this 
information. Instead, theyve provided it in a format which she unfortunately cant access, 
perhaps because of her software. However, I cant see this as an HSBC error and would 
also suggest Miss H has a discussion with HSBC about alternative formats.
Regarding Miss H sending her complaint to HSBCs CEO and expecting a response, its 
common for customers to escalate complaints to a CEO and for businesses, especially large 
banks, to have procedures where most complaints arent routed to busy CEO offices and 
final response letters have oversight from skilled and knowledgeable delegated employees. 
So, I found HSBCs action to be reasonable here. 
Finally, I fully reviewed all submissions on file to assess the service Miss H received when 
she contacted HSBC. HSBC say they didnt receive Miss Hs original DSAR request and file 
notes contain information on liaison about complaint handling and Miss Hs other complaint. 
However, HSBC dont dispute Miss H had to chase them, that she had to make more contact 
than was necessary and their service shouldve been better. So, Im satisfied some 
compensation is required.
Assessing compensation isnt an exact science and our approach when making awards for 
non-financial loss is detailed on our website and tends to be modest. So, I considered this, 
the number and nature of Miss Hs contacts, together with the impact on Miss H to determine 
whether HSBCs £75 compensation was fair and reasonable. Having done so, although I 
recognise Miss Hs frustration and disappointment, Im not persuaded that HSBCs 
compensation should be any higher.
So, having considered all the above Im not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Paul Douglas
Ombudsman