DRN-3339721
The complaint
Mr C and Mr C have complained that QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) declined a claim under their 
home insurance policy.
For ease, I will normally only refer to one Mr C.
What happened
Mr C contacted QIC to make a claim when he found a leak coming through his kitchen floor 
in his home. QIC registered the claim. A home emergency contractor also visited and quoted 
for a repair. The contractor said that as Mr C would pay for some of the work, he might want 
to see if it could be dealt with under his buildings and contents insurance if the excess was 
lower. The contractor also turned off the water.
Mr C initially paid for the work to be carried out as a home emergency. However, a few days 
later, Mr C cancelled the work as he wanted it dealt with under his buildings and contents 
insurance. Shortly after this, QIC declined the buildings insurance claim. So, Mr C 
complained. When QIC replied, it said there wasnt evidence to show there was an insured 
peril. However, if Mr C could provide evidence of this it would look at the claim again.
So, Mr C complained to this service. Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She said 
QIC had considered the claim and hadnt acted unfairly by declining it.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint was referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ive only considered what happened up to the date on which the final response letter was 
issued about the claim decline complaint. However, Im aware of what happened both before 
and after the claim was declined, including what the home emergency contractor did.
When a claim is made on an insurance policy, it is for the policyholder to show a claim has 
been caused by an insured peril, although insurers usually investigate this on a 
policyholders behalf. An insured peril is an event that has caused some kind of damage or 
loss that is covered by the policy.
QIC sent a surveyor to assess the claim. The surveyor didnt find evidence of anything 
external that would have caused accidental damage to the pipe. However, the surveyor 
found there was an issue with the internal stop tap, which Mr C was advised to arrange for a 
plumber to repair. I think I was reasonable for QIC to rely on the findings of its surveyor. I 
also note that when QIC looked at the claim, it didnt find any evidence of internal water 
damage at the property.
The policy included cover for Accidental damage to mains services. This required there to 
be physical damage which, amongst other things, was caused by something external and 
identifiable. But the surveyor didnt find evidence of something external that would have 
damaged the pipe and there was no evidence of internal damage to the property. So, I think 
it was reasonable that QIC didnt deal with the claim under this part of the policy.
From what Ive seen, the only other part of the policy the claim could have been considered 
under was for an Escape of Water or Oil, which included QIC paying reasonable and 
necessary costs to remove any part of the building to find the source of damage to your 
home caused by water escaping from   pipes. However, again, this required there to be 
damage and as no damage was found, I think its reasonable that QIC didnt deal with the 
claim under this part of the policy either.
Im aware Mr C and his family were in a difficult situation because they didnt have water for 
a while and that the priority was to get the issue fixed. Mr C also said he tried to make a 
buildings and contents insurance claim at the suggestion of the home emergency contractor. 
However, this didnt mean QIC had to accept the claim. QIC was still entitled to investigate 
the claim to see whether it was covered under the policy. Having done so, QIC declined the 
claim, but said that if Mr C wanted to provide further evidence it would consider it. I think that 
was reasonable in the circumstances and I dont require QIC to do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that this complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 12 April 2022.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman