DRN-3866882
The complaint
Mr L complains that Lloyds Bank PLC added a marker about him at CIFAS, the national 
fraud database, when it closed his account.
What happened
Mr L says he received money into his account in July 2018 that he wasnt expecting and 
reported this to Lloyds after hed checked his balance at a cash point. He says he had lost 
access to online banking and didnt make any withdrawals and wanted his account to be 
closed. The marker is having a serious effect on his ability to access financial products.
Lloyds said it hadnt made a mistake and wouldnt be removing the marker. It said that there 
was no explanation for the fraudulent funds paid into the account or for a compromise of    
Mr Ls information.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that shed seen 
that the money paid into Mr Ls account in July 2018 had been reported as fraudulently 
obtained. In total over £22,000 had been received. A first credit of £300 was shortly followed 
by a balance enquiry and a withdrawal of £290 using Mr Ls card and PIN the same day. And 
attempts were made to withdraw part of a second payment of £19,000 received on 3 July 
2018. Again, a cashpoint withdrawal was made  this time for £500. Lloyds had a record that 
Mr L called that day but was unable to pass security and was told to come into a branch. A 
further attempt to make a card payment was made after that call.
Our adjudicator said that Mr L had said he still had the card and PIN and hadnt given those 
details to anyone. So, she thought it more likely that not that he made the withdrawals and 
was complicit in what happened.
Mr L didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the adjudicator must 
have misheard or misinterpreted what he said. He claimed that bank cards and processing 
can be cloned without the knowledge of the account holder. And that for it to be said that he 
had been complicit was a very serious allegation and an insult. He said that we dont 
understand the gravity of the issue and how this is affecting his day to day life.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to take into account the Payment Services Regulations 2017 in considering this 
complaint. These state that a payment can only be authorised if it was consented to. So, its 
not enough for it to be authenticated, say with a card and PIN. And if they werent authorised 
Mr L wouldnt generally be responsible for them.
I also need to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Lloyds 
needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable grounds to 
believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and that the 
evidence would support this being reported to the authorities. 
What this means in practice is that a bank must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
have entered the consumers account, whether they are retained or pass through the 
account. Secondly, the bank will need to have strong evidence to show that the consumer 
was deliberately dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might 
be, an illegitimate payment. This can include allowing someone else to use their account in 
order to receive an illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against 
someone who was unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show deliberate 
complicity.
To meet the standard of proof required to register a CIFAS marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving 
the account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to 
understand their level of knowledge and intention.
Ive seen the information Lloyds has provided about these credits. Mr L doesnt say he was 
entitled to this money. And Im satisfied that this money had been fraudulently obtained.
I appreciate Mr L says he reported this to Lloyds and that he didnt have access to online 
banking. The information I have is that it logged his call at 17:46 on 3 July 2018 and told 
him to visit a branch with ID as he didnt fully pass security. There is no record he reported 
his card lost or stolen or his PIN compromised. As our adjudicator set out the audit records 
for the account show that a payment of £19,000 had been received that afternoon. And an 
unsuccessful attempt had been made to access £2,900 at a money transfer business at 
17:12 using the card. A successful cash machine withdrawal for £500 had been made with 
the card at 17:35. An attempt to use the card at a retailer at 18:24 wasnt successful.
I also note that the money of £300 received earlier and also reported as fraudulent had 
largely been withdrawn using the card at a cashpoint.
Mr L indicates that he thinks his card was cloned. The successful withdrawals required the 
chip on the genuine card to be read and the correct PIN entered. Weve not seen evidence 
of the chip on a card being cloned for everyday use. And I dont consider that this is the 
most likely explanation here, so Im satisfied that these were authenticated. Mr L says he 
had his card so he could see the balance at a cashpoint. And that he didnt provide his card 
to anyone. So, I consider that the most likely explanation is that he authorised these 
withdrawals.
That being the case I am also satisfied that he was complicit in what happened. Ive not 
seen evidence of any attempts to transfer the money using online banking. The only 
access made was using his card and he didnt report what happened until withdrawals had 
been made. 
Lloyds says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr L received fraudulent funds into his 
account. So, Ive looked at whether it was fair to apply the marker, based on the evidence it 
had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance says the business must have 
carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of proof set by CIFAS. This 
essentially means that Lloyds needs to have enough information to make a formal report to 
the police. And that any filing should be for cases where there are reasonable grounds to 
believe fraud or financial crime has been committed, rather than mere suspicion. Having reviewed Mr Ls account of events and the evidence he has provided, Im satisfied 
that Lloyds had sufficient evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. In coming to this 
view, Ive taken into account the following reasons:
- Mr L received fraudulent funds into his account.
- He authorised the withdrawal of the funds and so was in control of who had the 
benefit of this money.
- Lloyds had grounds to believe that Mr L had used fraudulently obtained funds based 
on the evidence it had.
I appreciate Mr L wanted his account to be closed in any event. But Im satisfied given my 
findings that Lloyds had grounds to do so under its terms and conditions. I also understand 
what Mr L says about the impact of the marker for him. But Im afraid I dont have a basis to 
require Lloyds to take any further action.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2023.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman