DRN-2488912
The complaint
Mr V complains that Specialist Lending Limited wont allow him to cancel a loan agreement, 
contrary to what he says he was told before he entered into the agreement.
What happened
In August 2019, Mr and Mrs V were introduced to an online provider of educational 
programmes, whom Ill call E, through a letter their daughter brought home from school. Es 
agent visited their home and carried out some tests on their daughter. The agent explained 
that the programme would run for 5 years. It would cost around £42.85 a month payable to a 
finance company by monthly direct debit.
Mr V says he and his wife were concerned at the length of the proposed commitment. He 
was the sole earner, and asked Es agent if they would be able to cancel if he encountered 
work problems or financial difficulties in the future. They also asked if they would be able to 
cancel should his daughter continue to do well at school so as not to need the programme. 
Es agent told them that they could cancel at any time they felt they didnt need the 
programme. So relying on this assurance they signed up for the programme, paying a 
deposit of £45, and entered into the finance arrangement. The monthly direct debit payments 
commenced in September 2019.
In February 2020, Mr and Mrs V decided their daughter was achieving good results at school 
and no longer needed the programme. Mr V also suffered reduced hours at work and 
struggled to keep up the monthly payments. Mr V contacted E to cancel the programme. 
However, E said he had entered into a loan agreement with Specialist Lending and he 
couldnt now cancel this. 
Mr V complained to Specialist Lending that he had been told by Es agent that he could 
cancel the finance arrangement. Specialist Lending didnt accept his complaint. It said the 
documentation he had signed at the time made it clear that the loan would run for 5 years, 
and that he only had a 14 day cooling off period. So Mr V complained to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He said that section 56 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 provided that Specialist Lending was liable for statements 
made by the supplier E and its agents before the credit agreement was taken out. Mr V 
recollected the very specific assurance they were given by Es agent when they voiced their 
worries about the length of the arrangement if circumstances changed. He says they were 
told:
Officially you cant cancel the agreement but unofficially you can cancel the agreement at
any time due to unpredictable circumstances, you may use the programme as much time as
you can afford it and find it useful.
The investigator acknowledged that Mr V had signed the finance documents, and they only 
provided for cancellation within the first 14 days. But he thought Mr V was misled into 
entering these documents by the assurance Es agent gave them. If he had thought he was 
applying for a loan over 5 years with no flexibility or option to cancel, the investigator didnt 
think Mr V would have agreed to take out the loan.
Mr V didnt attempt to terminate the loan until February 2020. So the investigator thought it 
was fair he pay for all repayments up till then. He recommended that:
the loan agreement should now be ended, with no further repayments being required;
any repayments made since 11 February 2020 should be refunded plus yearly 
interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date each payment was made up till the 
date of settlement;
Specialist Lending should repay the deposit of £45 plus yearly interest at the rate of 
8% simple from the date of payment until settlement;
Mr Vs access to E and the programme should be cancelled and Specialist Lending 
should arrange to collect the laptop E had supplied from Mr V at no cost to him; and
any adverse information relating to the loan agreement should be removed from  Mr 
Vs credit file. The loan should also be reported to have ended on 11 February 2020.
Specialist Lending responded to say, in summary, that:
it accepted its responsibility under the Consumer Credit Act as stated by the 
investigator. However, it thought the terms and information regarding the loan 
agreement were clearly set out within the sales documentation and process guides, 
which show Mr V only had a limited time to cancel the loan and programme;
it wasnt present when the sale took place, and cannot be sure what was said or 
discussed. But it had seen no evidence to support Mr Vs version of events, and 
didnt think from the documentation completed, and the video shown to him, he could 
reasonably think he was subject to different terms;
it didnt think Mr Vs evidence should be given equal weight with the written 
documentation; and
it wasnt sure why it was suggested the deposit should be repaid.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that the written documents given to Mr V clearly set out that the loan repayments 
will run for 5 years, and the loan can only be cancelled within the first 14 days. However,    
Mr Vs claim is that Es agent told him that although this was the official position, unofficially 
he could cancel at any time.
Specialist Lending acknowledges that it would be bound by representations made by Es 
agent prior to sale. But it says its seen no evidence to support Mr Vs claim, that given the 
clarity of the written evidence it wasnt reasonable for Mr V to have thought what he did, and 
that Mr Vs verbal claim shouldnt be given as much evidential weight as the written 
documents.
I have to weigh up all the evidence provided, and decide on the balance of probabilities what happened at the meeting in August 2019 between Mr and Mrs V and their daughter and Es 
agent. Their daughter was then about 11 years old, and they were being asked to make an 
educational and financial commitment for the next 5 years.
I think it is highly likely that parents in Mr and Mrs Vs situation would raise the questions 
they say they did, and that they would be unwilling to proceed without receiving some 
reassurance. I find that in these circumstances the wording of the response they say they 
received rings true.
So on balance I conclude that:
a false representation was made to Mr and Mrs V by Es agent which it was 
reasonable for them to accept;
Specialist Lending is liable for the representation under section 56; and
without the representation Mr V wouldnt have entered into the loan agreement. 
Mr Vs daughter did have some use of the programme initially, and Mr V didnt try to cancel 
the loan with Specialist Lending until February 2020. So like the investigator I think its fair 
and reasonable that Mr V should be responsible for the loan repayments paid or owing up to 
when Mr V attempted to terminate the loan in February 2020.
The deposit of £45 that he paid is, I think, part of the wider arrangement and should be 
refunded to Mr V. In other respects, the loan should now be treated as cancelled, as set out 
more fully below.
Putting things right
To put things right I think that apart from the loan repayments up to when Mr V attempted to 
terminate the loan in February 2020 the loan should now be treated as cancelled, as set out 
more fully below.  
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint, and order Specialist Lending Limited to:
cancel the loan agreement, with no further repayments being required;
refund all repayments which were due and made since 11 February 2020 with yearly 
interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date each payment was made until 
settlement (1);
repay the deposit of £45 with yearly interest at the rate of 8% simple from the date of 
payment until settlement(1);
cancel Mr Vs access to E and the programme, and arrange to collect from Mr V, at 
no cost to him, the laptop supplied by E; and
remove from Mr Vs credit file any adverse information relating to the loan 
agreement, and report the loan agreement as having ended on 11 February 2020.
(1)If Specialist Lending considers that its required by HM Revenue and Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr V a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 March 2021.
 
Lennox Towers
Ombudsman