DRN-3783779
The complaint
Miss D complains about how Admiral Insurance Company Limited settled a claim made on 
her motor insurance policy. Miss D is represented in this matter by her father, Mr D. He 
wants Admiral to fully investigate the claim. 
What happened
Miss D was involved in a collision with another driver at a roundabout. Admiral investigated 
the claim and settled it as 50/50 split liability. Miss D was unhappy with this as she lost her 
years No Claims Discount (NCD), she had to pay her policy excess, and she had a fault 
recorded against her. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought Admiral 
had investigated and settled the claim reasonably and fairly, as it was entitled to do by the 
policys terms and conditions. 
Mr D replied that Admiral hadnt obtained a report from the attending police. He thought its 
decision was unfair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Miss D feels frustrated and disappointed by Admirals decision. And I 
can understand that she feels that she has been unfairly treated. Miss D has said that she 
has been fully co-operative whilst the other driver has not. But that doesnt mean that 
Admiral should hold the other driver fully at fault for the collision. And I can see that he did 
provide his version of events to Admiral, as it requested. And this conflicted with Miss Ds 
account. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it 
treated Miss D the same as someone else in her position. 
Im satisfied that Admiral is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Miss D 
to take over, defend, or settle a claim as it  sees fit. Miss D has to follow its advice in 
connection with the settlement of her claim, whether she agrees with the outcome or not. 
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are 
entitled to take a commercial decision about whether it is reasonable to contest a third party 
claim or better to compromise.
That said we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
available before making its decision on liability. 
The collision happened on a roundabout. I can see that the Admiral has confirmed that it has 
looked at the correct roundabout. The evidence that Admiral had to consider was the two 
drivers versions of events and the damage to their cars. There were no independent 
witnesses or dashcam or CCTV evidence available. Admiral thought the damage caused 
was consistent with either drivers version of event.
Miss D thought that as the other driver had returned in the direction he had come from, then 
he must have been confused at the roundabout. But I havent seen any evidence to support 
this and so it remains as speculation on Miss Ds part. 
The police attended after the event. So they wouldnt be able to provide evidence about how 
the accident occurred. Mr D thought a report may be useful. But the police are versed in 
criminal law whilst Admiral considers claims under case and civil law. So I dont agree that 
the police report would help Admiral to establish liability. 
So Im satisfied that Admiral reasonably investigated the claim, as far as it was able to do so. 
It considered the evidence and decided that it wouldnt be able to prove that the other driver 
was fully at fault. So it settled the claim as split liability. I think its entitled to do this by the 
policys terms and conditions. So I cant say that Admiral has treated Miss D unfairly. 
The split liability decision meant that a fault was recorded against Miss D. Im satisfied that 
this was correct in keeping with industry practice. Also, Miss D lost a years NCD as this was 
unprotected. Im satisfied this is explained in her policys terms and conditions. And Miss D 
had to pay her policy excess. This is always the first part of a claim to be paid. So I cant say 
that this was unfair or unreasonable. And I dont require Admiral to do anything further. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2022.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman