DRN-4234373
The complaint
Ms L complains about Zurich Insurance PLC and their decision to decline the claim she 
made on her travel insurance policy, after she had to return home from her trip abroad early 
due to illness.
What happened
Ms L held an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy, underwritten by Zurich. On 2 
November 2022, Ms L travelled abroad with the cover of this policy in place. But three days 
into her 14-day trip, Ms L became unwell with an illness that rendered her bed bound. Due to 
this, she asked her partner to book her a return flight home as soon as possible, as she 
didnt feel well enough to continue with her trip. Ms L flew home 4 days later, on 9 November 
and she saw her local GP on both 10 and 11 November, who confirmed she had a severe 
Flu like/viral illness. On 13 November, Ms L contacted Zurich to make a claim on her policy 
for the costs she incurred travelling home, and the curtailment of her trip.
Zurich considered Ms Ls claim and declined it. They explained their opinion that Ms L had 
failed to meet the conditions of her policy, as she hadnt sought their permission to cut her 
trip short before doing so. And they didnt think Ms L was able to provide a medical 
certificate from a doctor in resort stating it was medically necessary for Ms L to return home 
earlier than planned. So, they didnt think they should pay Ms Ls claim. Ms L was unhappy 
with this, so she raised a complaint.
Ms L explained she was unable to access her policy documents when she was abroad, due 
to the impact of her illness. So, she didnt know she needed to contact Zurich to gain 
permission before returning home. And she thought the evidence provided by her GP on her 
return home was reasonable medical evidence. So, she thought the claim had been declined 
unfairly and she wanted Zurich to reverse their decision and accept the claim.
Zurich responded to the complaint and didnt uphold it. They felt they had declined the claim 
fairly, in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. So, they didnt think they needed to 
do anything more. Ms L remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint 
to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They didnt think it was 
disputed that Ms L returned home from her trip early, without seeking permission from Zurich 
first and that Ms L didnt obtain a medical certificate from a doctor while she was abroad. 
And our investigator didnt think the letter Ms L obtained from her local GP after she returned 
home stated it was medically necessary for Ms L to return home early.  So, our investigator 
wasnt persuaded that it was medically necessary and because of this, she thought Zurich 
had acted within the terms and conditions of the policy when declining the claim.
Ms L didnt agree. She explained she wasnt in a resort at the time she fell ill and so, she 
didnt think she was able to go to a doctor in resort, as the terms and conditions set out. So, 
Ms L maintained her belief she had acted fairly by obtained a letter from her local GP on her 
return home and that the claim should be accepted based on the information this letter 
provided. As Ms L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Ms L. I dont doubt it wouldve 
been both upsetting and worrying for Ms L to have fallen severely ill while she was abroad. 
And I recognise Ms L took out the insurance policy with Zurich to protect her financially in 
situations such as the one she found herself in. So, when Ms L tried to claim for the cost of 
her return flight, and other expenses related to the early ending of her trip, and Zurich 
declined to cover these costs, I can understand why Ms L would feel unfairly treated and 
wish to complain.
But for me to say Zurich should do something differently, such as reverse the claim decision 
and accept it, I first need to be satisfied Zurich have done something wrong. So, Id need to 
be satisfied Zurich failed to act within the terms and conditions of the policy Ms L held when 
declining the claim. Or, if I think Zurich did act within these, Id need to be satisfied they 
acted unfairly in some other way. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive seen the terms and conditions of the policy Ms L held. These explain under section A, 
titled Cancelling and cutting short your holiday that Zurich would accept a claim for the 
following reason 1. You die, become seriously ill or get injured. In this situation, Ms L says 
she cut her holiday short because she felt she became seriously ill. So, I can understand 
why Ms L feels her claim should be accepted on this basis.
But crucially, the terms and conditions go on to explain under the heading Special 
conditions which apply to section A that Ms L must get our permission if you have to cut 
your holiday short and return early to your home area for an insured reason. If you are 
unable to contact us for permission, you must get a doctors certificate in resort confirming 
the medical necessity for you to return home earlier than planned. 
And under the heading Contract of Insurance, the terms and conditions explain This is 
your travel insurance contract. It contains certain conditions and exclusions in each section, 
and general conditions and exclusions apply to all sections. You must meet these conditions 
or we may not accept your claim. 
So, Im satisfied that Zurich were able to decline Ms Ls claim, if she failed to meet the 
conditions set out within the policy she held. And in this situation, its not in dispute that Ms L 
didnt seek permission from Zurich before cutting her trip short. While I appreciate Ms L was 
feeling severely ill at the time, and I dont dispute the difficulty this wouldve placed on her 
contacting Zurich, I dont think this means Ms L had no obligation to do so. Ms L couldve 
asked a representative to contact them on her behalf. And while I also recognise Ms Ls 
explanation that she didnt have the policy terms to hand while she was abroad, I dont think 
this was the fault of Zurich, or that they are responsible for this. I think its reasonable for 
Zurich to assume a customer would ensure they were able to access the travel insurance 
policy documents they held while travelling abroad, considering it is this policy they would 
need to refer to in case of emergency. So, I dont think Ms L met this aspect of the condition.
But the terms do provide an allowance for a customer being unable to seek Zurichs 
permission. The special conditions explain that, where a customer is unable to contact Zurich, they must provide a medical certificate from a doctor in resort. While I recognise Ms 
Ls belief she wasnt in a resort, as she wasnt staying in a resort type hotel, I dont think this 
means this term doesnt apply. I think its fair for Zurich to expect a customer, regardless of 
their type of accommodation, to seek medical attention in a situation where they are severely 
ill and unable to continue their trip. And I think the condition makes it reasonably clear Zurich 
would need a certificate from a doctor that had seen, and potentially treated, Ms L before 
she took the decision to cut her trip short. And its not in dispute this isnt possible, as Ms L 
didnt seek medical assistance while abroad.
While I accept Ms Ls own personal belief her illness was likely viral and so, no medical 
assistance could be provided, Ms L isnt a trained medical professional. And I think the terms 
and conditions make it clear Zurich needed a certificate from a practicing medical 
professional in the area Ms L had travelled to before Ms L travelled home, making it clear Ms 
Ls travel home was medically necessary. As this certificate cant be supplied, Im satisfied 
Ms Ls claim failed to meet the conditions set out within the policy and so, I dont think I can 
say Zurich have declined the claim unfairly on this occasion. And because of this, I dont 
think they need to do anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Ms L was hoping for. And I want to reassure Ms L I have 
considered the letter she received from her own GP, who she saw when she returned home. 
But this letter was provided after Ms L returned home, which doesnt meet the conditions of 
the policy. And even if this wasnt the case, I dont think the letter provides a medical opinion 
that states Ms L was medically required to return home. Instead, I think it provides a 
summary of the timeline of events, as described by Ms L, and a potential diagnosis. And so, 
I dont think this letter shouldve caused Zurich to reconsider the claim and accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint about Zurich Insurance 
PLC.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman