DRN-1665476
 
The complaint
Mrs B says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy
 
What happened
This complaint is about a monthly premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2001.
The policy cost around £23 per month, and would have provided a monthly benefit of £400 
for up to 12 months per successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicator's opinion, 
so the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We've set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and I've taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs B's case.
I've decided not to uphold Mrs B's complaint. I'll explain why.
 
HSBC has provided a copy of its notes of the financial review that took place when 
Mrs B applied for the mortgage. I can see that after discussing Mrs B's financial 
position and needs, the adviser recommended that Mrs B take out "Mortgage 
Repayment Protector" (a form of PPI), along with various other insurances. And I can 
see from the electronic record of Mrs B's application that she took the cover. I think 
it's more likely than not that HSBC made it clear to Mrs B that the PPI was optional. 
And I think she decided to take it, knowing that she had a choice. 
 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mrs B. This means it had a responsibility to check 
that it was suitable for her. But it doesn't look as if it was unsuitable, based on what 
I've seen of Mrs B's circumstances at the time.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs B's told us she'd have been entitled to six months' full pay, 
followed by six months' half pay from her employer if she'd been off sick. But if she'd 
made a successful claim on the policy, it would potentially have paid out for longer 
than she'd have been entitled to full sick pay for. And it would have paid the same benefit if she'd made a successful unemployment claim. What's more, it would have 
paid out in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay that Mrs B received. So she 
could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
 
I've borne in mind that Mrs B's told us she had some savings when she applied for 
the mortgage. But HSBC's notes of her discussions with the adviser suggest that she 
explained that the bulk of her savings were ear-marked for her deposit on the 
property purchase. And even if she'd retained all the savings after the purchase, they 
weren't of such a high amount as would make me consider that the PPI was 
unsuitable for Mrs B.  And the PPI would have meant that she didn't need to use her 
savings to pay her monthly mortgage payments if she was off sick or if she lost her 
job.
 
I acknowledge that Mrs B's also told us she had critical illness cover and private 
health care. But those are different types of insurance, and wouldn't have provided 
the same benefits as PPI.
 
Taking everything into account, I think the PPI could have been useful to Mrs B. Her 
mortgage was a significant long-term financial commitment. It was secured on her 
property, and the consequences of not keeping up with her monthly mortgage 
payments could have been serious.
 
It may be that HSBC could have explained the cost of the PPI better than it did. It 
looks as if the policy may have been free for the first six months. After that, it was 
competitively priced, and I've seen nothing to make me think Mrs B couldn't afford it. 
So I think she'd still have bought it even if she'd been given better information about 
the cost. And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any 
time with no further cost if her circumstances changed, or if she decided she no 
longer wanted the cover. 
 
It's possible HSBC didn't point out the main things the policy didn't cover (such as 
unusual working arrangements or existing medical conditions). But from what I've 
seen of her circumstances at the time, it's unlikely that Mrs B would have been 
affected by any of these. So I don't think that better information would have put her 
off taking the PPI.
 
This means HSBC doesn't have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But HSBC has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because:
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs B about that. Because HSBC didn't tell her, 
that was unfair.
 
To put that right, HSBC has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case. My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold  so HSBC UK Bank plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs B.
But HSBC UK Bank plc does have to pay back to Mrs B any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman