DRN-3653501
The complaint
Mr P complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) declining a claim under his bicycle 
insurance policy for the theft of his bike from a break in at his shed.
 
Aviva use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to Aviva includes 
these agents.
What happened
Mr P took out a bicycle insurance policy with Aviva in October 2021, covering his bike. 
Unfortunately, the following month, the shed in which Mr P kept his bike was broken into and 
his bike was stolen. Mr P contacted Aviva to tell them about the theft and lodge a claim.
Aviva considered the claim and the circumstances of the theft but declined the claim on the 
grounds Mr P hadnt complied with the policy terms and conditions about the security 
requirements covering the location of where the bike was kept. Specifically, they said the 
policy required the shed to be secured by means of a closed shackle padlock  whereas 
the padlock on the shed was an open shackle padlock. 
Unhappy at the decline of his claim, Mr P challenged Avivas decision and complained. He 
said hed made it clear his bike would be kept in a shed when he took out the policy and hed 
taken every precaution to protect his bike, with padlocks both on the garden gate to his 
property, and the shed itself (the latter of a type that couldnt be cut through by a bolt cutter). 
And the bike was attached by a lock to a piece of machinery used to compact soil. He also 
said the thieves used cutting equipment that would have defeated any form of padlock. 
Aviva didnt agree the complaint was justified. In their final response, they said the security 
requirements in the policy hadnt been followed and so they confirmed the decision to 
decline the claim. Aviva referred to the policy terms and conditions, specifically those relating 
to security requirements. Aviva went on to say the padlock used to secure Mr Ps shed didnt 
meet the criteria set out in the security requirements.
  
Mr P then complained to this service, saying he didnt think Aviva fairly declined his claim. 
He said hed taken every precaution he could to safeguard his bike. Hes lost his bike (and 
the £1,999 hed paid for it) and his circumstances meant he couldnt afford to replace it 
himself. This meant he now had to walk to work. He wanted Aviva to accept his claim and 
pay for the loss of his bike.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint.  He thought Mr P would have been aware of the 
security requirements from the policy documents sent to him when he took out the policy. 
And the policy made the security requirements clear. From photographs of the lock on the 
shed, it had been cut through  but in comparison with a closed shackle lock, the latter 
would have been more difficult to cut through.
Mr P disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. He maintained he did a great deal to safeguard his bike and shown the bike 
would still have been stolen even if hed used a padlock of the type required by the policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to say I appreciate what Mr P has told us about his circumstances and the 
impact the theft of his bike has had on him and his ability to get to work. I also recognise the 
impact that any theft has on the victim, not just the financial loss. Ive borne this in mind 
when deciding whether Aviva has acted fairly towards Mr P.
The key issue in Mr Ps complaint is that Aviva unfairly declined his claim, on the grounds 
that he hadnt complied with the security requirements set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. Mr P says he took every precaution to protect his bike, with padlocks both on the 
garden gate to his property, and the shed itself. And the bike itself was attached by a bike 
lock to a large piece of machinery used to compact soil. He also says the thieves used 
cutting equipment that would have defeated any form of padlock. Aviva say the policy terms 
and conditions require a specific form of padlock (a closed shackle padlock) whereas the 
type used by Mr P was an open shackle padlock. They say a closed shackle padlock is 
specified because it leaves very little of the shackle exposed, making it more difficult to cut 
using bolt cutters or power saws. 
In declining the claim, Aviva refer to the following policy terms and conditions, under section 
headed General Security Requirements which state:
These are the general security requirements which you will need to keep to as your 
part of this contract. If you do not a claim may be rejected or payment could be 
reduced. In some circumstances your policy might be invalid.
1. When at home the bicycle must be kept at one of the following locations:
a. Locked inside your home, flat or within a locked room if in a shared residence.
b. Locked inside a shed, garage, purpose built immovable bike storage box, or 
outbuilding which is only accessible to you and your household. This storage 
location must be fully enclosed and built from brick, stone, concrete, wood or 
metal and be within the boundaries of Your home and comply with one of the 
following security requirements:
i. All external doors must be secured by a minimum of a 5 lever mortice 
deadlock to BS3621 or a 5 lever or closed shackle padlock or;
ii. External doors must be secured by the manufacturers installed lock
Aviva also refer to the What is not Covered section of the policy, which states:
5. Theft from your home unless the Security Requirements when the bicycle is at home 
are complied with
Aviva state the padlock used to secure the shed was a Squire heavy duty padlock SS50S, 
which is an open shackle lock grade 4. As such, it isnt a closed shackle padlock and 
doesnt meet the security requirement set out in the policy terms and conditions. Looking at 
the photographs and other evidence and information about the lock on the shed (and the 
difference to a closed shackle padlock) I think its clear the padlock on Mr Ps shed isnt of a 
closed shackle design. So, it doesnt meet the security requirements set out in the policy 
terms and conditions referred to above. I also think the policy document makes this clear and Mr P should have been aware of it from having been provided with the policy documents 
when he took out his policy the month before the theft.
While Ive come to this conclusion, Ive considered what Mr P has said about doing a great 
deal to safeguard his bike. And that the theft would have occurred regardless of the 
precautions taken (or if hed used a closed shackle padlock). I dont doubt Mr P did take 
care to take the precautions hes described. I also recognise that it would be difficult to stop 
a determined thief using sophisticated, heavy duty equipment. However, although its not 
possible to know for certain that a closed shackle padlock would have prevented the theft, it 
would have made it more difficult. 
Taking this point together with the clear security requirement in the policy terms and 
conditions, Ive concluded Aviva acted fairly in declining the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision not to uphold Mr Ps complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman