DRN-1844346
 
The complaint
Mr Ms complaint is that Pello Capital Limited (Pello) gave him unsuitable investment advice 
and led him into unsuitable investments.
What happened
One of our investigators provided a very detailed view on the complaint. In the main, she 
noted as follows:
In November 2017 Mr M deposited £24,000 into his investment account. Thereafter 
he deposited an additional £5,000. Less than a week after his initial deposit, almost 
the entire deposit amount was invested in the Audley Funding 12% Bond (the bond) 
which was a minerals exploration investment with a term of five years.
Mr M had been introduced to Pello by an unregulated third party firm which 
undertook to have assessed him as a professional client. This assessment was relied 
upon by Pello until it was reviewed around January/February 2018. Pellos review 
included its expression of concern that he was not a professional client and that the 
bond was too risky for him  given that he was a cautious investor with notable 
reliance upon, and low capacity to lose, his deposited funds. Pello advised Mr M to 
sell the bond in the relevant secondary market, this took some time to achieve and 
the bond was not sold until July 2019 (however it was re-purchased immediately). 
Other investments (and liquidations and reinvestments), on Pellos 
recommendations, followed  
in October 2018 around £4,300 (partly revenue from the bond and partly new money) 
was invested in Equiniti Group (the EG fund); this holding was then sold in April 
2019 at a loss of around £400 and the proceeds were reinvested in Go Compare 
stock (GC stock); the GC stock was sold in July 2019 at a loss of around £200 and 
then immediately re-purchased.
in December 2018 around £2,000 was invested in an Alternative Investment Market 
(AIM) Oil and Gas stock (the AIM stock).
in June 2019 £28,000 was invested in another AIM stock called BigDish (the AIM2 
stock) on the basis of an extended settlement arrangement (for around a month) 
because Mr M did not have the purchase money available; by the time settlement 
was concluded in July it had lost around £15,000 in value; in the same month (July) 
18% of the AIM2 stock was sold at a 25% loss. 
In August 2019 the AIM stock was sold at a loss of £130; the GC stock was sold at a 
loss of £350; the remainder of the AIM2 stock was sold at a loss of £6,000; and the 
bond was sold at a loss of £3,800; later in this month £14,000 was invested in ADM 
Energy stock, a few days later two thirds of the stock was sold and the remainder 
was sold in the following month (September) creating a total loss of £4,000.
Mr M complained to Pello in late 2019, citing a total loss of over £20,000 in the 
investments it recommended to him, the unsuitability of its recommendations and its 
misuse of his funds. Pello disputed the complaint and, in the main, it said Mr M was a 
self-elected professional client with capacity to commit his funds to long term 
investments, with a high risk investor profile, with no reported changes in his circumstances at the time of the investments and that contract notes for the 
investment activities in his account made them transparent to him.
The investigator did not accept Pellos assertions. She concluded that the complaint should 
be upheld. In the main, she found as follows:
Pello ought not to have relied upon Mr Ms classification as a professional (and high 
net worth) client by an unregulated firm because relevant regulations were not 
satisfied by that firms assessment. It should have highlighted this to Mr M at the 
outset. 
Pellos engagement with Mr M during its review (apparent from telephone recording 
evidence) confirmed  to it  that the unregulated firms assessment was incorrect; 
that he was a cautious/low risk investor with limited capacity for loss, with limited (or 
no) capacity to commit his funds to investments beyond the short term and with a 
capital preservation objective; that he was inexperienced in shares, he was single 
(without dependents) and that he had self-employed annual earnings of £25,000 
(with monthly disposable income of £800); and that the bond was unsuitable for him 
(as expressly confirmed by the Pello adviser) because it mismatched his risk profile 
and objective. 
Despite Pellos awareness of the above in early 2018 (January/February) it 
unreasonably proceeded to lead Mr M, from October 2018 onwards, into investments 
(all the investments after the bond) which were as unsuitable for him as was the 
bond, in terms of mismatching his risk profile and objective. In addition, it ought 
reasonably to have determined at the outset that its service, as a whole, was 
unsuitable for him given that its service's key facts document said it primarily 
recommended high risk/speculative investments for investors with matching profiles. 
Mr Ms profile mismatched such investments.
Mr M should receive redress for Pellos unsuitable investment recommendations to 
him and for his resulting losses; in addition to £500 for the trouble and upset he has 
been caused in the matter.
Pello disagreed with this outcome. In the main it referred to evidence in support of the 
following key arguments:
Transactions, for Mr M, in the bond and the EG fund were performed on an execution 
only basis, whereby Pello gave no advice or recommendation and its role was limited 
to executing Mr Ms dealing instructions.
Mr M wilfully agreed with the other investments that were recommended and made, 
he could have chosen not to proceed with the recommendations. He also understood 
and agreed with the risks of the extended settlement  T20  arrangement for the 
AIM2 stock. Telephone evidence and an appropriateness questionnaire completed 
and signed by Mr M in November 2018 support this.
At the outset and upon his introduction to Pello Mr M had self-assessed himself as an 
Elective Professional client. There is documentary evidence of this and it was an 
assessment that he alone defined, as it was neither done by the third party introducer 
firm nor was it done by Pello. Pello was entitled to rely on this and to rely on the 
implication, arising from it, that Mr M understood market risks and high risk 
investments.
It was not required to conduct Annual Client Reviews (ACR) for professional clients 
so the unsigned ACR evidence it previously sought to rely upon  and its previous 
arguments in this respect  can be ignored. [Initially, Pello had argued that the ACR 
document (for 2019) showed Mr M agreed that his risk profile was high/adventurous 
and agreed that he had a high capacity for loss.]
The appropriateness questionnaire Mr M completed and signed in November 2018, 
without input from Pello, confirmed his high capacity for loss.
The matter was referred to an ombudsman. What Ive decided  and why
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have reached the same conclusion expressed by the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons she gave. I incorporate her main reasons (as summarised above) into this decision.
Pellos position can be summed up under the following three main points:
Mr M was a self-assessed elective professional client and this sets the context for the 
service it provided to him.
Its service to him was provided in two distinct respects - an execution only service for 
the bond and the EG fund transactions and an advisory service, defined by his 
professional client status, for the other transactions/investments.
Its investment recommendations to Mr M were suitable for him, again based on his 
professional client status, and were wilfully agreed by him. In addition, the T20 
arrangement for (and risks of) the AIM2 stock investment was explained to and 
expressly agreed by him.
I address these points as follows  
Classification of Mr M
Pellos assertion that Mr M self-assessed himself as a professional client  with no input 
from [Pello] , and that it provided its service to him on this basis, is in conflict with what it 
told him in its welcome letter of 8 November 2017. In the concluding paragraph of this letter, 
under the heading Client Classification, Pello said  In accordance with the FCA rules and 
Clause 4.2 of our Terms of Business, we have classified you as a Professional Client [my 
emphasis]
The implication that arises from the above is that Pello undertook responsibility for having 
assessed and classified Mr M as a professional client  an elective professional client, given 
that the per se category would have been inapplicable to the facts. This dismisses the notion 
that a self-assessment by Mr M was the basis of Pellos service provision.  In addition, the 
investigator rightfully dismissed merit in the alternative notion that Pello relied on an 
assessment by the third party introducer firm. As that firm was unregulated any such reliance 
would not have met the regulations (as specified by the investigator) Pello was bound by.
In order to discharge the requirements of classifying Mr M as an elective professional client 
Pello had to apply  and satisfy itself that Mr M had passed  the regulators qualitative and 
quantitative tests (under COBS 3.5.3R); it also had to follow the procedure prescribed by the 
regulator (also under COBS 3.5.3R).
There does not appear to be evidence of a meaningful qualitative test assessment by Pello 
of Mr M and the same applies to a meaningful quantitative test assessment in the same 
respect. This could be viewed as consistent with Pellos position that Mr M assessed himself 
at the outset but, as noted above, it is inconsistent with evidence that Pello classified (and 
therefore assessed) Mr M as a professional client. 
The qualitative test required Pello to establish and to be reasonably assured that Mr M had 
the expertise, experience and knowledge to make his own investment decisions and 
understand the risks involved in the investment service it provided. It is not disputed that 
Pellos investment service catered for high risk investments. Its welcome letter to Mr M, its 
key facts document and its final response to the complaint all expressly state this. I have not 
seen wider evidence to show that Pello conducted an assessment in which reasonable assurance (of what COBS 3.5.3 (1)R required) was established, so it did not meet the 
qualitative test.
The quantitative test required Pello to be satisfied that at least two of the following applied to 
Mr M  that he had carried out significant sized transactions in the market relevant to Pello 
service at an average of 10 per quarter over the previous four years; that he had a portfolio 
valued at over 500,000 Euros; that he was a professional in the financial sector. 
Mr M was not a professional in the financial sector. Pello has submitted an application 
document which includes an internal on-boarding related email that says Mr M had a 
portfolio valued between £100,000 and £500,000. Wider evidence does not support this and 
it is not clear how Pello sourced this information at the time. There does not appear to be 
evidence of Pello assessing Mr Ms transaction history. Pello did not apply  or ensure that 
Mr M passed  the quantitative test. It is also noteworthy that the procedure for a 
professional client classification, as prescribed in COBS 3.5.3R, does not appear to have 
been properly followed by Pello. 
Overall and on the balance of available evidence, Mr M was not an elective professional 
client, Pello did not assess him (or did not properly assess him) as a professional client and 
Pellos high risk investment service should never have been made available to him. I 
consider this the relevant context in which to view Mr Ms complaint.
Pellos Service to Mr M
As stated above, Pello provided a service for high risk investments by high risk profile 
investors/clients. It says it could provide this service to Mr M because he was an elective 
professional client, which made it implicit that he could undertake high risk investments. I 
have found, above, that this was not the case. Mr M was not an elective professional client  
and there is no other evidence of a separate assessment of the appropriateness and/or 
suitability of high risk investments for him  so the inherent nature of the [high risk] 
investment service that Pello offered was a mismatch for him. 
The above finding extends to Pellos claim that the bond and the EG fund were execution 
only investment transactions and that it did not recommend them. I do not consider it 
necessary to address the merits of this claim. The primary point is that no service from Pello 
 execution only or otherwise  should have been made available to Mr M, given the high 
risk nature of the service and given that he was neither a professional client nor had he been 
assessed as a high risk profile investor. In terms of the latter, I note that Pello no longer 
relies on the unsigned ACRs.
In the above context, I consider Pello responsible for both unsuitable and inappropriate 
investments  and for the redress due to Mr M for investing in them. As the investigator 
noted, there is evidence that by early 2018 Pello conceded that the bond was unsuitable for 
Mr M and that he was a cautious/low risk investor with limited capacity for loss and a capital 
preservation objective. Yet it unreasonably proceeded (later in 2018) to play a pivotal role in 
assisting Mr M to invest in the EG fund  another of the high risk investments Pello offered. 
Thereafter, as I address below, it unreasonably continued to play pivotal roles (with 
recommendations and in an undisputed advisory context) in other high risk investments for 
Mr M  despite knowing they mismatched his investor profile.
Pellos Recommendations
Pello says Mr M wilfully agreed with its recommendations. I consider this a redundant point, 
given that it was Pellos responsibility  alone  to ensure its recommendations were suitable 
for Mr M. Whether (or not) Mr M agreed with the recommendations had no meaningful bearing on whether (or not) Pello discharged its duty to make suitable recommendations. It 
was the expert in the relationship and Mr M was in receipt of its advisory service, so it is 
arguably to be expected that Mr M would agree with what he expected to be suitable 
investment advice.
Pellos argument about the T20 arrangement for the AIM2 stock investment does not defeat 
the salient point I have made above  that the investments it offered were inherently 
unsuitable for Mr M. In terms of addressing the argument on its own merit, I note that the 
document Pello has relied upon  in which it says Mr M signed an undertaking that he 
understood and agreed with the risks in the arrangement  does not support it. Firstly, the 
document confirmed to Pello that Mr M had no previous experience of T20 settlement 
arrangements  the box he was asked to tick to confirm such experience was not ticked. 
Secondly, the document does not detail or explain the market related risks in the 
arrangement (or in extended settlement arrangements in general). 
The investments which Pello does not dispute recommending  the GC stock, the AIM stock, 
the AIM2 stock and the ADM Energy stock  were high risk investments which were 
unsuitable for Mr Ms cautious/low risk and limited capacity for loss profile. They also 
conflicted with his capital preservation objective. The profile and objective were known to 
Pello in early 2018, many months before these investments. The investments mismatched 
Mr M's objective, risk profile and his capacity for loss. 
The same applies to the investment transactions  which featured a highly speculative 
strategy  that took place in relation to these investments and in relation to the bond and the 
EG fund. In this respect, I refer to the initial investments, the liquidations (partial and whole) 
and the reinvestments that took place, as summarised in the background section above. 
They too were unsuitable for Mr M for the same reasons.
Conclusion
Overall, on balance and for the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Putting things right
Fair Compensation
I consider that fair compensation will be to put Mr M as close as I can to the position he 
would probably now be in if he had not been given Pello's unsuitable service and unsuitable 
advice. I take the view that he would have behaved differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done differently, but I am satisfied that what I have set out 
below is fair given his circumstances, cautious investor profile and capital preservation 
objective at the time.
What must Pello do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Pello must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's portfolio of investments (all the investments 
made through Pello) with that of the benchmark shown below and pay him 
compensation in the form of the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value. However, if the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation for 
financial loss is payable. 
Pay Mr M interest as set out below. Income tax may be payable on any interest 
awarded.
Pay Mr M £500 for the trouble and upset the matter has caused him.Provide Mr M with details of the calculation of compensation in a clear and simple 
format.
investment 
status
 benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
Mr M's 
portfolio 
investmentssurrenderedthe Bank of England 
average return from fixed 
rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
surrender 8% simple per year 
from the end date 
to the date of 
settlement 
actual value            
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the 
benchmark, Pello should use the monthly average rate for fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there are a large number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if Pello totals all of those payments and deducts that figure 
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr M had a cautious risk profile, limited capacity for loss and wanted to preserve his 
capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. 
I consider that benchmark used above broadly reflects the sort of return Mr M could 
have obtained from an investment suited to his profile.
The additional interest is for Mr M being deprived use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr M's complaint. I order Pello Capital Limited to pay 
him compensation as detailed above and to provide him with a calculation of the 
compensation in a clear and simple format. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 6 July 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman