DRN-4143467
The complaint
Mr S complains about the way Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat 
Financial Services (VWFS) took back his car after his hire agreement ended. 
What happened
In March 2019 Mr S entered into a two-year contract hire agreement for a new car. This was 
later extended for two months, and then for another year, which meant the agreement was 
due end on 12 May 2022. 
On 14 March 2022 VWFS sent a letter reminding Mr S that the agreement would soon be 
ending and setting out his options. 
Mr S says he called VFWS on 20 April 2022 to let them know hed booked the car in for 
inspection and collection on 19 May 2022 because this was the earliest date their agent 
could offer him. He says he also asked VFWS to send him a quote for another extension, 
intending to call them back once hed received it. 
Mr S has told us that he called VWFS again on 13 May 2022 because he hadnt received the 
quote. He says he again confirmed the car was due to be collected on 19 May 2022, and the 
advisor made no mention of the possibility of action being taken to repossess it.
Mr S says he contacted VWFS agent again on 16 May 2022, and they agreed to change the 
collection date to 26 May 2022. He says the agent advised him this was the latest the car 
could be collected, being 14 days after the contract end-date.
On 18 May 2022 collection agents arrived to take the car. Mr S says that, although his wife 
told them arrangements had been made for it to be returned a few days later, VWFS 
authorised the collection to go ahead. Mr S says they took the car away with personal 
possession still inside it, leaving him without a car to transport his children to school. 
Mr S says he called VWFS several more times, initially to see if the car could be returned 
and then to raise a formal complaint. He says he was further upset when, on 10 July 2022, 
he received invoices totalling £730.24 for damage to the car, an additional period of hire, and 
excess mileage. He says the damage was discovered during an inspection carried out 50 
days after the car was collected - and that hed been charged for additional hire until the date 
of this inspection. 
VWFS issued their final response on 26 July 2022, upholding Mr Ss complaint. They 
acknowledged things hadnt gone as they should have done and apologised for the 
inconvenience and issues this had caused. They said theyd waived the charges for 
additional hire, damage, and excess mileage, and offered Mr S £200 as a gesture of 
goodwill for personal belongings collected with the car.
Dissatisfied with this, Mr S refused VWFS offer and brought his complaint to us.
After reviewing the evidence wed received from both parties, our investigator said she 
thought VWFS had acted fairly by apologising for their error and removing the additional 
charges. She said she thought the £200 compensation theyd offered was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S provided more evidence about what had happened. He said he wouldnt have filled the 
cars fuel tank that morning if hed known it was going to be taken away - and that his wife 
had been left with no option but to get a taxi to collect his children from school.
Mr S provided evidence showing fuel and taxi expenses. He said he didnt have receipts for 
the personal possessions taken with the car, either due to their age or because they were 
received as gifts. He said it would cost him over £400 to replace them.
Having reviewed the evidence again, our investigator said she thought Mr S should be 
reimbursed for the fuel hed bought the morning the car was collected, because he hadnt 
been told when this would happen. But she remained of the view that the amount VWFS had 
offered Mr S for his possessions and inconvenience was fair and reasonable.
VWFS accepted the investigators recommendations. Mr S disagreed  Ill summarise the 
main points he made:
VWFS hadnt paid him anything towards the personal possessions hed lost due to 
the car being taken without notice and without any possibility of recovering things left 
inside it. 
Hed provided credit card statements showing taxi costs totalling £41.42 for daily 
school runs.
The various invoices VWFS had agreed to cancel were erroneously raised. Other 
than £44 for excess mileage, none of the other charges were valid and recoverable. 
The exceptionally poor customer service hed received caused both himself and his 
wife considerable stress and upset, as well as consuming time on fruitless phone 
calls. He didnt feel hed been compensated for this. 
Mr S asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so its been passed to me for a 
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision, saying:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I can see Mr S feels very strongly about VWFS handling of this matter - and VFWS accept 
things didnt go as they should have done. I think its important for me to start by explaining 
that the Financial Ombudsman Service isnt here to punish a business for getting things 
wrong. Our role is to look at the impact their error has had on the customer and consider 
whether the business should do more to put that right. 
This was a hire agreement between VWFS and Mr S, which means I can consider his 
complaint and the impact this has had on him. Mr Ss wife isnt named on the agreement, so 
I wont be considering the impact these issues had on her. I want to reassure Mr S that Ive considered all the information hes provided. If I havent 
commented on any specific point, its because I dont think it affects what I believe to be the 
right outcome in this case.
What went wrong?
VWFS have provided a copy of the letter they sent Mr S on 13 March 2022, reminding him 
that the agreement was coming to an end and setting out his options. It says:
If we do not hear from you regarding arrangements for the return of your vehicle with [our 
agent] by your contract end date we will pass the recovery of the vehicle to our legal 
collection partners...
Mr S has provided a copy of an email he received from VWFS agent dated 20 April 2022, 
confirming a booking for collection and inspection of the car. Hes told us that he made 
VWFS aware of this when he called them that day. 
Although Ive seen evidence showing VWFS have no record of this booking, I think it most 
likely that Mr S did mention it when he called them to discuss a possible extension of the 
agreement. And even if he didnt mention it, Id expect VWFS to have processes in place to 
check whether an inspection had been booked before passing the matter to their legal 
collection team. 
For these reasons, I dont consider it to have been fair or reasonable for VWFS agents to 
have been sent to collect the car on 18 May 2022. I dont find it necessary to consider 
whether other administrative errors were also made, because I dont think that affects the 
impact this situation had on Mr S.
What impact did this have on Mr S?
1. Fuel cost
Mr S has provided evidence showing hed agreed with VWFS agent that the collection of 
the car would be pushed back to 26 May 2022. Hes also provided a copy of a fuel 
receipt, showing he paid £72.94 for around 45 litres of fuel during the morning of 18 May 
2022. I think he did that because he reasonably expected to have the use of the car for 
another week. So, I think its fair for VWFS to reimburse the cost of this fuel.
2. Taxi fares
Mr S has provided copies of credit card statements showing a total of five taxi trips 
between 18 and 20 May 2022, costing a total of £41.42. He says he incurred these costs 
because he needed to transport his children to and from school.
But Im not persuaded that hes incurred additional transport costs here. The evidence 
Ive seen shows VWFS cancelled all rental charges for the car after 18 May 2022. They 
also cancelled an excess mileage charge of £43.84, which Mr S accepts was valid. So, I 
dont consider it fair for me to direct VWFS to cover his taxi fares.
3. Personal possessions Mr S says the car was taken with personal possessions still inside, and that the collection 
agents gave no opportunity for these to be removed. Hes told us these items would cost 
£403 to replace. 
The evidence Ive seen shows the collection agents initially clamped the car  and that 
they took the time to contact VFWS to check whether any extension had been agreed. Im 
not persuaded that there was no opportunity for personal possessions to be removed 
from the car before it was taken. 
And even if I was persuaded of this, Ive seen no supporting evidence as to the items lost 
or how much they were worth. Mr S told us designer sunglasses worth £218 were given 
to him as a gift. He says he doesnt have receipts for other items due to their age, but that 
they were fully functional. 
In the absence of any evidence to support the expenses Mr S is claiming for items of 
particular value, I dont consider it fair for me to direct VWFS to pay for these. 
4. Distress and inconvenience
Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im satisfied that the car was taken away eight days 
sooner than Mr S expected. I think it would have been inconvenient to find himself without 
a car to transport his children to school that week. 
Mr S has told us that VWFS actions on 18 May 2022 and exceptionally poor customer 
service have caused him considerable stress and upset, as well as taking up a lot of time 
to resolve. He says the majority of the additional charges VWFS agreed to cancel had 
been incorrect.
I can see this has been an upsetting and frustrating experience for Mr S - and that hes 
spent time on phone calls and emails to get things resolved. Ive given careful thought to 
the level of inconvenience and distress hes been caused between 18 May and 26 July 
2022, when VWFS sent their final response to his complaint. 
Ive also taken into account the inconvenience of having to replace any items of nominal 
value that may have been left inside the car when it was collected. 
Having thought about all of this, I do think VWFS offer of £200 compensation was fair 
and reasonable. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I intend to uphold this complaint and direct Volkswagen 
Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
Reimburse Mr S £72.94 for the fuel he purchased on 18 May 2022, plus 8% simple 
interest calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused. 
I invited both parties to send me any further information or comments theyd like me to 
consider.
VWFS said they agreed with my provisional findings and had no further points to make. Mr S 
didnt respond. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further information in response to my provisional findings, I 
see no reason to change my mind. 
My final decision
For the reasons I explained in my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint and direct 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to:
Reimburse Mr S £72.94 for the fuel he purchased on 18 May 2022, plus 8% simple 
interest calculated from the date of payment until the date of settlement. 
Pay Mr S £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been caused, if 
they havent done so already.
If VWFS consider tax should be deducted from the interest element of the award, they 
should tell Mr S how much theyve taken off. They should also give Mr S a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if he eligible. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Corinne Brown
Ombudsman