DRN-4286140
The complaint
Mr G complains that Financial Administration Services Limited, trading as Fidelity, wont act 
on his instructions to sell the funds held in his account and send him the proceeds, even 
though hes sent it the information it said it needed.
What happened
Mr G and his then wife opened a joint Fidelity investment account in 1994. Mr G says Fidelity 
had always acted on his sole instructions on the account. The last activity on the account 
was in 1999.
Fidelity said that it contacted Mr and Mrs G four times in 2015 and 2017 because it needed 
documents to satisfy new know your customer requirements. But it didnt receive a 
response.
In February 2021, Mr G phoned Fidelity to give instructions to close the account but, 
because he hadnt provided the required identification documents, Fidelity couldnt act on his 
instructions. Mr G sent Fidelity what it had asked for and this satisfied Fidelitys requirements 
for verifying Mr Gs identity. But Fidelity said it also needed to verify the identity of the joint 
holder, Mrs G. Mr G explained he and Mrs G were divorced and he didnt have contact 
information for her. So Fidelity asked for a copy of the decree nisi and the legal 
documentation to show the split of assets. 
This service investigated Mr Gs complaint about Fidelity not acting on his instructions until it 
received the requested documentation. Whilst our investigator recommended the customer 
service aspects of that complaint were upheld, he thought Fidelity hadnt done anything 
wrong in not acting on Mr Gs instructions until he provided the evidence it had requested. 
Fidelity had already paid Mr G £225 for the distress and inconvenience its poor service 
caused, which the investigator thought was fair.
Mr G then referred a related complaint to us. He said hed provided the paperwork Fidelity 
said it needed  the decree nisi and the split of assets, but that Fidelity still didnt act on his 
instructions and is now asking for more documents which he doesnt have.
Fidelity said that it originally suggested the decree nisi would be all it needed. But that, after 
considering this document, it could only act on the joint instructions of the parties to the 
account. Or it needed an official document to show the divorce asset allocation so that it 
could check that Mr G was solely entitled to the account. It offered him £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill because of the time it took to consider the documents provided, and because it had 
wrongly told Mr G it would be able to act on his withdrawal instructions once the decree nisi 
was sent to it. 
Our investigator thought it was reasonable for Fidelity to ask for the additional documents. 
But he didnt think Fidelity had explained things clearly enough and he recommended an 
increased compensation figure of £250.
Fidelity agreed. Mr G initially agreed as well. But when Fidelity contacted him to make 
arrangements to pay him the compensation, he realised that it still wouldnt act on his 
instructions, and he asked for an ombudsman to consider his complaint. He said, in 
summary, that:
The account was only ever managed by him, and Fidelity had always accepted his sole 
instructions.
He has forwarded the only court documents that he has, and these show the split of 
assets between him and his ex-wife which is what Fidelity said it needed to see.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When the joint account was opened, Mr and Mrs G authorised Fidelity to act on either of 
their sole instructions. And this is how the account operated  Mr G was the party who gave 
all the instructions on the account.
But Fidelity has been made aware that Mr and Mrs G have divorced. Its terms and 
conditions say:
Further, if any one of the joint holders tells us of a dispute between any of you, we may, 
though are not obliged to, treat this as notice of cancellation of the authority to act on the 
instructions of any one joint holder. (1.7 (b))
The terms say Fidelity may refuse to continue to act on the sole instructions of one party. 
I think in the circumstances here, where the parties are divorced, it was reasonable for it to 
require the joint authority of both parties before carrying out any instructions on the account 
or allowing any withdrawals. I say this because its reasonable that Fidelity protects the 
interests of both joint parties to the account and it needs to satisfy itself that Mrs G either 
consents to the withdrawal, or that she isnt entitled to the money in the account.
To date, neither Mr G nor Fidelity have been able to make contact with the joint party to 
obtain her consent, and to obtain the documentation which is needed to verify her identity.
As an alternative, Fidelity said it would accept Mr Gs decree nisi. Fidelity apologised that it 
should have made things clearer and that it shouldnt have said it would be able to act on 
Mr Gs instructions once it had received the decree nisi. It also took too long to consider the 
document and let Mr G know the outcome. I agree with our investigator that Mr G should be 
compensated for the poor customer service and that £250 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. (To be clear, this is in addition to the £225 already paid to him in response to 
his first complaint.)
I accept this doesnt resolve the matter for Mr G. Understandably, he feels he has provided 
all he can, but that Fidelity wont release his money. 
Unfortunately the translation of the divorce documents provided is not particularly clear. But 
theres no specific mention of this account and no mention of one or other party being 
entitled to take ownership of any joint assets (except for specific, named properties). Based 
on what the documents say, this means both parties would appear to have equal claim on 
this joint account.In the circumstances, I find its reasonable for Fidelity to take steps to satisfy itself that the 
joint party does not have a valid claim on the account, or that she consents to Mr Gs sale 
and withdrawal instructions.
For clarity I asked Fidelity to review the current situation and set out exactly what it requires. 
It said:
Tracing information - At cost to Fidelity, we have instructed a tracing company to attempt 
trace Mr Gs ex-wife to try and obtain her consent for any withdrawal.
In addition we would also like to request that Mr G contact his divorce attorney (or provide us 
with authority to do so) as they should be able to provide any further documentation issued 
regarding settlement, based on document retention legislation. This documentation would 
need to confirm that from a legal standpoint the Fidelity account solely belongs to Mr G and 
that there are no remaining liabilities towards his ex-wife. Our research indicates that if any 
such documents did exist they should still be retained based on data retention laws.
To be clear, if Fidelitys attempts to trace Mrs G fail, it will need to see evidence that she is 
not entitled to any share of the joint account before it can act on Mr Gs sole instructions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Financial Administration Services Limited should pay Mr G £250 for 
failing to provide him with clear information.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 September 2023.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman