DRN-2915560
The complaint
 Mr Y is unhappy with the way Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (Accredited) dealt with a 
claim against his motor insurance policy. 
All references to Accredited include agents appointed to act on their behalf.
What happened
In February 2020, Accredited told Mr Y they had been notified of a claim involving his car, 
which took place in central London. Mr Y denied any knowledge of the collision and said his 
car wasnt at the location at the time. The accident had allegedly taken place first thing in the 
morning, so he said his car would still have been parked on his driveway. 
Due to a communication breakdown, Accredited didnt receive Mr Ys follow up emails. It 
also sent correspondence to Mr Y using an incorrect email address. In the meantime, 
Accredited decided to settle the claim on a without prejudice basis. They reached this 
decision as the third partys insurer had been able to provide a CCTV still image, from the 
time of the collision, and the visible car was the same make, model and registration as       
Mr Ys. So, they didnt think they could dispute the fact Mr Ys car was involved in the 
collision. 
Mr Y said hed been treated unfairly, and liability for the accident shouldnt have been 
accepted based on the CCTV image. He provided photographs of his car and said it was a 
different colour to the one in the image. He also said the car in the image didnt have a 
sunroof while his car does. And the cars number plate may have been cloned as the car 
involved in the accident wasnt his. He accepted that he couldnt provide evidence of the 
location of his car at the time of the accident. However, he did provide a bank statement to 
show his wife had been shopping in their local area during the afternoon. 
In response to Mr Ys complaint, Accredited apologised for their communication errors and 
offered Mr Y £100 compensation to reflect the trouble and upset this caused him. They said 
they would still have accepted liability for the claim, if they had received Mr Ys 
correspondence and evidence - as they didnt think they would have been able to 
successfully defend it given the strength of the CCTV evidence. 
Our investigator then considered the complaint. She empathised with Mr Ys position but 
didnt think the concerns hed raised about the CCTV image, were sufficient grounds to 
conclude the claim had been settled unfairly. She also said the bank statement didnt change 
things, as it didnt show the location of his car at the time of the collision. 
So, Ive considered the complaint afresh. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I would like to reassure Mr Y and Accredited that although I have only summarised the 
background and arguments in the section above, I have read and considered everything 
provided about this complaint in its entirety.
It isn't my place to decide who is actually liable for the accident at the heart of this complaint, 
that would be a matter for a court of law. What I'm deciding is whether Accredited  have 
applied the terms and conditions of the policy reasonably and whether they have dealt with 
the claim fairly. 
The starting point is the agreement between Accredited and Mr Y - the policy's terms and 
conditions. Under the terms of the policy, Accredited can independently decide whether to 
defend a claim or settle it. This might mean Accredited makes a decision that Mr Y disagrees 
with, as has happened here. I dont find this unusual or surprising as most motor insurance 
policies allow insurers to consider claims in this way. That said, we expect an insurer to 
reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence available before making their 
decision on liability. Ive therefore carefully considered how likely it is Accredited wouldve 
made a different decision, if theyd considered all of Mr Ys comments and evidence first. 
Ive reviewed the CCTV image and the photographs Mr Y has provided of his car. While the 
CCTV image isnt of the highest quality, I can see that the car is of the same make and 
model as Mr Ys. Im also satisfied the car in the image has the same registration number as 
his. 
Im not convinced you can adequately determine the colour of the car from the image, as 
there appears to be a blue lens across the entire image which has distorted the colours. I 
understand why Mr Y has questioned the presence of a sunroof, but once again, I dont think 
the image is sufficiently clear to be able to determine this  one way or the other. As Ive 
already mentioned - the key things I have been able to determine from the image are that 
the registration number, make and model are the same as Mr Ys car. So, I can understand 
why Accredited have said they dont think they would have been able to successfully defend 
the matter had it progressed to court. 
I also dont think there is enough evidence to say Mr Ys car was obviously cloned, or that it 
wasnt present at the time of the collision. I dont dispute that Mr Ys address at the time of 
the incident was outside of central London, or that the bank statement hes provided, 
supports his testimony that his wife used the car to go shopping locally in the afternoon. But 
based on the distances involved - that doesnt make it implausible that the incident could 
have happened first thing in the morning as the third party insurer has claimed. 
In light of the above, while I appreciate Mr Ys frustration, disappointment and strength of 
feeling. I dont think Accredited acted unreasonably by settling the claim in the way that they 
did. They let Mr Y down in relation to the customer service they provided  however I dont 
think the claim would have been settled in a different way if that hadnt taken place.
If Mr Y would like to accept Accrediteds compensation offer he should contact them directly 
to arrange this  if he hasnt already. Im satisfied £100 is a fair amount, as Ive made similar 
awards in other complaints - where customer service failings of this nature have also taken 
place. 
My final decisionFor the reasons Ive explained I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Claire Greene
Ombudsman