DRN-1913607
The complaint
Mr K complains that a car he acquired with the assistance of finance from Black Horse 
Limited was misrepresented to him as it doesnt achieve the advertised fuel economy (mpg). 
What happened
Mr K bought a used hybrid car on the 10 February 2020 for £9,300, financed in part with an 
agreement with Black Horse. The car was registered in 2016 and had travelled just over 
35,000 miles. On 20 February 2020 Mr K returned the car to the supplying dealership 
because he was only getting 48 mpg not the advertised 80 mpg. He also complained that 
there was an issue with the windows on the car.
The dealership did a minor repair on the windows and road tested the car. The mpg was 48 
but the mechanic suggested further road testing would be needed. No other faults were 
found with the car. Mr K says he isnt getting the advertised mpg and he wants to reject the 
car.
Black Horse didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint. It said that the fuel economy wasnt discussed 
with him before buying the car and it wasnt misrepresented to him as part of the sale. It said 
that the advertised mpg does not take account of all driving conditions and so, as there is 
nothing wrong with the car, it doesnt agree that Mr K should be allowed to reject it.
Mr K brought his complaint to this service and said that he was getting a significantly lower 
mpg than he had paid for. Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt think it 
should be upheld. They thought that as the mpg figure wasnt discussed with Mr K before 
buying the car and the manufacturers advertised figures dont represent real world driving 
conditions the car wasnt mis-sold.
Mr K didnt agree and responded to say in summary that there was a very significant 
difference of around 40mpg between the advertised and the actual figure and this couldnt 
be explained by driving conditions. He asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
   
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr K that I have reviewed everything in detail. The background is well 
known and if I dont mention or comment on a specific detail, it isnt because I have 
overlooked it but rather that I have focussed on giving reasons for my decision from all the 
information I consider relevant.
An advertised mpg figure is given to allow consumers to compare cars. They are undertaken 
in the same laboratory conditions so that consumers can be confident that they are 
comparing like with like. These figures are always explained in this way as they rarely 
represent real world driving conditions. So, it is unlikely that Mr K would achieve the 
manufacturers advertised mpg.
To be fair to Mr K, he is not complaining about the fact that the mpg is less than the 
advertised figure but rather, that it is a very significant amount of around 40 mpg. Mr K says 
that his other cars do not perform so poorly, and this means that any comparison is 
meaningless.
I dont doubt Mr K when he says that he is only getting around 48mpg. This may be because 
of the type of driving he is doing in the car. I note that when the car was inspected in 
February 2020 no faults were found that would affect the mpg. The mechanic stated that a 
longer road test would be required. So, I cant say that the car is faulty or would not achieve 
more mpg in different conditions.
I dont know exactly what was said to Mr K when he bought the car, but information obtained 
from the dealership suggests that mpg wasnt discussed, and all mpg figures were 
advertised with the explanation that they are for comparison only. I know that Mr K says that 
he spent the extra on a hybrid car because of the fuel economy but I cant say that he was 
told he would get the advertised figure or that he bought the car because of it.
The real world mpg is likely to be less than the manufacturers advertised figure but is also 
likely to fluctuate depending upon the driving conditions. I cant say that because it was 
48mpg on a brief road test carried out by the garage that this is enough to say the car wasnt 
as described and Mr K should be allowed to reject it.
I know this will be disappointing for Mr K and I understand why he is unhappy with the fuel 
economy he is getting. I cant say that this is because the car is faulty or isnt as described 
so I cant ask Black Horse to do anything. 
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Emma Boothroyd
Ombudsman