DRN-4358605
The complaint
Mr T has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with Advantage Finance Limited.
What happened
In July 2022 Mr T acquired a used car under a hire purchase agreement with Advantage 
Finance. Were told the car cost around £6,000. It was around 11 years old and had covered 
around 117,800 miles when it was acquired. 
Mr T complained to Advantage Finance in January 2023 about issues he was having with 
starting the car. Advantage Finance decided to pay for an independent report which was 
carried out on 19 January 2023. The mileage at that point was 131,814. The inspector 
attempted to start the car, but it only turned over with little compression. The inspector said 
none of the rocker arms moved while the engine was being turned over, indicating the timing 
chain had snapped. 
The inspector said considering the mileage covered since inception, the car was of 
satisfactory quality, and that the issue is as a result of natural wear and tear. 
Advantage Finance sent a final response saying, based on the independent inspection, it 
wasnt liable to repair the fault. So Mr T referred his complaint to our service to consider. 
One of our investigators looked into things but didnt think hed seen enough to uphold the 
complaint. Mr T didnt agree. He said its not right the car is completely unroadworthy within 
a few months of acquisition. He said it took a few weeks of chasing Advantage Finance in 
order to obtain the report. He said the problem with the timing chain shouldnt be classed as 
wear and tear. And he highlighted the independent report mentioned this sort of problem is 
likely to happen around 170,000 miles and not at 130,000. He also said the car was sold 
with some service history, and that the last service was carried out when the car had 
covered around 111,000 miles. 
As our investigator didnt change his mind, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to acknowledge Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any 
discourtesy by this  it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Im required to decide 
matters quickly and with minimum formality. But I want to assure Mr T and Advantage 
Finance that Ive reviewed everything on file. And if I dont comment on something, its not 
because I havent considered it. Its because Ive concentrated on what I think are the key 
issues. Our powers allow me to do this. 
I also want to clarify this decision will only focus on the complaint that has been considered 
by Advantage Finance  and that is in relation to the quality of the car. 
Mr T acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement. Our service is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of regulated consumer credit agreements. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) covers agreements like the one Mr T entered into. 
The CRA implies terms into the agreement that the quality of goods is satisfactory. 
Advantage Finance is the trader for the purposes of the CRA and is responsible for dealing 
with a complaint about their quality.
The CRA says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the description of the 
goods, the price or other consideration for the goods (if relevant) and all other relevant 
circumstances. For this case, I think the other relevant circumstances include the age and 
mileage of the car at the point of supply.
In Mr Ts case, the car supplied was used and had covered around 117,800 miles. Thered 
be very different expectations of it than if it was a brand-new car. The car cost around 
£6,000, which is significantly less than if it was new. The price paid reflects the age and 
condition of the car. 
I think theres enough evidence to demonstrate there are faults with the car. We have an 
independent report highlighting issues in relation to a suspected timing chain failure. 
I can understand Mr T is disappointed the car has such a significant problem, that isnt 
cheap or easy to rectify. Hed not had the car for that long. But what I have to bear in mind is 
that just because Ive seen theres a fault with the car that manifested within around half a 
year, this doesnt necessarily mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr T  which is what I need to decide. Id need to see sufficient evidence the 
fault made the car of unsatisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr T. 
On the one hand, Mr T says the problem isnt in relation to wear and tear. And that there was 
a comment on the independent report that suggested a lifespan of around 170,000 miles for 
a timing chain. 
But on the other hand, the car was 11 years old and had covered 117,800 miles when it was 
supplied. Mr T was able to use the car for around 14,000 miles without an issue. The 
independent report says the expert thought the car was of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied to Mr T taking into account the age and mileage. Ive not got any independent 
evidence so show the car wasnt of satisfactory quality. In the particular circumstances of 
this complaint, I dont think Mr T would have been able to cover around 14,000 miles in the 
car if there was a problem with the timing chain when it was supplied. 
I think there might have been a typographical error in the independent report when the 
inspector said over 170,000 miles. I suspect he meant to write 117,000 miles given he was 
commenting on the timing belt needing changing not being premature or the responsibility of 
the sales agent. Even if Im wrong on that, I have to consider there are varying reports on 
how long a timing chain should last. And we dont know exactly what caused the timing chain 
to fail. Moreover, as Mr T has pointed out, we dont have lots of information about how the 
car was serviced during its lifetime. And hes also explained he didnt have it serviced prior to 
the failure. So I think the car may not have been serviced in line with the manufacturer 
recommendations, which may have impacted the lifespan of the timing chain. Ive simply not 
seen enough to say that its not durable or that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied to Mr T.  Taking all this into account, I think Advantage Finance acted fairly by obtaining an 
independent report. The expert didnt find the car was of unsatisfactory quality. I dont have 
sufficient evidence to show the reports findings should be discarded. So, while I sympathise 
with Mr T, I dont find I have the grounds to direct Advantage Finance to take any action. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 October 2023.
 
Simon Wingfield
Ombudsman