DRN-3853407
The complaint
Mr H complains on behalf of the estate of Mr M that Santander UK Plc gave him incorrect 
information about a charge against his late stepfathers property. Mr H took action based on 
this advice and is now unable to transfer the property in line with the terms of the will. 
What happened
In May 2021 Mr Hs stepfather, Mr M, passed away. Under the terms of the will, Mr H and his 
mother Mrs M, who was also Mr Ms widow, became executors of the estate and Mrs M was 
also the sole beneficiary. 
Mrs M still lives in the martial home, which is and always has been registered in Mr Ms sole 
name, and so Mr H tried to transfer it into Mrs Ms name in accordance with the will. 
However, the Land Registry documents showed two charges on the property which needed 
to be dealt with before a transfer could take place. One related to a mortgage on the 
property in Mr Ms name, and the other was in favour of Santander. Mrs M and Mr H had 
previously been unaware of Santanders charge and any lending by Santander.   
Mr H contacted Santander about the charge. He was told there were no active accounts and 
there shouldnt be a charge on the property. He was advised to write to the bereavement 
team for confirmation and he did so on 25 September 2021. He was told this would take 7  
10 days and he could then have it removed. 
Although he hadnt received a response from the bereavement team, Mr H went ahead and 
used his own savings to clear the mortgage on the property to secure the property for his 
mother. There were no savings in Mr Ms estate with which to do this.   
After three weeks he chased Santander and was then advised that there was actually a 
charge for £18773.26 on the property. Santander apologised for the mistake and sent Mr H a 
cheque for £250 as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr H then enquired with Santander if the property could still be transferred into his mothers 
name with the charge in place. Santander advised verbally that it would be possible, and 
they would put this in writing. 
No letter was received and so Mr H again chased Santander, to be told that the information  
he had been given about transferring the property with the charge in place was incorrect. He 
made a further complaint about this and was given a further £150 in recognition of this 
mistake.     
Mr H wasnt happy with this and brought his complaint to us. He says that the property 
cannot now be transferred into his mothers name in accordance with the terms of the will, 
and his mother is elderly and disabled. 
One of our investigators looked into Mr Hs complaint. He thought that Santanders offer of 
compensation was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree with this decision and so the case has come to me to review.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint and Ill explain why.
I have to consider whether Santander made a mistake, whether that mistake has impacted 
the estate of Mr M and to what extent, and if so, what compensation is appropriate. 
At the date of Mr Ms death there were two debts secured against the property, the  
mortgage with £15916.50 outstanding, and the equitable charge from an unsecured debt 
owed to Santander for £18773.26 which Mrs M and Mr H were unaware of . The Santander 
charge  dates back to 2006 and is as a result of a charging order for an unsecured loan with 
Alliance and Leicester, which was migrated to Santander in 2009.  
Mr H told us that if he had been given correct information by Santander at the outset, he 
would have settled the Santander debt instead of the mortgage. He has said that he is 
unable to pay both as he doesnt have the resources, and there is no money in the estate.
I can fully understand why Mr H did this, and I appreciate how important it is to him to ensure 
that his mothers right to stay in the property is secured. 
However, I cant see that if Mr H had discharged the debt to Santander it would have 
changed the position. Mr H has confirmed to us that the mortgage lender wouldnt switch the 
mortgage into Mrs Ms name, and so whichever debt he had discharged, there would still be 
a debt on the property that would need to be cleared before the property could be 
transferred into Mrs Ms name. So, although I can see why Mr H is upset that the incorrect 
advice was given, I cant see that the estate has been disadvantaged in any way by 
Santanders error. 
Santander have confirmed to us that they are not considering recovery of the debt, and also 
that it is not increasing, but it cant be removed until it is discharged. So, I cant see any 
immediate threat to Mrs Ms housing position resulting from the Santander charge remaining. 
Mr H has told me that he has received advice that the transfer into his mothers name needs 
to take place within 2 years of Mr Ms death, but I havent seen any evidence of this, nor of 
what will happen if the transfer doesnt take place. Mr H would need to obtain legal advice 
about what his options are in this respect. 
    
I see that Santander have paid Mr H £400 compensation for the two instances of giving him 
incorrect information while acting in his capacity as executor of the estate. 
Unfortunately, our power to make awards for distress and inconvenience under DISP 3.7.2  
only allow us to make awards to complainants themselves and not to representatives. As Mr 
H is representing the estate but isnt an eligible complainant in his own right under DISP 2.7, 
I cant comment further on the compensation paid by Santander and whether it is fair. I am 
pleased to see, however, that Santander have recognised that mistakes were made and 
have sought to reflect this. 
I can also see that these mistakes will have impacted Mrs M as a beneficiary of the estate, 
but similarly, I cant consider making any award for her as she is also not an eligible 
complainant under DISP 2.7.  My final decision
Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint about Santander UK Plc on behalf of the estate of Mr M.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 8 February 2023.
 
Joanne Ward
Ombudsman