DRN-2346081
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc has unfairly registered a marker with CIFAS the
national fraud database and was wrongly told he could visit a branch to resolve this.
What happened
Mr A says that he was concerned that there was fraud at a company he was involved with. 
And that money had been going missing. So, he accepts that he altered the bank details 
on invoices due from a client so that funds were paid into his personal account. He says 
his business partner contacted the client about the payments and told it that this was 
fraud. And so, this was reported as fraud by the clients bank to Bank of Scotland. It froze 
the accounts that had received the payments and told Mr A it would be closing his 
personal account. It registered a CIFAS marker.
Bank of Scotland maintains that this was appropriate. It hasnt received any evidence to 
show Mr A was entitled to the funds. But it accepts that it provided poor customer service 
as it told Mr A to visit a branch several times and gave him the impression that the blocks 
could then be removed. Bank of Scotland paid him £200.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld and the CIFAS marker 
removed and also that Mr A be paid an additional £100 in compensation for the 
inconvenience. Our investigator said that:
- He didnt think Bank of Scotland had done anything wrong in telling Mr A that it 
would be closing his account. The client hadnt retracted the fraud claim and it was 
entitled under the terms and conditions to close the account.
- There wasnt evidence that Mr A had made any use of the money for personal 
gain or intended to do so and was acting with criminal intent.
- He didnt think Bank of Scotland had taken into account what Mr A had said 
about why he had altered the invoices when applying the CIFAS marker.
- The high bar for reporting to CIFAS hadnt been met.
- Much of the distress and inconvenience that resulted was of Mr As own making and 
amending the invoices in this way to divert money was unwise. So, he thought that 
only a further £100 compensation was warranted.
Bank of Scotland didnt agree. It didnt accept that Mr A had demonstrated that he was 
entitled to the funds or that he intended to use if to pay staff or company invoices as he 
claimed. When the payments had been received he had quickly transferred it on from his 
personal account. Regardless of his reasons for his actions this was fraudulent, and the 
client had refused to retract the fraud claim.
Mr A didnt agree that the compensation was sufficient for the distress he had been caused.
He also didnt think hed been given the required notice period for the closure of this 
account.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 15 October 2020. I set out below what I 
said.
I needed to consider whether the report to CIFAS was made fairly. On this point, Bank of 
Scotland needs to have more than a suspicion or concern. It has to show it had reasonable 
grounds to believe that a fraud or financial crime had been committed or attempted and 
that the evidence would support this being reported to the authorities.
Mr A explained that he was a partner/ director of the company involved here. Id looked at 
the records about this at Companies House. These show that with two others he became a 
director of the company when it was incorporated in May 2019. And that each director was 
also the owner of a third share of that company. The records show that he resigned in July 
2019 and then no longer had an ownership stake. I understood he has his own separate 
business, and which had an ongoing relationship with the client involved. But his capacity 
at the company here by November 2019 is unclear. Mr A says that he was expecting to be 
paid a salary of £3,000 a month but had only received £500 in two months. He says he 
suspected one of the remaining directors of fraud and that funds were being diverted.
Payments were due to the company from the client. Mr A accepts he altered the invoices. 
And that payments of £18,497.54 and £26,675.52 were paid instead into his personal 
account from the client on 1 November 2019. He moved the money on that day with the 
majority to a joint account. On 4 November 2019, having received the report of fraud 
those accounts were frozen by Bank of Scotland.
Mr A insists that he diverted the money to protect company funds. He says he has a 
solicitor involved in looking at the activity of the director he suspects. And that he intended 
to use the money for company purposes. Although he spoke to the client about what hed 
done it wasnt persuaded to change the fraud claim. As I understood it all of the money 
was recovered and returned by Bank of Scotland.
I thought I could reasonably infer here that Mr A was in some sort of dispute with the other 
directors of the company especially given that he seemed to be removed from office and 
ownership relatively quickly. I couldnt resolve any such dispute in a complaint he makes 
about Bank of Scotland and where the company isnt a party. It may well be that the 
company owed him money and that he had genuine suspicions about the actions of the 
other directors.
Id not seen anything other than his own testimony to support that he had any entitlement 
to the funds, or any ongoing rights to decide on how company funds ought to be dispersed.
The only evidence Ive seen shows that the company, not Mr A, was owed this money 
based on worksheets behind the invoiced amounts. The only person who says he was 
entitled to act in this way or to have this money is Mr A. It seems the only way he could get 
access to company funds was by falsifying invoices. It wasnt as if for example hed 
explained to the
client why he should have the money. Hed decided that he needed to divert the funds in a
way that neither the company nor the client knew or approved of or either at the time or later 
on.I said that I thought these actions reasonably put an onus on Mr A to support what he was 
doing with some evidence. Its not enough to say that he was never able to use these 
funds. On his version of events he was attempting to do so. I wasnt clear from what Ive 
seen he alerted any independent party, the relevant authorities or Bank of Scotland to 
explain his concerns or of what he intended to do about them. I thought he reasonably 
might have expected this would raise some difficult questions for him.
I understood why Bank of Scotland decided there were grounds to think that a fraud or 
financial crime had been committed. And I thought it most likely that Mr A intended to 
resolve and deal with what he claims was money he was owed in diverting these funds. 
And that was at time when he seemed to have no basis to bind the company.
I appreciated that Bank of Scotland accepts it mishandled dealing with this issue by 
wrongly directing Mr A to a branch and giving him the impression that the branch could 
remove the blocks on his account. Even if as he says it affected him properly explaining 
what he had done, hes now had a fair opportunity to do so during the investigation of this 
complaint. And although there is some confusion about how much notice of the account 
closure he had I thought it was fairly entitled to restrict and then close his account if it 
suspected fraud.
Bank of Scotland says that it applied the CIFAS marker because Mr A received fraudulent 
funds into his account. So, I looked at whether Bank of Scotland was fair to apply the 
marker, based on the evidence it had, and the investigation it carried out. CIFAS guidance 
says the business must have carried out checks of sufficient depth to meet the standard of 
proof set by CIFAS. This essentially means that Bank of Scotland needs to have enough 
information to make a formal report to the police. And that any filing should be for cases 
where there are reasonable grounds to believe fraud or financial crime has been 
committed, rather than mere suspicion.
Having reviewed Mr As account of events and the evidence Bank of Scotland has 
provided, I said I was satisfied for the reasons Id given that Bank of Scotland had sufficient 
evidence for the CIFAS marker to be recorded. I didnt consider there is a reasonable basis 
to require it to do anything further including by paying any additional compensation. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank of Scotland didnt respond to my provisional decision but based on its prior comments I 
know that this was in line with its own assessment.
Mr A said he didnt agree and provided some further evidence and comments. He confirmed 
some of what Id inferred in my provisional assessment. He said that he was in dispute with 
the other two directors over money and his removal as a director and shareholder of the 
company. He said that this removal added to his suspicions of fraud. He went on to explain 
that he considered he had been colluded against and this affected his decision making and 
resulted in trust issues. He accepted much of what happened was of his own making and 
was a result of the stress and duress caused by having my company stolen from under me 
and meant he needed treatment for health problems. 
Mr A has provided screen shots of what he says were social media chats with the other 
directors up to October 2019 he says showing he was still very much involved with the 
company. He no longer has access to company emails. He has provided a letter from his legal representative to the company dated in October 2020 
after my provisional decision. In this he says that the company owes his own company over 
£20,000 based on invoices issued in October 2019. He also claims that he was removed as 
director and shareholder in contravention of relevant legislation and asks for an unspecified 
settlement.
In conclusion Mr A says no crime was committed, all funds were returned, and none were 
used despite him having ample time to do so. There had never been any suspicious activity 
on his account over his lifetime, but he accepted why Bank of Scotland closed his account.
Ive considered this carefully. Mr A was an established professional and company owner 
who quickly got into a dispute with his business associates. I dont doubt that this caused 
him as he says significant stress and financial concern even if that isnt evident in his day to 
day dealings with these associates in the messages. And I dont doubt things would have 
come to a head when he issued invoices (referred to by his legal representative) in October 
2019 and which he says have still not been paid. 
His reaction is what I am considering and whether there were grounds to think that this was 
dishonest. Im afraid I remain of the view that a reasonable and objective person would think 
that altering company invoices to divert money to him personally was dishonest. 
While he still maintains that he and his own company are legitimately owed this money, the 
only person who says that remains Mr A. Hes not shown hes yet pursued any legal 
recovery action or reported what he says was fraud by a fellow director to the authorities. 
And the client who paid the money didnt withdraw the claim of fraud. I accept that with 
hindsight Mr A now views his actions as very unwise and regrettable on his part. But I find it 
difficult to accept as most likely that he wouldnt have kept this money which he thought was 
rightfully his if it hadnt been removed by Bank of Scotland. Its correct that he hasnt been 
prosecuted for any crime and that the money has been recovered. Im only looking at the 
actions of Bank of Scotland here and wont be able to resolve any dispute Mr A has with the 
company and its directors over his entitlement to it. I think he may have grounds for some 
mitigating circumstances but the test here for the CIFAS marker is whether Bank of Scotland 
had sufficient grounds to report this to police and that the high bar had been reached. 
Having carefully considered the evidence and comments I remain of the view that it had 
reasonable grounds to suspect a fraud or financial crime had been carried out or attempted. 
And that this was founded on the evidence it had and checks it made. It has paid Mr A some 
compensation for the confusion caused to him in branch. And so, I wont be asking it to do 
anything more and specifically to remove the CIFAS marker as Mr A wants. I fully 
understand that will be a very unwelcome conclusion for Mr A.My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman