DRN-2386108
The complaint
Mr P complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited wrongly settled liability for an 
accident against his motor insurance policy and provided poor customer service. Mr P is 
represented by the named driver who was driving the car at the time of the incident, Mr H. 
What happened
On 29 February 2020 Mr H was partway through parking his car in a car park space when 
the accident happened. He said he had reversed the vehicle about ten inches, in order to 
straighten it up in the space, when the other drivers car hit its rear passenger side whilst 
attempting to drive past. Mr H thought the other driver was speeding at the time. 
Mr H didnt report the incident to Advantage as he and the other driver agreed to settle the 
cost of what appeared to be minor damage privately. But the other driver then reported the 
incident on 9 March 2020, so Advantage contacted Mr P that day to check what had 
happened. Mr H says the advisor didnt listen properly to what he said. He thought that 
because the word reversing was used, she assumed hed reversed into the other drivers 
car. Mr H said she told him to do nothing further until he heard from Advantage  but the 
next contact from it was a letter on 27 March 2020 stating that the claim had been settled in 
the other drivers favour. Mr H said Advantage refused to consider any further evidence.
One of our investigators considered Mr Ps complaint. He thought Advantage had acted 
reasonably. He noted that Mr P thought Advantage hadnt listened to Mr Hs version of 
events, that the claim shouldnt have been settled without his knowledge, and that the sum it  
paid for the damage to the other car was excessive. Mr H also thought there were 
discrepancies that werent noted by Advantage. He said its service throughout was poor and 
that his car remained unrepaired. 
In the investigators opinion, Advantage did consider Mr Hs account and told him after doing 
so during the call on 9 March 2020 that it would be settling the other drivers claim. He didnt 
think Mr H could show that an excessive amount was paid on the claim. The investigator 
didnt think any discrepancies Mr H had identified would change the liability decision, given 
Mr Hs previous account of events. He noted that Advantage had accepted some poor 
service on its part (one incident) and had paid £75 compensation for it. He couldnt see any 
other examples of poor service. 
As Mr P and Mr H disagreed with the investigators view, the complaint was passed to me.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Liability / not being listened to 
We arent able to say who was at fault for an accident, as disputed liability claims can only 
be decided by a court  and insurers have the right to settle claims as they seem fit. Mr P 
agreed to that when he took out the policy with Advantage. But we look at whether an 
insurer seems to have acted reasonably in the way it dealt with a claim. We check that it 
took all the relevant evidence into account at the time and that it reached a conclusion that 
was in line with the evidence. 
Mr H says Advantage made the wrong decision in deciding that he had reversed into the 
other drivers car,  as that isnt what happened. Advantage told Mr P in its response to his 
complaint that it had considered the facts provided by the other insurer and by Mr H. It said it 
had based its decision on plausible probability. In a follow-up letter, Advantage said the 
other driver had reported that Mr H reversed from a parking space and collided with his car. 
It said Mr H confirmed that hed reversed when the other car hit his vehicle. Advantage said 
that, based on both of these accounts, Mr Hs car was in the other drivers path when the 
other driver was proceeding correctly through the car park. I think that was a reasonable 
stance to take. 
Mr H says he didnt say he was reversing - but the relevant call recording shows that he said 
hed moved the car back 10 inches when the other car suddenly appeared. During the call, 
Mr H referred several times to having reversed the car or moved it backwards. Thats not the 
same as accepting that he was reversing and that his car hit the other car. But I think it was 
reasonable (based on what he said) for Advantage to conclude that Mr H had moved his car 
backwards and that his manoeuvre led to the accident.   
 
When the advisor told him that, as the reversing party, hed be held at fault, Mr H didnt 
query it. He appeared to accept it. Mr H told us later that he wasnt really following what was 
said during the call, as there was a lot of background noise, the connection was generally 
poor, and he was tired. I agree that the quality of the call was poor. Mr H was given the 
option of calling Advantage back, but he agreed to continue with the call. He could have 
discontinued it at any point if he thought the advisor wasnt listening to him. I think Mr H gave 
a full and clear account of the incident to the advisor. And I think all the relevant parts of the 
call are clear enough, despite its general poor quality. 
Advantage couldnt show that the other driver was speeding, but Mr H had accepted that 
hed moved his car so it was in the path of any passing vehicle. Advantage had to consider 
whether it was likely to be successful in defending the other drivers claim. Without evidence 
showing that the other driver was at fault, and Mr H having accepted that he was 
manoeuvring at the time of the incident, I think it was reasonable for Advantage to decide 
that it wouldnt be able to defend the claim. 
I dont think Mr H can show that Advantage didnt listen to his account of events, or 
misinterpreted what he said, before making its decision. And having listened to the call 
recordings, I dont think the advisor put words in his mouth, as he has suggested.  
Damage / the cost of the claim
In terms of the damage done to the cars, Mr H told Advantage that hed had estimates done 
by two repairers. They both said the repairs to his car would cost £350, which was less than 
the policy excess that would have been payable had a claim been made on the policy. I think 
the advisor made it clear that he could make a claim should he wish to do so. Mr H didnt 
think there was much damage to the other car either. Presumably the other driver thought 
the same initially, which is why he agreed to have it repaired privately at the time.
I think its fair to say that often, the true amount of damage to a vehicle cant all be seen or 
estimated at the time of an accident. Between the date of the accident and the date the claim 
was reported to his insurer, the other driver had the chance to have a garage assess the 
cost of repairs  just as Mr H did. It may be that the cost was higher than he had first 
expected, and so he may have anticipated that Mr H might dispute it. Alternatively, he may just have decided that he wanted to have the work carried out by his insurers approved 
repairer. It isnt unusual at all for one or both of the parties to an accident to have second 
thoughts about how to proceed with repairs. 
I think Advantage has explained why it didnt think that the cost of repairs to the other 
drivers car was excessive (at just over £1,400). The other car was a relatively new and 
expensive vehicle, and the repair costs were always going to reflect those facts. From the 
numerous repair estimates Ive seen (following what seem to be quite minor collisions) the 
sum quoted doesnt seem excessive. I think its far more likely than not that Advantage 
would have challenged anything on the repair estimate that wasnt considered reasonable, 
as it isnt in an insurers interests to pay any more than it has to on a claim. I dont think Mr P 
and Mr H can show that Advantage acted unreasonably in paying the sum it did. 
 
Not being informed
The advisor told Mr H during the call on 9 March 2020 that Advantage would be settling the 
claim in the other drivers favour - but at that point, Advantage didnt know what the claim 
would cost. The advisor confirmed that Mr H should wait to hear from it. I think he assumed 
that hed be told when the cost of the claim was known  although the advisor didnt say that 
- so Mr H wasnt happy when he wasnt contacted until after the claim was settled. I 
understand why he was disappointed with that, but Advantage wasnt obliged to contact him 
earlier, or discuss the cost of the claim with him or Mr P. It was solely Advantages decision 
whether to accept the costs put forward by the other insurer or not.  
Poor service 
Mr P and Mr H think Advantage provided poor service overall. I think thats largely because 
they disagree with the way it handled the claim in general and the decision it made on 
liability. Ive addressed some of the central issues (for example, Mr Hs view that his account 
of events was misinterpreted or not listened to properly) under other headings. I dont think 
Mr P and Mr H have shown that Advantages service was poor in general. 
Its clear they werent happy that Advantage didnt pursue Mr Hs suspicion that the other car 
didnt have a valid MOT certificate. But that wasnt relevant to the incident. Mr H also said 
Advantage didnt review the evidence - despite saying it had done so. And he said it hadnt 
considered a written submission from him or a photo of the damage to his car. 
I dont think Mr H can show Advantage didnt review the evidence. Its clear that Mr Ps 
complaint was dealt with by its complaints team, whose role is to carry out a full review of all 
that has happened. In my opinion, Advantage had the right to decide whether a submission 
from Mr H and a photo of the damage to his car sent in after the claim was settled should be 
reviewed. A decision had already been made, based on the clear evidence provided by Mr H 
in March 2020 about the details of the accident. We think evidence given by the parties 
closest to the date of an incident is generally more reliable than that supplied later on. And a 
photo wouldnt override all the other evidence. In the circumstances here, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Advantage to decide that the extra information wouldnt be useful. 
Advantage accepted that it had failed to respond to a letter from Mr H (an issue the 
complaints team looked at when it was reviewing the file). I think Advantage dealt with that 
issue reasonably by paying £75 compensation. 
My conclusions 
Mr H told us that hed like Advantage to put matters right by listening to him and allowing him 
to present his version of events. But I think he was allowed to give his account of events at the start. I understand why he and Mr P dont accept that Mr H should have been held liable 
for the accident, but I dont think the evidence shows that Advantage acted unreasonably. It 
was entitled to decide how to settle the claim, including the sum to pay out on it, and it has 
explained why the sum paid wasnt excessive. I dont think theres evidence of poor service 
in general by Advantage. In these circumstances, I cant uphold Mr Ps complaint.     
 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2021. 
Susan Ewins
Ombudsman