DRN-2887501
The complaint
Mr B is not happy with the way Accredited Insurance (Europe) Ltd (AIE) have dealt with his
claim following the theft of his car.  
What happened
Mr B bought a new car and purchased insurance for the car through a broker. This was done
over the telephone and paid for by monthly instalments. He was asked if there were any
modifications to the car and he replied no.
When picking up the vehicle, Mr B noticed that the seats were damaged. He then arranged
for the fabric seats to be replaced with second hand leather seats. He says that there was no
particular reason for this except that the leather seats were the most readily available. Mr B
also modified the car to include tinted rear windows and alloy wheels which were one inch
wider than was standard. The wheels were replaced due to slight damage to the original
alloy wheels.
A few months later the car was stolen. Mr B reported the theft to police and to AIE and made
a claim under his policy. Whilst investigating the claim AIE became aware of the
modifications. They told Mr B that as he had not notified them of the modifications they were
avoiding the policy.
Mr B was not happy with this. He explained that he had replaced the seats and wheels due
to cosmetic damage and did not think that the replacement parts would have affected the
value of the car or his premiums. AIE did not agree. They said that they entered into an
agreement with Mr B and this was breached when he failed to notify them of the
modifications to his car. They say the modifications made the car more valuable and that the
premiums would therefore have been higher. They also say that the modifications would
have made the car more attractive to thieves.
Mr B then brought his complaint to us. He is not happy that his policy has been avoided, and
that none of his premiums have been returned. Our investigator looked into the matter and
did not uphold the complaint. He said that the terms of the policy were clear and required the
modifications to be notified to AIE. He said that as Mr B had not notified AIE he was in
breach of his policy and that AIE did not do anything wrong in cancelling the policy.
Mr B did not agree. He did not think the policy should have been avoided, but if it had his
premiums should have been refunded to him. He was also unhappy that he was not
provided with a recording of his telephone conversation with the broker when he took out his
policy, and was not given an opportunity to review his witness statement. He asked for the
matter to be referred to an ombudsman. 
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 5 May 2021. I said:
There does not appear to be any dispute that modifications were made to Mr Bs car after
the insurance policy was taken out and that these modifications were not notified to AIE. The
issue is whether Mr B should have notified AIE, and if he should whether it was fair for AIE to
have avoided the policy and refused to deal Mr Bs claim for theft of his car.
Mr B has suggested that his case would have been helped by listening to the recording of
the telephone conversation which took place when he took out the policy. However, I dont
think that this would assist as it is not suggested that he failed to notify AIE of the
modifications at that point. Mr B also says that he provided a witness statement during AIEs
investigation but was not given an opportunity to review this before signing it. Whilst it is, of
course, important to be able to review a statement before signing it, I am not sure how this
affects Mr Bs complaint as I am not aware he is suggesting that anything in the statement
was inaccurate or untrue.
AIEs approach to this case appears somewhat confused. The correspondence to Mr B and
AIEs case notes refer to both avoiding the policy and cancelling it. Avoiding the policy would
mean that it never existed and AIE would not have to consider the claim. However, they
should consider refunding the premiums. Cancelling the policy would take effect from the
date of the cancellation and AIE would still have to consider a claim under the policy. As they
have said they are not considering the claim at all, it seems that AIE have sought to avoid
the policy.
However, the modifications to Mr Bs car are mid-term adjustments. Our approach to mid-
term adjustments is to look to see whether they are fundamental to the policy and whether it
is fair for an insurer to go on to cancel the policy, rather than avoid it. The law governing
insurance makes provision for avoidance where there has been a particular type of
misrepresentation, or fraud.
It is quite usual for an insurer to include a condition in a policy which requires the consumer
to advise it of any changes after the policy has started. Id expect the insurer to highlight this
term in the policy and make sure it clearly sets out the sort of changes they want to know
about.
AIEs agreement to provide Mr B with car insurance was based on information that Mr B
provided when he took out the policy and the policy documents. These include the certificate
of insurance, schedule of insurance, statement of fact, terms and conditions, and policy
booklet.
The statement of fact includes details of what changes should be notified to AIE and
includes any modifications to the car where the vehicle has been altered from the
manufacturers specification. The statement provides a list of changes that should be
notified and includes changes to the appearance (cosmetic changes), such as alloy wheels
or paint. It says that the list is not exhaustive and if there is any doubt the insured should
notify them. The statement goes on to say, When we are notified of a change, we will tell
you if this affects your policy, for example whether we are able to accept the change and if
so, whether the change will result in revised terms and/or premium being applied to your
policy. This information is also contained in the Policy Booklet. The Policy Booklet also
details situations where AIE may cancel the policy and this includes if the policyholder has
not met the terms and conditions of the contract. The terms and conditions and Insurance
Product Information Document also include details of Mr Bs obligations.
The agreement between Mr B and AIE included a requirement that he notify them of any
modifications to his car, and I think this is clear from the documentation. Mr B says that he
did not think it was clear that he had to notify the specific modifications that he made. I
disagree. It would not be realistic for the policy documents to list all possible modifications.
Alloy wheels are specifically mentioned as being notifiable, although I accept that the carhad alloy wheels as standard and that the only difference between these and the
replacements was a small increase in size. The tinted windows and seats are cosmetic
changes and are a change from the original manufacturers specifications and, as such, I
think it is clear that these should have been notified. If Mr B had been in any doubt it was
open to him to have asked AIE as suggested in the policy. By failing to notify AIE of the
modifications, I think Mr B was in breach of his agreement.
Mr Bs agreement contains a term allowing AIE to vary, or cancel, the policy after it had
begun, if there was a breach of that agreement. I will therefore go on to consider whether it
was reasonable for AIE to cancel the policy in these circumstances.
In certain cases it might be reasonable for the insurer to vary, or cancel, the terms of an
insurance policy, but this will only be when the nature of the risk changes fundamentally.
When an insurer issues a policy of insurance they effectively agree to cover the policyholder
against certain contingencies. Generally, if a policyholders circumstances change during the
term of the policy, we see that as part of the general risk that insurers take on. I wouldnt
therefore expect an insurer to cancel a policy mid-term for changes which are not
fundamental.
A fundamental change to a policy would be something that significantly changes the risk for
the insurer, such as a change of car, or a significantly larger engine. AIE say that the
modifications may have increased the value of the car and made it more attractive to
thieves, but I have seen nothing to suggest that the nature of the risk has changed
fundamentally. Mr B obtained a letter from his car manufacturer confirming that the change
of seat would not have offered any benefit or affected the way the car was driven. I have
considered this and do not think that this was a fundamental change. I understand that the
only difference in the alloy wheels was an increase in size of one inch. As alloy wheels were
standard for this car, I do not think that the small increase in size was significant. Finally, I do
not think that the tinted windows to the rear of the car, which are purely cosmetic, would
have significantly changed the nature of the risk.
I therefore do not think it was fair or reasonable for AIE to rely on a change of risk to avoid or
cancel the policy.
I have also considered the effect AIEs actions would have had on Mr B. Avoiding the policy
and not considering his claim has meant that Mr B was inconvenienced and left out of
pocket. This must have caused distress and inconvenience and I think it fair that AIE should
pay Mr B £100 compensation. I am not aware if Mr B has taken out other car insurance, but
avoiding his policy would have affected his ability to obtain insurance in the future and the
cost of any premiums. If this is the case, I will consider any documentation Mr B wishes to
provide in relation to this as I would expect AIE to put Mr B back into the position he would
have been in had they not unfairly avoided his policy.
Response to my provisional decision
Mr B accepted my provisional decision. He provided some additional information in relation 
to the cost of his car insurance since AIE avoided his policy. Mr B took out two insurance 
policies. One insurer said that Mr Bs premium was not affected by his policy being avoided. 
The other said that the premium was £248.21 more than if he had not had his previous 
policy avoided.
AIE did not responded to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and whyIve considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither party provided any new information, my final decision and reasoning 
remains the same as in my provisional decision.  
I have, however, taken into account the additional information provided by Mr B, and I accept 
that he paid more for his car insurance due to his policy being avoided. I think it is fair that 
AIE refund this sum to Mr B. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right, Mr B should be put back into the position he would have been in 
had AIE not made a mistake. AIE should therefore re-instate Mr Bs insurance policy and 
deal with his claim for theft of his car. AIE should ensure that all record of the policy having 
been avoided is removed from all internal and external databases so that Mr B is not 
prejudiced when applying for insurance in the future.  
AIE need to pay Mr B the sum of £248.21 which is the extra cost of his car insurance 
following avoidance of his policy. I also think that compensation of £100 for distress and 
inconvenience is appropriate as mentioned above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint. I require Accredited Insurance (Europe) 
Limited to:
re-instate the policy and deal with Mr Bs claim for theft of his car;
if Mr Bs claim for theft of his car is upheld, pay interest at 8% on the value of the
payment made to him from the date that payment should reasonably have been
made to the date of payment;
ensure that all record of Mr Bs policy being avoided is removed from all internal and 
external databases; 
pay the sum of £248.21 to Mr B, plus 8% interest from the date that Mr B paid the 
insurance premium to the date of re-payment to him; and 
pay the sum of £100 to Mr B for distress and inconvenience.
Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the 
date on which we tell it Mr B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
8% a year simple.
If Accredited Insurance (Europe) Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & 
Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr B a certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 August 2021.
 
Elizabeth Middleton
Ombudsman