DRN-2736260
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain to AFH Independent Financial Services Limited about the sale and 
administration of a term assurance policy.
What happened
In 1997 Mr and Mrs B were sold a term assurance policy by a predecessor business of AFH.
Mr and Mrs B say they werent aware of the policy until they were contacted in 2019 by AFH 
who were letting them know that a financial advisor who they had previously dealt with had 
left the business. 
Mr and Mrs B complained saying AFH shouldve contacted them when they took over a 
predecessor business several years ago. Had this happened they say they wouldve found 
out about the policy years earlier and not paid unnecessary premiums for a policy they say 
was placed without their instruction. 
AFH told Mr and Mrs B they werent responsible for the original sale and that they should go 
to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS) as the business who originally sold 
the policy had closed down. They also said that when they took over the predecessor 
business it was an asset purchase and so they didnt have any responsibility for previous 
advice. Mr and Mrs B were unhappy with this answer and brought their complaint to our 
service.
One of our investigators looked into things. They thought the sale of the policy would need to 
be looked into by FSCS and that because of the asset purchase of the predecessor 
business AFH didnt have responsibility to contact Mr and Mrs B. 
Mr and Mrs B disagreed saying that AFH did have a responsibility to contact them so the 
complaint has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have provided a lot of information about their complaint. I want to assure them 
that Ive read and considered everything theyre provided even if I dont mention it in detail. 
Im summarised what happened in my own words which reflects the informal nature of this 
service. 
Theres two main issues here; the original sale of the policy, and the responsibilities of AFH 
after they purchased a predecessor business.
Everyone agrees that the sale of the policy should be referred to FSCS as the business who 
sold it is no longer around. I understand that Mr and Mrs B have already referred this matter 
to FSCS but unfortunately they cant help due to the date of the sale and regulations in place 
at that time. 
This leaves the matter of whether AFH had a responsibility to contact Mr and Mrs B when 
they took over a predecessor business. 
What happened is somewhat complicated by the fact that the original business who sold the 
policy was purchased by another business which was then in turn purchased by AFH. So 
there are three businesses involved. And the financial advisor who originally sold the policy 
worked at all three businesses and it was their departure from AFH that led to the contact 
with Mr and Mrs B that made them aware of the policy. 
Theres no doubt that had AFH contacted Mr and Mrs B earlier they wouldve found out 
about the policy sooner. However having considered everything Im satisfied AFH didnt 
have a responsibility to contact Mr and Mrs B. Ive not seen any evidence of an ongoing 
relationship between AFH or the predecessor businesses and Mr and Mrs B, nor that there 
was any agreement about calling them. 
When AFH purchased the predecessor business it was an asset purchase and there was no 
duty for them to call consumers about previous sales as they werent liable for those sales. 
AFH contacted Mr and Mrs B as they were on record as being customers of a particular 
advisor, but that doesnt mean they needed to have ongoing contact about a policy what was 
being administered by a third party  the underwriter of the policy.
Having considered everything carefully Im satisfied AFH is not responsible for the sale of 
the policy and nor was there any ongoing duty for them to contact Mr and Mrs B. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2021. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman