DRN-2858997
The complaint
U, a limited company, was unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC put a block on its business 
account.
What happened
U had a charge card linked to its business account with Lloyds and was unhappy that it was 
blocked by Lloyds when the business account became overdrawn. Lloyds explained to U 
that the block could only be removed when the business account went back into credit. 
When the account was brought back into credit, U contacted Lloyds and asked for block to 
be removed  and the block was removed by Lloyds that same day.
U wasnt happy that the card had been blocked, or with the level of service that it had 
received from Lloyds about this matter, including that it had been difficult to contact Lloyds 
by telephone. So, it made a complaint.
Lloyds looked at Us complaint. They felt that they had applied the block on the business 
account correctly, so they didnt uphold that aspect of Us complaint. However, they did 
acknowledge that it had been difficult for U to contact them by telephone, so they made a 
payment to U of £50 as compensation for any inconvenience incurred.
U wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so it referred its complaint to this service. One of 
our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that Lloyds had applied the block on 
the account fairly and that the payment of £50 compensation made by Lloyds was a fair and 
reasonable resolution to the service aspect of Us complaint, such that no further action by 
Lloyds was required. So, they didnt uphold the complaint.
U remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so its clear from the business accounts general conditions that Lloyds were 
able to block the business account when the account became overdrawn  which in this 
instance it did. The reason given for such action is that, when an account is overdrawn, 
Lloyds perceive that there is a greater risk that the account holder will be unable to repay 
any overdrawn balance that accrues. 
Furthermore, when U contacted Lloyds to request that the block be removed, following the 
account moving back into credit, Lloyds removed the account block that same day.
However, it can be the case that a technically correct application of account terms and 
conditions can still result in an unfair outcome, so Ive considered the wider circumstances of 
Us position here, including that U had applied for a Covid-19 bounce back loan at that time. 
Having done so it seems apparent that U was struggling financially at that time, and I can 
understand how the blocking of the business account might have been problematic for U. 
But the bounce back loan that U were applying for was designed to help businesses 
negotiate the difficult period brought about by the Covid-19 pandemic, and I dont feel that it 
was incumbent on Lloyds at that time to have taken on additional perceived risk by allowing 
Us overdrawn account to continue to be used. And it must be noted that Lloyds did refund to 
U the overdraft interest and unauthorised borrowing fees incurred on the account on more 
than one instance.
So, its difficult to conclude that Lloyds acted unreasonably or unfairly in placing a block on 
the business account when they did, and Im satisfied that Lloyds only blocked the account 
when such action was permitted by the terms of the account and removed the block in a 
timely manner when the account moved back into a credit position. 
U has also expressed its dissatisfaction at the standard of service that it received from 
Lloyds, including that U found it difficult to contact Lloyds by telephone. Lloyds have 
acknowledged that this was the case and have made a payment of £50 to U as 
compensation for any inconvenience incurred. 
Im mindful of the wider circumstances at play here, and Lloyds have confirmed that their call 
handling capacity was affected by the developing global Covid-19 pandemic and the 
workplace restrictions it placed on businesses. Given this context it seems reasonable to me 
that it might have taken customers longer than usual to get through to Lloyds, and I can 
confirm that the apology and payment of compensation already issued by Lloyds goes 
beyond what this service would expect of Lloyds in this instance.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that U wanted here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking Lloyds to take any further action at this time. I hope that U 
can understand, given what Ive explained above, why I have made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this account.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask U to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman