DRN-3501503
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the way Mitsubishi HC Capital UK Plc (Mitsubishi) has dealt 
with a claim he made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
What happened
On 17 April 2014, Mr S entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier. The system cost £12,627.00 which he paid using a fixed sum loan agreement from 
Mitsubishi which was repayable over ten years. The total amount payable was £18,832.80, 
through 120 monthly repayments of £156.94.  
Mr S (represented by a claims management company) wrote to Mitsubishi on 20 July 2020 
to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who 
pay for goods or services using credit. The creditor (Mitsubishi) is jointly and severally liable 
with the supplier for any breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier  subject to 
certain considerations being met. 
Mr Ss claim explained that he had been told that through buying the system he would:
Make huge savings on his electricity bill.
Receive a great return on his investment.
Earn hundreds of pounds in income per year.
The system would pay for itself after six years through Feed-In Tariff (FIT) 
payments. 
Mitsubishi responded to the claim to say that it was made after the deadlines set in the 
Limitation Act 1980. However, it went on to say that it didnt think there had been a 
misrepresentation. 
Unhappy with Mitsubishis response, Mr S raised a complaint and referred the matter to the 
Financial Ombudsman Service.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and felt Mitsubishi had confused matters by 
assessing the misrepresentation claim whilst saying it was made out of time. As a result, 
Mitsubishi apologised for this and offered to pay Mr S £370 compensation as a gesture of 
goodwill. Our investigator thought that was a fair way to resolve the complaint, given the 
claim appeared to have been made outside the time limits in the Limitation Act 1980  which 
would mean Mitsubishi had no liability if there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract 
by the supplier. 
Mr S was not happy with this and asked for an ombudsman to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this complaint Im considering whether Mitsubishi has treated Mr S fairly in its response to 
his s.75 claim. There are a number of things Ive taken account of when reaching my 
decision, including the law, relevant rules and regulations, good practice, and the facts of 
Mr Ss complaint. In this decision Ill refer those that I consider to be most central to my 
conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mr Ss complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant here. 
As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim can be made against Mitsubishi, and why 
it can be held responsible for a purchase Mr S made using credit. Im satisfied theres an 
appropriate relationship between the parties for Mitsubishi to consider a s.75 claim. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So, Mitsubishi must have treated Mr S fairly when it declined his s.75 claim. And as the 
reason Mitsubishi gave for declining Mr Ss claim was that it was made outside of the 
relevant time limits, the Limitation Act 1980 is of particular relevance. 
The Limitation Act 1980 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr Ss rights to claim against Mitsubishi under s.75 are on 
the same basis of those he could make a claim against the supplier, I consider the relevant 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 5 which applies to causes of action founded on simple contract law  which 
includes breaches of contract. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr S says the benefits of the solar panel system were misrepresented and so 
he entered a contract which wasnt the value for money he expected. Mr S says were it not 
for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then he wouldnt have entered the 
contract to purchase the system at all. So, Mr Ss financial loss occurred when he contracted to pay for the solar panel system 
using a fixed sum loan agreement on 17 April 2014, and he began to make loan repayments. 
Mr S raised his claim with Mitsubishi on 20 July 2020 which is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and his cause of action accrued. 
Breach of contract 
Mr S has mentioned breach of contract in his letter of claim. But his specific allegations are 
all about misrepresentations on the part of the supplier, not about breaches of the contract. 
So, I dont think Section 5 of the Limitation Act is important here. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr Ss claim against Mitsubishi is under 
s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  effectively making Mitsubishi step into the shoes 
of supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
breach of contract  and gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr Ss claim as Ive already explained he raised his 
complaint with Mitsubishi over six years from when the contract was entered, and damage 
suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when Mr S knew, or ought to 
have known, that he had a claim for misrepresentation against the supplier. And whether 
that extended the time in which he could make a claim. 
I think Mr S ought to have known if the benefits from the system did not match what he had 
been promised about one year after installation of the solar panel system. This is because 
he was given an estimate of benefits set out on an annual basis, which I think was clear. So, 
after one year he wouldve been able to check whether the actual benefits received matched 
those he had been told he would receive by the supplier. 
The solar panel system was installed on 21 May 2014. Mr S received FIT statements 
confirming the income from the solar panel system. Im not sure exactly when he received 
sufficient statements covering a one-year period. But it would likely have been before the 
end of 2015. So, the three-year period would not have extended the time in which Mr S 
could make a claim. 
So, I consider it reasonable for Mitsubishi to have concluded the claim was made out of time, 
and that Mr S did know, or ought to have known he had a claim for misrepresentation before January 2016  since Mr S wouldve had access to FIT statements sufficient to compare the 
actual benefit he had received with what the supplier told him to expect. 
Summary 
In this decision I am considering whether Mitsubishi has acted in a fair and reasonable 
manner when dealing with Mr Ss s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether 
or not any right to claim against the supplier (and so Mitsubishi) has expired under the 
Limitation Act. But given the information available and representations made by both parties, 
Im satisfied Mitsubishi has applied the rules fairly and made a reasonable decision. 
Mitsubishi has acknowledged it may have confused matters by also responding to the claim 
in its letter (despite saying it had been made out of time) and has offered £370 
compensation as a gesture of goodwill. I think that is reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr S claims management company said that as a consumer he wasnt aware of any time 
limits that would affect his ability to make a claim. Whilst I understand his point, the time 
limits are set out in law  and so I cant say its unreasonable for Mitsubishi to apply them. 
Ive not seen any evidence to persuade me that Mr S was unable to make a claim within 
time. His claims management company says the Covid-19 pandemic may have affected this, 
but I think Mr S ought to have known there was a problem such that he couldve made a 
claim from at least January 2016. Pandemic related restrictions were not put into place until 
2020 and would not have prevented a claim being made electronically. Mr S had several 
years prior to this when he couldve made the claim. And once he contacted his claims 
management company, it ought to have been aware of the time limits that would apply. 
So, I cannot fairly ask Mitsubishi to do anything else now. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. If it hasnt already done so, 
Mitsubishi should pay Mr S £370.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman