DRN-4475245
The complaint and what happened
In January 2002 Next approved a catalogue shopping account for Mrs M. Over the years, 
the credit limit on the account has fluctuated, some of the detail of which I will set out in the 
following section of this decision. It would appear that the account is currently up-to-date.
When Mrs M complained to Next in January 2023, it informed her that it would only consider 
her complaint about its actions from January 2017 onwards, as she had brought her 
complaint about anything earlier too late. It also didnt accept it had done anything wrong in 
the relevant time period. Whilst accepting that the account opening and pre-January 2017 
events wouldnt be looked into, Mrs M brought her complaint about the credit limit increases 
from January 2017 onwards to this service.
One of our investigators looked at the evidence and thought that Next hadnt done anything 
significantly wrong. Mrs M didnt accept that and asked that the case be passed to an 
Ombudsman for review. This decision will consider credit limit increases applied to Mrs Ms 
account since January 2017.
Ive included relevant sections of my provisional decision from November 2023, which form 
part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set out the reasons why I was planning 
to uphold this complaint. In brief that was because I thought the evidence ought to have led 
Next to conclude that the credit limit increases it actioned after January 2017 were not 
affordable for Mrs M.
I asked both parties to let me have any more information they wanted me to consider. Both 
parties accepted my provisional findings.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding it, for the key reason set out above, but Ive also included 
here the relevant sections of my provisional decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im planning to uphold this complaint and Ill explain why.
Next is aware of its obligations under the rules and regulations in place at the time of 
these credit limit increases, including the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), so I 
wont repeat them here. But, briefly, it was required to carry out sufficient checks to 
ensure that Mrs M would be able to repay the borrowing it was making available to her in 
a sustainable way. As set out in CONC 5.3.1G(2) that means that she could manage the 
repayments,
withoutincurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences
Essentially, Mrs M needed to be able to meet all her financial commitments and not have to 
borrow elsewhere to repay Next for the credit limit to be considered affordable and 
sustainable.
Did Next carry out proportionate checks?
In January 2017, the credit limit on this account was £5,000, which Next has told us is the 
maximum it allows its customers. In April of that year, Next began decreasing Mrs Ms credit 
limit until it reached £3,750 only six months later, although it hasnt explained why. It then 
increased the limit very slightly and temporarily in February and June 2018, before returning it 
to £5,000 in July 2018. (It would appear that those slight and temporary increases were likely 
in response to Mrs M struggling to stay within her credit limit.)
In the years following, a repeat pattern of Next substantially increasing the limit to £5,000, 
before immediately beginning to decrease it the next month, is clear. I am not going to set out 
all the changes to date as they ultimately arent relevant to the outcome of this complaint. My 
first consideration is whether the July 2018 credit limit increase was affordable and 
sustainable for Mrs M.
Next carried out a high-level credit check, essentially apparently its standard monthly 
monitoring activity, before increasing Mrs Ms credit limit by about a third in July 2018. The 
investigator thought that Nexts checks were proportionate and there was no indication of 
concerns which could have meant that they ought to have done anything more in-depth.
I disagree, noting the substantial credit limit increase being provided, and Nexts own 
supervision and management of this account. Quite simply, the fact that Next had taken the 
significant step of substantially and consistently reducing Mrs Ms credit limit between April 
and September 2017 is a clear sign that its systems had identified something of concern. 
There would be no logical reason for Next to take that step without it having identified an 
affordability risk for Mrs M. Consequently, I am satisfied that it ought to have asked more 
about Mrs Ms finances before re-increasing her credit limit to such an extent.
What would Next have found had it done proportionate checks?
When considering this second question, our service has had the benefit of several months 
of bank statements to review. I accept that there was and is no requirement on a lender to 
obtain any particular type of information: they are permitted to source and rely on a range of 
evidence when assessing affordability, and so Next could have opted to gather more 
information about Mrs Ms financial position in a range of ways. However, it didnt, and, in 
the absence of anything else provided, Im happy to rely on the statements to demonstrate 
what Next would most likely have discovered if it had completed proportionate checks.
The relevant statements contain a lot of transactions, debits and credits, but ultimately show 
several key facts when thinking about financial health, and whether she could afford to take 
on additional borrowing. Those are that:
The standard household bills shown being paid by direct debit accounted for nearly 
her entire monthly income of around £1,800.
In addition, she was spending about another £550 to service debt.
Even if she was only accountable for half the household bills, reflecting that her 
husband was also earning at the time, that would still mean that nearly £1,500 of 
her £1,800 monthly income was taken up by bills and credit commitments. (This 
expenditure does not take into account necessities such as food and travel costs.)
Despite her husbands salary also being paid into Mrs Ms account at the time, she 
was still significantly overdrawn every month, with an overdraft limit that was 166% 
of her monthly income.In the round, the provisional conclusion I reach on the basis of the evidence available to me 
at present is that Mrs M was dependent on a large overdraft {which she had no real 
prospect of repaying, given its size in relation to her income) and carried a fairly large 
monthly burden in terms of meeting unsecured debt repayments. There is no evidence to 
suggest she had any disposable income.
It therefore follows that I dont currently think Next should have increased Mrs Ms 
credit limit in July 2018, and I plan to uphold this complaint from that point.
As both parties have accepted my findings, I have no reason to alter them as set out in my 
provisional decision. And so it follows that I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Mrs M, I direct Next to do the following:
a) Rework the account to remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) 
incurred on the account since 1 July 2018 on balances exceeding £3,750.
b) If that calculation means the adjusted balance would have been cleared, Studio must 
refund any remaining sums to Mrs M with 8% simple interest*, calculated from the 
date of overpayment to the date of settlement.
c) If not, Next should work with Mrs M to agree a plan for her to repay what is owed.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires Next to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mrs M a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if she asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct Next Retail Limited to put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman