DRN-3777275
The complaint
Miss A and Mr H complain that Masthaven Bank Limited treated them unfairly when it 
declined to extend their bridge loan. They ask that it waives or refunds their additional costs.
What happened
Miss A and Mr H took out a bridge loan with Masthaven in December 2020. The loan was to 
be repaid from the sale of the security property. They agreed to complete works to the 
security property and market it for sale within four months.
Ms A and Mr H decided to keep the security property and look for other ways to repay the 
bridge loan. As they werent sure their refinancing would be in place in time, they discussed 
the possibility of extending the loan with Masthaven several times during 2021. Miss A says 
they were misled by Masthaven that it was likely to agree to extend the term. When they 
applied for an extension Masthaven declined. Miss A says Masthaven took too long to make 
a decision, which they received shortly before Christmas. This left them without time to sort 
out other options. 
Miss A and Mr H received a remortgage offer in mid-February 2022. Miss A says this shows 
theyd have been able to re-finance if Masthaven had told them earlier that it wouldnt extend 
the bridge loan. 
Our investigator said Masthaven set out the process to apply for an extension and explained 
this was discretionary. She said it dealt with Miss A and Mr Hs application in a timely 
manner. Our investigator said Miss A and Mr H breached the terms of the loan when they 
decided not to sell the property, and it wasnt Masthavens responsibility that they werent 
able to repay the loan through other means.
Miss A and Mr H didnt agree. Miss A said it was Masthavens unfair behaviour that caused 
them to over-run the loan term and incur additional costs of £14,000. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Masthaven to refund or waive Miss A and 
Mr Hs additional costs. Ive set out my reasons for this below.
The bridge loan had a 12 months term and was due to expire in mid-December 2021. The 
loan terms required Miss A and Mr H to confirm that work to the property was completed and 
provide a satisfactory marketing report to Masthaven no later than four months after taking 
out the loan (i.e. by mid-April 2021).  
It was Miss A and Mr Hs decision to look for other ways to repay the bridge loan, without 
selling the security property. 
Miss A and Mr Hs alternative route was to use funds from the sale of another property, an 
inheritance and to re-mortgage the security property. Miss A says they were unable to sell 
the other property as they had difficulty evicting the tenant. An expected inheritance wasnt 
received as quickly as hoped. In October 2021 Miss A and Mr Hs broker told Masthaven 
they hadnt completed works to the security property due to lack of funds. In her complaint 
Miss A said they couldnt re-mortgage the security property as the works werent complete 
until after December 2021. The broker told Masthaven it was unlikely Miss A and Mr H would 
be able to apply for a re-mortgage before January 2022 when theyd be able to provide 
evidence of income. 
It was unfortunate that Miss A and Mr H werent able to put alternative finance in place 
before the bridge loan term expired. But this wasnt due to any error by Masthaven.
Masthaven told Miss A and Mr H there was no guarantee it would extend the bridge loan. 
Miss A doesnt dispute this, but says Masthaven made positive noises about having 
extended other loans in similar circumstances. Based on the available evidence I dont think 
Masthaven misled Miss A that it would extend the loan. It only agreed to consider their 
application, in accordance with its process and lending criteria.
I think it was reasonable for Masthaven to require evidence of a viable exit plan to support 
Miss A and Mr Hs request for an extension. They hadnt sold the security property (or tried 
to sell it) as theyd agreed to do when they took out the bridge loan. It wasnt on the market 
for sale at this point, and work hadnt been completed. Masthaven said it would re-consider 
the extension request if they put the property on the market for sale, but there was no 
guarantee this would be agreed. Miss A said they intended to complete work to the property 
once they received the inheritance money  but shes also said there was no date for this.
Miss A says Masthaven didnt agree to the extension because of their discussions about 
wanting to re-finance, even though they said on the application form their proposed exit was 
sale of the property. From what Miss A has said re-financing was in fact their intention so if 
Masthaven did take that into account I dont think that was unreasonable. 
While Miss A says Masthaven wouldnt allow them to apply for an extension until three 
months before the expiry date (i.e. mid-September 2021) I dont think this was the cause of 
any delays. While there were discussions between Miss A and Mr Hs broker and Masthaven 
in September 2021, they didnt submit an application for the extension until late October 
2021. 
Masthaven says it received an application from Miss A and Mr Hs broker for a 12-month 
extension on 26 October 2021. In mid-November 2021 Masthaven asked for photos of the 
property. It declined the application on 15 December 2021. It said it would re-consider if the 
property was marketed for sale with an updated valuation. Miss A and Mr H appealed, but 
Masthaven declined their request again at the beginning of January 2022.
I dont think the time taken by Masthaven to consider the request for an extension was 
unreasonable. And I dont think matters would have been different if it had responded more 
quickly. While Miss A says this would have given them time to secure re-financing the 
available evidence doesnt support this. Miss A and Mr Hs broker said they wouldnt have 
evidence of income to support an application for a residential mortgage until January 2022. 
Miss A and Mr H had been taking advice from a broker. Most likely if Miss A and Mr H had 
been able to secure a residential mortgage in late 2021 theyd have done so instead of trying 
to extend a more expensive, short term bridge loan.
I appreciate that Miss A and Mr H wanted to keep the security property, and had an 
alternative route to repay the loan. It was unfortunate this couldnt be put in place in time due 
to circumstances outside their control. But I have to be fair to both parties. When Masthaven lent the money to Miss A and Mr H it did so on the basis theyd complete work and market 
the property for sale within four months. It was Miss A and Mr Hs decision not to do this (in 
breach of the loan terms and without other means in place to repay the loan) which led to 
them not being able to repay the loan when it was due. 
Masthaven considered Miss A and Mr Hs application for an extension, and their appeal. It 
was entitled to decide whether to agree to extend the loan. I dont think Masthaven was 
unfair or unreasonable or caused unreasonable delays in making its decision. It follows that I 
dont think its fair and reasonable to require Masthaven to refund any interest or fees or 
other costs incurred by Miss A and Mr H. 
In response to the investigators view, Miss A said Masthaven should have told them it would 
stop offering residential mortgages in late 2021. I cant see that this was part of the 
complaint brought to us, and so I cant look into that here.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A and Mr H 
to accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2022.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman