DRN-3175757
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about the handling of the six mortgages associated with their 
rental portfolio of properties. The mortgages are with NRAM Limited. Their complaints are:
That NRAM appointed a Law of Property Act (LPA) Receiver 
The management of the properties by the LPA receiver.
The decision to sell two of the properties and the delay in that process, resulting in an 
increase in the level of money owing. 
That the two properties were sold for less than the amount owing, leaving a shortfall 
debt.
Their credit rating has been negatively affected by whats happened with their 
mortgages.
Delays in NRAM paying ground rent and service charges on some of the properties. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs B had six buy-to let mortgages with NRAM. By 2017 problems with payments 
started to occur, although at least some of those events had been caused by errors by their 
current account holding bank.
In January 2018 NRAM wrote to Mr and Mrs B about the arrears on all six mortgages. It 
confirmed that the arrears would be reported on their credit files. 
In May 2018 NRAM wrote to Mr and Mrs B with a formal demand for payment of the debts 
they owed under the mortgages. This was due to NRAM considering that the mortgage 
terms had been breached due to the level of arrears on the mortgages. The amount owed on 
each mortgage was detailed. NRAM sent another such letter in July 2018. 
In August 2018 NRAM wrote to Mr and Mrs B to tell them that it was appointing an LPA 
receiver because of the arrears on their mortgages. It detailed the amount of the arrears and 
what the receivers could do once managing the properties. 
In 2019, the LPA receiver decided that two of the properties in the portfolio should be sold. 
The properties were handed back to NRAM in August and December 2019 respectively. 
They were marketed and, after the prices were dropped, eventually sold in December 2020 
for less than the amount needed to repay NRAM and cover the costs of the sales. 
NRAM responded to the complaint about the ground rent and service charges being paid. It 
considered that there had been a few days delay in the payment being raised because of a 
system error. This meant that the request for payment received on 27 May 20020 wasnt 
paid until 15 June 2020. This payment was returned on 27 July 2020 and further instructions 
issued for payment. Unfortunately, the instructions didnt have payment details included. 
That information was received on 4 August 2020 and, following NRAM checking that the 
returned payment had cleared, it paid the new amount on 18 August 2020. NRAM also 
provided Mr and Mrs B with copies of the LPA receivers bills they had requested, and 
confirmed that they needed to keep the LPA receiver informed of their address details. It was 
also confirmed in the response that if Mr and Mrs B had concerns about the management of 
the properties, these concerns would need to be raised directly with the LPA receiver. NRAM 
didnt uphold the complaint. 
NRAM provided a further response to Mr and Mrs Bs additional concerns about the amount 
the properties were sold for and the shortfall debt that created. NRAM explained the process 
it went through to sell properties in possession and what the regulator required of it. It 
confirmed that the sale prices were the best that could have been achieved and it didnt 
believe the properties had been sold below value. In relation the question Mr and Mrs B had 
raised about the council tax not being paid on the properties being sold, NRAM explained 
that properties in possession were exempt from council tax, and so they should contact the 
council if they were receiving requests for payment for that period of time. NRAM also 
addressed an administrative matter and it rejected the entire complaint. 
Mr and Mrs B werent happy with the responses they received from NRAM and asked us to 
look at their complaints. One of our investigators did, but he didnt recommend that it be 
upheld. He confirmed that NRAM wasnt responsible for the decisions the LPA receiver 
made once it had been appointed and that we have no jurisdiction to consider complaints 
about such businesses. As such, we couldnt consider the decisions the LPA receiver made 
about the management of the properties, or its conclusion that two of the properties within 
Mr and Mrs Bs property portfolio should be sold. However, he did consider NRAMs decision 
to appoint the LPA receiver and didnt think it was unreasonable in the circumstances. In 
addition, he didnt think it was unreasonable for NRAM to have reported the arrears on 
Mr and Mrs Bs credit files and pointed out that they had been warned this would happen.
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with the investigator. They said that they had told NRAM theyd 
moved, but it had failed to update its records and so it had sent the letters the investigator 
had referred to, to the wrong address and they didnt receive them. In addition, Mr and Mrs B 
said that as NRAM appointed the LPAR, and they believe that NRAM was actually making 
the decisions about their properties, NRAM should be responsible for those decisions. They 
also highlighted that their concerns about the sale price of the property sold at a shortfall 
hadnt been commented on. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, it was decided the complaint should be referred to an 
ombudsman for a decision to be made. 
I asked both parties for further information about Mr and Mrs Bs change of address. Mr B 
forwarded a copy of an email to a member of staff at NRAM dated January 2017. In this 
email he referenced a conversation with the individual the email was sent to and provided a 
new address. The email also said that Mr B had provided the address to another member of 
staff at NRAM the previous year and hadnt received any correspondence since. Mr B also 
said that he has spoken to the same member of staff several times and offered to pay all 
outstanding payments once he found out about the appointment of the receivers, but NRAM 
refused. 
When Mr Bs email of January 2017 was forwarded to NRAM it confirmed it had no record of 
receiving it. It also provided a copy of its activity logs for the accounts. Whilst it showed that 
it had sent Mr and Mrs B a letter in January 2017 about a missed payment, there was 
nothing about a change of address at that time. Indeed, NRAM sent Mr and Mrs B letters 
between January 2017 and January 2018 to the address it had on file, and all of them were 
responded to by Mr and Mrs B telephoning NRAM. In addition, following contact from 
Mr and Mrs B, they were issued with further letters to the same address about their 
complaints to NRAM in August 2017 and September 2018. Mr and Mrs B didnt contact 
NRAM to tell it that they hadnt received the responses they were expecting. I issued a provisional decision on 21 October 2021, in which I set out my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt.
As our investigator explained, once a LPA receiver is appointed, it is legally acting on behalf 
of the property owner. This means that we cant hold a lender responsible for the decisions 
the LPA receiver makes, including in this case, the recommendation that two of the 
properties should be sold. I would also confirm that LPA receivers dont fall within our 
jurisdiction and so we cant become involved in Mr and Mrs Bs concerns about the activities 
of the LPA receiver involved with their properties.
Before considering the main complaint issues, I think it would be appropriate at this point to 
comment on the matter of Mr and Mrs Bs change of address. Mr B has provided an email 
dated January 2017 which gives a change of address. However, NRAM says it didnt get this 
email and didnt know about a change of address until 2020. I have considered the evidence 
surrounding this matter. While the email provided indicated that Mr B had told NRAM by 
telephone the previous year of their change of address, there is no record of a call from him 
during 2016. 
In addition, there is no evidence of the email of January 2017 being received by NRAM. I am 
not persuaded the evidence shows that NRAM was aware Mr and Mrs B had moved in 2016. 
Furthermore, I dont think there was anything that would have given NRAM cause to 
question where it was sending correspondence, as it didnt receive its letters back as 
undelivered. I also note that Mr and Mrs B were responding to the letters sent to an 
apparently incorrect address over a year after they have now told us they moved, so it would 
appear that if they had moved, they still had access to their post. 
I have considered NRAMs decision to appoint the LPA receivers. A lender is able to appoint 
LPA receivers where the mortgage account for a rental property is not being managed in the 
way that it should be. In this case, there were arrears on all of the mortgage accounts and 
Mr and Mrs B, despite being written to about the arrears, hadnt dealt with the situation. In 
the circumstances, it wouldnt appear the decision to appoint receivers was inappropriate. 
Once the receivers had decided that two of the properties should be sold and handed 
possession to NRAM, it had a responsibility to sell the properties in a timely manner and for 
the best price possible. This doesnt mean holding out for the best possible price, as the 
outstanding debt would be increasing the longer the property was unsold. There must be a 
balance between the price achieved and the time taken to achieve a sale.
In this case NRAM has evidenced that it sought valuations from appropriately qualified and 
experienced experts before marketing the properties. It followed the advice it received from 
them and later, when the price was reduced due to a lack of interest. I am satisfied that 
NRAM acted appropriately when selling the two properties. The fact that they sold for less 
than the amount owed, plus costs, is unfortunate, but the evidence doesnt indicate that 
NRAM did anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs B have raised concerns about how the situation with their rental properties has 
affected their credit files. All lenders that report to credit reference agencies are required to 
provide accurate information about the management of a mortgage account. When a 
mortgage goes into arrears, that will be reported on the borrowers credit file and there is 
nothing wrong with a lender doing so, as long as the information is accurate. I also note that 
on at least one occasion NRAM made it very clear that the arrears on the mortgages would 
be reported on Mr and Mrs Bs credit files. As such, I dont think that NRAM did anything 
wrong in reporting what it did.NRAM provided Mr and Mrs B with a detailed explanation of what happened with the 
delayed payment of ground rent and service charge on one of their properties. I would firstly 
confirm its not the responsibility of a lender to pay these costs; that is the responsibility of 
the borrower. There are some circumstances where a lender will pay the costs, but in 
general it would only be considered reasonable for it to do so, because it increases the debt 
owed against the property, if the lender had evidence that the freeholder was likely to forfeit 
the lease on the property. In this case, it appears that because the property was in the hands 
of LPA receivers, NRAM paid the charges when it was asked to. It has admitted a slight 
delay in a payment being made initially, but Im not persuaded that this had any significant 
effect on Mr and Mrs B or the associated mortgage account. 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B didnt accept my conclusions. They said that most of the contact Mr B had with 
NRAM was with various account managers and there wouldnt be records of those calls as 
they were made using the staff members mobile phones. They also said that the reason 
they wouldnt have responded to some of the letters NRAM sent them was because either 
the account manager rang Mr B to discuss its contents or emailed him.
NRAM didnt respond, but I am satisfied that it received the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have noted what Mr and Mrs B have said about their conversations with NRAMs members 
of staff not being recorded, and I accept that there may have been some calls that werent 
documented. However, that doesnt change the situation in relation to the mortgages they 
held with NRAM. As I have said, it appears that they received the correspondence NRAM 
was sending them and so they were aware of the arrears situations and that it would be 
reported on their credit files. I remain satisfied that it was reasonable for LPA receivers to be 
appointed given the arrears. The sale of properties and payment of ground rent/service 
charges resulted directly from that situation and were again reasonable actions in the 
circumstances. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B told our investigator that it had been decided another of their 
mortgaged properties would be sold, and they were unhappy with this as it would create a 
default on their credit files. As this issue is recent and is not something previously 
complained about, this service is unable to comment at the present time. 
My final decisionMy decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to accept or reject my decision 
before 21 December 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman