DRN-2186857
The complaint
Miss S complaint is about Metro Bank PLC not allowing her family members to pay cash 
into her bank account and that not responding to her complaint. 
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Miss S opened a current account with Metro Bank in October 2018. The terms of the 
account say that the customer can pay cash in or withdraw cash over the counter in 
any Metro Bank store. They then explain that further identification may be required in 
certain circumstances. In this case it wasnt Miss S who was paying the cash into 
her account but family members.
Miss S family members tried to pay the cash into her account in November 2019. 
Metro Bank has explained that a change in policy from 2 September 2018 meant 
that it stopped accepting cash payments into personal accounts from third parties. It 
has explained the reason for this change as further protecting its customers and the 
community. As our investigator has explained, it is not our role to decide a banks 
policies, but we can consider whether a customer has been treated fairly in relation 
to these. In this case, while I appreciate this issue may have caused some 
inconvenience, as Metro Bank was following its policy by not allowing a third party to 
pay cash into Miss S account, I cannot say that it treated her unfairly.
During the visit by Miss S family member, he raised a complaint, and this was 
recorded. At that time, it was explained to him that he had been incorrectly told by 
the cashier that it was a regulatory rule that meant the cash couldnt be paid in rather 
than a policy change. However, this decision is about Miss S complaint and this 
wasnt an issue she experienced so I do not find I can say it caused her any distress 
or inconvenience.
Miss S says that she should have been told about the change in policy. Metro Bank 
has said it wasnt required to provide a communication about this. I have looked 
through the account terms and conditions and I do not find I can say that Metro Bank 
was required to send a communication to Miss S about this policy change. It has 
explained that it was letting customers know in branch in the month preceding the 
change.
Miss S says that she didnt get a response to her complaint letter sent in December 
2019. I note Metro Banks comments about the similarity between Miss S complaint 
and that of her family member however, as Miss S had raised a complaint as a 
customer of Metro Bank it is reasonable that she would expect a response.
Miss S has said that the issues she experienced have caused her distress, 
inconvenience and financial loss. As I do not find that Metro Bank did anything 
wrong by not accepting the deposit from Miss S family member I do not require it to 
do anything in response to this part of her complaint. I do think Metro Bank should 
have responded to Miss S complaint. But as this was passed to this service and 
investigated and I have nothing to suggest this issue caused Miss S any financial 
loss or significant distress, so I do not require any further action to be taken 
regarding this part of her complaint.
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Metro Bank PLC. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 November 2020.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman