DRN-3907392
The complaint
Mr Ms representative complains on his behalf that Berkshire Hathaway International 
Insurance Ltd (Berkshire) caused unreasonable delays after he made a claim on his motor 
insurance policy.
References to Mr M, or his representative, will include the other.
There are several parties and representatives of Berkshire involved throughout the complaint 
but for the purposes of this complaint Im only going to refer to Berkshire.
What happened
Mr M made a claim on his motor insurance policy after the catalytic convertor was stolen 
from his car in March 2022. At the same time he made a claim for some damage to the 
bodywork of the car.
Berkshire accepted the claim and Mr Ms car was taken to a Berkshire approved repairer for 
a new part fitting on 8 April 2022. This garage was 70 miles away from Mr Ms home. In 
addition the replacement part had to be ordered from the manufacturer and there was no 
timescale given for it arriving. 
Mr M contacted Berkshire a number of times to progress his claim and to look at alternative 
options. Berkshire said there were issues in obtaining the part required. 
Mr M requested he was reimbursed of his travel expenses whilst he was without his car. But 
Berkshire said it did not reimburse travel expenses because of a claim. It said it would 
provide a replacement car when the repairs to his car started.
In July 2022 the part had still not arrived. Berkshire agreed Mr M could organise his own 
repairer to install a part that was not from the main manufacturer.  
When the car was returned from Berkshires approved repairer it was found the battery was 
flat due to it not being used since March 2022. A new one had to be installed.
As Mr M was not happy with Berkshire, his representative brought the complaint to our 
service.
Our investigator upheld the complaint. They looked into the case and said Berkshire should 
reimburse Mr Ms travel costs between 8 April 2022 up until the repair is carried out or a 
cash settlement is approved for Mr M to get the repairs completed by his own repairer.
As Berkshire was unhappy with the investigators view the complaint has been brought to me 
for a final decision to be made.
In my provisional decision I said
In this case Mr M was not able to use his car for many months due to the delay in obtaining
the part to complete the repair. As a courtesy car was not included as part of his policy,
Mr M had no other option than to rely on other methods of transport including taxis and
buses. This was at a significant cost to himself.
I looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ms policy. On page 10 it says;
If your car is damaged, and the damage to your car is covered under your policy, our claims
team will arrange for a fast and efficient repair through our insurers approved repairer
network. We will instruct one of our approved repairers to collect your car. You will be
provided with a courtesy car, free of charge, while your car is being repaired, subject to
availability. The courtesy car is only available while the policy is in force and the use of a
courtesy car ends when the policy is cancelled.
I accept that a courtesy car is only required to be provided whilst Mr Ms car is being
repaired. However in this case Berkshire did not provide a fast and efficient repair as there
was a delay in obtaining the part required to repair his car. Although I understand that
availability of the part was outside of the control of Berkshire, I think that at the time it
became aware there was an indefinite delay, it is reasonable that it should have offered Mr
M some alternative options.
Mr M did request a courtesy car, but he was told one was not available.
I saw that after Mr M suggested the use of a non-manufacturer part, Berkshire eventually
agreed to this. And Mr Ms own repairer took over the repairs to the car on 24 August 2022.
After our investigator issued their view in September 2022 Berkshire offered Mr M £350
towards his travel costs. It then further increased its offer to cover Mr Ms travel costs up to
the time the repairs were taken over by his own repairer on 24 August 2022.
Mr Ms representative said he was hoping to be reimbursed for the full sum of losses up to
21 September 2022 which is when Berkshire approved the repair costs. And our investigator
said Berkshire should reimburse Mr Ms travel costs between 8 April 2022 up until the repair
was carried out or a cash settlement was approved.
I have considered this, but I do not think it is reasonable for Berkshire to have to cover any
costs after 24 August 2022. This is because Berkshire was no longer in control of the repairs
or the time taken to complete them, once the car was with Mr Ms own repairer.
Therefore, I intend to uphold Mr Ms complaint and I require Berkshire, on receipt of
evidence, to pay him his travel costs up to 24 August 2022. Plus, on receipt of a copy of an
invoice pay the cost of the replacement battery.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded to say he accepted my provisional decision.
Berkshire responded to say it accepted my findings and once Mr M provided his BACs 
details, plus evidence of the travel costs and cost for the replacement battery it would 
reimburse those costs.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both Mr M and Berkshire accepted my provisional decision, I maintain my provisional 
decision. I uphold Mr Ms complaint and require Berkshire, on receipt of the evidence 
requested, to pay him travel expenses from 8 April 2022 up to 24 August 2022. Plus, on 
receipt of a copy of an invoice, pay the cost of the replacement battery.
My final decision
I require Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Ltd to pay Mr M the cost of his travel 
expenses from 8 April 2022 up to 24 August 2022. And pay the cost of the replacement 
battery. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sally-Ann Harding
Ombudsman