DRN-3457214
The complaint
Mr C complains that Lantern Debt Recovery Service Ltd (Lantern) are incorrectly recording a 
default notice on his credit file.
What happened
Mr C had a loan account with a company that for the purpose of this decision Ill call Q. Mr 
C says he paid Q all but the final instalment of the loan. He chose not to pay this as he had 
made a complaint to Q about the loan being mis-sold and was waiting for the outcome of his 
complaint.  
Mr C says each month he made an arrangement to pay Q  but before the payment was 
due, he would make a new arrangement to pay. He says he forgot to do this in August 2019. 
In September 2019 Q issued a notice of default to Mr C. He called Q and explained he had 
made an arrangement via its online service to pay. Qs agent said, as he had made an 
arrangement to pay, he could disregard the notice of default he had been sent.
Mr C didnt make any payments to Q towards the account, and in July 2021 Q sold the debt 
to Lantern.  Mr C settled the account in full on 30 September 2021.
In November 2021 Mr C complained to Lantern as he had noticed that it was reporting a 
default on his credit file in relation to his Q account. Lantern explained that Q defaulted Mr 
Cs account in September 2019, and when it purchased the account, it took over the 
responsibility to report this to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr C argued that as Q had told him to disregard the default notice he had been sent, the 
default must not be correct. Lantern said there had been no payments received on the 
account from Mr C between February 2019 and September 2021 when he settled the 
account, so it didnt agree the account had been defaulted incorrectly.
Mr C was unhappy with this response and so brought his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt think the complaint was one that should be upheld. In summary he said:
He agreed that Q shouldnt have defaulted the account if Mr C had arranged a repayment 
plan, but it was for Mr C to maintain the agreed plan to prevent the account from defaulting. 
And as he hadnt seen any evidence that Mr C had made any payments following the 
agreement being put in place, it wouldnt be fair to ask Lantern to remove the default, based 
on the email sent by Q.
Mr C disagreed, he said he hadnt known about the default so hadnt been given the 
opportunity to prevent it by settling the account and that this was now causing problems for 
him as he wishes to purchase a house and apply for a mortgage. The matter has now been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator and for broadly the same 
reasons, Ill explain.
Q is no longer operating, and this decision only relates to Lanterns actions, but in order for 
me to decide if it has acted fairly, I have to consider the application of the default in the first 
place. 
A default can be applied by a business when you fall three months into arrears and is 
normally applied by the time you are six months in arrears. In order for it to be applied the 
lender must give you notice of its intention, allowing you time to make an acceptable 
payment or make an acceptable arrangement to pay. If an arrangement to pay is entered 
into but, is not met the lender does not have to give any further notice and can default the 
account immediately. Once account is defaulted it remains on your credit file for six years.
Mr C has explained that he was awaiting the outcome of a complaint with Q and made the 
decision not to make any payment while this was ongoing. Mr Cs last payment was in 
February 2019. And he chose to make a new payment agreement each month to stem the 
flow of any demand, replacing each agreement with a new one before it ran out. However, 
by September 2019 he was six months in arrears with his payments and so Q informed him 
of its intention to default. Mr C made a new agreement  thinking he could carry on as he 
had been, each month avoiding making a payment by setting up a new agreement.
I understand that Mr C feels Q sent him an email telling him he could ignore the default, but 
when he broke the arrangement to pay, he negated the email. As explained above once a 
notice of default has been issued, if the following agreement is broken then a business does 
not have to give any further notice and can default immediately, as Q decided to do. Based 
on the above Im satisfied the application of the default does not appear to have been done 
in error.
When Lantern purchased the debt, it also took over the responsibility of reporting the default 
to the credit reference agencies. It has a duty to report a true an accurate reflection of the 
account. As Ive already explained I think the default was applied correctly and so I cant 
fairly ask Lantern to remove it.
I know Mr C will be disappointed with this outcome. And I understand that this may make 
things difficult for him when applying for a mortgage. But my decision ends what we  in 
trying to resolve his dispute with Lantern can do for him.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2022.
 
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman