DRN-3275166
The complaint
Mr B complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) is pursuing him for a debt which he 
says he has already settled. He wants Aviva to stop contacting him about the debt.
What happened
Mr B held motor insurance with Aviva. This policy was due to automatically renew in April of 
each year. 
In February 2020, Aviva wrote to Mr B providing his renewal details and his premium for the 
following year. The letter advised him that his policy would automatically renew, unless he 
contacted his insurance advisor to stop this. 
No contact was received by Aviva, so in April 2020 Mr Bs motor policy renewed. 
Aviva tried to take payment from Mr B for his premium, but this was unsuccessful. Aviva 
wrote to Mr B in April 2020 advising that he needed to make payment or risk the policy being 
cancelled. 
Aviva did not receive payment, and wrote to Mr B a number of times about this. In August 
and September 2020, Aviva set time limits for Mr B to respond, failing which his policy would 
be cancelled. 
As no payment was received, in October 2020, Aviva cancelled Mr Bs policy. 
In November 2020, Mr Bs broker contacted Aviva and asked for the policy to be reinstated. 
Aviva agreed on the condition that payment would be made. 
Aviva did not receive that payment, so cancelled the policy again in December 2020. 
Aviva has subsequently pursued the unpaid premium as a debt. 
Mr B complained to Aviva. He said that he had paid his premiums in November 2020. 
Aviva responded not upholding his complaint. It states that it has carried out searches for the 
payment and cannot find it. It asked Mr B for further information, including transaction 
identifiers, so that it can search again for the payments. 
Mr B was not happy so contacted us. Aviva has put its debt recovery action on hold pending 
resolution of this complaint.
Our investigator has looked into this matter and set out her view to the parties. This was that 
Aviva had not acted unreasonably, as it is entitled to cancel a policy for non-payment of 
premiums. She did not recommend that Aviva do anything further. 
Mr B did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have considered the available evidence, and my colleagues view. 
I note that Mr B has provided a screen view of his account demonstrating some payments 
being made to Aviva in November 2020. He states that this demonstrates that he has paid 
his premiums and that Aviva should stop pursuing the debt is says is due. 
I also see that Aviva has provided evidence showing that it has not received the payments, 
and that it has requested further evidence to help locate the payments. That further 
information has not been provided by Mr B, either to Aviva or to our service, despite time 
being allowed for this. 
I agree with my colleagues view that Aviva is entitled to cancel a premium for non-payment 
of the premium. In this case I have seen ample evidence that Aviva gave warnings to Mr B 
that it had not received payment, and that it intended to cancel the payment if this was not 
received. Payment was not received, and I do not think that Aviva was wrong to proceed 
with its stated action in those circumstances.
I appreciate that Mr B has provided some evidence of having made the payment, but for this 
to give a full picture of the payments, and in order to help Aviva locate the payments, Mr B 
needs to provide additional information or to initiate a search from his end of the transaction.
 He does not appear to have provided this information to Aviva, and so I think it is 
reasonable for Aviva to continue with its pursuit of the debt. 
Consequently, whilst this will be disappointing to Mr B, I do not uphold his complaint and do 
not ask Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
If Mr B now provides the requested information to Aviva and assists with its efforts to trace 
the payments, and he remains unhappy with the actions of Aviva, he remains free to raise 
another complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint and do not ask Aviva 
Insurance Limited to do anything further. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 April 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman