DRN-3340488
The complaint
Mr C has complained that Society of Lloyds has declined a claim he made for 
unemployment on his mortgage payment protection insurance policy.
Mr C has dealt with different policy administrators during his claim. However, as the 
underwriter is Society of Lloyds, I will simply be referring to them in this decision.
What happened
Mr C was made redundant on 18 December 2020 and therefore made a claim on the policy 
for unemployment in early January 2021. Mr C was able to evidence that he was in receipt of 
Jobseekers Allowance at that time and he provided proof of having applied for two jobs. 
Society of Lloyds subsequently made two payments to Mr C that covered the period up to 
18 March 2021. However, in April 2021 Society of Lloyds told Mr C that it would be unable 
to agree future payments unless it received further job search evidence from him.
Our adjudicator thought it was reasonable for Society of Lloyds to insist on receiving job 
search evidence to continue the claim, in accordance with the policy terms.
Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C has spoken about the policy having been mis-sold because, when he bought it, he was 
told that it would provide peace of mind because it would cover him for unemployment. 
However, Mr C would need to direct any complaint about this to the business that sold him 
the policy.
In addition, this decision will also not deal with a recent request that Mr C has made for a 
refund of premiums, which Society of Lloyds has declined, as it did not form part of the 
original complaint.
To be clear, this decision is only dealing with the complaint about Society of Lloyds 
discontinuing the claim.
The policy states that:
Benefits will be paid monthly but to continue making payments, the administrators 
will need further evidence of your ongoing disability or unemployment as described 
below which you must continue to supply at your own expense.
Under the heading: Documents that you may need to produce, is included:
Confirmation from the Jobcentre Plus that you are still registered as unemployed and 
any other evidence required by the administrators to show that you are looking for 
new work.
Mr C has said that he registered his details with specialist industry employment agencies but 
had not received any openings from them. He has also said that he cant easily do online job 
searches because he has never owned a computer and that, as he was very close to 
retirement age, no employer would realistically take him on.
The intention of the policy is to provide support to policyholders during a difficult time when 
they have found themselves out of work, until they hopefully find other work or otherwise 
receive the maximum 12 months benefit. It is therefore reasonable for Society of Lloyds to 
require evidence that Mr C was actively looking for work.
After being unsuccessful in applying for two jobs, Mr C hasnt provided any evidence that he 
then continued to look for work. I appreciate Mr Cs position that he was unlikely to get a new 
job at his age. The problem is the expectation that Society of Lloyds should therefore accept 
that position and waive its requirement for appropriate evidence. Mr Cs assertion that he 
would be unable to get a new job could only be tested by Mr C actually performing the sorts 
of job search activities listed by Society of Lloyds.
Not having a computer would certainly hinder Mr Cs ability to show that he was applying for 
jobs. But I would expect Society of Lloyds to take that into account when considering what 
sort of evidence it would accept, as well as making allowances for the likely reduction in 
available opportunities as a result of the pandemic. Society of Lloyds had explained to Mr C 
that other evidence could include a job search diary that detailed any phone calls made, with 
contact names and numbers, copies of any letters sent and details of any other efforts to find 
new employment. So, I consider that Mr C could have provided something of this nature if he 
was indeed actively looking for work.  Furthermore, Society of Lloyds offered Mr C advice 
about improving his chances of securing a job.
Society of Lloyds impression of Mr C was that he was not interested in being more active in 
the job market. However, if Mr C did continue to look for work and now feels that he would 
be able to provide some supporting evidence, then he should ask Society of Lloyds to 
reconsider his claim. However, based on the available evidence, I conclude that it was 
reasonable of Society of Lloyds to discontinue the claim due to lack of job search evidence.
I dont know whether the policy is still running or not. If it is, and Mr C has now retired with no 
intention of returning to employment, then he should contact Society of Lloyds to cancel the 
policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint 
against Society of Lloyds.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 May 2022.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman