DRN-2747076
The complaint
Mr T complains that PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA will not refund payments or otherwise 
compensate him for items which, he says, were not as described. He also complains about 
the way his claim was handled.
What happened
Mr T bought three tablets through eBay. He paid for them using PayPal credit. He says that 
they were not as described. His concerns were a lack of warranty and the supply of items 
without standard UK plugs.   
Mr T complained to the seller but was unable to obtain a refund. He then complained to 
PayPal, which said that his claim was not covered under its buyer protection policy. He 
therefore attempted to make a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. He 
says he was unable to progress that claim because PayPal did not give him sufficient help to 
do so.
Mr T referred the matter to this service and one of our investigators considered what had 
happened. She did not consider there was enough evidence to support Mr Ts claim that the 
tablets did not meet the descriptions given to them. She did think however that PayPal 
should have made suitable adjustments to the way it handled the case, because Mr T has 
dyslexia. She suggested it pay Mr T £100 in recognition of that. 
PayPal accepted the investigators recommendation and says it arranged payment. Mr T did 
not accept what the investigator said, however, and asked that an ombudsman review the 
case.     
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T says that PayPal should compensate him, either under its own buyer protection policy 
or under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Under section 75 a lender can be 
liable for a breach of contract in the same way as a seller of goods, if the goods are bought 
with credit provided by the lender. 
Under both PayPals own policy and under section 75, however, I can only properly make an 
award if I am satisfied that the goods sold to Mr T did not meet the description given to them 
by the seller. I need to be persuaded therefore that he was told they would be supplied with 
a UK power lead or with a warranty, or both. 
There is very little evidence about what exactly Mr T agreed with the seller. He has supplied 
evidence of the three payments he made in November 2019. Only one describes the item 
purchased. None refers to the power supply or other accessories or to any warranty. As the 
tablets were sent from Hong Kong, there was no particular reason to think they would have 
UK plugs. 
Mr T says that under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 it is for PayPal to show that the tablets 
conformed with the contract. That is not quite right, however. If they did not conform within 
six months of delivery, the Act says there is an assumption that they did not conform at 
delivery. Here, there is no evidence to show they were to be supplied with a UK plug or a 
warranty. That is, there is nothing to suggest that Mr T was supplied with anything other that 
what he agreed to buy. 
The investigator considered too that Mr T should receive £100 in recognition of the way in 
which PayPal handled his complaint. PayPal accepted that and says it has paid him. I think 
that is sufficient to resolve the complaint. 
Putting things right
Because PayPal has agreed to the investigators recommendation and I consider it 
sufficient, I do not need to make any award.    
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA 
to do anything further to resolve Mr Ts complaint.   
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021. 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman