DRN-3849248
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco) valued his car when he 
made a claim under his motor insurance policy.
What happened
Mr S had a motor insurance policy with Tesco covering his car.
In June 2022 Mr Ss car was damaged in a storm and he contacted Tesco and made a 
claim.
Tesco assessed the car as being beyond economic repair. It said it would declare the car a 
write-off and assessed its market value as £7,240. 
Mr S didnt agree with this valuation, and complained. Tesco increased its offer to £7,479. Mr 
S remained unhappy. He says he would need £1,000-£1,500 more to buy a like-for-like 
replacement.
Tesco looked into his complaint and didnt uphold it. It said itd used trade guides to arrive at 
a value for the car. It said it had used two guides, which, when adjusted for the mileage of Mr 
Ss car, and some extras it had, gave values of:
Company A: £7,240
Company B: £7,225
Tesco maintained that its offer of £7,479 was fair.
Mr S remained unhappy with Tescos valuation and brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr Ss complaint and didnt uphold it. He looked at various trade 
guides and the amount offered by Tesco was in line with the approach taken by this service. 
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators view. He points out that he isnt able to buy a like-
for-like replacement for Tescos valuation and he says that its difficult to find one because 
the model he had is quite rare. This point was also recognised by Tesco in its final decision. 
He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so it has been passed to me 
for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not going to uphold it and Ill explain why as I appreciate this will be a 
disappointment for Mr S.
Ive said above about how Tesco arrived at the valuation of Mr Ss car.
Its approach fits with this services approach to car valuations. We dont provide valuations 
for vehicles, but look to whether the insurers offer is reasonable.
Ive done research into Mr Ss car and Ive found these values, provided by three different 
trade guides, for the month his car was damaged, which are based on a vehicle with the 
same specification and mileage:
Company A: £7,240
Company B: £7,225
Company C: £7,633
Taking the average of these three values gives a valuation of £7,366, which is below the 
value offered by Tesco in its final response. Ive also looked at Tescos engineers report 
who inspected the car after the damage happened, and reported a value of £7,350.
Following Mr Ss comments about the rarity of the model, Ive also looked at Tescos policy 
wording, which says:
Market value
The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
It seems to me that Tescos policy takes into account that an identical model might not be 
available. So its able to provide the valuation on the basis that a replacement car might be 
similar but not necessarily exactly the same. This approach is common in the industry and I 
think its reasonable for Tesco to use it. 
I appreciate Mr Ss focus was on obtaining a like-for-like car, but I hope he understands that 
this allows insurers an amount of flexibility in case an exact model isnt available. The trade 
guide values Ive mentioned above are, however, based on Mr Ss exact vehicle. 
Tescos offer is within the range of valuations from the trade guides, and above the average 
taken from them, so it follows that I think Tescos offer is fair and reasonable, and Im not 
going to ask it to pay more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Richard Sowden
Ombudsman