DRN-3257442
The complaint
Mrs A complains that Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited has added an 
exclusion to her pet insurance policy and would like the exclusion to be removed.
What happened
Mrs A took out an insurance policy for her pet dog on 13 August 2018. The policy 
provides cover for each illness or condition for 12 months. 
In November 2018, she made a claim for vets fees relating to lameness in her dogs 
left foreleg and Red Sands paid the claim. Red Sands explained that cover for this 
condition would end after 12 months, and the 12 month period from when the 
condition started would end in September 2019. Red Sands also told Mrs A an 
exclusion would be added from the next renewal in August 2019 for anything to do 
with the lameness and resulting conditions.
In July 2019, the vets notes include a note that that the limp in the left foreleg had 
got worse.
Mrs A renewed the policy in August 2019. Red Sands added the exclusion for 
anything to do with the lameness and resulting conditions. 
Mrs As dog continued to have problems with its leg and she made a further claim for 
treatment costs relating to the lameness in September 2019. The claim was for 
treatment between March and August for lameness and degenerative joint disease.
The policy renewed again in August 2020, with the exclusion for anything to do with 
the lameness and resulting conditions again added.
In February 2021, the vets notes recorded that there was a gen chat re arthritis. 
Between February and June Mrs As dog had a number of physiotherapy sessions. A 
report from the physiotherapist dated 4 May 2021 referred to left forelimb elbow 
dysplasia and now arthritis.
In June 2021  shortly before the next renewal  Mrs A made a claim for the 
physiotherapy sessions. The claim form noted the condition to be arthritis. 
At the policy renewal in August 2021 the exclusion for anything to do with the 
lameness and resulting conditions was again included.
When reviewing the claim, Red Sands said in view of the diagnosis of arthritis, it 
would be adding an exclusion for all claims relating to bone diseases, and this 
exclusion would be backdated to 13 August 2019, meaning the claim would not be 
paid as arthritis is a bone disease.
Mrs A has complained about this exclusion being added. She accepted that the claim 
wouldnt be covered, but said it wasnt fair to add an exclusion for all bone conditions, 
because this meant if her dog had another problem such as bone cancer, that wouldnt be 
covered, even though its not related to arthritis. 
Our investigator didnt think it was wrong to add the exclusion but Mrs A remains unhappy 
and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs As policy provides cover for each condition for 12 months. With this type of policy, once 
that 12 month period ends, the condition is no longer covered. And at each renewal, the 
insurer can review whether it wants to continue offering cover and, if so, on what basis. Its 
not unusual for an insurer to add exclusions to a policy after a claim has been made.
In August 2019 Red Sands added an exclusion for anything relating to the lameness or 
resulting conditions. So it could refuse the claim for arthritis if it was related to the 
lameness. Looking at the vets notes, it seems clear there was a degenerative condition and 
the arthritis followed on from the lameness. Mrs A doesnt dispute this  she says she 
accepted without contest that the conditions were related. But she doesnt think its fair for 
Red Sands to add the exclusion. Shes concerned that if her dog is diagnosed with bone 
cancer in the future it wouldnt be covered even though it wouldnt be linked to the arthritis.
I appreciate Mrs As concerns. But its not for me to tell an insurer what risks it should cover. 
At each renewal, a new contract is entered into for the following 12 months. Red Sands is 
able to review whether to offer cover again and if so on what basis. Insurers decide what 
cover to offer based the information about the risk and apply their underwriting criteria to that 
information. Red Sands criteria show that where a pet has had arthritis, it will exclude cover 
for all bone conditions. So this is in line with its underwriting guidance. And any other 
customer in the same situation would be treated in the same way. So I think it was fair for 
Red Sands to add the exclusion going forward. 
Red Sands told Mrs A the exclusion would be backdated to August 2019. In my view that 
wouldnt be fair - the exclusion should only have been added at the next renewal, which was 
in August 2021. But following our investigation Red Sands has confirmed the exclusion wont 
be backdated to 2019 and will only apply from the renewal in August 2021. 
While Mrs A will disappointed that the exclusion hasnt been removed, I dont think it would 
be fair for me to direct Red Sands to do that. For the reasons Ive explained, it is entitled to 
add the exclusion.
Mrs A has asked whether, if the exclusion date is changed, that means Red Sands would be 
asked to honour claims for the arthritis between August 2019 and August 2020. Since the 
arthritis is related to the lameness, any treatment after the 12 month period for that condition 
expired would not be covered.
She has also asked if Red Sands could confirm what diseases they believe are classified as 
bone disease. I dont think it be possible to consider every condition that might arise. If Mrs A 
needs to make a claim in future, Id expect Red Sands to consider it and decide whether its 
covered or is caught by the exclusion. If Mrs A is unhappy with any decision it makes, she 
would be able to complain about that.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2022.
 Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman