DRN-2121009
The complaint
Mr D complains through his representative, a claims management company (CMC), that he 
was given unsuitable investment advice by Nationwide Building Society.
What happened
Mr D met with a Nationwide adviser in 1996. At the time he was aged 40, single with no 
dependents and had a monthly disposable income of around £500 per month. He held a 
TESSA with a balance of £3,000 and had around £19,000 on deposit in savings accounts. 
He owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of around £3,400.
The adviser recommended that he invest £14,000 of the funds he held in savings - £8,000 
into a Unit Trust and £6,000 into a PEP. Both investments would be placed in the UK Growth 
Fund, a medium risk fund which invested in a broad range of UK companies. Mr D accepted 
the recommendation and made the investments.
In 2019, the CMC complained to Nationwide on Mr Ds behalf. They said, in summary:
Mr D was advised to take too much risk with his money
The fund recommended was too high in risk for an inexperienced investor
Nationwide didnt uphold the complaint and the CMC brought the complaint to this service 
where it was considered by one of our investigators. The investigator thought the complaint 
should be upheld. He felt the recommended investments were unsuitable as they were too 
high in risk for a first time investor. 
Nationwide didnt agree with him and said, in summary:
The regulatory and advisory landscape was very different to now. Therefore the sale 
should be assessed in line with the regulatory landscape back in 1996, rather than 
applying the benefit of hindsight and assessing the sale in line with modern 
regulations
The adviser would have discussed the differences between the three risk profiles at 
length with Mr D. After this discussion he felt that he was a medium risk investor and 
chose that level of risk after being provided with sufficient information to enable him 
to make a fully informed choice
They noted that the investigator said that Mr D had no real experience of investing 
and as a result didnt know what the different levels of risk meant. However, these 
were stated and clearly defined within the sales file in plain terms. They didnt accept 
that the customer didnt know what the risk levels meant after the discussion with the 
adviser.
Once Mr D had chosen his risk profile, the adviser made an appropriate 
recommendation in line with that level of risk. The sales documents contained the 
appropriate risk warnings and Mr D signed to confirm he understood that the price of 
units could fall as well as rise and the value of his fund wasnt guaranteed
Mr D went through a further financial review in 2004. The notes of the conversation 
he had shows he had a good understanding of how investments worked and he was 
comfortable to invest again - as he took further investments out in 2004 and 2010
By 2004 the £6,000 invested in the PEP had grown to £7,569 and the £8,000 
invested in the Unit Trust had grown to £9,380. The fact that Mr D kept the 
investments indicated that he was willing and able to take this level of risk with this 
amount of capital. At the time the complaint was made in 2019, the investment was 
still in force, some 23 years after the initial advice, further reinforcing the fact that the 
investment was affordable and hadnt overexposed him to too much risk.
The investigator wasnt minded to change his opinion so the complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Having done so, I agree with the investigator - I will now explain why. I appreciate the points 
Nationwide has made about the rules that were applicable at the time and the need to 
assess the complaint in line with the correct regulatory framework. 
The rules at the time broadly said that if Nationwide was providing financial advice, they 
were required to make a suitable recommendation. And they would need to make sure the 
risk of any investment they recommended was appropriate to their customer. I have 
assessed the advice they gave to Mr D taking this into account and have not applied what 
would be considered as the current regulatory framework.
The main point Ive had to consider is if the risk of the recommended investment was 
suitable for Mr Ds circumstances. He was 40 at the time, didnt seem to have any plans for 
his savings in the medium-to-long term, enjoyed a healthy disposable income and had no 
dependents. On balance, given his financial circumstances, Im satisfied that he could afford 
to take some degree of risk with £14,000 of the £22,000 he had in savings and his TESSA at 
the time.
However, he didnt have any previous investment experience. So, Im not convinced that he 
should have been assessed as a consumer who wished to take a medium degree of risk 
with what was a fairly significant amount of money  nearly two thirds of his savings. All his 
savings were held in cash based accounts and there is no record of him having invested 
before. Given this lack of experience, it was down to the adviser to ensure that Mr D 
understood the implications of being classified as having a medium or balanced attitude to 
investing and exposing his capital to this level of risk.
As an inexperienced investor I think Mr D would reasonably have relied on what the adviser 
told him. Nationwide have said that the adviser would have discussed the different risk 
profiles at length with Mr D but there simply isnt any evidence that this discussion took 
place. There is no detail on any questions that were asked or guidance which the adviser 
provided to Mr D apart from the written description of the three risk categories.
The recommendation letter described the three risk profiles as follows:Cautious: You prefer to ensure capital is exposed to little or no risk but with a 
potentially lower rate of return, e.g. Bank/Building Society Accounts and National 
Savings. 
Medium: You are willing to accept a moderate degree of risk in order to achieve a 
potentially higher return over the medium to longer term i.e. 5 years or more. You 
would prefer to leave investment decisions to experts. 
Adventurous: You appreciate the growth potential of equities (stocks and shares) 
over the medium to longer term and wish to take responsibility for your own 
investment decisions. You are fully aware of the higher risk and possibility of losses 
in return for the potential of a higher return.
The only mention of losses is in the description of the adventurous profile. There are also a 
couple of statements in the recommendation letter noting that the investments are asset 
backed and so the value can rise and fall. Im not persuaded that Mr D, an inexperienced 
investor with no record of having previously invested in equities, would have understood the 
risk of medium risk investments simply from the descriptions given and statements saying 
unit prices could rise and fall. And as Ive said, I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
adviser provided any information about risk beyond what is set out in the fact find and 
recommendation letter. 
There is limited information available in respect of the makeup of fund invested in which isnt 
surprising given the time that has passed. The key facts document notes that The UK 
Growth Fund aims for long-term capital growth by investing in a broad range of UK 
companies. I think it is more likely than not to have been made up of a significant proportion 
of equities  it would broadly have had to be at least 50% equities to be qualifying under the 
PEP regulations. Im also not persuaded that the adviser took any steps to make Mr D aware 
of the risks of investing so much of his capital in a fund with a high equity content.
The documentation from the time shows that the only other investment products the adviser 
discussed with Mr D was National Savings  a no risk investment. So it seems that the only 
options presented to Mr D either carried no risk or medium risk. It would appear Mr D didnt 
want any products which had no risk due to their lack of potential return so I can appreciate 
why he would accept advice to invest in a medium risk fund.
However, I think Mr D should have been made aware that there were products which 
achieved his objective of long term growth through an asset backed investment, but crucially 
with less risk. Had this happened, I think its more likely than not that he wouldve chosen an 
investment with less risk. Because I think Mr D ought to have been recommended to invest 
in a fund that presented a cautious degree of risk to his money, Im not satisfied the advice 
he received was suitable.
I note the point Nationwide has made about the Mr D having a good understanding of how 
investments worked in the 2004 review and keeping the investments over the long term. But 
advice that is given must be suitable for the person receiving the advice at that point in time, 
taking into account their specific circumstances. Just because someone has kept an 
investment or increases their knowledge of investments over time doesnt make it 
acceptable to give unsuitable advice at the outset.
 
Putting things right
Fair compensationIn assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr D 
as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been given unsuitable 
advice. 
I take the view that Mr D would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair 
and reasonable given Mr D's circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Nationwide do?
To compensate Mr D fairly, Nationwide must:
Compare the performance of Mr D's investments with that of the benchmark shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of the 
investments. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Nationwide should also pay interest as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional interest
PEP - UK 
Growth 
Fundstill 
existsfor half the 
investment: BoE base
rate + 1% to
1997, then
the FTSE
WMA Stock
Market
Income Total
Return Index
to date of
my decision; for the 
other half: average 
rate from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)
Unit Trust - 
UK Growth 
Fundstill 
existsfor half the 
investment: BoE base
rate + 1% to
1997, then
the FTSE
WMA Stock
Market
Income Total
Return Index
to date of
my decision; for the 
other half: average 
rate from fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within 28 
days of the 
business being 
notified of 
acceptance)For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Nationwide 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the Bank 
of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month. 
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr D wanted capital growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices 
representing different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return. 
I consider that Mr D's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr D into that position. It does not mean that Mr D would have 
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker 
fund. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr D could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I uphold Mr Ds complaint and order Nationwide Building 
Society to pay redress as Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 March 2021.
 
Marc Purnell
Ombudsman