DRN-2612674
The complaint
Mrs P is unhappy that Pinnacle Insurance Plc cancelled her accidental death plan. 
What happened
In 2020 Pinnacle Insurance Plc made the decision to cancel Mrs G accidental death plan 
and said it was doing so because providing this block of cover was no longer a viable option. 
Mrs P complained. She said she would be unable to obtain cover elsewhere because of her 
age, and she asked Pinnacle to reinstate her policy or refund her premiums. 
Pinnacle apologised for not being able to provide the cover anymore and said its decision 
had not been taken lightly. It said it had given Mrs P as much notice as possible of the 
cancellation to allow her time to source alternative protection should she wish to do so. And 
it said that it wasnt able to refund her premiums because cover had previously been in place 
during which time a claim could have been considered.
Unhappy with Pinnacles position, Mrs P referred her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator said the terms and conditions of Mrs Ps policy allowed Pinnacle to cancel it. 
They said Pinnacle had made an overall decision to withdraw all live policies relating to this 
block of cover, and it had given Mrs P more notice than it was required to before cancelling. 
They also said it would be unfair to recommended her premiums be refunded because Mrs P 
had been covered whilst the policy was in place.
Mrs P disagreed and recapped her concerns, but she also said the policy had been mis-sold. 
Our investigator explained that Mrs Ps mis-sale concerns could not be considered under 
this complaint; because Pinnacle had not sold her policy. But because their opinion on her 
cancellation concerns remained unchanged, the matter was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It is clear that Mrs P feels strongly about what has happened. My findings will only focus on 
those matters I consider central to the outcome of this complaint, meaning I will not address 
every point or argument made. I trust that will not be taken as a matter of discourtesy. 
Having considered the details of this complaint, I am not persuaded that Pinnacle unfairly 
cancelled Mrs Ps policy for the following reasons:
Pinnacle was permitted to cancel the policy if it chose to do so. I realise Mrs P is 
unhappy with this, but the terms and conditions of her policy read, We may cancel 
or decline to renew the policy at any time by letter to your last known address. 
Cancellation shall take effect thirty 30 days after the time the cancellation notice 
should have been received by you in the ordinary course of post. 
In the event of a cancellation, Pinnacle had to give Mrs P 30 days notice before any 
cancellation took place. And having looked at what was sent I can see that Pinnacle 
actually gave Mrs P more notice that this  writing to her in February 2020, March 
2020 and May 2020. 
Mrs P would like her policy to be reinstated, but Pinnacle has made the decision to 
withdraw all policies relating to certain blocks of cover. Mrs Ps policy formed part of 
one of those blocks, which is of course unfortunate. But Pinnacle was entitled to 
choose what cover it did and didnt continue provide. And as our investigator rightly 
explained this service is not able to direct that Mrs Ps policy be reinstated.
I appreciate why Mrs P wants her premiums refunded. But during that time her policy 
was in place, Pinnacle had covered the risk of a successful claim being made. So it 
would be unfair for it to be expected to return those premiums now, because they 
related to the risks it covered when the policy was live.
Pinnacle did not sell Mrs P policy so it would be unfair of me to consider any of 
Mrs Ps mis-sale concerns as part of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2021.
 
Jade Alexander
Ombudsman