DRN-3706483
The complaint
Mrs G has complained about the delays and customer service she experienced when 
transferring her ISA away from Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing 
(Halifax).
What happened
I issued a provisional decision in Mrs Gs complaint and set out the background to the 
complaint and my provisional findings as follows:
In March 2021 Mrs G asked Halifax to transfer her stocks and shares ISA to a separate 
firm, who Ill call Company A. She initially requested an in-specie transfer, but by May had 
sold her holdings and had asked for the cash value, around £30,000, to be transferred, with 
the aim of buying new investments when the money was with Company A. By mid-May the 
transfer was still not complete, despite there being no apparent reasons for the delay, so Mrs 
G made a complaint. 
Halifax replied to the complaint on 25 May 2021, saying that the transfer was now complete 
and offered Mrs G £200 for the inconvenience caused. As of mid-June, Mrs G was still not 
able to access the funds with Company A, so brought the complaint to our service. The 
transfer was successfully completed on 17 June 2021. Mrs G invested just over £7,000 in 
one fund on 22 June and around the same in a second fund on 23 June and the rest 
remained in cash at 0% interest, until November 2021.  
Halifax explained that they felt Mrs G could have transferred her investments in specie if 
shed wished to remain in the market. So, they didnt think shed shown enough intent to 
change investments earlier than June, for them to pay for any alleged financial loss.
An investigator at our service looked into the complaint and found it should be upheld. She 
felt that Mrs G had provided logical reasons for requesting the transfer as cash, rather than 
in specie and was convinced she would have invested sooner but for the delay. So, she felt 
that Halifax ought to compensate Mrs G for the losses she experienced because of the delay 
in reinvesting. 
The investigator said the transfer ought to have only taken 15 working days, as this is the 
guidance given by HMRC for how long cash transfers ought to take. So she said Halifax 
should calculate the number of units Mrs G ought to have been able buy in the two funds, if 
the transfer had been completed within 15 working days of when Halifax received the initial 
request on 4 March 2021. She said that if that amount was more than she bought in June 
2021, then Halifax should pay Mrs G enough money to buy those additional units now. She 
said that the £200 already offered for the inconvenience was fair.    
Halifax failed to respond to the investigator, so the case has been passed to me for a 
decision.  
What Ive provisionally decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Its agreed by all parties that the delays were caused by Halifax. During the first two months 
after they received the transfer request, it appears they did nothing with it. In May, after Mrs 
G contacted them to find out what they were doing, it then progressed. However, Halifax 
then sent the money to Company A with an incorrect reference number, so the money was 
sent back to Halifax. This seems to be the reason why Halifax thought the transfer was 
complete on 25 May 2021, when in fact it wasnt. 
When Halifax received the transfer request from Company A on 4 March 2021, the ISA held 
around £30,000 worth of investments across a variety of funds, and around £6,000 in cash. 
Mrs G became frustrated at the delay and thought that if she switched the transfer to a cash 
one, that the process would be quicker. Its unclear exactly when that happened, but I 
believe it was around May 2021, as shes mentioned it was when she made a complaint. 
Shes explained that one of her original aims was to consolidate her investments  so her 
original plan was to do an in-specie transfer, and sell her investments once they were held 
with Company A. 
Ive considered what would have happened, but for the delays. I think its likely that the 
transfer would have gone through as an in-specie one, as Mrs G wouldnt have needed to 
change to a cash one to speed up the process. I think Mrs Gs decision to change the type of 
transfer was a reasonable one to attempt to help move the process along and therefore to 
mitigate any losses in re-investing. Im satisfied that the losses she experienced because of 
the delays, flow from the failure by Halifax, to action the original request in a timely manner. 
As such, I think its fair and reasonable to hold Halifax responsible for those losses. 
HMRC says that the expected timeframe for an in-specie transfer is 30 calendar days. Ive 
not seen any evidence showing that there was something about Mrs Gs investments that 
would have caused the transfer to take any more time than that, so I dont think its an 
unreasonable time frame to apply here. As such, if everything had gone as it should, Mrs G 
would have had access to her investments in her account with Company A by 3 April 2021, 
which was a Saturday. 
Im persuaded by Mrs Gs testimony that her plan was to consolidate her investments, 
particularly because this is what she later did and so I think that its likely she would have 
done this as soon as possible after the in-specie transfer had been completed. The first 
trading day after this was 6 April 2021, due to a bank holiday. I think Mrs G would have sold 
her existing investments on that day, so Halifax should calculate whether there is any 
financial loss compared with the date her funds were actually sold, when they were still held 
in her account with them. If there is a loss, that should be paid to Mrs G.
Mrs G should have been able to invest in the new funds in April too, and I think shed have 
had the money to do so on 7 April 2021, the day after she ought to have been able to sell 
her old funds. Once she was able to invest in June 2021, Mrs G only invested a portion of 
her money, and the rest she left as cash at 0% interest until November 2021. I think this is 
persuasive evidence about what shed have done with access to her money sooner, so on 
balance I think thats the position Mrs G should be put it. As such, I think Halifax should 
compare the number of units Mrs G bought on 22 and 23 June 2021, with how many shed 
have been able to buy if she had invested the same amount in to those funds, on 7 April 
2021. If she could have bought more in April, then Halifax should pay Mrs G the amount it 
would cost to buy those units on the date of settlement.  
On the amount that remained as cash for several months after the transfer was complete, I 
dont think Mrs G has suffered any loss. From what Ive seen, she doesnt appear to have intended to reinvest that amount earlier than she did. Had everything gone as it should, that 
money would simply have been held as cash from April, when her investments ought to have 
been sold, as Ive set out above. The interest rate on the cash in the ISA was 0% at the time, 
so she wasnt losing out on any interest while the money was still with Halifax.
Halifax originally offered £200 for the distress and inconvenience caused and I think this is a 
fair amount. It reflects the length of the delay and the amount of effort Mrs G had to go to, to 
ensure the transfer was properly carried out. 
Responses to my provisional decision
Mrs G replied and confirmed she accepted my provisional decision. 
Halifax replied and said that they felt it wasnt reasonable to say the in-specie transfer ought 
to have been complete within 30 days. They said HMRC do not give this timeframe for 
stocks and shares ISAs because it takes longer than that to transfer funds and Mrs Gs 
portfolio was made up of funds and cash. The guidance on Halifaxs website says that fund 
transfers can take up to 10 weeks. 
The investigator provided Halifax with a link to the relevant government website, where it 
says:
ISA transfers should take no longer than:
15 working days for transfers between cash ISAs
30 calendar days for other types of transfer
Halifax said that the website referred to doesnt form part of HMRCs official ISA Manager 
Guidance Notes. They said:
As your service are aware the transfer of Funds takes significantly longer and so no such 
timescale is referenced for that type of transfer. It would be helpful if your service could act 
to have misleading material such as the note you have referred to removed if it impacts 
complaint numbers being referred to your service.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully considered Halifaxs comments, but having done so, Im not minded to change 
my decision. Ill explain why. 
The 30-day timeframe given by HMRC is a guideline  it clearly says should rather than 
must. While it may not be a timeframe in the guidance to ISA Managers, nonetheless it is a 
guideline given by HMRC and I think its reasonable to expect that ISA Managers are aware 
of guidance that is directed toward customers, as well as towards themselves.
There are many reasons why a transfer may take more  or less  time than 30 days and the 
reasons will be specific to each transfer. I used the 30-day timeframe in my provisional 
findings, as Halifax had given us no evidence of how long this transfer ought reasonably to 
have taken, had it not been delayed as significantly as it was. 
The 10-week timeframe Halifax has now given, in my opinion is not a reasonable timeframe 
to apply on a blanket basis to all transfers that involve funds. Simply because there are instances where it can take that long, doesnt mean its fair and reasonable to say it should 
take that long in all or most cases. Nor does simply displaying that timeframe on their 
website mean that Halifax can do nothing with a transfer request for two months  which is 
what they did here, based on the evidence theyve given me. 
In general, Id expect to see that an ISA Manager moves a transfer along as quickly as is 
reasonable in the circumstances. Each stage of a transfer requires a different amount of 
human intervention and effort. Normally, in order to decide how long a transfer ought to have 
taken, Id take into account a businesss own service level agreements (SLAs) for each part 
of the transfer process. This can also involve taking account of third parties SLAs  for 
instance the other business who is a party to the transfer, or registrars and fund managers 
completing the re-registration of shares and funds. 
Here, Halifax has provided no evidence of how long each step of the process should have 
taken  despite having had three months since the investigator sent their opinion, and further 
time after my provisional decision. In using the HMRC guidance in my provisional decision, I 
felt this was fair and reasonable in the absence of any other evidence of how long it should 
have taken. I dont think Halifaxs argument that the 30-day transfer timeframe cant always 
be met, is persuasive enough for me to not rely on it here. 
Halifax has said that fund transfers take more time than 30 days. However, theyve not 
provided any evidence that there was something about the particular funds that Mrs G held 
that meant it would have taken a longer period to transfer her ISA. At the time of the initial 
transfer request, Mrs G held units in just four funds (based on the information in the transfer 
form)  all with the same fund manager. Its not the type of particularly difficult or time-
consuming transfer request that would have required Halifax to liaise with several different 
fund managers about many holdings. So, I dont think 30 days is an unreasonable length of 
time for Mrs Gs transfer, given its relative simplicity and the lack of persuasive evidence to 
the contrary from Halifax.  
In my opinion Halifax has failed to provide any persuasive evidence that Mrs Gs transfer 
would have reasonably taken longer than the 30 days HMRC gives as a guideline for 
transfers of non-cash ISAs. In the absence of any other reasonable timeframe being put 
forward, I still think this is a fair amount of time to use to determine when the transfer ought 
to have taken place, for the reasons Ive given.
So overall, Im not persuaded to depart from my provisional findings as set out above. I 
therefore reach the same conclusions as in my provisional decision, for the same reasons, 
and make them final.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb 
Share Dealing should calculate and pay redress to Mrs G as follows:
Compare the amount Mrs G would have received if the funds she held with them had 
been sold on 6 April 2021, with the amount she actually received when they were 
later sold. If she would have received more in April, Halifax should pay her the 
amount of the difference; and
If Mrs G ought to have been able to buy more units on 7 April 2021 in the funds she 
invested in via Company A in June 2021, then Halifax should pay the amount it would 
cost her to buy those additional units as of the date of settlement; plus
£200 for the distress and inconvenience caused. 
Mrs G should be given details of the calculation in a clear, simple format.Halifax Share Dealing Limited trading as IWeb Share Dealing must pay the compensation 
within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mrs G accepts my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the date of this final decision to 
the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 October 2022.
 
Katie Haywood
Ombudsman