DRN-2384137
The complaint
Mrs C complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
What happened
Mrs C took out PPI alongside a mortgage that started in 1996. 
The PPI covered Mrs C for accident, sickness and unemployment and protected her 
mortgage monthly repayments. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me. 
Mrs C feels the policy was mis-sold for a number of reasons. In particular, she said she 
wasnt aware she had PPI and she would never have knowingly agreed to take it out as 
shed had a bad experience trying to claim on a PPI policy previously. 
She also told us that PPI wasnt something she needed as she had secure employment and 
other ways to pay the mortgage if she wasnt working.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain my reasons.
Lloyds couldnt provide any documents from the time of sale so Ive seen nothing signed by 
Mrs C from then. But this isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, 
given how long ago this sale happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt 
reasonably expect Lloyds or Mrs C to have kept this. 
And I cant know exactly what was said when Mrs C arranged her mortgage. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect her to recall exactly what was discussed at the time. This means that 
what Mrs C says now isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold her complaint.
In order to uphold Mrs Cs complaint Id have to find it likely that she wasnt given a fair 
choice about PPI or that it was added to her account without her proper consent. 
But I cant fairly say this based on the very limited information Ive got. I must look at the 
available information and take into account the wider circumstances. I have to be impartial. 
I appreciate that Mrs C is certain about what shes told us. But based on the information Ive 
seen, I cant fairly say that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that it was added to 
Mrs Cs mortgage without her consent. 
I say this because her mortgage was a major financial commitment which she signed up to 
pay back over 15 years. Mrs Cs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments 
werent kept up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and better protection than she had 
otherwise. So it looks to me as if Mrs C couldve found PPI useful if shed needed to claim. 
And I can see why she mightve felt that having PPI was worthwhile for her with this 
mortgage  even if shed had a bad experience with PPI previously.  
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Lloyds didnt 
make it clear that it was open to Mrs C not to choose PPI if she didnt want to have it. On 
balance, I think its likely that she decided she wanted to have the benefits PPI could offer 
and she chose to buy the policy even if shes forgotten this now.  
Neither Mrs C nor Lloyds could confirm how this PPI was sold. So, to be as fair as possible 
to Mrs C, Lloyds looked at this complaint on the basis that it advised her to take out PPI with 
this mortgage. Given the lack of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mrs C, 
I think this is the fairest way to assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations on the 
lender. If a business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give 
important policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure 
the cover it recommends is suitable. So thats how I've looked at this complaint as well. 
It doesnt look as if PPI was unsuitable for Mrs C based on what shes told us about her 
circumstances at the time. 
Mrs C told us her employer wouldve paid her 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months 
on half pay. But I think PPI still couldve been useful. It wouldve paid out in full for up to 
12 months per claim in the event of accident and sickness. So the PPI provided better 
protection than she couldve relied on getting through her employer. And it wouldve paid out 
on top of sick pay providing Mrs C with a useful benefit at a difficult time  especially if she 
had some extra costs as a result of being sick or disabled. 
PPI wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one claim if Mrs C lost her job and 
became unexpectedly unemployed. Mrs C couldve made repeated claims on the policy, 
giving her long term protection for her mortgage
There can be no guarantee that any job will always be secure.
Being entitled to redundancy benefits wouldnt have helped Mrs C if she was off work sick. 
And PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any redundancy money she mightve got if shed 
lost her job, giving her some additional financial security in those circumstances.
Relying on other people to help out in the event of money problems isnt as dependable as 
taking out PPI as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
This policy wouldve covered her mortgage repayments and paid some extra that Mrs C 
couldve used to help pay household bills or other household costs if she wasnt able to 
work.
So I can see why she mightve been persuaded that this was a worthwhile policy to buy and 
I think it offered her potentially useful benefits in her particular circumstances.Its possible some of the information Lloyds gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. There were some things the policy didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if 
those applied in Mrs Cs case. So, I dont think having more information about things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take it out. 
It looks to me like Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this 
type of cover. She was eligible for the policy given her circumstances and the PPI terms and 
conditions that applied. She hasnt said anything to make me think the policy wasnt 
affordable for her. This was a policy she paid for monthly. So if she didnt want to pay to 
keep it running Mrs C couldve cancelled the policy any time at no extra cost. 
Overall its possible there may have been some failings in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mrs C still wouldve decided to buy the policy if shed been better informed as the 
policy gave her useful protection in her particular situation. I dont think having clearer 
information wouldve stopped her buying it.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account everything Mrs C told us, including what 
shes said about the way Lloyds dealt with PPI on another account. But each complaint is 
looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular 
case and the PPI sold with this mortgage. So this doesnt change my conclusion.
On balance, I dont find theres enough information for me to say that Mrs C has lost out as a 
result of anything Lloyds did wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment overall. And Im sorry that its 
taken such a long time to issue a final decision. But I hope that setting out the reasons as 
Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my conclusions.
My final decision
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2021.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman