DRN-3376469
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc  trading as Virgin Money (Virgin)  wont refund 
payments she made using her credit card for a holiday that was cancelled due to the 
Covid-19 pandemic.
What happened
In February 2020, Mrs B paid a deposit of £1,127.85 to book a holiday villa in Spain 
from a company Ill call Business A. 
She found the villa on a travel agents website, for which she paid a fee of £425.24  
although I understand this was later refunded in full.
Mrs B paid a further and final payment of £2,587.13 for the villa in June 2020.
And she paid £648.23 for flights for 4 adults (Mrs B, her husband, her mother-in-law 
and her father-in-law) and her 2 children from Barcelona to Manchester.
Mrs B used her Virgin credit card account to make all four payments.
Mrs B and her family were due to stay at the villa from 1 August 2020 for two weeks.
However, on 25 July 2020, Spain was removed from the governments travel 
corridors list and the Foreign and Commonwealth Office (FCO) changed its advice 
to advise against all but essential travel to mainland Spain. Mrs B therefore 
cancelled the holiday.
As Business A had earlier told Mrs B that her booking was non-refundable and it 
wouldnt refund any money if she cancelled her holiday, she called Virgin on 
31 July 2020 to ask it to help her get a refund.
Virgin says its advisor explained to Mrs B that it couldnt raise a chargeback claim or 
refund the money under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) 
because the villa was still available. It wrote to her on 29 October 2020 and 
4 November 2020 to say the same.
Unhappy with Virgins response, Mrs B referred her complaint to our service. 
(Separately, she also referred a complaint to our service about her insurers decision 
to decline a claim.)
One of our investigators didnt think Virgins decision not to attempt a chargeback 
claim or refund the money under section 75 of the CCA was unfair in the 
circumstances.
Mrs B disagrees and has asked that an Ombudsman make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mrs B called Virgin, it considered both a chargeback claim and a claim under 
section 75 of the CCA.
A chargeback is a way for a credit card provider to reclaim money from the retailers bank 
when a consumer doesnt get the goods or services shes paid for. It isnt a legal right and 
theres no guarantee the card provider will be able to recover the money this way. The 
process is subject to the rules of the scheme  which, in this case, are set by Mastercard  
and strict criteria apply.
The card provider isnt required to raise a chargeback claim just because the consumer asks 
it to  although I think its good practice for one to be attempted when theres a reasonable 
prospect of success.
Separately, section 75 of the CCA protects consumers who buy goods and services on 
credit. It says, in certain circumstances, the credit provider is legally answerable for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier.
As Ive explained above, Virgin chose not to attempt a chargeback claim because the villa 
and flights were still available.
Ive carefully considered Mastercards rules.
While I appreciate that the FCO advised against all but essential travel to mainland Spain 
because of Covid-19, the suppliers (the airline and Business A) were, at that time, able to 
provide the services. Alongside its detailed rules, Mastercard helpfully issued guidance 
during the pandemic. The guidance it issued at the start of May 2020 makes it clear that 
there is no chargeback right if the cardholder chose not to use an available service following 
precautionary advice or to avoid mandated quarantines upon arrival, or the cardholder could 
not use an available service because of travel restrictions, etc. In the circumstances, I dont 
think it was unfair for Virgin not to attempt a chargeback claim.
Similarly, there doesnt appear to have been a breach of contract by Business A or the 
airline  so I dont think it was unfair for Virgin to decline Mrs Bs claim under section 75 of 
the CCA.
I have a great deal of sympathy for Mrs B. Her decision to cancel her holiday when she did 
was eminently sensible and responsible, and shes out of pocket through no fault of her own. 
I was therefore pleased to see that my colleague upheld her complaint against her insurer, 
and shes now recovered most of the money she paid for the holiday. However, I dont think 
Virgins decision not to attempt a chargeback claim or refund the money under section 75 
was unfair for the reasons Ive explained.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Christopher Reeves
Ombudsman