DRN-3225064
The complaint
The estate of X complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc allowed a payment to be made from Xs 
account they believe is fraudulent.
What happened
The estate of X is represented by Mrs T in this complaint and after the passing of her 
partner, she noticed a large payment had left Xs account a few days prior to his death. Mrs 
T, who didnt live with X at the time, didnt think X used online banking  which is how the 
payment was made. Mrs T explained that her partner was very ill at the time of the payment 
and didnt think he would have been capable making the transaction. 
Mrs T, with the help of a close family member notified HSBC about the situation and raised 
the unidentified transaction with them. Initially, HSBC didnt have authority to discuss Xs 
account with Mrs T. After appropriate authority was presented, HSBC advised Mrs T that the 
payment appeared to be genuine and that X had used online banking for some years. HSBC 
referred to a visit to one of their branches made by Mrs T  which Mrs T has denied making.
Mrs T was left unhappy with how HSBC had dealt with the transaction and came to our 
service with a complaint. HSBC were asked to look into the situation and provided our 
service with information about the transaction, confirming the payment had been made using 
internet banking. HSBC concluded that it was X whod authorised it or allowed someone 
trusted to use it on his behalf.
Mrs T confirmed that X lived alone and didnt believe anyone else had access to his 
property. The complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked the receiving 
bank (the account where the payment was sent) if they had any reports of fraud linked to this 
account. They advised that no reports of fraud had been made about the account. 
Mrs T told our service that shed seen several texts on Xs phone that appeared to come 
from the bank on the day of the disputed transaction, although Mrs T deleted them. Our 
investigator looked into whether the payment might be as the result of a scam and asked 
HSBC about the texts. HSBC confirmed that no texts about calling the bank had been sent - 
but did confirm that two One Time Passcodes (OTPs) had been part of the internet banking 
process. These are usually sent to the registered mobile linked to the bank account. No 
evidence was found to link the payment to a scam.
Our investigator thought that it was likely that X had made the payment himself and didnt 
uphold the complaint.
Mrs T disagreed with the investigators outcome and asked for a further review. The 
complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and Ill explain why.
The complaint concerns a payment made from Xs account a few days before he passed 
away. HSBC provided evidence that X had registered for online banking some years earlier 
and had used it to make a large purchase. The information theyve been able to provide 
shows that Xs online account was used to arrange the disputed payment and was confirmed 
by the use of an OTP  an additional layer of security to confirm the payment is genuine.
The relevant law surrounding authorisations are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. The 
basic position is that HSBC can hold X liable for the disputed payment if the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that he made it or authorised it. 
Authorisation is made up of two parts. Authentication and consent. Authentication is usually 
referred to as the technical evidence and in this case, HSBC have supplied evidence that 
shows the payment was arranged through Xs online banking account. Id usually expect to 
examine more audit information concerning the payment, but HSBC dont have that 
available. They have shown Xs account was logged into and the payment sent to the 
receiving bank using HSBCs internet banking system. Taking all the available information 
into account, Im satisfied the evidence shows the disputed transaction was authenticated.
Consent refers to the way in which HSBC and X agreed to operate the account to allow 
HSBC to make payments on Xs behalf. For example, HSBCs terms and conditions set out 
that if a payment is arranged through internet banking and the account holder uses their 
security details to confirm the payment, then HSBC accept that the instruction to make the 
payment is authorised by the account holder. So, because Xs account was successfully 
logged into and the payment confirmed with a OTP- Im satisfied that consent was given and 
the disputed transaction was authorised. But, there are exceptions where it wouldnt be 
appropriate for HSBC to hold X responsible, for example if the internet banking account was 
used without his permission.
Its not been possible to find out anything further about the payment apart from the 
information supplied by HSBC, the receiving bank and what Mrs T has been able to tell us. 
Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I must reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have happened in light of the available evidence.
Mrs T believed that X didnt have internet banking, but HSBC have confirmed he was 
registered and had been for some time. I think its apparent that X did use it, although from 
what Ive seen of the records, he didnt access it very often. What the records do show is 
that X was logging on to it and Ive examined what funds were held in the account on 
previous occasions. Thats because if the account was accessed by someone without 
permission, Id expect earlier suspicious transactions to have taken place. Theres no 
evidence of that and the account held a large balance for some time, so if an unauthorised 
third party had been able to log on to the account, I would have expected it to be used much 
earlier than it was. What this tells me is that X had access to the account through internet 
banking, rather than someone doing it without his permission.
I cant say what the payment was for, but I appreciate Mrs T was surprised by it. She didnt 
recognise the recipient or have any idea that the payment was due to be made. I understand 
from what she says that X was extremely ill at the time of the payment and she didnt believe 
he could have spoken with anyone. But, the evidence indicates the account was successfully 
logged on and the payment made. Theres evidence that OTPs were sent  which I think 
were probably the texts Mrs T later deleted.The issue of whether the payment was as a result of a scam was looked into and there was 
no evidence to support this. The recipient bank had no suspicious information about their 
account holder. I think if the payment was the result of a scam, there would probably have 
been other contact with X leading up to the payment. Ive not seen any evidence that would 
support this as the reason for the payment, so I dont think a scam was the explanation for 
the transaction.
Ive no doubt the situation was very difficult for Mrs T to deal with as she was mourning the 
loss of her partner and having to arrange for HSBC to look into the disputed transaction. I 
realise she was unhappy with how she was dealt with by HSBC because they wouldnt deal 
with her until they received appropriate authority from the courts. HSBC are required to only 
release information to appropriately authorised persons and unfortunately because Mrs T 
wasnt linked to the account, I dont think HSBC were wrong to wait for proper authorisation 
before discussing the account with her.
When Ive taken everything into account, Xs internet banking was successfully logged into 
and the payment sent. The evidence shows theres no report of suspect activity linked to the 
recipients account and because X lived alone, its unlikely anyone else was able to log in 
without Xs security information. I appreciate Mrs T didnt know anything about the payment, 
but thats not the issue here  the complaint is whether HSBC can hold X liable for the 
payment and I think on balance that X was more likely than not responsible for making the 
transaction and it was reasonable for HSBC to hold X liable for it.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of X to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 March 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman