DRN-2142940
The complaint
Ms T complains that PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly gave her 
loans which she couldnt afford to pay back.
What happened
This complaint is about loans Mr Lender provided to Ms T between September 2013 and 
April 2018. Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
Loan Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments AmountHighest 
Repayment
1 01/09/2013 27/12/2013 1 £300.00 £405.00
2 06/05/2014 28/07/2014 1 £500.00 £650.00
3 08/08/2014 27/03/2015 6 £400.00 £186.66
4 11/04/2018 Outstanding 6 £300.00 £106.00
Ms T said that getting behind on her loan payments caused her stress.
Our adjudicator felt that the gap in lending between loans 3 and 4 was long enough for 
Mr Lender reasonably to be able to consider loan 4 the start of a new lending relationship. 
So our adjudicator didnt think it was unfair for Mr Lender to provide loan 1 or loan 4 to Ms T. 
But he felt that loans 2 and 3 shouldn't have been lent. 
Our adjudicator said the repayments for loan 2 represented a significant proportion of Ms Ts 
income. His view was that there was a significant risk that Ms T wouldnt have been able to 
make the repayment on loan 2 without having to borrow again  making that loan (and any 
further lending) unsustainable for her.
So he felt that Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loan 2 or loan 3 to Ms T. 
Mr Lender disagreed with our adjudicator and said it carried out proportionate checks before 
lending and both these loans were affordable for Ms T. It said the four month gap between 
loans 1 and 2 showed that Ms T wasnt reliant on this sort of borrowing. And Mr Lender said 
Ms T hadnt shown any sings of financial difficulty paying loan 2  and loan 3 was for a lower 
amount than loan 2.  
We havent heard from Ms T about what she thinks about what our adjudicator has said. 
So as the complaint isnt yet settled and Mr Lender has asked for a review, this complaint 
comes to me to make a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms T 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income)
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing 
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required to establish whether Ms T could sustainably repay her loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while 
meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
So it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Ts complaint. 
Mr Lender has told us about the checks it did before lending to Ms T. It asked her for details 
of her income and normal expenditure. And Mr Lender carried out checks on Ms Ts credit 
file.
Looking at each of the loans in turn, I agree with the adjudicator that on the basis of the 
information Ms T told Mr Lender about her income and outgoings and what Mr Lender had recorded about her financial situation, it wasnt wrong for Mr Lender to give her 
loans 1 and 4. 
Like the adjudicator, I think the gap in lending between loan 3 and loan 4 was long enough 
for Mr Lender reasonably to think that Ms T had put her finances in order as it would seem 
that she hadnt been dependent on high cost short term loans during this period. This meant 
that when Ms Ts borrowing started again, and she applied for loan 4 in April 2018 just over 
three years after shed paid loan 3, she was effectively starting over. 
So I think it was fair for Mr Lender to treat this as a new chain of borrowing and assess her 
lending request for loan 4 accordingly.
Given that loans 1 and 4 were the start of new chains of lending, I think it was early in the 
lending relationship each time. And given the loan amounts and the information Mr Lender 
had recorded for Ms T, I think the checks it did prior to providing these loans were enough 
for Mr Lender to agree to lend. 
As Ms T hasnt raised any objection to the adjudicators recommendation in relation to these 
loans, I dont think that I need to say more about them.
Looking at loan 2, I can see that this was a substantially larger loan amount than loan 1. 
Although there had been a gap of around 4 months since Ms T had paid loan 1, in my view 
this wasnt long enough for Mr Lender reasonably to think that this made loan 2 the start of a 
new lending chain. 
I agree with our adjudicator that, given the particular circumstances of Ms Ts case, 
Mr Lender should reasonably have seen that loan 2 was likely to be unsustainable and it 
shouldnt have provided this loan. 
I say this because when Ms T asked for loan 2, Mr Lenders records show it relied on 
information showing that Ms Ts income was £1,500. 
The repayment she needed to make when she took out this loan (around £650) worked out 
as more than 43% of her take home pay just for this loan alone. 
I've taken into account that Mr Lender says it assessed affordability before lending, including 
making allowance for the fact that Ms T had said she was spending around £30 on other 
loans. 
But I think her payment record on loan 1 was a potential indicator to Mr Lender that what 
Ms T had told Mr Lender about her financial situation wasnt the full picture  especially 
when she arranged loan 2 on the basis that her first payment would be an interest only 
payment.  
So looking at all this information, I think Mr Lender ought to have realised that the repayment 
that Ms T had to make to pay loan 2 was such a significant proportion of her spending 
money each month that in reality, this loan, and any subsequent loan, wasnt likely to be 
sustainably affordable for her. 
So Mr Lender shouldnt have provided loans 2 and 3 to Ms T. And for these reasons, Im 
upholding Ms Ts complaint about loans 2 and 3.Putting things right
If Mr Lender has sold the outstanding debt it should buy this back before doing what I have 
outlined below. If Mr Lender isnt able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new 
debt owner to achieve the following:
A. add together the total of the repayments made by Ms T towards interest, fees and 
charges on loans 2 and 3, not including anything already refunded.
B. Calculate 8% simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms T which were 
considered as part of "A", calculated from the date Ms T originally made the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C. If there is still an outstanding balance overall then the amounts calculated in "A" and 
"B" should be used to repay any balance remaining. If this results in a surplus then 
the surplus should be paid to Ms T. And if there is still an outstanding balance after 
doing this, then Mr Lender should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Ms 
T.
D. Remove all adverse entries from Ms Ts credit file for loans 2 and 3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
I partly uphold Ms Ts complaint and direct PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) to 
put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 October 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman