DRN-3033388
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy with the end of contract charges applied by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Financial (MBFS), following the return of his 
car.
What happened
On 26 October 2017, Mr O was supplied with a new car through a hire purchase agreement 
with MBFS. The agreement was for £31,897.14 over 36 months; with monthly payments of 
£241.61, and an optional final payment of £17,650 if Mr O wanted to keep the car.
When the agreement came to an end, Mr O arranged to return the car. The car was 
collected on 16 October 2020. Mr O says that he wasnt given the opportunity to have a pre-
inspection and given the opportunity to repair any damage. Hes also said that the collection 
agent referred to the damage to the car as cat scratches and gave no indication that the 
damage was serious. Which denied him the opportunity to challenge any findings.
Following the return of the car, O received an invoice for damage to the car. He complained 
to MBFS, saying the collection agent took advantage of the coronavirus (Covid-19) 
pandemic, and signed the report on his behalf. And he thinks that clever lighting and angles 
were used to make the damage look worse than it was. So, he didnt think he was liable for 
any charges and, if he was held liable, then the charges shouldnt be as high as suggested.
MBFS said that Mr O was liable for the damage to the car, but they did remove a charge for 
missing tyre sealant. Mr O was unhappy with MBFSs response, and he brought his 
complaint to us for investigation.
Our investigator said hed seen evidence the damage MBFS were charging for was present 
when the car was inspected. And the agreement Mr O had signed with MBFS allowed them 
to charge him for this damage. He also said that the agreement didnt say that a pre-
inspection should take place, so he didnt think that MBFS had done anything wrong by not 
offering Mr O this opportunity. And he didnt think MBFS needed to do anything more.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator. He felt that the validity of the signature on the report 
was significant, and until the validity of the damage report is established a determination 
cannot be made on the alleged damage in the first place and all charges should be 
reversed. He also commented on the level of the damage charges themselves and argued 
that some of the things he was being charged for didnt constitute damage.
Because Mr O didnt agree with the investigator, this matter has been passed to me to make 
a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; any 
regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice, and what I consider was good 
industry practice at the time. Mr O was supplied with a car under a hire purchase agreement. 
This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to investigate 
complaints about it. 
Ive seen a copy of the hire purchase agreement, which Mr O electronically signed on 25 
October 2017. Under the heading Vehicle Return Standards (VRS), the agreement goes on 
to explain what is, and isnt, considered acceptable damage under the VRS. It also explains 
that when the vehicle is returned to us, a Vehicle Return Standard Inspection will be carried 
out by trained technicians at the nominated Defleet Centre.
MBFS also provide customers with another copy of their VRS, six months before the end of 
any agreement. So, Im satisfied Mr O shouldve been reasonably aware of what level of 
damage was and wasnt acceptable to MBFS when the car was returned. And he should 
also have been reasonably aware that an inspection could also take place once the car had 
been returned to MBFS, regardless of whether an inspection also took place at the point of 
collection as well.
While Im aware that Mr O wanted a pre-inspection to take place, and for him to be given the 
opportunity to rectify any damage, theres nothing in either the agreement or the VRS that 
allows for this. But, as Mr O has a copy of the VRS, so shouldve been reasonably aware of 
what level of damage was and wasnt acceptable to MBFS; Im satisfied that he had the 
opportunity to review the condition of the car against the VRS (or instruct a professional to 
do this for him) and rectify any damage before collection. So, I dont think that MBFS did 
anything wrong by not offering a pre-inspection. 
Ive seen a copy of the report completed by the collection agent on 16 October 2020. This 
report details the damage to body panels and one of the lights. It also details a missing tyre 
sealant, the charge for which MBFS subsequently removed. The report also contains 
photographs showing the damage. From examining the photographs, Im satisfied that the 
damage to the car falls outside of the VRS. And the photographs are all taken as a straight-
line view of the damage  theres nothing to indicate that the photographs were taken at 
clever angles, or used lighting, to make the damage appear worse. So, Im satisfied that the 
damage is therefore chargeable.
And, because the agreement and the VRS allowed for a second inspection to take place at a 
nominated Defleet Centre, after the car has been collected, then Im satisfied that theres no 
requirement for the customer to sign any report to confirm acceptance of any damage or 
otherwise. As such, while Mr O is disputing his signature on the collection agents report, the 
signature (or lack thereof) doesnt make this report invalid. And it doesnt mean that the 
charges should be reversed.
Im also aware that Mr O is unhappy with the amount MBFS are charging for repairing the 
damage to the car. Its not my role to say how much MBFS should charge, but I have 
considered these charges holistically, accounting for both parts and labour. And I dont think 
the charges are so unreasonable to be classed as unfair.
Given the above, and while I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Mr O, I think 
that MBFS acted reasonably by charging for the damage to the car and I wont be asking 
them to amend their invoice.My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint about Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited trading as Mercedes Benz Financial.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2022.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman