DRN-2839995
The complaint
Mr S complained because Barclays Bank UK Plc refused to refund him for four transactions, 
totalling £1,800, which he said he didnt make.
What happened
On 10 May 2020, there was a login to Mr Ss Barclays account at 20.33pm, using Mr Ss 
Barclays Mobile Banking app. A new payee was then set up, and an online payment for 
£300 was made at 20:34pm. As this was to a new payee, it needed Mr Ss debit card 
information, including the long 16 digit card number, expiry code, and three digit security 
code on the back of the card. The reference for the new payee  was one of Mr Ss first 
names, but with a slightly different spelling.
On 12 May, there was a login to Mr Ss Barclays account at 21:40pm, using Mr Ss Barclays 
Mobile Banking app. Another new payee was set up, and an online payment for £400 was 
made at 21:41. As this too was to a new payee, it would have needed the same information 
as the one on 10 May. Mr S isnt disputing this payment. 
On 13 May, there were more mobile logins followed by payments: £500 at 10:08 am; £500 at 
10:24 am and £500 at 14:22pm. These payments went to the same payee as the payment 
on 10 May. The four payments Mr S is disputing are those on the 10 May and 13 May.
On 15 May, Mr S contacted Barclays. Mr S is deaf, and he went into the branch with his 
brother to help him. Mr S said that he hadnt made the four transactions on 10 and 13 May. 
He told Barclays no-one had access to his phone or to his Barclays account. 
On 18 May, Barclays wrote to Mr S to say that it wasnt upholding his complaint. Mr S said 
he didnt receive this letter, so Barclays sent another copy. Mr S complained, but Barclays 
didnt uphold his complaint. In its final response letter, it said this was because no third party 
access had been established on his account. Barclays said the disputed transactions had 
been carried out with Mr Ss genuine device, debit card and Barclays Mobile Banking details. 
There was no evidence that these had been compromised, so it couldnt accept Mr Ss 
claim.
Mr S had also complained that he hadnt received a text message when the 10 May payee 
had been added. Barclays said it was sorry if Mr S didnt receive the 10 May text message, 
but the disputed payment had been authorised on completion of the required security 
checks. And it pointed out that Mr Ss undisputed transaction on 12 May had been carried 
out with the same device as the one used for the disputed transactions.
Mr S wasnt satisfied and complained to this service. He said he believed someone had 
somehow got access to his account and had made the four disputed transactions. He said 
he hadnt received a text saying the new 10 May payee had been set up  so he thought 
Barclays lack of security was a reason why his money had been stolen from the account. He 
said hed have notified Barclays sooner if hed had a text.
Mr S also said that it would be unfair if he didnt receive a refund of the £1,800. He said that 
he was deaf so it was hard for him to find a good paying job and save money, and losing 
£1,800 would be a huge set-back for him.  
Mr S also told our investigator that he had left his phone on his work desk for a moment, 
around the time of the disputed transaction. He believed someone could have accessed the 
phone without his knowledge. But he didnt know how anyone could have obtained his debit 
card, which was still in his possession, or his mobile banking details. He told the investigator 
hed first noticed the payments when he checked his mobile banking a few days later. Mr S 
said he believed someone might have hacked into his phone to steal his bank details, or 
physically obtained his banking details.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. Among other things, he said that:
- the disputed transactions had been carried out using Mr Ss genuine device, debit 
card and Barclays Mobile Banking details;
- all four disputed transactions had been made using the same device which Mr S had 
used 17 times before, since October 2018;
- the device ID linked to the transactions had been registered to Mr Ss account since 
at least July 2019, and was regularly used for genuine payments and logins;
- the mobile number used was also the same one which Barclays had registered to Mr 
S;
- before the payments were made, Mr Ss app had been accessed using either 
fingerprint or face identification  which matched what was already registered for Mr 
S;
- when the new payment recipient was set up on 10 May, this was done using Mr Ss 
debit card information, including expiry date and three digit security code. 
The investigator didnt think it was likely that someone could have made the payments by 
accessing Mr Ss phone when he left it on his desk at work. He said this because anyone 
accessing the account and setting up a new payee would have needed a lot of information 
about Mr Ss card and banking details. He thought it was most likely that Mr S had carried 
out the transactions himself, or had consented to someone else making them on his behalf.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the outcome had made him very angry and upset at Barclays. He 
said it wasnt fair to lose this large amount of money. He said someone had taken advantage 
of his deafness disability, perhaps someone at his workplace. He said that he struggled to 
understand what colleagues said to him face-to-face, so perhaps they had plotted against 
him behind his back to steal money from his account.
Mr S also said that Barclays had focused on authorisation, but it had failed to understand 
that these days authorisation could easily be hacked. He wanted Barclays to focus on the 
recipient of these fraudulent payments, not on the authorisation of the disputed payments. 
Mr S said that another reason he believed the payments were fraudulent was that they had 
been labelled 3rd party payment and he didnt understand why Barclays couldnt 
investigate these. And he said Barclays security measures had failed because he hadnt 
received a text on 10 May about the new payee.
Mr S asked for an ombudsman decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.What the regulations say
There are regulations which set out what I need to consider when deciding a complaint 
about a disputed transaction. 
The relevant regulations for disputed transactions taking place in May 2020 are the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017. These say that the payment service provider (here, Lloyds) must 
first show the transactions were authenticated. Authentication is the technical part, and here, 
Barclays has provided technical evidence which shows that all four disputed payments were 
authenticated. 
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms, the bank is liable if the customer didnt authorise the payments, 
and the customer is liable if he did authorise them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed 
gross negligence.
I recognise that Mr S said that he believes the investigation into his complaint should focus 
on the recipient, not the authorisation of the payments. But as these regulations show, its 
who authorised the payments which determines whether or not Mr S gets a refund. If a third 
party fraudster made the payments, Mr S would get a refund. But if Mr S authorised them 
himself, or consented to someone else making them, or was grossly negligent about 
security, then he wouldnt get a refund. It doesnt make a difference where the money went.
Who authorised the disputed transactions
If a fraudster third party carried out the four disputed transactions, theyd have had to have 
access to all of the following:
- the same Barclays Mobile Banking (BMB) device that Mr S had used since at least 
July 2019;
- the mobile number registered to Mr Ss account;
- Mr Ss Barclays debit card, in order to enter the long 16 digit number, the expiry date 
and three digit security code on the back;
- the same IP address that was used for the undisputed £400 new payment on 12 
May. The IP address shows, among other things, the location where a transaction 
takes place;
- I also note that for the authorisation of the disputed payments, the BMB app was 
accessed via Touch ID  in other words, either the fingerprint or face ID which was 
entered, matched what was already set up on Mr Ss account.
Mr S has argued that Barclays fail to understand that these days authorisation can be easily 
hacked. But he hasnt explained how he thinks any fraudster could have obtained, or 
hacked, all the necessary security details Ive listed above. Mr S said that Barclays security 
failed because he didnt receive a text about the setting up of the new payment on 10 May. 
We cant know for sure what happened about the text Mr S said he didnt receive. But in any 
case, all the items above are much greater security measures. And they give us a much 
clearer picture about what actually happened. Texts arent an essential part of the security of 
a payment. And third party payment which Mr S has questioned, just means the money 
was going to a third partys account  as some of Mr Ss undisputed payments did. 
So, looking at all the things a fraudster would have needed to complete these transactions, I 
cant see how any fraudster could have obtained all the necessary information to carry out 
the disputed transactions.Ive also noted that Mr S logged on to his account multiple times between 10 and 14 May. 
The investigator listed some of these in his View. So Mr S would have seen the disputed 
transactions. But Mr S didnt report the disputed transactions until 15 May. And in the 
meantime, hed carried out an undisputed transaction  so Id have expected him to notice 
the 10 May transaction when he made the undisputed one two days later. In terms of getting 
in touch with Barclays, I recognise that Mr S has told us that hes deaf, which I do 
understand can make communication more difficult. But Barclays website has a special 
page which lists several ways in which it can make banking easier for deaf and hearing-
impaired customers. This includes multiple ways to communicate.
Mr S has also said that he left his phone on his work desk around the time of the disputed 
transaction, and had to leave his desk for a brief moment so he believes someone could 
have accessed his phone without his knowledge. He also said he didnt lose his phone, and 
didnt have his security details written down. As Ive set out, any such person would have to 
have had a lot more information than just being able to pick up Mr Ss phone for a short time.
And the first disputed transaction was set up at 20:34pm on 10 May which in 2020 was a 
Sunday night. I dont know what hours Mr S works, but the other disputed transactions to the 
same recipient took place in daytime. So I find its unlikely that all four were carried out by 
his colleagues when he was at work. 
Ive also borne in mind that exactly the same security login details  including the IP address 
showing where they took place - were used for the undisputed transaction on 12 May, in the 
middle of the disputed ones on 10 and 13 May. 
 
Taking all these factors into account, I consider its more likely than not that Mr S carried out 
the transactions himself, or gave his consent for someone else to carry them out on his 
behalf. So I dont require Barclays to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2021.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman