DRN-3432916
The complaint
Ms A has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) increased the interest 
rate on her overdraft without telling her. 
She says that this increase led to her being unable to afford to repay her overdraft facility, 
particularly as her income reduced from mid-2021 due to being made redundant.
What happened
One of our adjudicators assessed the complaint and she concluded that NatWest is entitled 
to decide what interest rate it charges on overdrafts, as this is an exercise of its commercial 
judgement. The adjudicator also thought that a notification was in all likelihood sent to Ms A, 
as NatWest said that a notification of the increase in its overdraft interest rate was sent to all 
of its customers, and the adjudicator saw no reason why Ms A wouldve been left out of the 
mailing.
The adjudicator did however think that when Ms A did tell NatWest about her financial 
difficulties, it failed to deal with her situation appropriately. To put matters right, the 
adjudicator asked NatWest to rework Ms As account so that all interest, fees and charges 
were removed from the account from 13 January 2022.
NatWest agreed with the adjudicators conclusions and said that no overdraft charges were 
applied to the account since 1 January 2022, but did say that £201.27 in interest had been 
applied to the account, and so said this amount would be refunded back to the account to 
reduce the outstanding balance. 
Ms A disagreed with the adjudicators assessment and asked for her complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything provided, I agree with the outcome reached by the adjudicator 
and I think that what NatWest has offered to do to put matters right is reasonable. I will 
explain why.
Notification of the increase in the overdraft interest rate
Following a review of the way banks charge for overdrafts and the way overdrafts are used, 
the financial regulator issued new rules for overdrafts, which came into effect on 6 April 
2020. Since these rules were announced, most banks - including NatWest - increased 
interest rates on overdrafts to around 40% from March or April 2020. 
However, due to the impact of Covid-19, the regulator introduced guidance to firms requiring 
the mitigation of these changes. And as part of this guidance banks were instructed to 
ensure that customers pay no more for using an overdraft  as a result of any new interest 
rates  than they would have done under any prior charging structure - until July 2020 at the 
earliest.
NatWest says that it wrote to all of its customers towards the end of 2019 to inform them that 
it would be increasing to the overdraft interest rate and the increase was due to come into 
effect in early 2020. And in Ms As case, NatWest says that the delayed increase in the 
overdraft interest rate then came into effect in August 2020. 
When this change came into effect, from looking at Ms As account, Ms A did not appear to 
be in financial difficulties at the time. For example, there were multiple credits being paid into 
the account, and although the account was mostly overdrawn, Ms A appeared to be mostly 
living within her means. As such, I dont think NatWest needed to take some other form of 
action (such as to provide Ms A with additional financial support) when the increased interest 
rate came into effect.
As explained by the adjudicator, NatWest was able to increase the interest rate it charges for 
overdrafts, as its essentially a commercial decision for each bank to make about how much 
it chooses to charge customers when they borrow money. 
However, in making such a decision NatWest was required to inform accountholders before 
the change was due to take place. NatWest has said that it had either emailed or written to 
Ms A  although it cant confirm which method was used as it was part of a mass mailing 
campaign. NatWest has confirmed that it had the correct contact details for Ms A so says 
that it sees no reason why Ms A would not have received the notification. I understand that 
NatWest sent another notification to account holders, once the changes came into effect.
Overall, I think its the case that NatWest more likely than not did send the notification to Ms 
A  after all, Ive seen no reason why she wouldve been excluded from such mailing and 
NatWest did have the correct contact details for Ms A at the time too. 
But even if I thought that shed not been sent the notification, Ive not seen enough 
information to say that Ms A would necessarily have taken a different course of action than 
what she did do, had she received it. I say this because, in the period after the interest rate 
increased (but before Ms A suffered a reduced income), Ms A kept the account largely 
overdrawn, even when the larger interest charges were being taken from her account. This 
makes me think she likely wouldve continued operating the account in a similar fashion to 
how she did beforehand.
Therefore, even if I concluded that Ms A had not been sent the notification, Im not 
persuaded that Ms A wouldve necessarily done anything differently even if she had been.
NatWests treatment of Ms As financial difficulties
In her assessment, the adjudicator said that she thought that NatWest did not deal with Ms 
As circumstances appropriately when Ms A informed NatWest of her financial difficulties, 
and I have to agree. 
Ms A says her income reduced as she was made redundant in mid-2021. But, I also note 
that Ms A says she didnt tell NatWest about this at the time. So I cant reasonably expect 
NatWest to have done something different, at this time, given that it was unaware of her 
change in circumstances. 
Because of this, I dont think itd be appropriate to ask NatWest to refund all interest and 
charges applied to the account since mid-2021.
But its clear that NatWest did become aware of Ms As financial difficulties when she 
contacted NatWest on 13 January 2022. Therefore, I think that the redress that the 
adjudicator suggested is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
I understand that Ms A is unhappy that adverse information may be recorded on her credit 
file. However, the purpose of a credit file is to provide a factual reflection of a consumers 
borrowing history. And Ms A struggled with her overdraft because of a sudden loss of 
income. Im also mindful that, whilst she was by then being charged a higher rate of interest 
on her overdraft than she was in the past, the overwhelming proportion of the debt by then was made up of Ms As spending on the account. So whilst I do sympathise with Ms A for 
the difficult and stressful circumstances that she experienced (and continues to experience), 
I cant reasonably say that her difficulties in clearing the debt on her account should not be 
reflected on her credit file.
Finally, I note that Ms A says that she is still experiencing financial difficulties. Im sorry to 
hear about this and I can only suggest that Ms A continues to keep in contact with NatWest, 
if she needs further ongoing support. Id also remind NatWest of its obligation to exercise 
forbearance and due consideration given what Ms A has said about her circumstances.
Putting things right
Therefore, to put matters right, I require NatWest to:
Re-work Ms As current overdraft balance so that all interest, fees and charges applied to it 
from 13 January 2022 onwards are removed. NatWest says that this amounts to a refund of 
£201.27 of overdraft interest, which can be credited to the account to reduce the total 
amount owed.
As an outstanding balance remains on the overdraft, once these adjustments have been 
made, NatWest should contact Ms A to arrange a suitable repayment plan for this. If it 
considers it appropriate to record negative information on Ms As credit file, it should 
backdate this to 13 January 2022.
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above I require National Westminster Bank Plc to do what I 
have outlined above to put matters right, in full and final settlement of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2022.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman