DRN-2554489
The complaint
Ms S complains about BUX Financial Services Limiteds (BUXs) handling of a payment 
into a trading app account and the subsequent failure to escalate the complaint.
 
What happened
Ms S held a trading app account with BUX. Ms S transferred £50 to the account using a 
debit card. Ms S followed the verification process for the card and received an 
acknowledgement from BUX. Ms S was disappointed to discover that funds were not 
available in the account; they had been reserved pending allocation of payment. Ms S 
contacted BUX and was advised that it could take up to 10 days for the funds to become 
accessible. BUX offered to contact Ms Ss bank to release the funds earlier if Ms S provided 
an email address.
Ms S felt that BUX should have provided better customer service and contacted the bank 
directly without her input. Ms S was also disappointed that BUX failed to refer the matter to 
its complaints team and instead sent an email with a pdf link. Ms S says she was put to 
inconvenience, for which she seeks compensation.
BUX says it uses a secure payment system and on this occasion the transaction was 
unsuccessful as no confirmation was received from Ms Ss bank that the card was security 
enrolled. As a result, funds werent credited to Ms Ss account and they were ringfenced by 
the bank pending payment to BUX. BUX explained the situation to Ms S and offered to 
contact her bank to release the funds. Ms S sent a message saying Bye BUX. BUX then 
sought to clarify whether Ms S wished to close her account. Ms S confirmed that she did not 
wish to close the account, but wished to raise a complaint. BUX says it then provided 
information about its complaint handling procedure. 
Our investigator considered the complaint. She thought BUX hadnt done anything wrong. It 
was for BUX to decide which secure payment system to use and on this occasion it was 
likely that the password timed out or there was a problem with the card. When Ms S raised 
her concerns BUX offered to contact her bank and in line with its internal processes it asked 
for the banks contact email address. BUX did contact Ms Ss bank with the details she 
provided. Our investigator thought that Ms S hadnt been treated differently to other 
customers, BUX had tried to address her concerns and provided information about its 
complaint handling process.
Ms S doesnt agree with the view. She maintains BUX likely knew of an issue with the 
particular card she used and took no steps to warn about the possibility of the payment 
being rejected. Ms S also had to make multiple requests for her complaint to be escalated. 
She felt BUX failed to grasp that it was unreasonable to place the onus on the customer to 
resolve a failed transaction, which their software confirmed was successful.
As the parties do not agree, the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its helpful to explain that our service has no regulatory or disciplinary powers. That 
means we cannot tell a business how to operate or impose any penalty for wrongdoing. We 
provide an informal dispute resolution service and where things have gone wrong, we look to 
compensate on a fair and reasonable basis.
It is common ground that Ms S attempted to make a payment into the trading app using a 
debit card. It was a legitimate commercial decision by BUX to use a secure payment system, 
which provided protection to its customers. Its clear that Ms S feels strongly that there was a 
fault in the app used by BUX and relies on BUX saying problems could occur with some 
banks, including Ms Ss. But BUX has also said it was likely that the password timed out or 
there was a problem with the password or the card. The contemporaneous screenshot is 
consistent with BUXs explanation that authorisation wasnt confirmed. And the chat from the 
time also explained that the transaction had not been verified by the payment system. On 
balance, Im not persuaded theres enough to show that BUX did something wrong on this 
occasion. And even if I thought BUX had done something wrong, theres nothing to show 
that Ms S lost out financially. The funds were released.
I appreciate that Ms S was disappointed by the situation and Ive seen that she made 
contact with BUX within a couple of days. BUX apologised for the difficulties Ms S faced 
depositing funds into her account and explained the funds would likely be ringfenced by her 
bank, but action could be taken to release the funds earlier. Ms S feels that BUXs policy of 
asking for a contact email for her bank was unreasonable. I dont think it was an 
unreasonable request to ask for Ms Ss authorisation to contact her bank and provide a 
contact email address. Ive seen that Ms S provided an email address promptly and BUX 
took steps to act upon it on the same day. 
When BUX advised Ms S that the email address was unsuccessful, she asked them to close 
the account. It wasnt unreasonable for BUX to clarify whether Ms S wished to close the 
account and to give details about how to do so. When Ms S then said she wanted to raise a 
complaint, BUX provided information on its complaints procedure. Its clear from the 
message chain that Ms S was frustrated by the situation and would have preferred BUX to 
have escalated the complaint directly on her behalf at the outset, but it doesnt follow that 
BUX was obstructive in setting up the complaint or that it caused any material delay in 
sending the complaint procedure to Ms S. The timestamps on the chat show that prompt 
responses were sent and complaint information was provided. I think the communications 
were clear and there was no requirement for BUX to make a goodwill gesture, that was a 
matter within its discretion.
Taking everything into account, I wont be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
I am sorry to disappoint Ms S, but for the reasons given, I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 December 2021.
 
Sarah Tozzi
Ombudsman