DRN-1408322
The complaint
Mr O complains that Skyfire Insurance Company Limited cancelled his motor insurance 
policy. 
What happened
In July 2019 Mr O took out a motor insurance policy with Skyfire through a price comparison 
site.
A few weeks later Skyfire contacted Mr O to say it thought some of the information in his 
application might not be correct: it says Mr O had asked for several quotes online but 
entered different information about how long hed been living in the UK. It asked Mr O for 
information to check what hed told them.
After Mr O sent Skyfire information about how long hed been living in the UK, Skyfire wrote 
to Mr O asking him to contact it. Following a telephone call in September 2019, it decided to 
cancel the policy.
Skyfire says Mr O answered the question it asked about how long hed lived in the UK 
incorrectly. And it thinks this was a deliberate misrepresentation. It has cancelled the policy 
and charged Mr O for the time hes been covered plus a £75 cancellation fee.
Mr O brought his complaint to us and our investigator didnt think it should be upheld. The 
investigator thought that the question Mr O had been asked was clear, and so Mr O should 
have entered the correct information. And our investigator thought that what Skyfire had 
done was fair.
Mr O didnt agree. The complaint has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law in this case is case is the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not 
to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The 
standard of care is that of a reasonable consumer.
And if a consumer fails to do this, the insurer has certain remedies provided the 
misrepresentation is  what CIDRA describes as  a qualifying misrepresentation. For it to 
be a qualifying misrepresentation, the insurer has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation.
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying representation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfire thinks Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when he 
said in his application that hed been living in the UK since his birth. Based on what Ive 
seen, it looks as though Mr O had in fact only lived in the UK for five years.
Ive looked at the question asked on the price comparison website. I see that to obtain a 
quote Mr O was asked how long hed lived in the UK. He could either tick a box to say hed 
lived in the UK from birth  or he could enter the date he first started living in the UK. Neither 
of these options were pre-selected.
So it appears that Mr O ticked from birth when he requested the quote. I think the question 
was clear and specific  and the answer Mr O gave was clearly wrong: Mr O had lived in the 
UK for just five years. As such, Im satisfied that Mr O failed to take reasonable care not to 
make a misrepresentation.
Skyfire has also provided evidence showing that if Mr O had not made this 
misrepresentation it would have charged him a higher premium. This means Im satisfied 
that Mr Os misrepresentation was a qualifying one. So Ive gone on to consider if this was 
deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Skyfires records show that Mr O asked for six quotes over a half hour period; in four cases, 
using a different price comparison site, saying hed been living in the UK for five years, and 
in a further two cases  including the quote Mr O accepted  saying that hed lived in the UK 
since birth. I note that the premium for this policy was at least £60 cheaper than the quotes 
Mr O received when he entered the correct information.
Skyfire thinks Mr O did this deliberately  and thinks he did this so hed get the lower quote. 
Ive thought about what Mr O has said about this. He says theres no way hed have told 
someone he was born in Britain. He says he may have entered the incorrect information 
because he was interested to know what it would do to his premium  and that by the time 
he agreed to this quote hed just forgotten hed done this. Skyfire thinks that testing the 
system in this way would still be a deliberate misrepresentation.
Ive carefully considered what Mr O and Skyfire have said. On balance, I agree this 
misrepresentation was deliberate. The question Mr O needed to answer was clear and 
specific  and based on what Mr O himself has said, he knew his answer to this question 
was incorrect at the time he answered it this way. Im also satisfied that Mr O knew the 
answers he gave were relevant to the insurer  hes told us he changed his answers 
precisely because he wanted to see what effect it would have on his premium.  Mr O 
obtained six quotes over a period of just over half an hour  and agreed to the cheapest. 
Given the very short time over which Mr O obtained these quotes, and that he had to 
deliberately answer a question incorrectly to get this quote, I dont think its terribly likely that 
Mr O had forgotten what hed entered. But I add that even if I agreed with Mr O, I also think 
entering incorrect information  not caring whether it was true or false  just to see what 
happens was reckless.
As Im satisfied that Mr Os misrepresentation should be treated as deliberate, Ive looked at 
the actions Skyfire can take in accordance with CIDRA. 
CIDRA says that where the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, the 
insurer may avoid the contract, refuse all claims, and need not return any of the premiums 
paid, except to the extent that it would be unfair to the consumer to retain them. Ive looked at what Skyfire has done. Skyfire says that it has cancelled the policy and 
charged a £75 non-disclosure fee. It says Mr O owes it £86.28 in total  which is that fee 
plus the premium for the period it has been on risk.
Mr O is unhappy with this  particularly as Skyfire, not him, cancelled the insurance. But Im 
satisfied that, under CIDRA, Skyfire would have been able to keep the entire premium  
which was £392.29. I see the terms and conditions of the policy allow Skyfire to charge the 
£75 fee where the policy was cancelled for misrepresentation  and CIDRA doesnt affect 
the insurers contractual right to cancel the policy. As the amount Mr O has to pay is a lot 
less than the total premium, I dont think what Skyfire has done is unfair.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 November 2020.
 
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman