DRN-2764633
The complaint
Mr H believes Oakbrook Finance Limited, trading as Likely Loans, acted irresponsibly by 
agreeing loans hed applied for.
What happened
On 7 December 2016, Mr H took out a £1,000 loan (Loan 1) with Oakbrook, to be repaid 
over 12 months with repayments of £102.36 a month. On 15 May 2017, Mr H took out a 
£1,562.93 loan (Loan 2) with Oakbrook, to be repaid over 18 months with repayments of 
£116.39 a month. Part of the funds from Loan 2 were used to repay Loan 1. Loan 2 was 
repaid in full on 17 December 2018.
On 3 September 2019, Mr H took out a £2,000 loan (Loan 3) with Oakbrook, to be repaid 
over 12 months with repayments of £231.93 a month. This loan remains outstanding.
Mr H complained that Oakbrook didnt act responsibly when approving the loans. He said 
they shouldnt have been approved because they were unaffordable at the time. Oakbrook 
didnt agree theyd done anything wrong, so Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service for investigation.
Our investigator said Oakbrook had checked Mr Hs income and expenditure which showed 
the loans were affordable. She also said Oakbrook checked Mr Hs credit file for each 
application. While they no longer hold the full original searches, Oakbrook have provided the 
overview of Mr Hs credit file for the time each loan was approved. The investigator also 
considered the payday loans Mr H had removed from his credit file, after hed been 
successful in an irresponsible lending complaint about the payday loan provider.
The investigator thought that Oakbrook had considered all of this when making their 
decision, and she hadnt seen anything to show they shouldnt have agreed to the loans. So 
she didnt think Oakbrook needed to do anything more.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He provided a copy of his credit file from February 
2017, which he says shows defaults and accounts in a Debt Management Plan (DMP). And 
hes said that, in a previous decision about a different lender, we said that a £300 loan on 6 
July 2018 shouldnt have been approved.
The investigator said Mr Hs credit report showed hed had some financial difficulties in 
2013/2014. She also said that the loans Mr H referred to were taken out after Loan 2, and 
repaid before Loan 3 was applied for, so they wouldnt affect any of Oakbrooks lending 
decisions. And the loan that wasnt repaid had been taken into consideration when shed 
calculated Mr Hs disposable income. So Mr Hs comments didnt change her view.
Mr H still didnt agree with the investigator, and hes asked for an ombudsman to make a 
final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When someone complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending, I need to 
consider whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy 
themselves that the lending was affordable, and that the affordability was sustainable. 
Where reasonable and proportionate checks were carried out, I need to consider if the 
lending decision was fair. And if reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out, I 
need to consider if the loan wouldve been approved if the checks had taken place. 
I also need to consider whether the lender acted unfairly or unreasonably in any other way.
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportional checks are, but Id expect lenders to 
consider things such as the amount, duration and payments of the loan being applied for; as 
well as the borrowers personal circumstances at the time of each application. 
Did Oakbrook complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr H would 
be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
Oakbrook dont have copies of Mr Hs full credit file from the times they approved his loans; 
they only have the overview details. As part of the evidence for this complaint, Ive seen two 
copies of Mr Hs full credit file  dated 15 February 2017 and 11 March 2020. So, when 
considering this complaint, Ive also considered what these show as being active credit at 
the time of each application.
Mr H has also provided details of a series of high-interest, short-term payday loans he had 
through a company Ill call W. From what Ive seen, Mr H was successful in a complaint 
about W in October 2019. And, at some point after this, 13 of the 19 loans were removed 
from his records. This wouldve taken place after he applied for Loan 3. So any records on 
Mr Hs credit file relating to these loans wouldve been visible at the point of each of the 
three applications he made to Oakbrook.
Not all payday lenders recorded their loans with the credit reference agencies. But the credit 
files Ive seen show some payday loans, which match with some of the loans provided by W. 
So its probable that some of Mr Hs payday loans were on his credit file, while some were 
not. Oakbrook can only make their decisions based on the information they had in front of 
them at the time  the information on the credit file and the information Mr H provided them. 
And I havent seen that Mr H declared to Oakbrook, at any point, that he had multiple payday 
loans outstanding. So I wont be saying that Oakbrook did anything wrong for not taking into 
consideration something they werent aware of.
The credit files Ive seen show that Mr H had some financial difficulties in 2013/14 and again 
in 2018. This included having some credit accounts go into default  some of which were 
cleared at the time of the applications, some of which were still being paid off.
Different lenders have different lending criteria, and I wouldnt expect Oakbrook to decline Mr 
Hs applications because of previous financial difficulties. But I would expect them to 
consider these as part of their overall lending criteria. And I havent seen anything to show 
me that Oakbrook didnt do this.Loan 1
Mr H applied for this loan on 6 December 2016. According to his credit files at the time, the 
payments to all of his active credit accounts were up to date and had been for at least 12-
months. He declared an income of £87,000 a year, which Oakbrook had calculated to be 
£4,827.53 a month. Mr Hs bank statement for November 2016, which wasnt provided to 
Oakbrook, confirms he received a monthly income of £4,410.42  slightly lower than 
Oakbrook had calculated.
Based on the information from their credit file overview, Oakbrook calculated that Mr H 
would be paying a minimum payment of 5% of the money he owed on his credit cards each 
month. There were no loan payments showing at this time. Based on his income and after 
deducting the credit card payments and the payment to Loan 1, Oakbrook calculated this left 
Mr H with £3,751.62 disposable income each month to pay his mortgage and other 
household bills. So they didnt do any further checks.
Even allowing for the lower income showing on Mr Hs bank statements, deducting the credit 
card payments, his mortgage of £557 a month, and the £1,683.19 monthly living expenses 
Oakbrook had calculated when Loan 3 was approved; this would still have left Mr H with 
£1,571.68 disposable income a month from which to pay Loan 1s £102.36 payment. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied that Oakbrook acted reasonably when approving Loan 1 and, 
based on all of the information available to Oakbrook, that it was affordable to Mr H at the 
time of application. So I wont be asking Oakbrook to do anything more about Loan 1.
Loan 2
Loan 2 was approved on 15 June 2017, and part of the funds were used to repay Loan 1. Mr 
H had maintained the £102.36 payment to Loan 1 without any issues, and the £116.36 
payment to Loan 2 only represented an increase in payments to Oakbrook of £14 a month.
According to his credit files at the time, the payments to all of his active credit accounts were 
up to date and had been for at least 18-months. Mr H declared an increased income of 
£92,000 a year, which Oakbrook had calculated to be £5,095.01 a month. Mr Hs bank 
statement for May 2016, which also wasnt provided to Oakbrook, confirms he received a 
monthly income of £4,554.08.
Based on the information from their credit file overview, Oakbrook calculated Mr H would be 
paying a minimum of 5% of the money he owed on his credit cards each month. And the 
only loan payment showing at this time was Loan 1, which was being repaid. Based on his 
income and deducting the credit card payments and the payment to Loan 2, Oakbrook 
calculated this left Mr H with £3,928.58 disposable income each month to pay his mortgage 
and other household bills. So they didnt do any further checks.
Even allowing for the lower income showing on Mr Hs bank statements, deducting the credit 
card payments, his mortgage of £557 a month, and the £1,683.19 living expenses theyd 
calculated when Loan 3 was approved; this would still have left Mr H with £1,693.89 
disposable income a month from which to pay Loan 2s £116.36 payment. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied that Oakbrook acted reasonably when approving Loan 2 and, 
based on all of the information available to Oakbrook, that it was affordable to Mr H at the 
time of application. So I wont be asking Oakbrook to do anything more about Loan 2.
Loan 3Mr H applied for Loan 3 on 1 September 2019. Hed made all of the payments to Loan 2 on 
time, and this had been repaid in full in December 2018. Mr Hs credit files show hed had 
some financial difficulties during 2018. And, as hes pointed out, weve previously said that a 
£300 loan Mr H was approved for in July 2018 was unaffordable to him at the time. But 
financial positions can change. So, just because a loan was unaffordable in July 2018, this 
doesnt mean a different loan was automatically unaffordable 14-month later. Id expect 
Oakbrook to have taken everything into consideration when they approved Loan 3. And from 
what Ive seen, they did.
Mr H asked for Loan 3 to consolidate his borrowing, so this wouldve reduced his monthly 
outgoings. And, because of Mr Hs recent credit history, Oakbrook did additional checks 
before approving Loan 3. Mr H declared an increased income of £95,000 a year, which 
Oakbrook calculated to be £5,302.99 a month. They also verified his income. Mr Hs bank 
statement for July 2019, again not provided to Oakbrook, confirms he received a monthly 
income of £4,743.27.
Based on the information from their credit file overview, Oakbrook calculated that Mr H 
would be paying a minimum of 5% of the money he owed on his credit cards each month. 
And he also outstanding loans at the time. Based on his income and deducting the credit 
card payments, the payment to his loans, the payment to his mortgage, the payment to Loan 
3, and his calculated living expenses of £1,683.89; Oakbrook said this left Mr H with 
£1,772.33 disposable income each month. So they didnt do any further checks.
Even allowing for the lower income showing on Mr Hs bank statements, deducting the credit 
card and loan payments, his mortgage of £571 a month, and the £1,683.19 living expenses; 
this would still have left Mr H with £1,768.58 disposable income from which to pay Loan 3s 
£231.93 payment. 
Given all of this, Im satisfied that Oakbrook acted reasonably when approving Loan 3 and, 
based on all of the information available to Oakbrook, that it was affordable to Mr H at the 
time of application. So I wont be asking Oakbrook to do anything more about Loan 3.
Did Oakbrook act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I havent seen anything to make me think Oakbrook acted unfairly or unreasonably in
some other way. So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint about Oakbrook Finance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2021.
 
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman