DRN-1844952
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr and Mrs F originally took out with a lender Ill call W. 
In 2018, W transferred the debt to a new lender (which Ill call C) whose administration is 
carried out by Target Servicing Limited. Mr and Mrs F are unhappy that Target has 
retrospectively recorded a default from 2017 on their credit files even though they maintain 
they reached agreement with W for the default not to go ahead.
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right 
outcome in the wider context. My remit is to take an overview and decide whats fair in the 
round. In doing that, I dont take instruction from either party to the complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
. Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the investigator, and for 
much the same reasons.
W had stopped making reports to credit reference agencies in 2013; Target resumed doing 
so when C took over as lender in 2018, and thats how this dispute came about. Target 
decided retrospectively to record a default process from 2017. In essence, what this case 
turns on is whether, if it had been making reports to credit reference agencies in 2017, W 
would have reported a default for Mr and Mrs F. Thats the question I have to decide.
Its not in dispute that W had issued letters informing Mr and Mrs F of its intention to register 
a default if they didnt clear their arrears by 18 June 2017. But the notice also offered the 
alternative of contacting it with settlement proposals. Mr and Mrs F did the latter, and agreed 
a settlement plan that resulted in the arrears being cleared in full by 20 June 2017. This was 
two days after the initial deadline, but was with Ws express agreement, and W specifically 
told Mr and Mrs F (I know this because Ive seen the emails) that no further action would 
take place. 
That being the case, Im satisfied that, had it still been making credit file reports in 2017, W 
would not have reported a default for Mr and Mrs F. Im surprised and rather disappointed 
that Target should not have understood this; had it done so, this matter could have been 
resolved many months ago. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint in part, and in full and final settlement direct Target Servicing Limited 
to remove any reference to the 2017 default from Mr and Mrs Fs credit files and pay 
Mr and Mrs F £250 compensation. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision before 24 November 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman