DRN-2273216
Complaint
Mr O has complained that 1plus 1 Loans Limited (trading as 1plus 1 Loans) provided him 
with an unaffordable guarantor loan. 
  
Background
1plus 1 Loans provided Mr O with a loan of £5,000.00 in August 2017. This loan had an APR 
of 46.9% and a 60-month term. This all meant the total amount repayable of £11,437.80 was 
due to be repaid in 60 monthly instalments of around £190.63.
Two of our investigators looked at this complaint and both thought that 1plus 1 Loans had 
unfairly provided Mr O with this loan. So they recommended the complaint be upheld. 1plus 
1 Loans disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review this 
complaint.
  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending -
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive
referred to this when deciding Mr Os complaint.
Having thought about everything, I think there are two overarching questions I need to 
answer in order to fairly and reasonably decide Mr Os complaint. These two questions are:
1. Did 1plus 1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself
that Mr O would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
o If not, would those checks have shown that Mr O wouldve been able to do 
so?
2. Did 1plus 1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Did 1plus 1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that
Mr O would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
1plus 1 Loans provided this loan while it was authorised and regulated by the Financial
Conduct Authority (FCA). The rules and regulations in place required 1plus 1 Loans to
carry out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of Mr Os ability to make the 
repayments under this agreement. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an 
affordability assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so 1plus 1 Loans had to think about whether
repaying the loan would cause significant adverse consequences for Mr O. In practice this
meant that 1plus 1 Loans had to ensure that making the payments to the loan wouldnt
cause Mr O undue difficulty or adverse consequences.
In other words, it wasnt enough for 1plus 1 Loans to simply think about the likelihood of
it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr O. The 
existence of a guarantee and the potential for 1plus 1 Loans to pursue the guarantor instead 
of Mr O, for the loan payments doesnt alter, lessen, or somehow dilute this obligation.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking.
Even for the same customer, a proportionate check could look different for different
applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended 
period); and
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given loan application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances.
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were 1plus 1 Loans checks reasonable and proportionate?
1plus 1 Loans says that it carried out an income and expenditure assessment with Mr O 
prior to providing him with his loan. It also carried out a credit check, checked Mr Os income 
electronically and cross-referenced Mr Os expenditure against data from the Office of 
National Statistics (ONS). Mr O confirmed that he was earning around £3,400.00 a month 
and had total expenses of £1,308.00. After an additional buffer of £100 was applied this left 
him with £1,992.00 in monthly disposable income. 
The credit check 1plus 1 Loans carried out showed that Mr O had two defaulted accounts, 
which were going to be settled with some of the proceeds from this loan. 1plus 1 Loans says 
Mr O had enough left to be able to comfortably make the required monthly loan payments, 
when the living costs and the monthly payments left needed to meet the credit commitments shown on the credit check once they were consolidated by this loan, were deducted from    
Mr Os monthly income. 
 
Ive carefully thought about what 1plus 1 Loans has said. But simply requesting information 
from a borrower doesnt, on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower 
focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan. 
1plus 1 Loans had information indicating that Mr O had significant difficulties with credit in 
the past. Bearing in mind the regulatory rules place an obligation to carry out a borrower 
focused check, where previous repayment difficulties are apparent, I would expect a lender 
to take additional steps to verify that a consumer can take on an additional commitment 
before providing it. I have concerns with 1plus 1 Loans use of ONS data to cross-check     
Mr Os living expenses. I accept that the FCA does permit the use of statistical data to 
estimate a prospective borrowers non-discretionary expenditure. But its also fair to say that 
it is unfair to rely on such data where it is unlikely to be reasonably representative of the 
prospective borrowers situation. 
1plus 1 Loans used ONS data, which was based on the finances and expenditure of the 
average consumer, to estimate Mr Os living expenses. But 1plus 1 Loans knew, when it lent 
to Mr O, that it was providing a loan to someone whose credit file suggested they fell outside 
this average portfolio. I dont think that using ONS data  which was unlikely to reflect the 
existing commitments and expenditure of someone in Mr Os position is fair, reasonable and 
proportionate. Id also add that Im not persuaded that Mr Os debt to income level ratio of 
37% was low and didnt warrant further investigation either  especially as this was made up 
of unsecured personal debt.  
Furthermore, Im also concerned how 1plus 1 Loans seems to have proceeded with this 
application on the basis that Mr O had a monthly disposable income of £1,992.00. This is 
despite the fact that this disposable income was clearly at odds with what his credit file was 
displaying and him apparently needing to borrow £5,000.00 on these terms and also involve 
a guarantor, to now clear accounts which had defaulted some time ago.
I want to confirm that Ive also seen what 1plus 1 Loans has said about outcomes reached in 
another unrelated case confirming that its checks were proportionate. But I dont think that it 
is appropriate for me to review the conclusions reached by other casehandlers on a 
completely separate and unrelated case, or equally that these conclusions mean 1plus 1 
Loans can reasonably conclude all complaints about irresponsible lending made against it 
will never be upheld. 
In any event, Ive already explained that 1plus 1 Loans was required to carry out a borrower 
focused check. And it is the particular circumstances of the borrower (e.g. their financial 
history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial 
difficulty) together with the type, amount and cost of credit being provided thats the main 
driver in determining whether a check is proportionate. So its entirely possible that a 
proportionate check  for similar loan amounts - could look different depending on the 
individual circumstances of the prospective borrower.
Bearing all of this in mind, I think that 1plus 1 Loans needed to take additional steps to verify 
Mr Os income and expenditure instead of choosing to rely on what appeared to be an over-
optimistic calculation of his monthly disposable income based on data and some electronic 
checks. As I cant see that this 1plus 1 Loans did do this, or in fact take any additional steps 
at all to address the apparent mismatch between Mr Os credit file and the disposable 
income arrived at, I dont think that the checks it carried out before providing Mr O with his 
loan were reasonable and proportionate.Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to 1plus 1 Loans that Mr O
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, 
I cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told 1plus 1 Loans that Mr O wouldve been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr O has now provided us with evidence of his financial circumstances at the time he 
applied for this loan. Of course, I accept different checks might show different things. And 
just because something shows up in the information Mr O has provided, it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 1plus 1 Loans mightve carried out.
But in the absence of anything else from 1plus 1 Loans showing what this information would 
have shown, I think its perfectly fair, reasonable and proportionate to place considerable 
weight on it as an indication of what Mr Os financial circumstances were more likely than not 
to have been at the time. To be clear, Ive not looked at Mr Os bank statements because I 
think that 1plus 1 Loans ought to have obtained them before lending to him. Ive consulted 
Mr Os bank statements because they were readily available at this stage and they contain 
the information I now need to reconstruct the proportionate check 1plus 1 Loans should have 
but failed to carry out.
1plus 1 Loans was required to establish whether Mr O could sustainably make his loan 
repayments  not just whether the loan payments were technically affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation, or simply proceed on the basis that it, in any event, had a 
second bite of the cherry in terms of being able to recover payments from the guarantor.
Of course the loan payments being affordable on a strict pounds and pence basis might be 
an indication that a consumer could sustainably make the repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow that this is the case. And as a borrower shouldnt have to borrow further 
in order to make their payments, it follows that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and 
reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to sustainably make their repayments if 
it is on notice that they are unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. Ive carefully considered the information Mr O has provided in light of all of this.
The information provided shows that Mr Os income wasnt too dissimilar to what hed 
declared and what was confirmed by 1plus 1 Loans electronic checks. But Mr Os bank 
statements show that he was in a difficult financial position. He was regularly exceeding his 
overdraft limit and having direct debits returned by his bank. 1plus 1 Loans will be aware that 
the FCA, in CONC 1.3, sets out that the non-payment of essential bills in itself is an 
indication that a customer may be experiencing financial difficulty. Furthermore, Mr O 
applied for three other guarantor loans, using the same guarantor, in the lead up to and 
around the time of this application.  
1plus 1 Loans is now also aware that Mr O was gambling significant sums of money. And 
the sums of money involved are a clear indication that Mr O was unlikely to be able to repay 
this loan without borrowing further or suffering undue financial difficulty. 
In reaching my conclusions on this matter, Ive considered what 1plus 1 Loans has said 
about Mr O not disclosing his gambling. But Im also mindful that CONC 5.3.7R says: 
A firm must not accept an application for credit under a regulated credit agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect that the customer has not been truthful in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R(1).The income and expenditure information (and calculation of disposable income) 1plus 1 
Loans proceeded with was inconsistent with other information regarding Mr Os financial 
position, which it had but chose to ignore  namely Mr Os impaired credit history calling into 
question whether he really had a monthly disposable income of approaching £2,000.00. 
So I dont think that its fair and reasonable for 1plus 1 Loans to claim it was misled by Mr O 
when it had sufficient information to have realised that the information it was relying on 
simply didnt add up. And I consider 1plus 1 Loans use of inflammatory language such as 
fraud and its reference to the Fraud Act 2006 to be particularly unhelpful here.
Bearing all of this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would 
more likely than not have demonstrated that Mr O was unlikely to have been able to make 
the repayments to this loan without borrowing further and/or suffering undue difficulty. And, 
in these circumstances, I find that reasonable and proportionate checks would more likely 
than not have alerted 1plus 1 Loans to the fact that Mr O would not be able to sustainably 
make the repayments to this loan.
 
Did 1plus 1 Loans act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other way?
Ive carefully thought about everything provided. Having done so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude 1plus 1 Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in 
some other way.  
So I find that 1plus 1 Loans didnt act unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr O in some other 
way.  
Did Mr O lose out as a result of 1plus 1 Loans unfairly providing him with this loan?
As Mr O has paid or is being expected to pay interest and charges on a loan that he
shouldnt have been provided with, Im satisfied that he has lost out as a result of what
1plus 1 Loans did wrong.
So I think that 1plus 1 Loans needs to put things right.
  
Fair compensation - what 1plus 1 Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr O
Having thought about everything, I think its fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
Mr Os complaint for 1plus 1 Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The
payments Mr O has made should be deducted from the £5,000.00 he was
originally lent. 1plus 1 Loans should treat any payments made if and when the
£5,000.00 has been cleared as overpayments. And any overpayments should be
refunded to Mr O;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date
they were made by Mr O to the date of settlement;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 1plus 1 Loans to take off tax from this interest.
1plus 1 Loans must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if
he asks for one.Id also remind 1plus 1 Loans of its obligation to exercise forbearance if an outstanding 
balance remains after all adjustments have been made to Mr Os account and its the case 
that he is experiencing financial difficulty.
  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Os complaint. 1plus 1 Loans Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman