DRN-3140612
The complaint
Mr A complains that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund him for 
transactions to gambling companies he says he didnt make or agree to.
What happened
Mr A holds a current account with Halifax. In July 2020 he paid a large sum in to this account 
from his business account.
Over the next day his card details were used to make a number of deposits to several 
gambling firms. The majority of the available money in the account was spent in just over an 
hour, leaving the account overdrawn.
Mr A says he logged on to his online banking and contacted Halifax as he didnt recognise 
the transactions. He said hed never gambled and had not made these transactions. He 
asked Halifax to refund the transactions in dispute, but after review Halifax declined to 
refund them. 
Mr A was unhappy with this and complained, saying he didnt make the transactions. He also 
asked why Halifax allowed such a large sum of money out of his account to go towards 
gambling transactions.
Halifax looked at what happened, but declined to refund Mr A. They said there didnt seem to 
be a point of compromise for Mr As card details for a fraudster to get hold of them, as Mr A 
kept the card with himself and hadnt entered the details on any new websites where they 
could have been stolen. They said it wasnt typical of a fraudster to make transactions to 
gambling firms, as it is of little financial benefit to them. They also felt the activity indicated 
someone who had knowledge of Mr As account.
Unhappy with this answer Mr A referred the complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint, but ultimately didnt feel Halifax had done anything 
wrong. They couldnt see how a third party would have come to know Mr As card details, as 
well as be aware of the large payment in to the account. Mr A had said he hadnt shared this 
information with anyone. 
The investigator also couldnt see why a fraudster would use stolen funds to gamble  as 
typically winnings from gambling websites can only be paid out to the card they were paid in 
on. So, there didnt seem to be a reason for a fraudster to do this, if they could just use the 
card details to steal. The investigator also said the spending pattern wasnt unusual for the 
account, so didnt think it would have flagged on Halifaxs system. 
Overall, they felt the most likely explanation was that Mr A either made these transactions 
himself or allowed someone else to do so. They didnt feel Halifax should be responsible for 
refunding Mr A.
Mr A didnt agree with this, saying he had never gambled and had not made these 
transactions. Because no agreement could be reached the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally, Halifax can hold Mr A liable for transactions if the evidence suggests that its 
more likely than not he made or authorised the transactions himself.
Ive reviewed the banks technical evidence, and Im satisfied that Mr As genuine card 
details were used to make the payments. But this isnt enough in itself to say Mr A carried 
out the transactions.
But from the evidence Ive seen, I think its more likely than not the transactions were either 
carried out by Mr A, or with his knowledge. I say this because:
Mr A says he didnt share his card details with anyone else, or allow anybody else to 
use his account. So, there doesnt seem to be a clear explanation of how someone 
could have got hold of the details to carry out these transactions.
There have been other online transactions from Mr As account, so its possible that 
his details may have been compromised this way. But the previous online transaction 
was the day before. It seems unlikely that having come in to possession of Mr As 
card details a fraudster would wait for at least another day before trying to carry out 
any transactions.
The spending makes use of the majority of the balance. It then stops, at which point 
Mr A contacts Halifax to cancel his card. That the payments stop suggests to me that 
the person making the transactions was aware of the balance on the account. Mr A 
has said he didnt tell anyone about the payment in to the account. Ive not seen 
anything to suggest someone was able to check the balance at an ATM. And from 
the technical evidence it seems the only person to access the online banking that day 
was Mr A  he made two undisputed faster payments in the morning. I cant see a 
way that someone other than Mr A would have known the balance on the account.
Halifax havent been able to confirm the details on the gambling accounts used. But 
Ive reviewed the terms of the gambling companies involved. One company doesnt 
specify how withdrawals can be made. But the other states that in all instances they 
will process a withdrawal back to the debit card used to deposit on the gambling 
account. It would seem pointless for a fraudster to try to defraud Mr A in this way, as 
any money sent to the gambling account could only be withdrawn back to Mr As 
account. This makes it seem unlikely these transactions were carried out by an 
unknown fraudster. It would seem more straightforward for a fraudster to simply steal 
the money, such as through a money transfer service, or electronic money account.
There are a few attempts to pay a third gambling merchant after the card was 
cancelled. But these are over an hour after the original spending, and there are only 
a few attempts to make use of the card. This suggests to me that the person making 
these transactions was aware of when the card had been cancelled and was trying to 
make it look like a third party was still attempting to use the card.
Overall then, Im not satisfied that these transactions took place without Mr As involvement. 
I think its more likely than not these transactions were made either by Mr A, or someone 
with his permission. This means the transactions can be considered authorised, and Halifax 
arent liable for refunding them.Mr A has also questioned why Halifax allowed these transactions to go through, considering 
they were out of character for the account. Having reviewed the file I cant see there were 
any gambling transactions prior to this, or these amounts spent. 
But I also have to bear in mind that Mr As complaint is based on that he didnt carry out 
these transactions, and I think its more likely than not he did. It follows that an intervention 
by Halifax wouldnt have prevented any losses to unauthorised transactions, as I think the 
transactions were authorised.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Thom Bennett
Ombudsman