The complaint
Mr P complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc (trading as Barclaycard) are holding him liable for 
credit card transactions that he says he didnt make or otherwise authorise. 
What happened
Between 8.30pm on 26 January 2019 and 12.43am on 27 January 2019 there were ten 
payments made from Mr Ps credit card. All the transactions were completed online and 
were to the same betting provider which Ill refer to as S. The total of these transactions 
was £1,070. 
Mr P says he was asleep in bed at the time of the payments and told Barclays he didnt 
make or authorise them. Barclays investigated but concluded that no fraud had taken place, 
they explained the genuine card details had been used to make the payments. And as Mr P 
hadnt been able to explain how the card details had been compromised, they thought he 
had authorised the payments. 
Barclays also raised a chargeback with S. But S defended this and so it wasnt successful. 
Mr P complained but Barclays maintained their position so the complaint was referred to our 
service. One of our investigators looked into it and thought it shouldnt be upheld. He 
concluded Barclays had acted fairly in the circumstances and didnt recommend that they 
needed to do more. 
As he still disagrees, Mr P has asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with our investigator and for essentially the same reasons. So Im 
not upholding it and Ill explain why.
Generally speaking Barclays can only hold Mr P liable for the transactions he disputes if the 
evidence suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself. 
Im satisfied by the technical evidence provided by Barclays that Mr Ps genuine card and 
security details were used to make each transaction. But the regulations relevant to this 
complaint say that is not, on its own, enough to hold Mr P liable. So Ive gone on to think 
about whether the evidence suggests its more likely than not that Mr P consented to the 
transactions being made. 
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Barclays to conclude that 
DRN-1323656Mr P authorised the transactions. This is because:
There is no plausible explanation for how Mr Ps card details came to be
compromised. He says he had it with him and it has never been lost or stolen.
There is no explanation for how a fraudster would have known the details required to
log into Mr Ps account with S.
S only allows withdrawals from their accounts to go to  the same payment method
used to credit the account. So there was no potential benefit from the gambling to
anyone other than Mr P.
The IP Address used to make the payments was consistent with non-disputed
payments that Mr P made.
So taking everything into consideration, I think its more likely than not that Mr P consented 
to the payments. It follows that overall I think they were authorised and that its therefore fair 
for Barclays to hold him liable for them. 
Further to this I think Barclays handled the chargeback fairly. And in the circumstances of 
this complaint, I dont think they ought to have done more. If the spending that Mr P disputes 
has caused him difficulties in repaying his outstanding balance, Mr P should tell Barclays. 
And in those circumstances I would expect Barclays to treat him positively and 
sympathetically. But I dont think they need to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 January 2020.
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman