DRN-3469155
The complaint
Mr M complains Project Imagine Ltd (PIL), trading as Dozens, blocked his account, 
withheld his funds, and registered a fraud marker against him causing trouble and upset. 
What happened
In November 2020, PIL reviewed Mr Ms account and decided to block his access to it.  In 
doing so, PIL also withheld the remaining funds in Mr Ms account. PIL asked Mr M to 
provide it with various details related to his occupation, proof of the source of funds in the 
account and information about a particular payment. 
PIL also explained it was unable to offer an account facility to Mr M as he was listed on a 
National Fraud Database  CIFAS (Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance System). Mr M looked 
into this and found it was PIL that had added him to CIFAS database. Unhappy with PILs 
actions, Mr M complained. 
In response, PIL said it would continue to retain the funds, and the CIFAS listing would not 
be removed. PIL decided to close Mr Ms account in February 2021, and it continued to hold 
the funds in the account. Mr M referred his complaint to this service. 
Mr M provided explanations, invoices, and other information which he said showed his 
entitlement to the funds in his account, and that payments made into his account were not 
fraudulent. 
PIL said it should have carried out a more extensive source of funds check, and now 
realised it should have returned most of Mr Ms money as it had no further concerns.  
Following this, our Investigator made these key findings: 
- PIL reviewed the account in line with its obligations and account terms. PIL isnt 
obligated to provide any explanation for doing so
- PIL acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with the terms of the account, when it 
decided to close Mr Ms account immediately. PIL is under no obligation to explain 
why it did this. PIL also acted in line with any legal and regulatory obligations placed 
on it 
- The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one and should be more than just 
suspicion or concern. Based on the information provided, our Investigator was 
satisfied the marker had been applied correctly  and the burden of proof to do so, 
was met
- PIL did cause some undue delay, as it should have returned most of the funds held in 
it in November 2020. PIL have acknowledged this delay and offered to return around 
£620 and pay 8% interest from the date of the account suspension till April 2022. 
This is a fair offer
Mr M provided his bank details as part acceptance of what our Investigator said. But he did 
not agree the CIFAS marker was added fairly and that it doesnt need to be removed. Some 
of the key things he says are: 
- He hasnt been able to open mainstream bank account including basic accounts. The 
only account available to him charges substantive fees exacerbating his financial 
difficulties.  Hes also not been able to take out any credit. This has prevented him 
buying a car to help him gain employment. This has caused severe stress and 
anxiety
- The marker says, First Party Fraud  Opening an account or other facility for a 
fraudulent purpose or the fraudulent use of an account or facility. Mr M contests, in 
the strongest terms, that hes ever opened or used an account for fraudulent 
purposes
As Mr M didnt agree with everything our Investigator said, the complaint has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why.  
PIL said it held onto most Mr Ms funds in error. Mr M has agreed to PILs offer to return 
these funds and pay 8% interest on them from November 2020. So, as both parties have 
agreed on this, I dont need to make a finding on this part of the complaint. 
But I do need to consider whether PIL acted fairly in reviewing the account, closing it, and 
recording a CIFAS marker against Mr M. 
Account review, block and closure 
Financial businesses in the UK, like PIL, are strictly regulated and must take certain actions 
in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required to carry out 
ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means they need to 
restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Having looked at PILs reasons for doing so, Im satisfied it acted fairly, and in line with 
obligations placed on it, when deciding to review and block Mr Ms account. 
PIL is entitled to close an account just as a customer may close an account with it. But 
before it closes an account, it must do so in a way, which complies with the terms and 
conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions of the account, which PIL and Mr M had to comply with, say that it 
could close the account by giving him at least two months notice. And in certain 
circumstances it can close an account immediately or with less notice. 
Having looked at the information given to me by PIL, Im satisfied it was entitled to close the 
account in the way that it has done. I know Mr M would like an explanation, but as Ive 
already said, Im aware of no obligation under which PIL, or that I, must do so. 
CIFAS markerMr M clearly remains unhappy with this part of his complaint given his response to what our 
Investigator said. To my mind, PILs application of a CIFAS marker is the crux of Mr Ms 
complaint. 
The marker PIL has filed with CIFAS is intended to record theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. To file such a marker, PILs not 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt Mr M is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, but 
they must show there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. 
CIFAS says:
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police
What this means in practice is that a financial business must first be able to show fraudulent 
funds have entered Mr Ms account, whether they are retained or pass through the account. 
Secondly, PIL will need to have strong evidence to show the consumer was deliberately 
dishonest in receiving the fraudulent payments and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate 
payment.
A marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there should be 
enough evidence to show deliberate complicity. So, I need to consider whether PIL has 
enough evidence to meet the standard of proof and load a marker for misuse of facility with 
CIFAS.
Id like to assure Mr M Ive carefully considered all the information both he and PIL have 
given to us. Based on that Im satisfied PIL met the burden of proof required for it to have 
applied the marker. 
I note Mr M says he hasnt used his account for fraudulent purposes, but Ive explained 
above what standards PIL had to meet to apply that marker. And, with that in mind, Im 
satisfied, from what Ive seen, that PIL has acted fairly in applying the CIFAS marker.  So, 
Im persuaded PIL doesnt need to remove it. 
It's unfortunate the results of the marker have affected Mr M in the way hes explained. But 
as I think PIL acted fairly in applying it, I dont make any award for compensation for any 
distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr M. 
My final decision
Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. I now direct Project Imagine Ltd to return Mr Ms 
funds with 8% simple interest in line with it offered to do.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Ketan Nagla
Ombudsman