DRN-2620899
The complaint
 Miss W complains about what Barclays Bank UK PLC did when she told it that her old card
had been used to make purchases on a games console, although she said it shouldve been 
cancelled and blocked.
 
What happened
Miss W told us that a payment to a games console company had been made by mistake, by
a younger member of her household. Miss W said that the console company was going to
refund the payment, but she was worried that the details were from an old card, which shed
cancelled some months ago due to an unauthorised payment. She said it wasnt possible for
the family member to have put her new card details onto the console. So she wanted to
know how this payment had been cleared by the bank.
Miss W has sent us a list of transactions shes obtained from the games console company.
That does show a successful payment for £75.97 having been taken from Miss Ws old card.
Miss W told Barclays that she was getting a refund of the missing money from the games
console company, although she later suggested that this wasnt guaranteed, and suggested
Barclays should reimburse her. And she also said that her old card details were also stored
with other companies, so she wanted to make sure this couldnt happen again.
Barclays said the transaction for £75.97 hadnt been made on her old card. It sent her a note
of transactions with the console company. That said that on 10 July 2020 at 15.48 a
transaction for £75.97 had cleared, using her new card details. Then later on the same day,
at 18.47, a transaction for £5 with the same console company had been declined, because
her old card details were used.
Barclays has sent us details of these transactions, which show that the cleared payment was
processed on her new card.
Miss W told Barclays that she was concerned that payments on her old card might still clear,
even though it had been cancelled. She was initially simply told that this was not the case.
Barclays has sent us a letter dated 16 July, which says the same thing about the transaction
Miss W was contesting, but also contains more details of how a continuous payment
authority (CPA) works. That letter makes clear that payments under a CPA wont
necessarily be stopped because the card has been cancelled. It says this 
Regardless of whether your card has been cancelled, payments can still be taken
from the chosen account.
It also says this 
To cancel a CPA, you should initially contact the business to cancel the
arrangement with them.
And
Once a claim has been made, we must allow the merchant 31 days to cancel the
instruction at their end, however this will not guarantee that further recurring
payments will not be processed within this time.
This appears to overlook Miss Ws right to ask the card issuer (Barclays) to cancel a CPA, if
she wishes. As the FCA has made clear, Miss W doesnt need to contact the company. And
if she asks Barclays to cancel, it must action this immediately.
FCA advice on this reads as follows 
In most cases, you should be able to cancel by contacting the company taking the
payment and asking it to stop. However, you do have the right to cancel directly with
your card issuer. Once you have done this, it must stop payments immediately  it
cannot insist that you agree this with the company taking the payment first.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. She thought it was more likely that a mistake
had been made by the console company than by Barclays.
Miss W didnt think that was right. She said the games console company never had access
to her new card number. She wanted us to ask the console company about this. She still
thought Barclays had authorised a payment from an old, cancelled card. She wanted her
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
Miss W then wrote again to say that Barclays had accused her son of being a thief, and left
her with no money.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I did propose to uphold 
it. This is what I said then: 
Miss W received confirmation from her console company on 13 July, that showed this
payment was taken from her old card. She has sent this to our service. We havent 
been able to confirm this with the console company, but I think its most likely that 
what Miss W has forwarded to us is what she was sent.
I have also seen the records from Barclays, which show that the payment of £75.97 
was received by it with the details of the new card.
So I think its most likely that both sides are, to some extent, right here. I think Miss 
W is right that the details of her old card were used for this payment. And I think 
Barclays is right that by the time the payment request was processed and passed to 
it, this request had the new card details.
I think that this payment was likely to have been set up as a CPA to the console 
company. I know that Barclays has said that there is no evidence of this, and it says 
that it hasnt suggested this to Miss W. But that isnt consistent with what I can hear 
on the extensive call evidence that Barclays has supplied to our service. There is 
some doubt cast, on those calls, as to how reliably Barclays can tell whether a 
payment was made under a CPA, and it is also suggested to Miss W that this was a 
CPA.
So I think its most likely that it was a CPA. And, as Barclays own letter makes clear, 
just cancelling a card wont always cancel a CPA.
The reason that cancelling a card wont always cancel a CPA is that when the card 
scheme operator (the business whose symbol is on Miss Ws card) gets details of transactions on an old card, it looks for a new card which has replaced the old one. 
Then it gives details of the new card to that merchant. This is designed to make sure 
that payments dont all fail every time someones card expires.
I note that this was the first time since Miss Ws card ending 8018 had been 
cancelled, that it was used to make a payment to the console company. So I think its 
possible that the card scheme operator, or its processing agent, changed the details 
from the old card to the new card when it was processing this payment. That would 
explain both why Miss W has transaction details which refer only to the old card, and 
Barclays has transaction details which refer only to the new card, for the same 
transaction.
On the information that I have, I think thats most likely to be what happened. But I 
cant be sure. And our service doesnt regulate the card scheme operator, so if 
something it has done has caused this problem, I cant ask it to make changes.
But I dont think Barclays made a mistake when it processed this payment. The 
payment request that reached it didnt have Miss Ws old card details.
Miss W said at first that the console company would be refunding her. Then in later 
calls she says that she doesnt know whether shell get a refund, and suggests that 
Barclays should refund her, or that the console company has suggested Barclays 
should refund her.
I dont think that Barclays does have to refund this payment. Like Barclays, I would 
expect the console company to have made a refund. But even if it hasnt, because 
this payment request reached Barclays with her new card details, I dont think 
Barclays has to pay this money back.
That doesnt mean that I dont think Barclays made any mistakes at all here. I do 
think it couldve handled things better.
I know Miss W said that Barclays had called her a liar, and her family member a thief. 
But I cant hear that Barclays did accuse her of lying or suggest that anyone in her 
family had stolen the money. I know that one call handler did suggest that she has a 
similar games console, and her child could use her card, but she didnt suggest either 
that Miss W was lying or that her child was a thief.
I think that Barclays call handlers did their best in dealing with a difficult situation, 
where there was a conflict between the information that they had in front of them, and 
the information Miss W was giving them. I dont think that Barclays has been rude or
unprofessional in dealing with Miss W. 
But I do think that Barclays has been less than clear and helpful in how it has dealt 
with Miss Ws complaint. She has repeatedly expressed concern that her old card 
could be used to make purchases now. I think that Barclays ought to have set out for 
her, on its calls with her, how CPAs work, and how she could be sure that the card 
would not be used again.
Barclays didnt give her advice on this over the phone, and the advice it gave her in 
writing on 16 July isnt entirely in step with the FCA guidance on this issue.
I also think Barclays let Miss W down by not investigating this issue at all. It  could 
have checked with the card scheme operator, or with the console company, to see 
what had gone wrong. Instead, it closed Miss Ws complaint almost straight away.I think that Miss W was given poor advice which appears to have contradicted the 
letter that Barclays sent her. And I think she was left with no investigation of what had 
actually gone wrong here, or any clear understanding of whether or not her old card 
could be used again.
For those reasons, I think that Barclays should pay Miss W some compensation now. 
I think a payment of £150 would provide a fair and reasonable outcome to this 
complaint.
I invited the parties to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides replied.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays said it would accept the provisional decision, and pay the amount Id suggested. 
Miss W said shed read my decision and understood it. She was still upset at being left with 
no money for the weekend, and noted that she has a young family. She said she still panics 
about that, and she had asked Barclays for help at the time. But she said she understood 
Barclays is a bank, not a charity. 
I do understand that this payment left Miss W with no money in her account. I think its 
difficult for Barclays to help if the payment wasnt its mistake, and Miss W wasnt eligible for 
an overdraft on her account. So I was glad to see that a family member had been able to 
send her a little money to help over the weekend.
Miss W thanked me for looking into this further and explaining what could have happened. 
Im glad shes found this helpful. 
I have considered the representations of both sides, and I havent changed my mind. So Ill 
now make the award I originally proposed.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank UK PLC must pay Miss W £150.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 March 2021. 
Esther Absalom-Gough
Ombudsman