DRN-1703647
Complaint
This complaint is about two credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out 
in 1997 at the same time. Mr W says Barclays Bank UK PLC "Barclays" mis-sold him the 
PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ws case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr W says it was not made clear that the PPI was optional. But Barclays says it made the 
optional nature of the PPI clear and Mr W agreed to take it. Where there is a dispute like 
this, I have to decide what I think is more likely based on the evidence available which 
includes both Barclays and Mr Ws testimony. 
Mr W applied for both his credit cards on one paper application form and Ive seen a copy of 
it. This form had a section to add PPI. Customers had the option to select a Yes option to 
add PPI, or a No option to decline it. The option to add PPI has been ticked and the form has 
been signed. I wouldve expected Mr W to have looked over the form before signing it. 
So overall, while Ive thought carefully about what Mr W has said, I think Barclays made it 
clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr W so it had to check the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, he 
was eligible for the policy. 
Mr W initially told us he didnt have any medical conditions prior to taking this PPI. So it looks 
like he wasnt significantly affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover such as the term excluding cover for known health issues. But hes then later said he 
did have a medical condition prior to taking the policies. The PPI was sold a very long time 
ago so it is understandable that Mr W might not remember in detail what conditions he had 
at the time. While weve asked him to provide evidence that he had this condition at the time 
of sale  he hasnt been able to provide us with any. Given the inconsistencies in what Mr W 
has told us, I havent seen enough to conclude he wouldve been caught by the terms. 
Based on what Ive seen, Mr W also seems to have had a need for the cover. Mr W told us 
he had some sick pay provided by his employer. But this policy wouldve paid out on top of 
his sick pay for up to 12 months if he was off work because of illness or injury  which is 
longer than his sick pay wouldve lasted. It also couldve paid out for up to 12 months for 
unemployment. So, I still think the PPI couldve been useful for him. Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been  for example the form didnt fully set out how costs would be worked out. 
But his application form did say that a monthly premium would be deducted form his 
accounts, so I think he knew hed pay something for it and he still wanted it. As I think he 
chose to take it out - it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would 
have been useful for him if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So, I 
dont think better information wouldve stopped him taking out the cover. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before  27August 2020.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman