DRN-3351843
The complaint
Mr M complains that UK Credit Limited trading as UK Credit (UKC) didnt carry out enough 
checks when they agreed to a loan he was guaranteeing.
What happened
In September 2019, Mr M agreed to be the guarantor on a loan of £12,500 for Mr B, a friend. 
UKC provided Mr B with the loan. It was secured by way of a Guarantee and Indemnity 
agreement and was due be repaid in 30 monthly instalments of £584.09. Mr M said he only 
agreed to be the guarantor as Mr B gave him assurance that he would maintain the 
repayments. Mr M said he was asked by UKC to step in to cover the repayments for the 
loan. He complained to UKC as he didnt think theyd done enough to check the affordability 
of the loan for Mr B.
UKC said theyd carried out checks on Mr Bs credit, verified his income, and checked the 
purpose of the loan. They said their affordability assessment had shown Mr B had 
disposable income after making an allowance for the loans monthly repayment. And they 
hadnt seen anything to raise any concerns about Mr B not being able to sustain his 
repayments. 
Mr M wasnt happy with UKCs response and he referred his complaint to us. 
Our investigator said that Mr M was aware of his responsibilities as a guarantor. But she 
didnt think UKC had done enough to verify Mr Bs financial circumstances given the amount 
of the loan and the monthly repayment. She said Mr M should be removed from being the 
guarantor for the loan. All payments hes made should be refunded plus 8% simple interest. 
And any adverse information about the loan should be removed from his credit file.
UKC didnt agree. They said that while they could have checked further into some late 
payments, there wasnt anything to show Mr B was in any financial difficulty. And that the 
checks theyd made showed he was effectively managing his credit. They asked for an 
ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr Ms complaint is that UKC didnt do sufficient checks on the borrower  Mr B
before he was approved for the loan. Mr M  says Mr B lied to him about his circumstances. 
And he thinks Mr B has acted fraudulently.
UKC has a responsibility to complete reasonable and proportionate checks on the borrower 
before approving any guarantor or loan. This meant that UKC needed to carry out 
proportionate checks to be able to understand whether the borrower and Mr M could afford 
to make all the loan payments.
Ive considered the following questions:
Did UKC obtain Mr Ms properly informed consent to become guarantor for the loan?
Did UKC carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr M 
was in a position to sustainably repay the loan, in the event that the borrower did 
not? If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the 
time? And
did UKC make a fair lending decision (as Mr M would be equally liable for this
loan with the borrower).
Mr M signed a Guarantee and Indemnity agreement in respect of the loan. That meant that,
should the borrower be unable or unwilling to make the required repayments, UKC could 
seek repayment from Mr M. And Mr M isnt disputing that he knew what his role was as a 
guarantor, and that he could be asked to step in to cover the loan. Mr Ms dispute is that 
UKC didnt make a fair lending decision as Mr B had other loans and gambling debts that 
Mr M said he later found out about. Mr M said if UKC had properly checked Mr Bs financial 
situation they wouldnt have lent to him. Which would have meant Mr M wouldnt have been 
a guarantor for the loan. So, its the final question that Ive considered.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. Theres no set list for what 
reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders to consider the specific 
circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a proportionate affordability check 
will generally depend on several factors such as financial history, current situation and 
whether there are any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
But there are factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check should be for 
a given loan application. For example:
the consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher amount from a particular level of income); and
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is 
likely to be greater and the consumer is required to make payments for an extended 
period).
I can see that UKC checked Mr Bs credit file and went through an affordability assessment 
with him over the telephone. And from the information they saw or were given by Mr B, they 
didnt see any evidence of financial difficulty. And they considered Mr B had sufficient 
disposable income to cover the monthly repayments for the loan.
But I dont think UKC thought carefully enough about what Mr B told them in the affordability 
call. And I dont think they did enough to obtain an accurate picture of his income or 
outgoings. 
UKCs affordability assessment showed Mr B was self-employed, but was paid a monthly 
salary. UKC verified his income through a credit reference agency. Mr B said hed recently 
moved back to living with his parents and didnt pay any rent, a situation Id expect would change over the 30 month period of the loan. Mr B said he contributed to household costs 
for example food and he was also paying for child maintenance although he also said he 
didnt have children. 
Although UKC said theyd verified Mr Bs monthly salary paid from his company, they appear 
to have accepted what he said about his expenditure. Mr B said the loan was for debt 
consolidation and the purchase of a car. But Mr B also said during the call he was looking to 
invest and purchase property.  Mr B said he received dividend payments from his company 
and gave an example of one for £10,000. Mr B also referred to having two companies, and 
while his position in one company was discussed, and his salary and dividend payments, no 
details were asked about the other company hed referred to. With this and the level of 
disposable income UKC considered he had makes me question Mr Bs need for a loan when 
he was able to meet his existing commitments. And this loan would increase his level of 
indebtedness and his monthly repayment commitment.
In the call Mr B also referred to personal debts he needed to clear. No questions were asked 
as to the amount or cause of the personal debts. Mr B was asked whether hed applied for 
other credit and he responded, not in this way -No.  Mr M has shown to us that Mr B was 
applying for other guarantor loans at the same time, while these may not have been evident 
to UKC at the time of his application, hed made clear he was borrowing form other people. 
So, I think there were several warning signs that UKC should have interrogated further, 
given what was said to establish Mr Bs potential income and outgoings. 
So, I have concerns as to whether the income and expenditure information Mr B gave was 
accurate. And this puts in doubt in my opinion, Mr Bs disposable income figures that UKC 
calculated. 
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning UKC needed to consider 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr B. In other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to think only about the likelihood that they 
would get their money back without considering the impact of repayment on Mr B himself.
The Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) 5.2A.20 covers the scope, extent and 
proportionality of assessment. Its says:
to satisfy the requirement that the assessment is a reasonable one, based on sufficient 
information, are dependent upon, and proportionate to, the individual circumstances of each 
case.
This means what may be a proportionate check for one individual may be different for 
another. CONC provides a number of considerations that should be made by the lender. 
Taking the factors outlined above I think given the amount of the loan, and the level of 
indebtedness. I think UKC should have done further checks to verify Mr Bs true financial 
circumstances. This could have been to check Mr Bs bank statements and his self-
assessment for his companies tax returns to give a clearer picture of his income and 
commitments.  
So, taking this all into account, Im satisfied that proportionate checks werent completed. But 
the next question is whether these checks would have shown the loan was unaffordable. As 
this information isnt available to review, I cant say what UKC would have seen. But Ive 
considered whether UKC did enough to get a reasonable understanding of whether Mr B 
would more likely than not have been able to make any loan payments without difficulty or 
having to borrow from elsewhere. I dont think they did, and this is supported by Mr Bs direct 
debit being returned after the first repayment was requested. I can see Mr B did make some repayments, always late, to the loan mainly by card. But after July 2020, less than 12 
months into the loan, Mr B stopped making any further payments. And Mr M was asked by 
UKC to step in to cover the loan repayments. 
So, I dont think UKC lent responsibly to Mr B. And it would then follow that Mr M shouldnt 
have been accepted as a guarantor for this loan; as it shouldnt have been approved in the 
first instance. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right I ask UK Credit Limited trading as UK Credit to:
release Mr M from any obligations he has under the Guarantee and indemnity
agreement, and then terminate it;
refund any repayments Mr M has made towards the loan, with 8% simple
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
remove any information recorded on Mr Ms credit file as a result of the loan.
HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited trading as UK Credit to take off tax 
from this interest. UK Credit Limited trading as UK Credit must give Mr M a certificate 
showing how much tax theyve taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask UK Credit Limited trading as UK Credit to take the actions 
as outlined above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 June 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman