DRN-2869807
The complaint
Mr B complains about the advice given by BRG Ltd (BRG) to transfer out of the British Steel 
Pension Scheme (BSPS) and invest the funds in a personal pension. He says the advice 
was unsuitable for him which has resulted in him suffering a significant financial loss.
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Bs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business including decoupling the BSPS from the company. The consultation with 
members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved benefits, which included 
transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a new defined-benefit 
scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could transfer their benefits 
to a private pension arrangement.
Mr B was concerned about what the announcement by his employer meant for the security 
of the defined-benefits he held in the BSPS. He was also struggling with some debts. As 
Mr B was unsure about what to do with his pension, he approached an independent financial 
adviser for advice, who introduced him to BRG.
In November 2017 BRG advised Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS to a self-invested personal 
pension (SIPP). It recommended he invest the funds with a business Ill refer to as S, 
which was a discretionary fund manager (DFM). £113,531.49 was transferred to Mr Bs 
SIPP  Mr B took a lump sum of £28,382 and the remainder was invested by S.
After becoming aware of some issues with S in 2019, Mr B complained. His pension was 
inaccessible and it was possible he would sustain substantial losses as a result of the 
investment decisions made by S. BRG didnt uphold the complaint. It thought the advice was 
suitable for Mr B as it believed he couldve only reduced his debt and met his other 
objectives by transferring out of the BSPS and taking his tax-free cash (TFC).
Mr B referred his complaint to our service. Our investigator agreed that it was probably 
necessary for Mr B to transfer out of the BSPS and take his TFC to clear his immediate 
debts. However, she didnt think a SIPP was suitable for Mr B and she also didnt think he 
needed to use a DFM, which she believed had caused him to incur unnecessary additional 
costs. The investigator recommended that Mr B should be compensated by comparing his 
actual position with a benchmark, and paying him the difference.
BRG didnt agree. It said the SIPP wasnt expensive and it thought Mr B couldve benefited  
from the use of a DFM. It noted that Mr Bs loss associated with S had most likely prompted 
the complaint, and BRG couldnt be held responsible for the actions of S.
The investigator didnt change her opinion so the complaint was referred to me to make a 
final decision.
After reviewing the file, I informed BRG that I was intending to depart from the investigators 
findings. On balance, I didnt think the advice to transfer out of the BSPS was suitable for 
Mr B. I thought Mr B shouldve been advised to join the BSPS2, and use his wifes TFC to 
clear their immediate debts. I didnt think it was reasonable to recommend that Mr B should 
also transfer and take his TFC, just to pay down part of their mortgage, given they could 
afford the repayments if the immediate debts were cleared.
BRG responded, saying that Mr Bs wife, Mrs B, had already taken and spent her TFC, 
which is why Mr B needed to access his pension. It also said Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage 
interest rate was very high  8%  so it was suitable to advise Mr B to take his TFC so they 
could re-mortgage and ease the financial pressure they were under.
I asked for evidence of this from both parties. Mr B provided mortgage statements showing 
that their mortgage interest rate was much lower  2.5%. He also said Mrs B hadnt spent 
her TFC, instead she hadnt taken it at all. BRG didnt reply. So, I informed BRG that I still 
intended to uphold the complaint. I didnt hear back from BRG, so Im now providing my final 
decision on this complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a defined-benefits 
scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, BRG should have only considered a transfer if they could 
clearly demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Bs best interests (COBS 19.1.6). And having 
looked at all the evidence available, Im not satisfied the transfer was in his best interest. Ill 
explain why.
Financial viability
The advice was given during the period when the Financial Ombudsman Service was 
publishing 'discount rates' on our website for use in loss assessments where a complaint 
about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Whilst businesses weren't required to refer 
to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful 
indication of what growth rates would have been considered reasonably achievable when 
the advice was given in this case.
The documents provided show that Mr B wasnt planning to retire until age 67, which would 
coincide with payment of his state pension. BRG carried out a transfer value analysis report 
(TVAS) showing the growth his fund would need to achieve in order to match the benefits 
he could obtain through the BSPS. It doesnt appear that the comparison was made based 
on the benefits available to Mr B through the BSPS2  Im not sure why that is, as the details 
of BSPS2 were known by the time BRG gave advice. So, although I will make reference to 
Mr Bs BSPS benefits, in reality he needed to choose between joining the new scheme, 
BSPS2, or allowing his benefits to enter the PPF.
The investment return (critical yield) required to match the BSPS pension at age 65 was 
quoted as 24.09% per year if no TFC was taken. The critical yield required if Mr B took TFC 
wasnt provided. The critical yield to match the benefits available if the BSPS moved to the 
PPF was 10.04% without taking TFC, and 9.14% with TFC. BRG also provided Mr B with the 
hurdle rate, which is the estimated annual investment return needed to purchase an annuity 
to provide benefits of equal value to the estimated benefits provided by the BSPS assuming 
no spouses pension, no increases in payment and no guarantee. This was 13.01% if no 
TFC was taken.The relevant discount rate published by the Financial Ombudsman Service at the time the 
advice was given was 3.1% per year for 5 years to retirement. For further comparison, the 
FCA's upper projection rate at the time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower 
projection rate 2% per year. Even taking the lowest critical yield here (9.14%), which was a 
comparison to the PPF at age 65 if Mr B took TFC, its highly unlikely Mr B couldve 
matched, let alone exceeded his BSPS benefits in the SIPP if he was invested in line with a 
medium risk strategy as suggested by BRG. And on balance I think the critical yield required 
to match the benefits in the BSPS2 if Mr B took TFC at age 65 wouldve been even higher 
than 9.14% - this is because the starting benefits available through the PPF would be 
reduced by 10%. So, I think it is clear the transfer would not have put Mr B is a better 
position financially.
However, BRG has stated that it was never its intention to show that Mr B would be better off 
financially or that he could achieve a higher income by transferring out of the BSPS. It says it 
warned Mr B about this. But I think the suitability report contained a lot of misleading 
statements, such as:
"It is possible that you may, in the long term be financially disadvantaged following any 
transfer of your final salary benefits..." - page 10.
"The estimated growth required to match benefits in your existing scheme is deemed 
reasonable when compared with the risk you are prepared to take with your fund." - page 11.
"It should be borne in mind that whilst I am recommending the transfer of your benefits, 
based upon the information provided, my analysis shows that in transferring away from your 
existing scheme, it is likely that you could be financially disadvantaged if the UK goes 
through a sustained period of inflationary pressure and or both you and your partner live 
longer than is statistically anticipated at outset."  page 13.
"We believe the critical yield is achievable, given your attitude to risk." - page 14.
So, I dont think Mr B wouldve necessarily understood that there was a very high risk he 
would be worse off financially if he transferred out of the BSPS based on the information he 
was given.
BRG says that in any event, analysis of the critical yield is no longer useful, given the long-
term sustained low interest rates. Instead, it says it analysed the growth the fund required in 
order to meet Mr Bs income need of £6,000 per year for the average life expectancy for 
someone in his demographic, plus five years. This showed that growth of 5% gross, 
including adviser and investment charges, was achievable and was sufficient to meet Mr Bs 
income needs until age 87. It added that Mr B had health conditions which may have 
reduced his life expectancy, but it hadnt made any allowances for this.
But the guidance under COBS 19.1.3 states that the comparison undertaken by BRG
should:
1) take into account all of the retail client's relevant circumstances;
2) have regard to the benefits and options available under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3) explain the assumptions on which it is based and the rates of return that would have 
to be achieved to replicate the benefits being given up; and
4) be illustrated on rates of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which the retail client's funds will be invested
While BRG did provide the critical yield to Mr B, in the suitability report it said:If you are looking to take your benefits flexibly and in a different way to those offered by
your ceding scheme or have no intention of ever taking an annuity, then this figure may be 
deemed somewhat irrelevant.
So, I think BRG essentially told Mr B to ignore the critical yield in favour of its alternative 
method of comparison. This comparison didnt replicate the benefits he was giving up, which 
is what the regulator required. This seriously undermined the comparison the regulator 
asked it to give Mr B and together with the statements above, I think it wouldve made it very 
hard for Mr B to understand whether or not hed be better off remaining in the BSPS. And in 
any event, Im still not persuaded that the gross growth rate of 5% was achievable, based on 
the discount rate Ive referred to above. So, Im still not persuaded that Mr B wouldve been 
able to meet his income needs for the rest of his life if he transferred to the SIPP. Overall, 
based on the above alone, I dont think a transfer was in Mr Bs best interest.
Nevertheless, financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice. 
There might be other considerations which mean a transfer is suitable, despite providing 
overall lower benefits.
Access to TFC
BRG says Mr and Mrs B had immediate debts they needed to clear of around £20,000, 
which included some mortgage arrears. It says Mr and Mrs B also wanted to reduce their 
mortgage by around £28,000, so they would be mortgage free when Mr B retired at 67. And 
by reducing the mortgage BRG says this wouldve allowed them to re-mortgage, as their 
current interest rate of 8% was too high. BRG says Mr B couldve only achieved all of this by 
transferring out of the BSPS to a SIPP and both he and his wife taking their TFC 
entitlements. This would give them access to a lump sum of around £55,000, which would 
enable them to clear their debts, pay around £28,000 towards the mortgage and allow them 
to put some extra money aside for emergencies.
Whilst I think there was an immediate need to clear the debts of £20,000, I'm not persuaded 
that the other two objectives were as important  to my mind they appear to be more of a 
'nice to have'. And in any event, an adviser's job isn't simply to facilitate a customer's 
objectives. Any objectives should be interrogated thoroughly to determine whether or not 
they are realistic, or achievable through other means. And ultimately, the adviser has to 
determine whether giving up the secure, guaranteed benefits available through the BSPS2 
or the PPF was in Mr B's best interests.
Mr B's mortgage had around £80,000 outstanding at the time of the advice, and 
understandably he wanted to ensure it was paid off by the time he retired at 67. If he 
transferred his BSPS benefits and took TFC, he'd only be able to reduce this by around 
£28,000. The only advantage to paying down the mortgage then, as opposed to at 65 or 67 
when he could access his BSPS benefits and use the TFC from the scheme, was to save on 
the mortgage interest payments. I initially explained to BRG that I thought that saving was 
likely to be minimal, as interest rates were and continue to be very low. And that minimal 
interest saving had to be weighed up against the disadvantages of transferring out of the 
scheme, which were significant.
In response, BRG said that Mr and Mrs B were referred to BRG by a mortgage broker as 
they couldn't re-mortgage without addressing their debts. It said the interest rate on their 
mortgage was 8%. So, BRG thought that there was a clear need to pay down some of the 
mortgage with Mr B's TFC, to ease the financial pressure they were under. As this wasn't 
detailed in the fact-find, I asked for contemporaneous evidence to demonstrate this but it 
wasn't provided. So, I asked Mr B about his mortgage interest rate at the time of the advice. He provided me with a mortgage statement which shows the mortgage interest rates 
applicable to his accounts was 2.25% from 1 January 2017 and 2.5% from 1 January 2018.
As the evidence provided demonstrates that Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage rate was low, I don't 
think there was any genuine need to pay down part of the mortgage at the time of the 
advice. This could've been done closer to retirement, using Mr B's TFC, which would've 
likely been higher at that time, leaving his guaranteed benefits intact. That leaves the issue 
of Mr and Mrs Bs immediate debts.
According to the fact-find and meeting notes completed at the time of the advice, Mr B and 
his wife were relying on Mr B's salary alone (Mrs B was just starting a new business and her 
income at first was likely to be low). It doesn't appear that they needed access to extra funds 
once the debts had been cleared  Mr Bs income was sufficient to meet the ongoing 
mortgage repayments and their cost of living. Mr B also confirmed he didn't need to take any 
income from the pension at the time. So, I think Mr B's only immediate objective that needed 
to be addressed by the adviser at the time was to clear his debts. That leaves Mr B needing 
a capital sum of around £20,000.
It is evident from the fact-find completed by the adviser that at the time of the meeting in
November 2017, Mrs B had decided to transfer her own defined-benefit occupational 
pension scheme (OPS), and would be receiving around £27,000 as TFC. This amount was 
sufficient to clear Mr and Mrs Bs immediate debts and boost their emergency fund. In the 
representations made to this service, BRG says that Mrs B taking her TFC formed part of its 
recommendations to Mr B. That is, it recommended that Mrs Bs TFC and the TFC available 
to Mr B if he transferred out of the BSPS should be used to pay off their debts and reduce 
the outstanding residential mortgage. This aligns with the objectives described by Mr B in the 
fact-find and meeting notes. However, I dont think the suitability report is particularly clear 
that using Mrs Bs TFC in this way formed part of BRGs recommendation. And, in my view, 
I think the adviser ought to have recognised that Mr and Mrs B could meet their immediate 
pressing objective of clearing their debts using Mrs Bs TFC alone.
Mr B's OPS was Mr and Mrs B's main retirement provision  it was projected to provide an 
escalating annual pension of £8,132 per year from age 65. Again, I dont know what the 
annual pension was if Mr B joined the BSPS2, but I dont think it wouldve been substantially 
lower than this. Mrs B's OPS would only provide an income of around £3,000 per year. Mr B 
didn't intend to retire until age 67, so the income achievable and TFC available to him at age 
67 would've likely been even higher. The fact-find stated that Mr B would need around 
£6,000 a year from his pension in retirement, so his BSPS benefits met that need 
comfortably. Given that Mrs Bs TFC was sufficient to clear their debts, I think Mr B should've 
been advised to opt into BSPS2 rather than transfer his pension to a SIPP.
In response to my provisional thoughts, BRG said that Mrs B had already been spent her 
TFC on her new business venture. I asked BRG to provide contemporaneous evidence of 
this as the only reference to this I could find was in BRGs final response letter to Mr B. But 
BRG didnt provide any evidence to support this point. So I put this to Mr B, and he said that 
Mrs B ultimately didn't withdraw her TFC. He said the only TFC taken was through Mr B's 
SIPP on BRG's advice, which was used to clear his debts. In the absence of any evidence to 
the contrary, Im persuaded by Mr Bs account here.
The fact-find completed by BRG clearly stated that Mrs B wanted to use her TFC  around 
£27,000  to 'clear debts' and 'reduce mortgage'. It isn't clear why Mrs B didn't take her TFC, 
but it's possible that she no longer considered it necessary given BRG's advice to Mr B to 
transfer his BSPS benefits and take his TFC. And perhaps the absence of any mention in 
the suitability report of Mrs B using her TFC to help repay the debts and pay down the 
mortgage contributed to this.Concerns about financial stability of the BSPS
Although Mr B approached BRG because he was in financial difficulty, he was also 
concerned about his BSPS pension - he was worried his pension would end up in the PPF. 
So its quite possible that Mr B came to BRG leaning towards the decision to transfer for this 
reason alone. However, it was BRGs obligation to give Mr B an objective picture and 
recommend what was in his best interests. The fact-find says that Mr B was particularly 
concerned about the BSPS moving to the PPF. However, as the figures above show, even if 
this happened, Mr B was still likely to be better off not transferring. And he wouldve been 
better off still if he opted to join the BSPS2 - I cant see that this was properly explained to 
him in terms he could clearly understand.
Flexibility and death benefits
The suitability report said it was important to Mr B to have flexibility. But I think this was only 
on the basis that BRG believed Mr B needed to access his TFC immediately but he didnt 
need to take any pension income. Mr B didnt express the need to take a flexible income in 
retirement. As Mr B couldnt have taken his TFC without taking his pension income in the 
BSPS2, it seems to me that BRG used this as a reason to justify the transfer. But as Ive 
said above, I dont think Mr B needed to take his TFC to clear his immediate debts, so this 
objective falls away.
It was recorded in the suitability report that on his death Mr B wanted to leave any remaining 
funds in his pension to his wife. However, when asked about the importance of lump sum 
death benefits in the fact-find, Mr B chose the following statement:
My dependants will receive significant sums upon my death and whilst a great amount 
might be beneficial, it is not an absolute priority for me.
So, again I dont think this was a genuine objective for Mr B, rather it was a consequence of 
the recommendation to transfer that BRG emphasised to Mr B. I also think the existing death 
benefits with BSPS2 (or the PPF) were underplayed. Mr Bs wife would have received a 
spouses pension for life, which given that she only had a small pension herself, would have 
been valuable if Mr B predeceased her. I dont doubt that the option of leaving a lump sum to 
his wife would have been attractive and is something Mr B would have liked. However, BRG 
didnt explore to what extent he was prepared to accept a lower retirement income in 
exchange for this.
In any event, whilst I appreciate death benefits are important to consumers, the priority here 
was to advise Mr B on what was best for his own retirement provisions. A pension is 
primarily designed to provide income in retirement. So I dont think different death benefits 
justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr B.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that the advice given to Mr B was not suitable. He was giving up a
guaranteed, risk free and increasing income. By transferring he was essentially guaranteed 
lower retirement benefits and as I have explained above, while Mr B had debts that needed 
to be addressed immediately, I think he and his wife were able to clear these without giving 
up his BSPS benefits. And I dont think there were any other particular reasons which would 
justify a transfer and outweigh this. 
I appreciate that at the time the advice was given there was a lot of uncertainty around the
pension scheme and Ive fully taken into account that Mr B likely was keen to transfer out ashe was worried about his pension. However, it was the advisers responsibility to objectively 
weigh up the options for Mr B. He should have advised him what was best for his 
circumstances and explained what he was giving up in the BSPS and that moving to the 
PPF was not as concerning as he thought.
For the reasons given above, I think BRG should have advised Mr B to join the BSPS2. I say 
this because Mr B didn't intend to retire early  he was working for a different employer and 
intended to work until age 67. So, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to accept 
the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it wouldn't 
be offset by the more favourable reduction for early retirement. Also, Mr B was married, and 
his wifes pension would be set at 50% of his pension at the date of death, and this would be 
calculated as if no lump sum was taken at retirement. The annual indexation of his pension 
when in payment was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
On balance I think Mr B would have listened to the adviser and followed their advice. 
Mr B was an inexperienced investor and was concerned about his financial stability  this 
pension made up a significant part of his retirement provision, and he couldn't afford to lose 
it. So, if BRG had provided him with clear advice against transferring out of the BSPS, 
explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that advice. So, 
I think BRG should compensate Mr B for the unsuitable advice, using the regulator's pension 
review methodology. And its the benefits offered by the BSPS2 which should be
used for comparison purposes.
Ive thought about the fact that S was responsible for managing Mr Bs investments, and as 
I understand it, because S is in administration, Mr B's assets are frozen and have fallen in 
value. I recognise that S could be separately held responsible for some of Mr Bs losses. 
However, Mr B has complained about BRGs advice and, on balance, I think it would be fair 
to hold BRG fully responsible for Mr Bs loss. I say this because BRG advised Mr B to 
transfer out of the BSPS; it set up the SIPP and arranged for his existing pension benefits to 
be transferred. It was only as a result of BRGs involvement that Mr B transferred his BSPS 
benefits to the SIPP. BRGs role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully 
reliant on its advice to transfer the funds; if that hadnt happened, Mr B couldnt have 
invested as he did. So, in my view, the entirety of his loss stems from BRGs unsuitable 
advice to transfer away from the BSPS. 
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the business to put Mr B, as far as possible,
into the position he would now be in but for BRGs unsuitable advice. I consider Mr B would 
have most likely transferred into BSPS2 and taken his benefits at age 67, rather than to the 
SIPP if he'd been given suitable advice. So, BRG should use the benefits offered by BSPS2 
for comparison purposes.
BRG must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly
following receipt of notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
BRG may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Bs 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Bs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Bs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr B as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr B within 90 days of the date BRG receives notification of 
her acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes BRG to pay Mr B.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
My aim is to return Mr B to the position he wouldve been in but for the actions of BRG. This 
is complicated where investments in the SIPP are frozen as their value cant be determined, 
which appears to be the case here.
To calculate the compensation, BRG should agree an amount with the SIPP provider as a 
commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take ownership 
of the investment. If BRG is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a nil value for the 
purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the calculations should 
include anything BRG has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding charges yet to be applied 
to the SIPP should be deducted.
In return for this, BRG may ask Mr B to provide an undertaking to account to it for the net 
amount of any payment he may receive from the investment. That undertaking should allow 
for the effect of any tax and charges on what he receives. BRG will need to meet any costs 
in drawing up the undertaking. If BRG asks Mr B to provide an undertaking, payment of the 
compensation awarded may be dependent upon provision of that undertaking.
SIPP Fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed
(should Mr B wish to move his investment portfolio) and further SIPP fees to be prevented,
the investments need to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be
achieved by BRG taking over the investment, or this is something that Mr B can discuss with 
his SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have the power to tell them what to do. To provide
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that BRG pay Mr B an upfront lump sum equivalent to 
five years worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should 
provide a reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.In addition, BRG should pay Mr B £300 for disruption to Mr Bs retirement planning.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that BRG 
pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Better Retirement 
Group Ltd to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Better Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr B any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Better 
Retirement Group Ltd to pay Mr B any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Better Retirement Group Ltd pays Mr B the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr B.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Better Retirement 
Group Ltd. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B can 
accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 March 2022.
 
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman