DRN-3351750
The complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the maturity proceeds he received from a Baby Bond taken out with 
Forester Life Limited (formerly Tunbridge Wells Equitable Friendly Society  trading as The 
Childrens Mutual).  He complains that the maturity value is less than the premiums paid to 
the investment  so says the investment hasnt performed causing a loss.
What happened
Mr Ds father took out the bond in 2004 on his behalf.  The bond had a term of 17 years and 
was set to mature in August 2021. Monthly premiums of £10 were paid  totally £2,040 over 
the term. It was invested in a with profits fund. The bond had a guaranteed minimum sum 
payable on maturity of £1,745. This could be increased by annual bonuses declared and by 
any terminal bonus paid on maturity. This was dependent on investment performance but 
was reduced by the charges made for the bond's administration. Since the bond was taken 
out the business responsible for managing it has changed several times. Forester Life 
became responsible for the bond in 2013. When the bond mature the value available to Mr D 
was £2,014.46.
In March 2021, a statement was sent confirming the value of the bond  this indicated that 
the value was less than the premiums paid into the bond. Shortly after this, Mr Ds father 
complained on his behalf as they were disappointed with the performance of the investment. 
Forester Life didnt uphold the complaint. In summary it said:  
-The bond is a "with profits" investment that does not carry any guaranteed rate of return 
other than the guaranteed minimum payment at maturity. 
There is an inherent risk to this sort of product in that the return is dependent on 
long-term investment performance and the effect of the deduction of charges.
At maturity the return may be less than the premiums paid. When the bond was 
taken out an illustration document was provided which projected maturity values 
depending on different rates of growth. 
It was regrettable that the performance of the bond has not been better, but the 
nature of this sort of investment is that its performance can never be guaranteed.
Mr D didnt accept the response and referred the complaint to this service for independent 
review. One of our investigators looked into the complaint. She didnt uphold it. In summary 
she said:
The information provided when the bond was taken out did explain what Mr D could 
expect to receive at maturity. And no advice was given by Forester Life or its 
predecessors about the suitability of the bond. 
The illustration showed potential maturity figures but also explained the payable 
amount could be more or less than what youve invested, and it could also be 
reduced by annual charges made for the bonds administration. It also gave the 
guaranteed amount Mr D would receive at maturity  which was £1,745. 
Whilst she appreciated Mr Ds frustration in receiving less than what was paid into 
the bond, she didnt find this was as a result of a failing by Forester Life. 
Mr D didnt accept the investigators assessment and ask for an ombudsman to reach a final 
decision on the complaint. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent seen anything to suggest advice was given to Mr Ds father by Forester Life (or its 
predecessors) to enter into this investment. As a result, it wasnt responsible for making sure 
the bond was suitable for Mr Ds needs. But it did provide information about the investment  
so Ive looked to see how the investment was described at the point of sale. And whether 
this supports that the information provided was clear, fair and not misleading  to enable Mr 
Ds father to understand how the bond worked when he took it out. 
Forester Life has been able to provide some information from when the investment was 
taken out  including the illustration document issued in July 2004. This describes the 
investment as a type of with profits savings plan. Im satisfied this explained how the bond 
worked. In particular, that there was a guaranteed minimum payment to which bonuses 
could be added but the bonuses were not guaranteed. The information warned that the bond 
could deliver more or less than the assumptions on growth shown in the illustration. It also 
explained there would be charges expensed directly to the fund each year before it is 
worked out how much would be available to add to customers' investments as bonuses  
which can reduce the amount available for bonuses. So, I havent seen anything to suggest 
Forester Life suggested that the maturity value would definitely be more than the premiums 
paid. The only guarantee given was that if all the payments due were paid, the child is 
guaranteed to receive at least £1,745 when it ends  which is less than the aggregate of the 
premiums.
I understand Mr Ds disappointment that the bond has not delivered a better return  and at 
least covered the total premiums paid. With-profit funds do not function in the same way as 
other investment funds. Bonuses are only partly based on gains within the fund. Thats 
because there a number of considerations which have to be factored in such as the cost of 
life cover, meeting guaranteed sums when they are cashed in and smoothing fund 
performance during years of higher and lower fund performance. Forester Life had a very 
wide discretion about how to invest and how much bonus was to be paid. These were 
legitimate, commercial decisions it was entitled to make. This isnt something we have the 
power to tell a business how to operate or make those business decisions. 
Forester Life has explained how the bond operated once it acquired it in 2013 and that it 
paid cash into the fund and reduced the management charges. It has also explained the 
investment strategy for the fund, which included the appointment of a third-party fund 
manager in 2016. Forester Life has provided copies of the last few years worth of annual 
statements. These show in recent years no bonuses have been added. But even though the 
performance of the investment was lower than Mr D had hoped, it doesnt follow that 
Forester Life did something wrong. At maturity the investment did produce a figure higher 
than the guaranteed amount - which is in line with the information given at the outset. 
Looking at everything that has been provided, I havent seen evidence to suggest that the 
fund has been mis-manged. While I understand Mr Ds disappointment with the returns from 
the bond, I wont be asking Forester Life to do anything more.
My final decision
For the reasons provided above, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 June 2022.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman