DRN-3417245
Complaint
Mr G is unhappy that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) closed his account and recorded a fraud 
prevention marker against him. 
Background
In September 2020, Mr G received a payment of £2,700.00 into his HSBC account. In March 
2021, after it had been notified that the funds may have been obtained fraudulently, HSBC 
wrote to Mr G and asked him to provide evidence of the purpose of this credit. As Mr G didnt 
respond to this letter HSBC took the decision to close his account in June 2021. It then went 
on to register a fraud prevention marker against him. 
After being told that HSBC wouldnt reopen his account and learning of the fraud marker,   
Mr G complained to HSBC. HSBC looked at Mr Gs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr G 
remained dissatisfied, he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Gs concerns. She didnt think that HSBC had done 
enough to show that Mr G was complicit in fraud and so it unfairly recorded the fraud 
prevention marker against Mr G. HSBC disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an 
ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that HSBC has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility  
relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it isnt 
required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr G is guilty of a fraud or financial crime, 
but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that HSBC must first be able to show that fraudulent funds
entered Mr Gs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
HSBC also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr G was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr G having allowed someone else to use his account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
So in order to determine Mr Gs complaint, I need to decide whether I think HSBC had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Gs account and that he was complicit 
in this. Its important to note HSBC had to have enough evidence to meet both parts of test 
for it to have acted fairly and reasonably here.
Having considered matters, there doesnt appear to be any dispute that Mr Gs account was 
in receipt of fraudulent funds in September 2020. So I can understand why HSBC had 
concerns about the usage on Mr Gs account. However, as Ive already explained, this in 
itself isnt enough to register a fraud prevention marker against a customer. HSBC also has 
to produce sufficient evidence to show Mr G was complicit in fraud. And I dont think that it 
has done that here.
Mr G has explained that a work colleague (who from this point onwards Ill refer to as C) 
asked if he could transfer some funds to his account so that these could be withdrawn. He 
said that C told him that he was unable to withdraw the funds from his account himself 
because he didnt have the necessary identification required to withdraw the full amount.     
Mr G says C told him he was going to use the funds to repay his uncle money he owed him. 
Finally, hes said he didnt think too much of it at the time because he worked with C and 
trusted him. And it was only after his account was blocked that C explained he was paid a 
cut of the funds Mr G withdrew to pass them on to someone else. Our adjudicator found     
Mr Gs version of events plausible and she thought that Mr G was unwittingly involved in 
fraud, rather than it being the case that he was complicit in it. 
HSBC says the funds were withdrawn within minutes of being credited to Mr Gs account 
and this mirrors the actions of someone who received funds, as a result of a scam. In its 
view, there was no reason for C to ask Mr G to withdraw the funds when he could quite 
easily have withdrawn them himself. It also confirmed that C was also one of its customers 
and he said he knew nothing about the funds when questioned about them himself. HSBC 
also questioned whether Mr G and C were even colleagues and why Mr G didnt explain this 
when asked about the funds in March 2021.   
Ive thought about what HSBC has said. And it isnt in dispute that the funds in question only 
ended up in Mr Gs account as a result of a scam. But, as Ive explained earlier, the mere 
existence of fraudulent funds doesnt on its own mean that it is fair and reasonable to record 
a fraud marker against a customer. Furthermore, the timeline HSBC has referred to actually 
supports Mr Gs explanation that he was asked to withdraw the funds because C didnt have 
the necessary identification required to withdraw this amount of funds in branch. I also dont 
think that C saying he didnt know anything about the funds when his account was 
investigated casts any doubt on Mr Gs version of events  especially as there doesnt 
appear to be any dispute that the funds in question were initially in Cs account.   
More importantly it is HSBCs responsibility to demonstrate that Mr G was deliberately 
dishonest and knowingly part of the fraud. And I think that it has failed to do that here. HSBC 
needs to have relevant and rigorous evidence such that it could report the matter to the 
police. In other words, a reasonable suspicion that Mr G knew the funds C would be 
transferring to him were fraudulent before he agreed to this and withdrew the funds. 
Simply pointing out that fraudulent activity took place  especially where this isnt in dispute - 
just isnt enough to meet what is a high bar. This is especially the case seeing as the facts and circumstances of this case appear to support Mr Gs version of events being plausible. I 
dont think that HSBC having no record of Mr Gs explanation prior to him making a 
complaint, or the uncorroborated assertions it has made about Cs income categorically 
dispel the notion that Mr G and C were work colleagues, or undermine what Mr G has said.    
Furthermore, there isnt any conclusive evidence indicating that Mr G made a financial gain 
either as the fraudulent funds in question were immediately withdrawn. So Ive not seen 
anything to suggest that Mr G benefitted from the fraudulent funds and I would question why 
hed knowingly participate in a fraud where he didnt stand to benefit. 
Overall I dont think that HSBC had sufficient evidence to meet the test for recording a fraud 
marker against Mr G. As this is the case, I think that it was unfair for HSBC Bank to record a 
fraud prevention marker in the circumstances that it did. So Im upholding this part of Mr Gs 
complaint and HSBC needs to remove the fraud marker it has recorded.
I now turn to the closure of Mr Gs account. The terms and conditions of Mr Gs account 
permitted HSBC to close it as long it informed him it would be doing this at least two months 
in advance of doing so. I realise that HSBC provided Mr G with less than two months notice 
before closing his account. But by this stage Mr Gs account had already been restricted for 
almost three months and Mr G had been asked to explain the purpose of the funds which 
had caused his account to be blocked. 
I know that Mr G says that he and C went into branch to explain what had happened. But 
there isnt anything to corroborate this being the case and Mr G hasnt even told us which 
branch he visited either. As this is the case and HSBC has no record of receiving a response 
to its requests, Im satisfied that its decision to close Mr Gs account in the way it did wasnt 
unfair notwithstanding it failing to provide Mr G with two months notice. So while I 
understand why Mr G is disappointed at HSBCs decision to close his account, I dont think 
that it did so unfairly and Im not upholding this part of his complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im partially upholding Mr Gs complaint. HSBC UK Bank Plc 
should remove any fraud markers it has recorded against Mr G. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 May 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman