DRN-3045063
The complaint
Mr B complains that Carpenter John Financial Services Ltd (CJFS) and County Financial
Consultants (CFC), a trading name of Pembrokeshire Mortgage Centre Ltd, advised him to
transfer his Defined Benefit pension with British Steel (BSPS) to a personal pension. He
says this was unsuitable advice and they didnt act in his best interest.
CFC has since gone into liquidation. This decision only deals with the complaint against
CJFS.
What happened
Mr B contacted CJFS in summer 2017 as he wanted advice on his BSPS pension. He says 
he had been a customer of their firm before. CJFS completed a fact find and an attitude to 
risk questionnaire and Mr B says CJFS talked about the returns he could have in a personal 
pension. However, they then referred Mr B to CFC to provide the transfer advice as CJFS 
werent authorised to do this.
Mr B met with CFC shortly after (in CJFSs offices) and they subsequently recommended Mr 
B to transfer his BSPS pension into a personal pension. They received a fee for their advice 
of nearly £5,500. The suitability report recorded CFC would become the ongoing adviser firm 
on Mr Bs new pension plan. However, it seems CJFS was the ongoing adviser until 2020.
Mr Bs representative says there was a joint venture between the two adviser firms and
CJFS is liable for Mr Bs losses he incurred by transferring valuable benefits. CJFS say they
purely introduced Mr B to CFC and didnt provide him with any advice.
Our investigator didnt think Mr Bs complaint should be upheld. He didnt think there was 
evidence CJFS had advised on the transfer and he didnt think that they werent responsible 
for any losses he suffered in this respect. Mr Bs representative disagreed and so the 
complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Bs representatives say CFC and CJFS should both be liable for his losses. They
say both firms advised him to transfer and there was a joint venture between the firms. They
say CJFS failed to act in Mr Bs best interest and treated him unfairly by knowingly
collaborating in a manner that led to unsuitable advice.
CFC is in liquidation, so I cant consider the complaint against them. I carefully considered
whether CJFS should be held responsible for Mr Bs losses here in some form, however I
dont think they should.
I appreciate that Mr B is unhappy that he was advised to transfer out of his BSPS scheme,
however the firm responsible for this advice is CFC. They were the firm who had the relevant
permissions and provided the formal recommendation to transfer out of his DB scheme. 
They did a transfer analysis and issued a suitability report to Mr B. Its worth remembering 
that Mr B could not have transferred his DB pension without CFCs advice.
I dont know what exactly was discussed between CJFS and Mr B. His representative says
they verbally advised Mr B and Mr B says CJFS discussed the personal pension and its 
advantages with him. 
From what Ive seen all communications regarding the transfer happened between CFC and
Mr B once CJFS had referred him. I did consider that CFC seems to have used CJFSs
offices for the meeting with CFC and there was obviously an introducer relationship between
the parties. However, this isnt evidence in my view that CJFS gave Mr B advice.
I havent seen evidence that CJFS actually recommended Mr B to transfer. All the 
documents Ive seen make it clear they explained to him that it was CFC who would advise 
him.
I considered that CJFS became the ongoing advisers on Mr Bs new pension and were 
charging ongoing advice fees. So they may have been hoping he would transfer. Ive also
considered the possibility that they inadvertently strayed into advice, even though I
havent seen any evidence to say that this is what happened. However, even if they did, in
my view none of their interactions with Mr B and possible failures in this regard ultimately
caused the potential losses he suffered.
CJFS did not have the required permissions to give advice on a DB pension transfer, so
they couldnt be expected to recommend Mr B not to transfer. I think there was nothing
generally wrong with referring Mr B on to a firm who could provide advice on his DB
pension.
Mr Bs representatives say CJFS referred a number of clients to CFC and most were
advised to transfer out. However, even if this was the case, I think on balance its more likely
they referred customers to CFC on the understanding they would provide suitable advice
rather than on the premise that CFC would recommend a transfer whether it was suitable
or not. And its acceptable for one firm to provide transfer advice and for another to provide
investment advice.
I dont think its reasonable to expect that a firm who does not have permissions to provide
DB pension transfer advice should identify whether advice given by a firm who does have
those permissions was unsuitable. I think they were allowed to expect and rely on CFC,
who were regulated and had the relevant permissions and advisers with the necessary
qualifications, to provide suitable advice.
It was ultimately CFCs obligation to provide Mr B with independent and suitable advice.
And if it wasnt suitable for Mr B to transfer CFC should, as the experts in this field, have
clearly told him so and provided reasons why. If they had done so, I dont think any
discussions with CJFS would have likely made Mr B go against this advice.
In summary, Im satisfied it was CFCs positive recommendation that caused Mr B to
transfer and that they are fully responsible for any losses caused by an unsuitable transfer. I 
dont think Mr Bs potential losses here are caused by CJFSs actions and so I dont consider 
it fair or reasonable to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2022.
 
Nina Walter
Ombudsman