DRN-3213975
The complaint
The Estate of Mr W is unhappy that Ageas Insurance Limited wont pay for subsidence 
damage under a buy to let home insurance policy.
As Mr W was dealing with the claim throughout, I will refer to him (rather than the estate) to 
avoid confusion regarding the history of the claim. I apologise if this causes any upset, that is 
certainly not my intention. Please accept my condolences for your loss.
What happened
In 2019 Mr W made a claim for crack damage to his property. He contacted the broker N 
who dealt with matters on behalf of a different insurance company as it was thought the 
damage had only just occurred. Experts were appointed and inspections, investigations and 
reports were issued confirming that the property was suffering from a valid subsidence claim.
During the investigation it came to light that Mr W had been aware of cracks to the property 
since 2016. The experts involved and N considered this information with the different 
insurance company and decided as the damage started prior to the time when it was 
providing the policy it wouldnt be dealing with the claim. Details within the response 
declining the claim said that Mr W could try to bring a claim against the insurance company 
that had been providing cover at the time when he first noticed the cracks. This directed the 
claim towards Ageas who had been the insurer in 2016.
At this point N started to deal with the complaint on behalf of Ageas as it confirmed it was the 
insurer in 2016. Mr W maintained this was when he first noticed the crack damage. Ageas 
said that it had seen no evidence that confirmed damage had occurred during the period it 
provided cover. It also said due to the extremely late notification of the claim it wouldnt deal 
with it.
Unhappy with this Mr W brought his complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said as Ageas hadnt provided cover for 
more than two years prior to be notified of the claim it didnt have to deal with it. Mr W didnt 
accept this and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
In my recent provisional decision, I said:
Ive read the reports produced by the first insurer following its investigation and findings. 
The details clearly show that a valid subsidence claim occurred. I dont think Ageas dispute 
this. It is also accepted that Ageas were the insurer in 2016.
I think there is evidence to show that Mr W did first notice the cracking in 2016 and as Mr W 
suggested he sought professional help from a surveyor. Ive seen an invoice charging for the 
surveyors services dated November 2016 along with an email exchange from around the 
same time confirming this and giving details of the next actions Mr W should take. So, I dont 
accept Ageass point that there is no evidence. But it might be the case that Ageas hasnt 
seen this evidence.
Unfortunately, Mr W hoped the cracks would close and it appears for some time that they 
did. However, the cracks did reappear and the second time around Mr W did make a claim. I 
have noted in correspondence the reasons given by Mr W as to why he didnt make a claim 
immediately. Aside from hoping the cracks would close, he said the property was tenanted 
and he didnt want to disturb the status quo.
Ageas also said due to the late notification that it wouldnt take on the claim. I understand the 
point Ageas is making here. It is a long time since the original claim took place and Ageas is 
wary of the situation. I have to consider the prejudice the insurer might face when such a 
situation arises. It is fair to say that delays in notification can have a major impact on what an 
insurer can and cant do once it is eventually notified outside of policy guidelines. Often 
theres no evidence to work from and nothing physical for the insurer to inspect and review. 
In some cases of that nature it is fair for insurers to say it isnt willing to deal with such 
claims.
I think that a subsidence claim is slightly different. There is evidence of the initial damage 
through the details provided by Mr Ws surveyor. But more than that there also reports, and 
details created by the other insurer giving information about findings, confirming the damage 
is subsidence and pointing out the investigations that have been undertaken. A problem for 
an insurer with subsidence claims is working out how much more damage has occurred due 
to it not being notified when it should have been. It has to consider if a line be drawn 
between what the insurer would have paid for, if it had been advised of the claim when it 
should have been, and how much of the further damage is down to the delays.
Thats not the case in this claim as the work to repair the property has been undertaken and 
there are invoices to show how much has been spent by Mr W on the repairs. However, this 
works both ways as Ageas would have been able to source suppliers to do any work it felt 
was required at a far cheaper rate than Mr W. Also, Ageas, in common with other insurers, 
arent quite so likely to have moved straight to underpinning. This would depend on the 
strength of the evidence. Instead there would have been a period of monitoring and possible 
attempts at other solutions before the underpinning option would be taken.
Overall, though Mr W made valid points in his correspondence. He said he had insurance 
throughout the entire period, he paid his premiums and he had a claim that is covered within 
the policy wording. So, he felt his claim should be dealt with. I dont dispute any of those 
points and think hes right.
I think if Mr W had asked N to make a claim to Ageas on his behalf in 2016 the claim would 
have been accepted and dealt with by Ageas. On that basis I think it would be fair and 
reasonable for Ageas to step in now and reconsider the claim.
But I dont think Ageas needs to pay the total amount paid out by Mr W. I think N has details 
of all the subsidence reports and investigation carried out. The evidence in these should be 
used by Ageas to consider what settlement action it most likely would have taken if it had 
been notified of the claim originally. Ageas can consider what repair options it would have 
offered and how much it would have paid its own contractors to do such work. Once it has 
worked this out, I think it should pay the cash amount it thinks it would have cost to the 
estate.
Responses to my provisional decision
The decision was accepted by the estate of Mr W.
Ageas didnt respond.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the circumstances I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
Putting things right
Pay what it would have paid its own contractors for the repairs it would have agreed to do at 
Mr Ws property.
My final decision
I require Ageas Insurance Limited to:
Pay what it would have paid its own contractors for the repairs it would have agreed to 
do at Mr Ws property.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January 2022.
 
John Quinlan
Ombudsman