DRN-2956133
The complaint
Mr A complains that Acromas Insurance Company Limited unfairly declined a claim he made 
on his roadside assistance policy. Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
What happened
Mr A holds a roadside assistance policy with Acromas.
Mr A noticed he needed to top his car up with water  which he did. But after doing so for a 
few days he noticed an engine warning light on the dashboard. Mr A said he contacted his 
garage and was on his way to it when he remembered he held a roadside assistance policy 
with Acromas. So, he called Acromas and it sent out a patrol vehicle to assess Mr As car. 
The patrol vehicle said the car needed to be seen by a garage  but as Mr As car was 
already on a garage forecourt, there was nothing more the patrol needed to do.  Mr A then 
made a claim to Acromas to assist him with the cost to repair his car.
Acromas declined Mr As claim. First it said he wasnt covered if a garage had already 
diagnosed the problem  and it thought Mr As garage had diagnosed the issue before the 
patrol vehicle arrived. Mr A disputed this and provided a statement from his garage to 
support that it hadnt looked at his car. Acromas then changed its reason for declining Mr As 
claim. It said Mr A hadnt suffered a breakdown as defined by the policy, and it thought hed 
driven the car knowing there was an issue with it.
Mr A complained to Acromas, but it didnt change its stance, so he brought his complaint to 
us.
One of our investigators didnt recommend it be upheld. She thought Acromas was entitled 
to change its reason for declining the claim as long as it was ultimately fair in doing so. And 
in this case, she thought it was. She thought that Acromas had declined Mr As claim fairly 
based on the circumstances and the terms and conditions of his policy.
Mr A disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He doesnt think its fair Acromas 
can change its reason for declining his claim. And ultimately, he doesnt agree that declining 
his claim is fair. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment to him. Ill explain my reasoning.
As our investigator explained, Acromas can change its reason for declining a claim. In an 
ideal world this wouldnt happen  and I can appreciate how doing so would cause 
frustration for Mr A  but it is something Acromas is entitled to do. What I need to consider is 
whether Acromas has fairly declined Mr As claim based on the terms and conditions of his 
policy. And I need to consider whether Acromass decision is a fair and reasonable one in all 
the circumstances of the complaint.
In this case, Im satisfied Acromas is acting both fairly, and in line with the terms and 
conditions of Mr As policy. My reasoning will focus on Acromass most recent reasons for 
declining his claim. I consider those the most important because they are in effect its only 
remaining reasons for not paying his claim.
Acromas has pointed to two reasons not to pay Mr As claim. It says he didnt suffer a 
breakdown as defined by the policy. And it says he drove the car knowing there was an 
issue with it after topping up the water.
Mr As policy covers him for certain costs he incurs if his car needs repairs after a 
breakdown. What is key here is that breakdown is defined in the policy. The policy defines 
a breakdown as:
A sudden or unexpected event involving the Nominated Vehicle:
a) as a result of Mechanical or Electrical Failure: and
b) which has been attended by the AA under Your AA membership: and
c) that has prevented the Nominated Vehicle from starting or continuing its journey safely: 
and
d) that requires the repair or replacement of insured part(s) to enable the journey to be 
resumed
or, when At Home (Home Start) cover is held under Your AA membership, commenced
In the circumstances of this claim I think Acromas is acting fairly when it says Mr A didnt 
suffer a breakdown. He was on his way to the garage when he called Acromas. And he was 
on the way to get his car looked at because he knew there was a problem with it. So, I cant 
fairly say the call to Acromas was as the result of a sudden or unexpected event.
Ive not been given anything to suggest Mr As car was prevented from starting or continuing 
its journey safely. As I understand it, he was able to start his car, and drive to the garage. It 
was while at the garage he called Acromas. So, in effect Mr A had not only started, but had 
completed his journey.
As Mr As car didnt breakdown, his policy with Acromas doesnt cover him for the repairs he 
is claiming for. His policy only covers him for repairs connected with a breakdown, not all 
repairs his car needs. And based on the evidence, whilst its clear Mr As car needed repairs, 
these werent connected to a breakdown. So they arent covered by his policy.
Ive not gone on to consider whether or not Acromas is acting fairly by saying Mr A drove the 
car while knowing there was a problem with it. Ultimately this isnt relevant because as set 
out above, Acromas is entitled to decline his claim on the basis his car didnt suffer a 
breakdown as defined by the policy.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 October 2021.
 
Joe Thornley
Ombudsman