DRN-2749210
The complaint
Mr S complains because Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) hasnt refunded the 
premiums he paid for a single trip travel insurance policy. 
What happened
 Mr S bought a single trip travel insurance policy, provided by Great Lakes. 
The policy was purchased on 26 November 2019, to cover a holiday from 13 September 
2020 to 19 September 2020. 
Mr S paid £114.80 for the standard level of travel insurance cover, which also covered Mr 
Ss declared medical conditions. The premium Mr S paid for the standard level of travel 
insurance cover included a discount of £24.28.  
On 20 March 2020, the policy provider cancelled Mr S holiday. On 28 March 2020, Mr S 
contacted the broker to cancel his travel insurance policy. 
Great Lakes said as the policy hadnt been cancelled within the 14-day cooling off period, no 
refund was due. But a pro-rata refund voucher would be provided for the portion of the cover 
which wasnt used, and which would be valid for 36 months and transferable to family or 
friends. The amount Great Lakes offered in the form of a refund voucher was £61.31. This 
refund was calculated from the date the holiday was cancelled on 20 March 2020.
Unhappy, Mr S complained to Great Lakes and then brought his complaint to our service. He 
said he didnt want the refund in the form of a voucher but instead he wanted cash.
Our investigator looked into what had happened and upheld Mr Ss complaint in part. She 
thought it was fair for Great Lakes to offer a pro-rata voucher but it wasnt in line with our 
approach. The investigator thought the refund should be calculated from the date Mr S 
holiday was cancelled. 
Great Lakes accepted the investigators findings and recalculated the pro-rata voucher. So 
the investigator said she was satisfied that Great Lakes had offered Mr S a fair resolution 
even though there was no requirement for him to be given one. Mr S didnt agree and asked 
for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed to 
me.
Mr S says he accepted the amount due to him but wants it as a cash refund rather than a 
voucher.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 Industry rules and guidance 
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance about a consumers right to cancel an insurance contract. These are contained 
in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says insurance contracts like the one Mr S held have a cooling off period of 14 days 
for a consumer to cancel without penalty and without giving any reason. This is called the 
right to cancel. 
Under ICOBS, a firm may provide longer or additional cancellation rights voluntarily, as long 
as these are on terms which are at least as favourable to the consumer, unless the 
differences are clearly explained. 
ICOBS 7.2.2 addresses payment for the service provided before cancellation in the event 
that a consumer has the right to cancel. This rule says, if a consumer exercises the right to 
cancel, they may only be required to pay for the service actually provided in accordance 
with the contract. This may include an amount for cover provided (i.e. a proportion of the 
policys exposure that relates to the time on risk). 
Guidance set out under ICOBS 7.2.4 says:
In most cases, the FCA would expect the proportion of a policys exposure that 
relates to the time on risk to be a pro rata apportionment. However, where there is 
material unevenness in the incidence of risk, an insurer could use a more accurate 
method. The sum should be reasonable and should not exceed an amount 
commensurate to the risk incurred. 
Mr S didnt cancel his travel insurance policy within 14 days. And, under industry rules, even 
if Mr S had cancelled the policy within 14 days, he wouldnt be entitled to a full refund of the 
premium paid. I appreciate Mr S says he didnt want cancellation cover, but it was set out 
within the policy documents that this was included and Great Lakes was still covering that 
risk from the point the policy was purchased. This is because Great Lakes covered the risk 
of him cancelling the upcoming trip for reasons that were covered under the policy during 
that time. 
The policy terms and conditions
The terms and conditions of Mr Ss insurance policy with Great Lakes outline his cancellation 
rights under the contract. These say:
[You have the right to cancel your policy within 14 days of the date of issue or
receipt of your documents, whichever is later. We will only refund to you any
premium you have paid, less any fees and charges if you have not travelled, or
have made, or intend to make a claim.
If the notice of cancellation is received outside the 14-day cooling off period no
premium will be refunded, however discretion may be exercised in exceptional
circumstances such as bereavement or a change to the policy resulting in us
declining to cover your medical conditions].
Mr Ss cancellation rights under the contract of insurance are more favourable to him than is 
required by industry rules. But Mr Ss policy was purchased on 26 November 2019 and 
cancelled on 28 March 2020. This was more than 14 days after he bought the policy.
The policy terms and conditions give Great Lakes discretion to refund the premium to a 
policyholder if a policy is cancelled outside of the 14-day cooling off period in exceptional 
circumstances. The examples of exceptional circumstances listed are specific to the individual policyholder such as bereavement and/or a change in a policyholders medical 
conditions. I dont think it would be fair to ask Great Lakes to use its discretion and consider 
the Covid-19 global pandemic as exceptional circumstances. I dont think this type of 
situation, which affected many of Great Lakes policyholders, is one which the policy term 
relating to discretion is intended to cover. 
This means I dont think Mr S is entitled to any refund of premiums under the terms and 
conditions of the contract with Great Lakes.
What is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances
But Ive also considered what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the 
complaint. 
I understand Mr Ss planned trip  and therefore the need for this single trip insurance policy 
 changed due to circumstances outside of his control. So, Ive thought about whether it 
would be fair and reasonable to ask Great Lakes to depart from industry rules and the terms 
and conditions of Mr Ss contract because of the exceptional and extraordinary 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. 
Covid-19 was an unanticipated and unforeseen event, outside of the control of both parties 
to the insurance contract. 
However, Covid-19 didnt make it impossible for Mr Ss contract with Great Lakes to be 
performed  cover under the policy started on 26 November 2019. 
Mr S wasnt just insured for the dates of travel. The price set by Great Lakes also covered 
Mr S for cancellation cover from 26 November 2019. So, the premium Mr S paid covered the 
risk of him having to cancel his holiday due to any of a number of listed events insured under 
the policy including, for example, Mr S falling ill with a declared pre-existing medical 
condition. 
Great Lakes was covering the risk of Mr S making a successful claim on the policy from 
26 November 2019 until his holiday was cancelled on 20 March 2020. Its a fundamental 
principle of insurance law that, if the insurer had commenced to bear the risk concerned  for 
however short a time  the premium paid is not returnable. And as Ive outlined above, whilst 
Mr S didnt want cancellation cover thats part of the policy that he purchased. So, regardless 
of what Mr Ss cancellation rights were, it isnt unfair for Great Lakes to retain any premiums 
relating to the risk it covered during that time. 
However, after 20 March 2020 when the holiday was cancelled due to Covid-19, Great 
Lakes didnt bear any risk under Mr Ss insurance policy. The holiday had already been 
cancelled due to Covid-19 and Great Lakes hasnt paid a claim in relation to this. Great 
Lakes was therefore no longer carrying the risk of the holiday being cancelled for any other 
insured reason. And, as the holiday was no longer going ahead, Great Lakes was also no 
longer carrying the risk of any claim being made while Mr S was travelling abroad.   
Based on the unique and unprecedented circumstances surrounding the Covid-19 
pandemic, I think it would be fair and reasonable for Great Lakes to provide Mr S with a 
pro-rata refund of the premium he paid for his single trip travel insurance policy from the date 
the holiday was cancelled on 20 March 2020. Great Lakes has accepted the investigators 
findings and has now calculated the premium refund from that date. It offered a pro-rata 
refund voucher of £61.31.
How the refund should be paid In considering whether I think Great Lakes should make a pro-rata refund of Mr Ss 
premiums by way of a voucher or by way of a monetary refund, Ive thought about what 
would be fair and reasonable to both parties.
While I understand Mr Ss reasons for doing so, it was his decision to cancel the insurance 
policy. Mr S entered into a contract with Great Lakes, paying a premium in return for Great 
Lakes acceptance of the risk of a valid claim occurring under the policy. Paying a refund by 
way of a voucher means the risk Great Lakes agreed to accept is moved to a future date.    
Overall, I dont think I can fairly say Great Lakes should pay a pro-rata monetary refund to 
Mr S. I think a voucher, subject to the restrictions and limitations attached to that voucher 
being reasonable, is a fair alternative to a monetary refund in the circumstances. 
The voucher which Great Lakes has offered is valid for 36 months and is fully transferrable, 
so it can be used by either Mr S or by a third party. The voucher can be used to buy a future 
travel insurance policy  either annual or single trip. 
I understand why Mr S may not wish to use a voucher and would like a cash refund instead. 
However, I dont think the terms of Great Lakes voucher are unreasonably restrictive, so I 
think the voucher is a fair offer in the circumstances. 
The calculation of the voucher 
Great Lakes doesnt break the premium for this policy down into pre-travel cancellation and 
post-departure cover. Instead, the premium charged is split equally across the whole period 
of cover. 
An insurer is entitled to decide the way in which it calculates the premiums it charges taking 
into account factors such as its previous claims experience, its assessment of the likelihood 
of claims arising and its own commercial interests  as long as it treats its customers fairly.
Based on the explanations that Great Lakes has provided about its reasons for calculating 
the premiums in the way it does, Im satisfied there isnt a material unevenness in the 
incidence of risk across the life of its single trip travel insurance policies. And Im satisfied 
that Great Lakes hasnt treated Mr S unfairly or any differently to other customers in similar 
circumstances. 
The voucher value has been calculated based on Mr Ss unused period of standard travel 
insurance cover. 
The premium Mr S paid for this policy was for a period of approximately 299 days from 26 
November 2019 to 19 September 2020. 
The value of the voucher which Great Lakes has offered equates to the premiums equivalent 
to 184 unused days of cover from 20 March 2020 until the planned end date of the trip on 19 
September 2020. 
This reflects the fact that Great Lakes wasnt covering any further risk under the policy from 
the date the holiday was cancelled. 
Overall, Im satisfied the refund voucher offered by Great Lakes for the amount of £61.31 is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances. So I wont be asking Great Lakes to do anything 
further. My final decision
 For the reasons given above, Im upholding Mr Ss complaint in part against Great Lakes 
Insurance SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 May 2021.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman