DRN-3483364
The complaint
Miss J has complained about Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance UK Limited trading as Insure the 
Box (Aioi)s decision to settle a claim as a fault claim under her car insurance policy.
Miss Js father Mr J is representing her in her complaint. 
What happened
Miss J was involved in a collision with another vehicle. Miss J was travelling from behind and 
collided into the rear of the car in front. 
She reported the incident to her insurer Aioi. Aioi said it would settle the claim as a fault 
claim. 
Mr J complained to Aioi about its decision. He didnt think it had properly investigated the 
incident. But Aioi said it was entitled to make a decision about the settlement of a claim in 
line with the policy terms and that its decision was correct. 
Mr J asked us to look at Miss Js complaint. Our Investigator thought Aioi had acted 
reasonably and within the terms of the policy. She explained that we dont decide liability. 
But she thought Aioi had reached its decision in a reasonable way. 
Mr J didnt agree and wants an ombudsman to decide. In summary he says:
Miss J says she was driving at a safe stopping distance from the car in front.
Aiois failure to follow up by looking for CCTV evidence is significant.
He doesnt agree that the circumstances of the incident make it clear cut as Aioi 
described. 
Aioi gave different reasons why it didnt look to obtain CCTV footage.
Aioi settled the claim on a without prejudice basis but because it didnt attempt to 
obtain CCTV footage Miss J has been denied the opportunity to gather evidence and 
consider the option of taking legal action. 
Mr J has provided examples of case law to support his view that Aiois decision may 
not have been reasonable.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J has acknowledged that our role isnt to determine liability. This is the role of the courts. 
We can look at whether an insurer reached its decision regarding liability reasonably and in 
line with the policy terms. 
Miss Js policy has a very common term which allows Aioi to take over the defence and 
settlement of a claim in her name. This means Aioi might make a decision she doesnt agree 
with, but the policy allows it. We dont disagree with this term in principle provided the insurer 
can show it treated its customer fairly when applying it. 
Miss J said that she believes the other driver was at fault for the incident and that they were 
driving without due care and attention. She said she was driving in the middle lane on a 
motorway when the other driver changed lanes and slammed on their brakes as they 
attempted to slip into a non-existent gap to enter a slip road. She said they did this so that 
they could skip the heavy traffic on the motorway. This meant the rear of the other drivers 
car was in the lane Miss J was travelling in when Miss J swerved as she wasnt able to stop 
in time to prevent the collision from occurring. 
While Mr J accepts the allegation of driving without due care and attention is obviously a 
matter for the police, but he says its a view Aioi as the insurer should have taken seriously. 
He says Aioi first said it wouldnt be able to request CCTV footage due to a change in GDPR 
law and so said Miss J would need to obtain it  but then changed its mind and said it wasnt 
necessary to request any CCTV footage as the circumstances of the incident were clear cut. 
As the other driver was stationary in front of Miss J and she hit the rear of their car, Aioi said 
it would very difficult to argue she wasnt responsible for the incident as the onus is on her as 
the driver of the car behind to leave a safe stopping distance.
From the information provided, Aioi reviewed statements and diagrams from both drivers. It 
was aware that Miss and Mr J were unhappy with its initial stance on liability  and so it 
continued its investigation and didnt admit liability to the third party insurer at the outset. 
Aioi has explained that it is a matter for the police as to whether to investigate an allegation 
of driving without due care and attention. In one of the calls, Mr J told Aioi that Miss J called 
the police after the incident to report the other driver but was advised that it was a matter for 
the insurer. If the police had followed up on the incident I would have expected Aioi as the 
insurer to take this information into account before reaching a decision. Ive seen nothing to 
suggest it wouldnt have done this. 
In terms of its role in deciding how best to settle the claim, Aioi said that as Miss J needed to 
swerve to try and avoid a collision, there must not have been enough time to brake from a 
safe distance and so it would treat the claim as a fault claim.
The other driver provided a statement. They said a queue had built up at a junction of the 
motorway and it was gridlocked. The queue had continued onto the motorway. They had 
joined the queue and was stationary when Miss J collided into the rear of their car. 
Mr J has provided examples of case law where the driver from behind hasnt been held 
100% liable for the incident. I understand that not all incidents involving a rear end collision 
will have the same outcome. 
However, as the Investigator explained, our role is to look at whether Aioi reached its 
decision reasonably and not to decide liability. And it isnt for us to forensically challenge the 
evidence available to the insurer. 
Aiois claim notes from 12 October 2021 read: double check cctv - no CCTV, camera on M 
(name of motorway inserted here) is a live feed traffic cam and doesn't record footage
So Im satisfied that Aioi made enquiries and considered whether CCTV footage was 
available of the incident. 
From the information provided, I think Aioi reached its decision to settle the claim as a fault 
claim in a reasonable way and in line with the policy. I understand Mr J and Miss J will be 
very disappointed. But this means Im not asking Aioi to do any more. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 June 2022.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman