DRN-4389608
The complaint
Mr B and Ms S have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
What happened
Mr B and Ms S were sold the PPI when they arranged to re-mortgage to Lloyds in 1998.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B and Ms S disagree with the adjudicators 
opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The Financial Ombudsman Service was established to be a quick and informal service. This 
doesnt mean we apply any less rigour or care in reaching our decisions. However, it does 
mean that we might not address each and every point in the way that Mr B and Ms S might 
wish. So I intent to stick to the crux of the matter of whether or not the PPI was mis-sold. But 
I would like to reassure them that, whilst I might not address every point that they have 
raised, I have read and considered everything that they have sent in.
Mr B and Ms S took out their mortgage with a building society owned by Lloyds. Therefore, 
this complaint is set up against Lloyds as the correct legal entity. So, although I refer to 
Lloyds in this decision, I am essentially talking about the building society that sold the PPI.
Mr B and Ms S have mentioned the lack of evidence in some aspects of this case and feel 
that the adjudicator has made certain assumptions, preferring those over actual proof.
It is the case that some documents are missing. Given how long ago the sale happened, its 
not surprising that Lloyds hasnt retained all the paperwork and we wouldnt expect it to.
Where the information is incomplete or inconclusive, as in this case, I reach my decision 
based on the evidence that we do have, as well as what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in the circumstances.
Mr B and Ms S say they didnt know they had PPI, meaning that it was added without their 
knowledge or consent.
They said in their complaint form that PPI is not something that they would consider. But 
from the evidence Ive seen, I can see that they were at least considering taking out PPI at 
the time of the re-mortgage.
The mortgage application form has a section for PPI with a statement saying: I have 
received information about the (building society) Payment Protection Plus. I wish to apply for 
cover and have completed the relevant proposal form. The box next to this statement has 
been ticked and Mr B and Ms S both signed the form on 5 October 1998.
Lloyds sent them a letter on 15 October 1998 asking them to complete and return some 
additional documents.
One of these was a Budget Analysis form. I can see that this form was subsequently 
returned, having been signed by Ms S. The form required them to list out their approximate 
ongoing monthly expenses. £50 has been handwritten in next to the box for payment 
protection/income insurance. This suggests to me that there must have been some 
discussion about the PPI and its estimated cost and that Mr B and Ms S then most likely 
decided to go ahead and buy it and factor it into their expenditure.
Lloyds internal Loan Assessment form dated 28 October 1998 confirms that PPI had been 
sold to them during the mortgage application process.
The welcome letter sent to them on 10 December 1998, sets out the monthly insurance 
premium as £65.23. When you look at the Budget Analysis form, the cost of the 
buildings/contents insurance is estimated at £12.75. So it seems to me that the cost of 
£65.23 is the combined total of PPI and other insurances that Mr B and Ms S bought (I 
wouldnt expect it to tally exactly as initially they would have been given a loose estimate 
with the costs only being firmed up once the mortgage had been accepted).
I accept that the PPI was not set out separately at this point. But I think its likely that Mr B 
and Ms S would have known the figure on the welcome letter was a combined amount for all 
insurances they had bought  because I might have expected them to challenge the amount 
if it was a lot more than they were expecting to pay.
Mr B and Ms S have provided a copy of a blank PPI application form, which they say proves 
that they didnt return it. Ive thought very carefully about this point. On balance, Im not 
persuaded it is enough to conclude that they didnt complete the application process. Its 
possible they were given duplicate forms. And I cant see a date on the form, so its unclear 
whether it stems from 1998 or whether it was provided at a different time, perhaps when they 
took out further borrowing (where we know they didnt buy PPI on those occasions).
Ms S says she was made redundant from her job but didnt claim on the policy, showing that 
she didnt know she had it. I dont know the circumstances of Ms Ss redundancy, such as 
whether it happened when the policy was still active or whether she was out of work long 
enough to be eligible to claim. As our adjudicator has said, not claiming on a policy some 
time later is not enough to be able to conclude that it was originally mis-sold, as there are 
other factors that might have led to someone not claiming, including simply forgetting about 
the policy.
I have no doubt that Mr B and Ms S have provided their genuine recollection of events. But, 
as the sale was in 1998, it wouldnt be surprising if their memories have faded. From what 
we know of Lloyds sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally presented as optional 
and would not be added to the mortgage account unless someone consented to buy the 
policy. I havent seen any evidence that would persuade me that something different 
happened in this case. Overall, I consider it more likely than not that Mr B and Ms S agreed 
to buy the policy, knowing that they didnt have to, even if they no longer remember doing 
so.
Lloyds needed to ensure that the policy was suitable for Mr B and Ms Ss needs. And from 
what I know of their circumstances at the time, the PPI was suitable for them. Mr B would have received fairly generous sick pay from his employer. Its unclear what sick 
pay Ms S would have received. But regardless of this, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay and potentially for longer than they would have received full pay for.
They had some savings. But having the PPI would have allowed them to retain any savings 
or use them to cover other outgoings at what would have been a difficult time. 
Lloyds also needed to provide Mr B and Ms S with sufficient information for them to make an 
informed choice about whether or not the PPI was right for them. I can see that they were 
sent a leaflet about the PPI on 15 October 1998. And the available evidence suggests they 
were provided with an approximate cost estimation (£50 against the eventual actual cost of 
£42.50) with a combined amount for all insurances being provided in the welcome letter.
Its possible that Lloyds didnt provide as much information as it should have, particularly 
about the things that the policy didnt cover. But Mr B and Ms S werent affected by any of 
those things. For example, they didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions that might 
have been excluded under the policy terms. As I think they had an interest in the PPI and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Lloyds may have done wrong, 
so theres nothing that Lloyds needs to do to put things right. It follows that I do not uphold 
the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 November 2023.
 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman