DRN-2897449
The complaint
 Mr S complains about the service provided by British Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) 
under his Home Emergency policy. Mr S is unhappy at British Gas not reimbursing him for 
the cost of unblocking a drain at his property.
What happened
 Mr S held a Home Emergency policy that provided servicing and breakdown cover. During 
2020 Mr S had an issue with the drains from a toilet at his property. Mr S said that he called 
out British Gas on several occasions, but they were unable to resolve the problem. Unhappy 
at this situation, Mr S contacted a contractor directly to investigate. The contractor carried 
out work at a total cost of £1,400 to resolve the problem.
Mr S then complained to British Gas, asking that they reimburse him for the cost of the work 
carried out. Following discussions with British Gas, Mr S thought that they had agreed to pay 
him a substantial part of the cost of the work (but not the cost of that part of the work Mr S 
accepted wasnt covered under his policy). Mr S said that British Gas then changed their 
mind and rejected his claim for reimbursement, saying that the work carried out didnt fall 
within the cover provided by the policy.
Unhappy at his claim being rejected, Mr S complained to this service. He asked that he be 
reimbursed for the cost of the work by British Gas, at between £1,100 and £1,400.
Our investigator upheld Mr Ss complaint and concluded that British Gas hadnt acted 
fairly. The investigator noted that following their rejection of Mr Ss claim, British Gas 
contacted him to say that they would, after all, reimburse Mr S for the cost of 
detecting and removing the blockage in the drain (which the policy terms would 
cover). The investigator noted that Mr S responded to British Gas, providing a 
breakdown of costs for the contractors investigation, excavation and making good of 
the drain (at a cost of £873 plus VAT). The investigator concluded that British Gas 
should reimburse Mr S these costs, together with simple interest of 8% from the date 
Mr S provided the breakdown of costs to the date that he was reimbursed.
British Gas disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an ombudsman 
review the complaint. They did offer to reimburse Mr S for £240 (plus VAT) being what they 
considered to be the cost of the element of excavation to gain access to the drain and clear 
the blockage.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
 My role here is to decide whether British Gas has acted fairly towards Mr S.
The key issue of Mr Ss complaint is about what element of the work that his contractor 
carried out to resolve the problem with the drain is covered under his policy. Ive noted that 
in their Final Response Letter of December 2020, British Gas stated that they had 
considered the invoice from Mr Ss contractor. They had concluded that as the work involved 
installing new drainage pipe work and installing a new manhole cover, this wasnt covered 
under the terms and conditions of the policy. They added that the policy would only cover 
work that restored free flow to existing pipe work, or where pipe work was replaced because 
it was leaking. Any installation work or adding to the existing pipe work would be classed as 
an upgrade (and so not covered).
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss policy, specifically those relating to drains. 
Under the Whats covered section of the policy, it includes (amongst other things):
Unblocking drains to restore flow
Repairing drains where we deem the drain to be unserviceable to restore flow
A replacement of parts that we cant repair
Ive also noted that under the Whats not covered section the following are excluded from 
cover: manholes and their covers.
Under the Making repairs section theres a Getting access and making good heading that 
states: In addition to the cost of parts and labour[our products] cover up to £1,000 
including VAT for getting access and making good*. (*-defined as getting access to your 
appliance or system, and then repairing any damage we may cause in doing so.)
Looking at the exchanges and other evidence provided by Mr S and British Gas, the invoice 
for the work carried out by Mr Ss contractor is split between drainage and other work. The 
drainage work totals £1,188 plus VAT and is listed as:
Excavate between the corner of the proposed shower room and back of the 
garage to find the existing soil pipe.
Cut and install a plastic chamber with risers and a cover.
Install lean mix concrete around the bottom section and then back fill with soil 
and leave level.
 
To my mind, the first and third elements would be covered under the policy (but not the 
second). The contractor provided a further breakdown of drainage costs, as well as a 
description of the work undertaken. A figure of £873 plus VAT was provided for: The cost of 
the investigation, excavation and making good. Looking at the policy terms and conditions 
set out above, together with British Gass response to our investigators view, then I think its 
reasonable that work on excavation and making good would be covered.
The key point of dispute is about the work carried out in response to what the contractor 
found to be the cause of the blockage. The contractors further analysis states that: We 
found the blockage to be within the excavated area so we cut back the pipe work and 
installed a chamber instead of a section of pipe to make it easier to access in the future. 
The breakdown notes the cost of the chamber supplied and fitted was £315 plus VAT. 
Ive considered this carefully. I agree that installing a chamber is an upgrade, as it isnt 
simply replacing a section of pipe work with new pipe work. I think its right to exclude this 
element. But the remainder of the work is  as the breakdown states  investigation, 
excavation and making good. I think this is consistent with the policy terms and conditions, 
in particular the section relating to getting access and making good. I think its reasonable 
that, having excavated the affected area and determined the cause of the blockage, then the 
contractor should carry out a repair to clear the blockage that involved cutting into the 
pipework and replacing it. In my view this would also be consistent with the policy terms and conditions reference to Repairing drains where we deem the drain to be unserviceable to 
restore flow.
Ive also considered Mr S telling us that he was unhappy that British Gas were called out on 
several occasions during 2020 but were unable to find the cause of the blockage (or to clear 
it). However, the job history provided by British Gas only indicates one visit to Mr Ss 
property in the early part of 2020. While its not clear exactly how many visits may or may not 
have taken place, this isnt directly linked to the main aspect of the complaint, which is the 
question of what would be a fair and reasonable settlement of the cost incurred in clearing 
the blocked drain.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. I require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr S for the cost of investigation, excavation and making good (£873 plus 
VAT)
Pay Mr S interest at 8% on the cost from the date he provided the breakdown to the 
date it reimburses him (assuming that Mr S accepts my decision).
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the sums within 28 days of the date on which we tell 
them Mr S accepts my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest 
on the costs from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 August 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman