DRN-2955670
The complaint
Mrs R complains on behalf of the estate of her late husband; she is also the beneficiary of 
his estate. Its said Santander UK Plc are wrong to require Mrs R to obtain a grant of 
probate. Mr R represents his mother, Mrs R, in her complaint.
What happened
When Mr Rs father died, he left significant funds in his Santander bank account. Its 
accepted Mrs R is the executor of her late husbands will and the intended beneficiary.
Santander wont release the funds and allow Mrs R to access in the absence of a grant of 
probate. Mr R as his mothers representative says the requirement is unlawful.
An investigator at this service considered the complaint. He didnt uphold it, as he didnt think 
Santander had done anything wrong. His view was that Santander had applied their usual 
policy and this hadnt been done unreasonably or unfairly.
Mr R doesnt agree. He sent in further representations and the case was referred for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Santander say
Santander require Mrs R to obtain a grant of probate before they will release the funds. 
Santander say this is their usual policy. They have said this reflects the legal and regulatory 
framework and obligations under which they operate. Santander say that because they are 
required to ensure funds are paid to those who are legally entitled, a will is not considered to 
be a document proving absolute entitlement. They require a grant of probate as the 
document meeting the legal requirements and authority. Santander said, and continue to 
say, this is their usual policy.
As part of Santanders communications with Mr R on this subject they told him their process 
was that a grant of probate was always required where there were funds above £50,000. But 
this didnt mean they could or would release a portion less than £50,000 with an indemnity 
form.
Santander told Mr R they understood he had strong feelings about this requirement and why 
he thought it unlawful. But they thought the material he wanted them to consider wasnt 
relevant to their considerations. Overall they conclude the onus remains with Mrs R (or Mr R 
on her behalf) to prove legal entitlement in the way they require.
What Mr R says
Mr R on behalf of his mother says Santander are wrong to require a grant of probate. He 
says the requirement is unlawful. 
Mr R submits that for his mother to pay money to the UK government (by paying for the 
grant of probate) is equivalent to funding the UK government. He believes it can be said the 
UK government can and ought to be identified as being engaged in acts of terrorism. So if 
his mother pays for a grant of probate, this would mean she would be funding the purposes 
of terrorism and this is an unlawful activity. 
Mr R says, in summary, there is sufficient and persuasive material to support his contention 
theres reasonable cause to suspect the UK government were or could have been involved 
in the planning and fulfilment of particular events and what he considers to have been a 
subsequent cover up.
Mr R provided various links and information to support his submissions. I hope he will 
appreciate I am not summarizing all he has sent and said, but I have considered everything 
with care.
In particular Mr R stresses the interpretation he says ought to be applied to a verdict in a 
named trial. He believes a jurys verdict in this trial can be used to draw wider conclusions 
beyond the sufficiency of evidence of guilt against an accused.
Mr R referred me to the Terrorism Act 2000 and a Supreme Court judgment. Mr R says the 
judgment sets out guidance thats relevant to the meaning of suspicion. Mr R says the 
sections of the Terrorism Act on fund raising, use, possession and funding arrangements are 
relevant. He thinks they demonstrate the unlawful activity his mother would commit if she 
paid the UK government for a grant of probate. He contends Santander and this service 
must also be falling foul of this, because he thinks their conclusions mean they are coercing 
his mother into breaking the law.
Mr R is unhappy Santander referred to being subject to various legal and regulatory 
obligations and wanted more information. He wanted to Santander to tell him why they said 
they werent subject to sections 15 and 17 of the Terrorism Act 2000. He thought Santander 
wrongly concluded they wouldnt comment on material hed provided.
Mr R didnt think the investigators view was fair. He thinks its implicit within Santanders 
conclusions and the investigators view that they dont think theres reasonable cause to 
suspect the UK government were or could have been involved in events.
Mr R suggests the investigators view is flawed in the same way as Santanders conclusion. 
He says they must have all concluded the jurys verdict in the Southwark Crown Court trial 
wasnt sufficient to establish there was reasonable cause to suspect the UK governments 
involvement in the 7 July events. Mr R says they must have concluded this and so they 
ought to have provided reasons why.
Mr R says he has been told by multiple police officers that the jurys verdict in this case did 
establish a reasonable cause to have the suspicion that Mr R believes to be true (in respect 
of the UK governments links to criminal and, or, terrorist activity).
Mr R concludes this trial approached the concept of suspicion in the same way as that 
considered in the Supreme Court case (which involved the provision of funds to a family 
member).
He continues to suggest Santander are coercing his mother into breaking the law. He 
suggests this means Santander and this service are acting contrary to the law. 
Mr R doesnt think his mothers complaint has anything to do with bank policy. He thinks its 
inconsistent that his mother cant transfer funds to identified overseas criminal terrorist 
groups, but she can to the UK government. Mr Rs concludes Santander is politically motivated. He says Santanders policy is irrelevant 
as it wasnt drafted to take into account unusual situations such as this one. Mr R suggests 
the investigators view can be understood to suggest a bank has free rein as long as an 
activity is contained within a policy.
Mr R says his mother has a right not to pay the UK government and this would be in-line with 
the wishes of his father. Mr R feels his thinking hasnt been looked at independently. He 
thinks this service is funded by the UK government and so he is at an automatic 
disadvantage.
Mr R continues to think Santander have failed by failing to consider any of the alternative 
arrangements proposed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will have been a difficult time and I am sorry for Mrs and Mr Rs loss.
Ive considered everything provided with real care. I appreciate Mr R deeply believes in his 
submissions and feels strongly about the issues involved. Ive also seen Mr R considers the 
information he has provided is powerful and persuasive to support his thinking. I understand 
it will disappoint Mrs R and her son, but I am not upholding the complaint against Santander. 
I dont think Santander have done anything wrong, nor have they applied their usual 
approach unreasonably or unfairly.
Mr R questioned the independence of this service. I hope I can reassure Mr R and his 
mother, I have considered the complaint afresh on its own merits, based on everything 
provided and said. Although this service was created by statute, we arent funded by the 
government. 
My role requires me to take into account relevant laws, regulations and policies, to reach a 
fair and independent decision on each case. We provide an informal resolution service, as 
an alternative to the courts.
I dont think there is any real dispute its Santanders usual policy to require a grant of 
probate for accounts where there is more than £50,000 held. If there is any dispute, I accept 
this is Santanders usual policy. I dont agree this policy is inherently wrong, or that theyve 
applied it unusually or unfairly here. Its a requirement shared by many UK financial 
institutions.
Mrs Rs late husband has more than £100,000 in his account. It crosses Santanders usual 
threshold and Im satisfied on everything provided, Santander have been consistent in their 
explanations and the application of their requirements.
In general terms its for Santander to manage their business and put any policies such as 
this in place. If there is a wider issue on the legality or propriety of a business practice or 
policy this may be more appropriately an issue to be raised with the regulator. This service 
considers each case on its own merits.
A grant of probate is the accepted document to prove a legal entitlement. Unlike a will, for 
example, which does not necessarily create a binding legal entitlement. I dont accept it is 
unfair or unreasonable for Santander to adhere to their usual policy here. There may be circumstances where this is or could be waived, but I dont conclude they ought to be 
required to here.
Mr R considers this case unique and possessing unusual circumstances. He says Santander 
are wrong to apply their policy because of this. But I dont agree the reason why a grant of 
probate is being requested for Mr Rs estate is unusual. 
Mr R says the requirement of a grant of probate requires his mother to break the law, 
because the UK government ought to be considered an agent of terrorism or linked to 
terrorism. The basis for his submission suggests he must consider any requirement for a 
grant of probate to be unlawful. I dont think it can be said this case, his fathers estate, or 
the requirement placed upon his mother is unusual or unique. 
Mr Rs reasoning on why Santander are wrong to require a grant of probate is more unusual, 
but that doesnt make the facts so. In this situation there is a bank account with a balance 
that belonged to a deceased consumer; the bank have a policy in place about whats needed 
to release the funds. This isnt unusual.
I am not persuaded I am required to go on to make any finding on Mr Rs submissions 
around the UK government or the other material provided. In any event I dont accept the 
cogency and consistency of the arguments and evidence upon which Mr R bases his 
thinking. Im not persuaded Santanders policy requires a consumer to break the law in the 
way Mr R suggests.
I hope it will assist Mrs R and her son if I provide some general commentary. Mr R suggests 
a jurys verdict can be understood in a certain way. Mr Rs example refers to a not guilty 
verdict in a criminal trial relating to a charge of attempting to pervert the course of justice. On 
a basic understanding, there were very specific facts around the allegations and 
circumstances. In a criminal trial a jury is generally required to decide whether the 
prosecution have proved their case beyond reasonable doubt. Broadly speaking, a jury 
verdict doesnt establish or provide guidance on facts or beliefs beyond this; nor does it 
establish or develop statutory or legal interpretation. Jury deliberations and reasoning remain 
private. I dont accept the interpretation Mr R suggests I ought to accept on the verdict here. 
Nor do I accept the other material Mr R provided to support the same contention is 
sufficiently persuasive and, or, relevant.
Mr R relies on his interpretation and application of government derived statute and a 
Supreme Court judgment. I havent found his submissions on these elements persuasive. I 
dont think they can be interpreted or applied in the manner he suggests. 
I dont think Santander have done anything wrong by omitting any thinking on Mr Rs 
submissions about the UK government from their responses. It wasnt required here. I dont 
accept Santanders responses suggest they say their policy supersedes government made 
law, i.e. the Terrorism Act.
Ive seen what Mr R says about the confirmation he believes he has been given by members 
of the police service around his thinking. I havent seen anything to support his submissions 
on this. I havent found these submissions persuasive. It remains a matter for Mrs R and her 
son if they choose to seek legal advice.
It also remains a choice for Mrs R as to whether she chooses to pay for a grant of probate. 
Ive seen a suggestion she intends to obtain it. Ultimately this remains her choice, but I dont 
consider Santanders requirement here to be wrong.Mr R suggests the beliefs he has expressed were shared by his father. Ive seen Mr R says 
his father would have transferred the funds to Mrs R before his death had there been 
enough time. I am sorry this will make my decision all the more disappointing.
My final decision
For the reasons given I dont uphold the complaint brought by Mrs R, and on behalf of her 
late husbands estate against Santander UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 September 2021.
 
Louise Wilson
Ombudsman