DRN-3372967
The complaint
Mr M complains about how Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with his credit card 
account application.
What happened
Mr M says he applied for a Halifax credit card account in August 2021 which was approved. 
He says Halifax then closed the account and sent him a letter which made no sense. Mr M 
says the letter referred to different account numbers and a different customer. He says his 
personal information has been mixed up with a different customer which has caused stress 
and inconvenience as well as financial hardship. Mr M also says there has been false 
reporting of information to the Credit Reference Agencies (CRAs) and would like 
compensation as well as an apology.
Halifax says it made a mistake and has apologised as well as paying £75 compensation. It 
accepts sending Mr M details of his relatives account relating to the same complaint point. 
Halifax says it was entitled to close the credit card account in line with account terms and 
conditions and hasnt reported adverse information to the CRAs.
Mr M brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted Halifax had made a mistake 
and would have caused confusion by its letter. The investigator thought Halifax had 
apologised and paid an appropriate compensation amount. And was entitled to close the 
account. The investigator didnt think there any evidence of incorrect information reported to 
the CRAs.
Mr M doesnt accept that view and says the compensation award is not in line with 
precedents set by this service and says he has been treated differently to his relative. He 
says there is a note on his relatives Halifax records saying his documents should be 
removed which provides evidence his personal data has been breached.
I asked Halifax to clarify that note and it says initially Mr Ms closure letter was added to the 
relatives case in error but immediately removed and not sent. The relative was acting on 
behalf of Mr M in his complaint against Halifax.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I have come to the overall view that Halifax has fairly apologised for what 
took place and paid an appropriate compensation amount.
Im satisfied that Halifax made a mistake here by confusing what I accept were two identical 
issues and complaints from Mr M and Mr Ms family member. I am sure Mr M would have 
been confused to have received Halifaxs letter about his complaint which referred to two 
accounts with incorrect account numbers. But Im satisfied that Halifax has fairly apologised 
for what took place and accepts it made a mistake.
I dont think Mr M suffered any financial loss as a result of what took place and dont think 
there was ever a risk of such loss. I have not seen any evidence that Mr Ms personal details 
were shared with anyone else and I dont think Halifaxs mistake would have caused 
significant levels of distress or inconvenience that would justify further compensation. It 
follows that Im satisfied Halifaxs compensation award of £75 is fair and reasonable and 
fairly reflects what took place here which was Mr M receiving a letter that had incorrect 
account numbers and an incorrect name.
I appreciate Mr M says the compensation award is not in line with precedents set by this 
service. I make clear to Mr M that we consider each complaint individually and, in any event, 
this is a complaint in which Mr Ms family members personal information was shared with 
him. I have not seen any evidence that Halifax incorrectly shared Mr Ms personal 
information with anyone else.
I dont think it clear why Mr M says he suffered financial hardship or why he says there has 
been false reporting to the CRAs. I have not seen any evidence of such false reporting or 
financial loss.
I appreciate what Mr M says about the note on his relatives Halifax records and that is why I 
asked Halifax to clarify what took place. I dont think Halifax shared any of Mr Ms 
information with anyone else but of course this was a complaint that Mr Ms relative was 
bringing on Mr Ms behalf. I cant fairly award additional compensation for this part of the 
complaint as I cant see that it had any impact and can see that Mr M in any event has made 
a separate complaint to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO).It is not our role to 
punish a business for these sorts of issues.
Overall, Im satisfied that Halifax has paid an appropriate compensation amount and am 
satisfied this complaint is not identical to the linked complaint which involved a different 
award. Im also satisfied that Halifax in line with agreed account terms and conditions was 
entitled here to close Mr Ms account.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman