DRN-1989654
The complaint
Mr K and Ms K are unhappy that Society of Lloyds (SOL) declined a claim under their home 
insurance policy for the theft of a watch.
What happened
Mr K and Ms K made a claim to SOL after their home was burgled while they were out. 
They said a number of valuables had been stolen, including a watch valued at over £5,000. 
They said the watch had been in a box at the back of a wardrobe. They had a safe in a 
cupboard in the living room but it was empty at the time. The burglars didnt take the safe.
SOL didnt accept the claim for the watch. It said Mr K and Ms K hadnt complied with a 
condition of the policy which required them to keep high risk items valued over £5,000 in a 
safe when Mr K and Ms K were away from home.  
Mr K and Ms K werent happy with this. They thought that even if the watch had been in the 
safe, it would still have been stolen. They brought their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think SOL had acted unfairly in declining the claim.
As Mr K and Ms K didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K and Ms Ks policy contains the following condition or endorsement:
We will not cover you for theft of high risk items (including jewellery and watches) valued 
over £5,000 unless they are kept in a safe when:
not being worn
you are away from home
you go to bed.
Ms Ks watch was specified on the policy as worth over £5,000. Its not in dispute that it 
wasnt in the safe when it was stolen. Thats a breach of the security requirement set out in 
the policy. However, that doesnt automatically mean that it was fair for SOL to decline this 
part of the claim. 
I need to consider whether the failure to comply with the security requirement impacted the 
claim. That is, whether the theft would most likely still have occurred even if the watch had 
been in the safe at the time of the burglary.
Photos show the burglars ransacked Mr K and Ms Ks home and most probably would have 
seen the safe which was empty at the relevant time. What I cant be certain of though is 
whether the burglars would have been able to open or remove the safe if it had been locked 
and theyd thought there were any valuables in it. The police report doesnt mention the safe. 
Ms K says the safe was bolted to a wall. There is no suggestion that the safe was tampered 
with during the burglary. So I think its reasonable to assume that the watch would have 
probably been more secure in the safe than in a box in a wardrobe. Since Mr K and Ms K 
didnt comply with the security endorsement and it was material to the loss theyre claiming 
for, I think in those circumstances SOL was entitled under the policy terms not to pay this 
part of the claim.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Ms K to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman