DRN-4035337
The complaint
Ms B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) paid a compensation 
payment linked to a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy to her former insolvency 
practitioner. Ms B believes the compensation should be paid directly to her. 
What happened
Ms B was sold PPI alongside a NatWest credit card. 
I am sorry to see that Ms B became unwell in 2001. On 15 August 2001, she tried to make a 
sickness claim on the PPI policy. Her claim at that time was rejected. 
Sometime later, it looks as though Ms B had some financial difficulties and she entered into 
an Individual Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) with her creditors. Ms B says she stuck to the 
arrangement and I understand the IVA completed in 2013. 
On 11 November 2022, NatWest wrote to Ms B to say it had reviewed its files and now 
thought that she would have reasonably expected the 2001 claim to be paid. NatWest 
offered to pay £2,589.33 to Ms B. However, it said that if she had been subject to an IVA, 
her insolvency practitioner (IP) may require the funds to paid directly to them. 
NatWest says it contacted the IP and they said they had an interest in the funds that had 
been offered to Ms B. I understand funds were then paid to the IP. 
Ms B complained to this service because she thought the funds should be paid directly to 
her. She said if the claim had been successful in 2001, she would have received the money 
directly and she did not understand why it now had to be paid to the IP. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know Ms B will be disappointed with my decision, but having considered the issues she 
raised very carefully, I have decided it is fair for NatWest to pay the compensation directly to 
the IP. Ill explain why below. 
When Ms B entered into the IVA, the IP would have used any assets she had at that time to 
pay off as much of her outstanding debts as was possible. As Ms B said, the compensation 
NatWest has now offered relates to a period before the IVA. So, at the point the IVA began, 
although neither Ms B nor NatWest realised it at the time, this compensation was actually 
owed to Ms B. That means it was an asset that could have been used to help pay her debts 
when she entered the IVA. 
When Ms Bs IVA was completed, the outstanding balance of her debts was then written off. 
So I can see why Ms B feels she shouldnt have to pay anything more towards the IVA. But 
in those circumstances, the outstanding balance doesnt disappear, it just means that the 
creditors involved cant take any recovery action. 
The IP told NatWest that it had an interest in the compensation. I cant say it would be fair for 
me to tell NatWest to pay Ms B directly if the IP was entitled to the money. On that basis, I 
cant say NatWest did anything wrong in not paying Ms B directly. 
I can see Ms B also told our adjudicator that she thought PPI had been mis-sold alongside 
her credit card. The complaint before me is not a mis-sale complaint, so I havent considered 
that issue. What I would say is that it appears NatWest may have already upheld a mis-sale 
complaint about this credit card in 2020 and paid the compensation to a third party. 
I am sorry to disappoint Ms B, but my decision is that NatWests decision to pay the 
compensation directly to the IP is fair. That means I dont need to tell NatWest to take any 
further action in this case. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about National Westminster Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman