DRN-4276209
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr L say Great Lakes Insurance SE (GL) unfairly declined to replace a solar 
panel inverter under their buildings insurance policy following storm damage in 2021.
Reference to GL includes their agents. 
What happened
The background to the complaint is known to all parties so I wont repeat it here in detail. In 
this decision, Ill mainly focus on giving the reasons for reaching the outcome I have.
Mrs B and Mr Ls property suffered extensive damage following a storm in 2021. They 
complained about the way GL handled the claim which ran for many months. Our 
investigator reviewed the complaint and recommended GL takes action to put matters right 
in respect of the outstanding issues, and poor service experienced, amongst other things. All 
parties accepted the investigators recommendations. However, Mrs B and Mr L say their 
solar panels arent generating as much energy following the 2021 incident, and this only 
came to light a few months later. Mr L provided GL with an independent report and evidence 
he considers supports that GL should replace the solar panel inverter because it was 
damaged by the storm. 
GL considered this but werent satisfied Mrs B and Mr L had demonstrated the solar panel 
inverter was damaged as a result of the 2021 incident. Our investigator considered this but 
didnt recommend this aspect of the complaint be upheld. So, this aspect of their complaint 
was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our Service has a well-established approach to cases involving storm damage. We ask 
three questions: 
Were storm conditions present on or around the date damage occurred? 
Is the damage being claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes? 
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage? 
If the answer to all questions is yes, then its likely Id expect a claim to succeed. But, if the 
answer to any of these three questions is no, then its unlikely a claim would succeed. 
Mrs B and Mr L made a successful storm damage claim in 2021 after they reported a mini 
tornado hit their property which resulted in extensive damage. Around this time, Mr L says 
he inspected the panels but found no physical damage had been caused. Many months 
later, on a sunny day, he said the solar panels werent generating as much energy as they 
once did. They say this was the result of the 2021 incident whereby sonic waves caused the 
solar panel inverter to become faulty. 
Given all parties accept storm conditions were present on or around the time Mrs B and Mr L 
say damage occurred, its fair to conclude the answer to the first question is yes  even 
though this wasnt identified until several months later. 
Mrs B and Mr L provided extensive online research which they say supports a solar panel 
inverter can be damaged by the poor weather they experienced in 2021. I dont think thats in 
dispute here either, so Ill conclude the answer to the second question above is also yes. 
The problem wasnt identified for some time. Mr L says he noticed something was potentially 
wrong because on a sunny day the system wasnt generating as much energy as it used to. 
Hes provided some pre and post 2021 incident data Ive reviewed, but Im not satisfied this 
supports the system is now producing less energy as the result of the 2021 incident. I say 
this because the data doesnt appear too dissimilar pre and post 2021, and there are a host 
of other variables to consider  such as levels of sunlight, for example. And its widely 
accepted that solar panels deteriorate over time. I appreciate Mr L says his system is 
producing less energy than the expected annual decrease, so I need to go on to consider 
the other evidence available here. 
Mrs B and Mr L provided GL with an independent report. The purpose of this report was to 
inspect the solar PV system to look for signs of tornado damage. This concluded, broadly, 
that while there may have been some issues with the inverter, they couldnt be certain the 
2021 incident was the main cause. Mrs B and Mr L say the independent engineer didnt have 
previous experience in assessing tornado damage. But I think its fair to say they were best 
placed to assess whether the main cause of damage was the 2021 incident given they 
carried out an inspection on the system. And I find GL acted reasonably when relying on this 
in part to decide on whether to accept the claim.  
All things considered, its my opinion the answer to the third question is no. Im not 
persuaded it was unfair or unreasonable for GL not to accept responsibility for replacing the 
inverter. I say this because Im not satisfied there is enough evidence to conclude the 
inverter was damaged by the 2021 incident based on the information available to me. I note 
Mrs B and Mr L have provided extensive research to support their claim, and their 
independent engineer says the tornado was a cause for concern. But its also fair  in my 
view  based on this and their research, to say its plausible that a problem unrelated to the 
2021 incident could have also caused the issues with the solar panel inverter. It follows I 
wont be directing GL to replace the solar panel inverter as part of the 2021 claim-incident. 
I note Mrs B and Mr L paid £300 for the inspection to take place and say they were directed 
by GL to do this. This is fairly common practice in my view because its for a policyholder to 
demonstrate theyve suffered loss or damage as the result of an insured peril. Id expect GL 
to cover this cost if it resulted in the claim being a successful one. But because Im not 
satisfied GL declined this aspect of the claim unfairly or unreasonably, I wont be directing 
GL to take any further action here. 
I accept my decision will come as a disappointment to Mrs B and Mr L. But my decision ends 
what we  in attempting to informally resolve the solar panel inverter aspect of their 
complaint  can do for them. I havent commented on aspects of Mrs B and Mr Ls other 
complaint points as the outcome recommended by our investigator was accepted by all 
parties. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr L to accept or reject my decision before 16 October 2023.
 
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman