DRN-4055953
The complaint
Mrs C, represented by her husband Mr C, complained because Santander UK plc refused to 
credit her with £200 cash which she said shed paid in at a branch.
What happened
On 4 October 2022, Mrs C went to a Santander branch. She wanted to close her existing 
Santander account, and transfer the money into a new savings account which shed opened 
online. Mrs C told the cashier she wanted to transfer the whole balance of £8,000 to the new 
account. The cashier told her that the balance wasnt £8,000 but £7,800. Mrs C said that 
wasnt right, as the balance had been £7,800 in August, and in early September shed paid 
in another £200 cash. She told the cashier shed go home and fetch the receipt.
When Mrs C got home, she found that the document shed thought was a receipt, was a 
mini-statement. This showed that shed paid in £400 at the branch on 7 June, and £200 on 1 
August, giving a total balance of £7,800. The mini-statement didnt show any credit for 
September.
Mrs C went back to the branch. She said she was very upset and raised her voice. There 
was a queue behind Mrs C, and another Santander employee came out to ask customers in 
the queue if he could help them. Mrs C pointed at the Santander employee whod just come 
out, and said he was the man who had taken her money in September. Mrs C told the 
cashier dealing with her that she wanted to speak to the manager, but was told he was at 
lunch, though she said it was around 11am. Mrs C said she wanted to complain, and she 
also wanted to close her Santander accounts. The cashier said she couldnt give Mrs C cash 
for that amount, but gave her a cheque for £7,800, and a mini-statement.
When Mrs C returned home, her husband tried to phone Santander. He didnt find it easy to 
get through, and when he did get through, he said he found the branch manager obstructive. 
Mr C made further calls over the next few weeks, and had to repeat himself a number of 
times. On 8 November, having explained again, he was told the matter had been closed as 
staff had viewed the video recording and it didnt show Mrs C. Mr C asked how Santander 
had reached this conclusion because it hadnt had any dates in September, nor a description 
of Mrs C which would have enabled Santander to identify her on the video.
On 11 November, Mrs C received Santanders final response letter, dated 2 November. 
Santander said the branch manager had checked Mrs Cs account as well as the CCTV, and 
there had been no evidence of Mrs C entering the branch. Santander suggested that there 
might have been a misunderstanding, because Mrs Cs account showed that shed paid in 
£200 at the branch on 1 August. It said it was sorry if this had caused Mrs C inconvenience 
and stress, but Santander hadnt made an error.
Mrs C, represented by her husband, wasnt satisfied. She complained to this service.
Mr and Mrs C said they hadnt been able to establish exactly when Mrs C had visited the 
branch in September. They said the best they could establish was between 1 and 16 
September, and it would have been between 9.30am and 11.30am. They didnt agree with 
Santanders suggestion that Mrs C might have been confused about the month, and said 
that she wasnt confused, forgetful, or suffering senility. Mr C said that as he hadnt been 
able to tell the manager about the possible dates when they spoke on 5 October, Santander 
couldnt possibly have checked whether or not Mrs C had been in the branch. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Mrs Cs complaint. He obtained Santanders records which 
showed Mrs C had accessed her account on 6 September. But there was no record of cash 
being paid in at any point during September. He said that the £200 which Mrs C had paid in 
on 1 August had the same details as the transaction she said shed made in September  in 
other words, it was the same amount, paid in as cash, and paid in at one particular branch. 
He said that CCTV was no longer available, because of the length of time. He thought Mrs C 
was mis-remembering what shed paid in in August.
Mrs C, represented by her husband, didnt agree. Mr C said it was very convenient for 
Santander that Santander hadnt kept the CCTV recordings. He also said that the branch 
manager had refused to speak to him, and when he did had been belligerent and 
obstructive. He was unhappy that Santander had never interviewed or contacted Mrs C, 
about what Mr and Mrs C regarded as a very serious complaint of theft by a member of 
Santander staff. 
Mr C said that they had always thought that Santander had covered up what had happened. 
He also said that they couldnt understand why our investigator hadnt requested the CCTV 
straightaway, which could have meant it could have been viewed and possibly resolved the 
claim. He said Mrs C wouldnt have gone to the branch just to get a balance on 6 
September. He said it wasnt human nature to check that what youve been given is an 
actual deposit receipt, and the mistake hadnt been discovered until October when Mrs C 
had returned to the branch to transfer the money into her new account. Mrs C, represented 
by her husband, asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mrs C, and her representative Mr C, are upset about this. I understand that it 
would have been distressing for Mrs C to find that there was less money in the account than 
shed thought. There was also a difficult scene in the branch in October when Mrs C said 
she raised her voice, and identified the person she thought had taken her money. I 
recognise this would have been upsetting for all involved.
In order to reach my decision on whats more likely than not to have happened, Ive looked 
at the available evidence.
Ill first address the issue of CCTV. Banks rarely keep CCTV recordings for more than 28 
days or one month, when they are usually recorded over. So it would have been marginal 
whether the CCTV had still been available when Mrs C reported the problem in early 
October.  And at that point Mr and Mrs C werent able to say when in September Mrs C had 
paid in the money.  CCTV would certainly no longer have been available by the time Mrs C 
complained to this service in late November. In practice, however, even when CCTV is 
available, it rarely shows what its hoped it might. There would need to be a camera focused 
clearly on both the customer and on the detail of the notes being handed over, so that both 
are clearly identifiable, and this is rare. 
I do, however, have documentary evidence and Ive looked carefully at that. Santander sent 
a computer spreadsheet which showed all the occasions when Mrs Cs account was accessed.  This shows a £200 deposit on 1 August at 12:46, then an account movement 
query on 6 September at 10:38. The next access was on 4 October when Mrs C discovered 
the issue, followed by the closure the next day when she decided to close the account. 
So Santanders computer evidence about access to Mrs Cs account, doesnt show any 
money paid in during September.
Its very unfortunate that Mrs C doesnt have a receipt to prove that she paid in £200 in 
September. Mr C says that its not human nature to check that what you have is a deposit 
receipt. But a receipt would show clearly whether money had been paid in, and it would 
always be precautionary to obtain a receipt, and check it and keep it once received.
I recognise that Mr C says they believe there was theft by a member of Santander staff. I 
cant tell for certain what happened, because I wasnt present, but it seems unlikely to me 
that any fraudulent employee would take the risk of giving Mrs C a piece of paper which they 
might have expected shed immediately check as a receipt. That would have led to 
immediate discovery. 
I also note that the 6 September account check took place mid-morning, in a busy shopping 
centre branch. So again I think its unlikely that any fraudulent employee would have thought 
it would be possible to steal a customers money without either Mrs C, or anyone else 
waiting in a queue in the branch, seeing what they were doing and raising the alarm.
As Mrs C doesnt have a receipt, and the computer records dont show any credit to Mrs Cs 
account, I think its unlikely that Mrs C did pay £200 cash into her account in September 
2022.  This means that I dont require Santander to refund her with this amount.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 May 2023.
 
Belinda Knight
Ombudsman