DRN-3139635
The complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the customer service he received from Barclays Bank UK Plc 
(Barclays) whilst in branch.
Mr S further alleges that he was racially profiled and discriminated against.
What happened
Mr S says he entered the branch to make a cash deposit in March 2021. Hes described a
Barclays adviser shouting at him - asking why he wasnt wearing a mask. Mr S says he
replied that he didnt have to wear one. Mr S says the adviser then asked him if he was
exempt in an unfriendly manner, and that he was then confused as he felt hed already
informed the adviser that he didnt have to wear one.
Mr S says he told the adviser they werent his GP or health care provider and that it was
none of their business to ask about why he was exempt from wearing a mask. Mr S says the
adviser then grabbed a face mask from behind the counter and in a loud voice demanded
that he put it on if he wanted to be served. Mr S then told the adviser they were breaking the
law by demanding he wear a face mask. He also says the adviser continued to ask if he was
exempt and he replied that his exemption had nothing to do with it because he felt that was
private, sensitive and confidential information.
Further, Mr S alleges the adviser continued to shout at him in front of other customers about
if he was exempt and that he felt harassed. Mr S again told the adviser any exemption was
private information that he didnt have to disclose. The adviser then refused to take the
deposit and said shed call the police as Mr S was being very aggressive.
Mr S says at no point did he show aggression, swear or make threats. Mr S says he feels
embarrassed, stressed and violated. He also says he feels that he was racially profiled,
abused and discriminated against and that the adviser had used a micro aggression in their
conversation - being described as aggressive. He further states that most of the staff in that
Barclays branch are familiar with him and that hes never been discriminated against for not
wearing a face covering. 
After the police arrived Mr S, says he was allowed to complete his deposit after about 15
minutes and he then left the branch. In total Mr S was in branch for over an hour.
Mr S complained to Barclays about his experience. Barclays didnt uphold his complaint. In
their final response letter Barclays said the adviser Mr S dealt with doesnt normally work at
that branch and she was left particularly shaken and upset following the interaction with
Mr S.
Barclays said the conversation had escalated between Mr S and their adviser and the
adviser felt the next appropriate step was to call the police. Barclays acknowledged what
Mr S had told them about the impact of this experience on him and offered to add markers to
Mr Ss personal record to help with future branch visits.
Unhappy with Barclays response, Mr S referred his complaint to our service for an
independent review. Our investigator wasnt persuaded Barclays had treated Mr S unfairly.
Mr S didnt agree so the complaint was then passed to me for a decision.
On 9 December 2021, both parties were sent a copy of my provisional findings and given an 
opportunity to respond. Mr S responded to confirm hed received the decision. Barclays 
responded but didnt agree with the decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In response to my provisional findings, Barclays said:
It was necessary to contact the police as we cannot enforce the government 
guidelines, as our customer was not complying, our member of staff felt it appropriate 
to call the police. As a result, the police then agreed to attend the incident at our 
branchwe do not believe you have fully taken into consideration the 
responsibility of our member of staff. Condemning the actions [advisers name 
redacted by ombudsman] has taken where a member of the public was not 
appearing to be adhering to Government guidelines and in turn potentially 
endangering those in the branch at the time, as he advised he did not believe in 
wearing a mask. 
Its important to note that Im not at all endorsing the actions (responses) by Mr S when 
asked a relatively clear question about mask wearing. But having carefully considered the 
additional points raised by Barclays, they dont change my overall decision. I say this 
because I have already taken into account the actions of the staff member, but still find the 
end result (calling the police) disproportionate here. 
As no new evidence has been presented, I see no fair or reasonable decision to deviate 
from my provisional findings. As they form part of this, my final decision Ive included a copy 
below.
Copy of provisional findings
Although a number of issues have been raised, this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Mr S has referred to the Equality Act 2010 when bringing his complaint. Its not my role to
say whether Barclays has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter for the Courts. My role is 
to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. In order to decide that, 
however, I have to take a number of things into account including relevant law and what we 
consider to have been good industry practice at the time. So although its for the Courts to 
say whether or not Barclays has breached the Equality Act 2010, Im required to take the 
Equality Act 2010 into account - if its relevant, amongst other things when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint.
Im sorry to hear of the impact of this whole experience on Mr Ss wellbeing. Its important to
state that Ill not be able to say for certain what happened in the branch - and in particular,
what was exactly said in the conversation between Mr S and the Barclays adviser. No
independent witness accounts have been provided to support what either party has said and
no CCTV is now available. Ive to decide what I think is more likely than not to have
happened given the evidence.Mr S and the Barclays advisers accounts of what happened differ quite a lot. Whats not in
dispute is that Mr S entered the branch to deposit cash. At some point a Barclays adviser
challenged Mr S as to why he wasnt wearing a mask. It seems the situation escalated in
that Mr S was asked to leave the branch and then the police were called, but after the police
arrived Mr S was later allowed to deposit the cash and left the branch.
The interaction between Mr S and the adviser
In Mr Ss case its not clear to me that he did clearly answer the advisers question about any
exemption. I say this having carefully considered Mr Ss testimony alongside what the
Barclays advisers have recalled. Mr S (in his complaint form) said:
 [the advisor] immediately shouted at me, asking me why I wasn't wearing a face
mask. To which I replied, because I don't have to wear one. She then asked if I was
exempt, again in an unfriendly manner in a much louder than average speaking
voice. At this point I began to feel anxious and a bit confused as I had just informed
[the advisor] I that I didn't have to wear one.
The question the Barclays adviser says she asked was; are you exempt from masks?, to
which she says Mr S replied No, I dont believe in them .
Mr S has also told us that he told the adviser she wasnt his GP or health care provider and
that it was none of her business as it was private and confidential.
My interpretation is that the adviser wanted to know if Mr S had an exemption or not. Thats
reasonable. Ive seen no supporting evidence that the adviser was going beyond that to try
and obtain personal/medical information on what exactly the exemption might be.
Barclays have confirmed their policy around the wearing of masks in branch at that time:
in line with Government guidance we updated our notices and guidance to reflect
that customers must always wear a face covering, when on business within our
premises. Branch staff were told to ask customers who weren't wearing a face 
covering, to adhere to the rule before entering the building or by offering a disposable 
face covering, should the customer not have one. Branches were advised to 
complete the transactions for customers who confirmed they had a medical condition, 
which prevented them from having to wear a mask.
Ive kept in mind that these events happened during the COVID-19 pandemic when
businesses were trying to protect both their customers and staff whilst also trying to continue
to offer their essential services. To those whom needed them. In these circumstances asking
a customer to wear mask is reasonable in my opinion  as was querying whether a customer
wasnt wearing a mask because of choice or medical exemption.
Its reasonable to assume that had Mr S responded along the lines of I have a medical
exemption, the adviser would have understood and served him without the situation
escalating. This wouldve been in line with Barclays policy at that time.
The allegations of discrimination and racism
At the heart of Mr Ss complaint is that he feels he was racially profiled and discriminated
against because of both his race and also his disabilities. In particular, Mr S has referred to
the use of the word aggressive by the Barclays adviser when describing his behaviour to
the police.As already explained, it wasnt unreasonable of the Barclays adviser to query the non-mask
wearing. Having carefully considered all of the testimony from both parties here, its clear
that a breakdown in communication took place here and the situation escalated after this.
But overall, on balance, I dont find any strong or persuasive supporting evidence that Mr S
was treated differently to any other customer in the same circumstances.
The police being called
As Mr S seemingly didnt respond with a clear answer that wasnt open to interpretation (on
whether he had an exemption or not), the situation escalated to the point where the adviser
called the police. Again, both parties accounts differ on exactly what was said leading up to
the police being called.
The Barclays adviser has said in her testimony that she suggested Mr S consider using the
Post Office or an alternative branch that day. Ive also kept in mind that the adviser wasnt
normally in that branch and Mr S wont have had the familiarity with her that he may have
had with some other branch staff.
When deciding if the advisers actions were proportionate to Mr Ss actions/behaviour and
the situation, the following points are important in my opinion:
Mr S had only been in branch a matter of minutes - based on the various accounts of
what happened;
The adviser called the police quickly following Mr Ss alleged perceived threatening
behaviour in response to her question about mask wearing;
Mr S may well have raised his voice (the Barclays adviser who ultimately ended up
serving Mr S after the police arrived has provided testimony that he was later very
apologetic) when responding and the adviser interpreted this as a threat;
The adviser was behind a screen and not in close contact with Mr S; and
No testimony has been provided that Mr S made threats to the adviser or other staff
members or other customers.
The adviser has said it was Mr S that said to call the police if they wanted him to leave. This
is supported by Mr Ss testimony. Hes told us; I said please feel free to call whoever you
like to call as I am prepared to wait. The advisers additional testimony is I was shaking so
much and he had no intention of leaving so I called 999.
I find the testimony from the other branch colleague likely a fair summary of what happened
here: She refused to serve him and he refused to leave. She then said she would ring the
police and he told her to.
Its important to be clear I dont at all want to downplay the advisers experience here and
have considered what shes told us about the impact on her. But in this particular case 
based on the evidence provided by both parties, I dont find the action of calling the police
proportionate to the perceived threat - or within the range of reasonable, proportionate
outcomes given the situation. Regardless of Mr Ss comment on calling the police, it was
ultimately the advisers decision to do so.
I note that no evidence has been provided that this type of situation with Mr S had happened
before, no subsequent account closure was progressed which could be interpreted as
reinforcing how unacceptable or threatening Mr Ss behaviour was perceived to be and
comments have been provided by another adviser stating: he [Mr S] has always been very
polite and wishing us a nice day etc..Ive then gone on to consider if Barclays actions have had an impact on Mr S that warrants
compensation. Mr S has provided a detailed account of the impact of this incident on his
mental and physical health afterwards. I currently intend to direct Barclays to pay Mr S £200
in recognition of the trouble and upset caused here by their calling the police - which I
consider disproportionate to the situation.
Putting things right
I direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to pay Mr S £200 for any trouble and upset caused.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK Plc to follow my direction as set out 
under the heading Putting things right.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 January 2022.
 
Daniel O'Shea
Ombudsman