DRN-4076261
The complaint
C, a limited company, complains about how Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited 
handled a claim on its commercial motor insurance policy. C is represented in this matter by 
Mr B, one of its directors. He wants compensation for his hire costs and trouble and upset. 
What happened
Cs specialist vehicle was damaged in an incident. Three weeks after the incident, Mr B 
made a claim to Markerstudy. It deemed the vehicle to be repairable and Mr B decided to 
have the repairs made by his nominated repairer rather than by Markerstudys approved 
repairer. The repairs werent completed until a year after the incident due to the unavailability 
of a part. Mr B was without the vehicle during this time. 
Mr B thought Markerstudy should have declared his vehicle to be a total loss or sold its 
salvage to progress the claim. He wants it to compensate him for this delay. Markerstudy 
said it had caused 20 days delay at the start of the claim. It paid C for 14 days hire and £150 
compensation for its inconvenience. But Mr B remained unhappy. 
Our Investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld in part. He thought that 
as Mr B had chosen to use his own repairer, then Markerstudy wasnt responsible for all the 
delays. He thought it couldnt have done more to source the needed part. But he thought it 
should pay C £100 further for loss of use as it had admitted that it had delayed the claim by 
20 days but only offered compensation for 14 days. 
Markerstudy replied that it didnt think further compensation was warranted. It said it had 
also waived any difference in labour charges due to Mr B not using its approved repairer. 
Mr B replied that Markerstudy should have asked its salvage agent to make an offer for his 
vehicle. He thought Markerstudy hadnt been proactive in progressing the repairs. He said 
he had been told that the matter had been referred to senior management when it hadnt. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr B felt frustrated that he had to wait a year for his vehicle to be 
repaired. I can see that the problem with the repairs was due to the lack of availability of a 
necessary part. The vehicles manufacturer was in administration. And a suitable 
replacement couldnt be located. Eventually, the repairers modified another part to complete 
the repairs. 
Mr B was unhappy that Markerstudy had offered him cash in lieu of repairs when it seemed 
the part would be unavailable. He thought Markerstudy should have declared his vehicle a 
write off or arranged for its salvage agent to buy it for an enhanced amount. He was 
unhappy that Markerstudy wasnt proactive in seeking an alternative part and simply waited 
for one to arrive. He thought senior managers should have been involved. And he was 
unhappy that there was a further delay in releasing his vehicle after the repairs were 
completed. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.
Markerstudy said it wasnt responsible for the later delays in the claim because Mr B hadnt 
used its approved repairers and because it wasnt responsible for the manufacturers delays. 
I can see that Markerstudy warned Mr B of this when it first asked for his repairers estimate:
As the repair to your vehicle will not be carried out by one of our approved repairers, a 
courtesy vehicle cannot be provided by us and we are unable to guarantee the quality of 
work that is carried out by your repairer or the length of time the repair takes.
I think this is a common condition in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual or 
unreasonable. And I think it was sufficiently brought to Mr Bs attention for him to decide how 
to proceed with his claim. 
Mr B was unhappy that Markerstudy offered him cash in lieu of repairs. But I can see that its 
entitled by the policys terms and conditions to pay cash instead of repairing the vehicle. In 
any case, Mr B rejected its offer as he wanted his vehicle repaired. So I cant say that this 
caused Mr B any loss. 
Mr B was unhappy that Markerstudy wouldnt sell his vehicle to its salvage agent in a bridge 
the gap arrangement. I can see that Markerstudy declined to salvage the vehicle as the 
repair costs compared to the vehicles value was below its threshold for salvage. And I think 
this is in keeping with what we would expect. 
Markerstudy said its contract with its salvage agent didnt allow for bridge the gap offers. 
And its not our role to tell a business what policies or procedures it should adopt. So I cant 
say that Markerstudy did anything wrong in declining to do this. 
Mr B thought Markerstudy hadnt been proactive in pursuing the repairs. But I can see from 
its file that Markerstudy very regularly and frequently tried to get updates on the repairs from 
Mr Bs garage. It was told that the part was available. The manufacturer sent the wrong part 
three times and then it finally modified the part to fit Mr Bs vehicle. 
I can understand Mr Bs frustration, but I cant hold Markerstudy responsible for the 
manufacturers delays or for his repairers lack of updates. Im satisfied that Markerstudy 
reasonably tried to track the repairs. And I think it was for the repairer, not Markerstudy, to 
seek alternatives if it wasnt able to obtain the needed part. 
After the repairs had been completed, there was a delay in paying the repairer and so 
releasing the vehicle. But Im satisfied that this delay was due to the repairers error in its 
invoice to Markerstudy that delayed payment. So I cant hold Markerstudy responsible for 
this. 
Mr B thought he had been misled when he was told that his claim had been brought to the 
attention of Markerstudys senior managers. But I can see from Markerstudys file notes that 
its senior managers were aware of the claim issue, and this was confirmed to Mr Bs broker. 
So I dont have any evidence to show that Mr B was misled.
Markerstudy accepted that it had caused an initial avoidable delay in the claim for 20 days. 
And it reimbursed Mr Bs hire charges for 14 days. But I think Markerstudy should make 
good Cs losses for the full 20 days. Mr B didnt hire an alternative vehicle initially, so I think 
Markerstudy should reasonably pay C for the loss of use of the vehicle. 
Our Investigator recommended that Markerstudy should pay C £100 for this. And I think 
thats fair and reasonable as it takes into account the specialist nature of the vehicle. 
Markerstudy also paid C £150 compensation for its inconvenience as Mr B had to chase it 
for updates early in the claim. I think thats fair and reasonable as its in keeping with our 
published guidance. Mr B also wanted compensation for his stress and upset. But the policyholder is a business and so whilst it can be inconvenienced, it cant be caused 
distress. So Im satisfied that no further compensation should be paid. 
I can see in the policy booklet that when a consumer chooses to use a non-approved 
repairer, as Mr B did, Markerstudy is only liable for costs at the labour rates charged by its 
approved repairers. But Markerstudy waived this on this occasion as a gesture of goodwill. I 
think that was fair and reasonable.
Putting things right
I require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to pay C £100 further compensation for 
its loss of use of its vehicle for seven days. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
require Markerstudy Insurance Company Limited to carry out the redress set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman