DRN-1887459
The complaint
Ms P and Mr W have complained that Vitality Health Limited cancelled their private medical 
insurance (PMI) policy.
What happened
Ms P and Mr W had a PMI policy with Vitality which was cancelled after Ms P made a claim. 
Ms P was added in 2018. Shortly after being added to the policy, Ms P made a claim which 
Vitality investigated. It found that Ms P hadnt told it about a possible condition which she 
was aware of at the time of joining and so it cancelled the policy for both Ms P and Mr W.
Ms P and Mr W complained to Vitality. Vitality looked into the complaint but didnt think it had 
done anything wrong. Unhappy with this, the complaint was referred to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think it was unfair for Vitality to cancel 
the policy. Ms P and Mr W disagreed and have made the following comments:
Vitality hasnt addressed the error of adding Ms P to the policy in April 2018.
Ms P contacted the Vitality GP service on the first day of the policy to notify them 
about the lump she had found. She was instructed to see an NHS GP and wasnt told 
to notify Vitality of the lump in any other way. Ms P had no reason to believe that the 
details of the lump wouldnt be reported to Vitality and it didnt follow the call up in 
any way. 
In Mr Ws experience of calling Vitality about a medical condition, a follow up call was 
always received to clarify whether a condition was covered.
Mr W says details of the moratorium werent confirmed in July 2018 when Ms P contacted 
Vitality to make a potential claim. Ms P wouldnt have made the claim if Vitality had 
explained these crucial points to her. He questions why Vitality issued a claim form if it knew 
that the moratorium prevented any claim from being made and approved. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Ms P and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
The Insurance Act 2015 sets out what an insurer can do in certain situations, as follows:
It doesnt have to pay the claim
It can require the consumer to pay back any money it has paid 
It can cancel the policy
It can keep the full premium
The policy says:
We dont pay claims for the treatment of any medical condition or related condition which 
you have received medical treatment for, had symptoms of, asked advice on or to the best of 
your knowledge and belief were aware existed in the five years before your cover started (a 
pre-existing medical condition).
A related condition is defined as any symptom  disease, illness or injury which reasonable 
medical opinion considers to be associated with another symptom, disease, illness or injury.
Under general conditions, the policy says:
Representations including statements and information provided by you or any insured 
dependants are relied on in assessing the terms of cover. In the event that any of the 
information provided by you or any insured dependants is wrong or incomplete we may have 
the right to cancel cover with effect from inception and/or to decline claims made under the 
plan.
Vitality cancelled Ms P and Mr Ws policy because it says they didnt make it aware of Ms 
Ps pre-existing condition when they asked for her to be joined to the policy. So Ive looked 
at the timeline of events to consider whether Vitality has acted fairly.
Timeline of events
April 2018  Mr W called to ask about adding Ms P to the policy but didnt confirm the 
instruction and no premium was taken. Vitality added Ms P by mistake but recognised the 
error and removed her from the policy on the same day as adding her. 
4 June 2018  Ms P made an appointment to see her GP. An appointment date of 7 June 
2018 was given.
5 June 2018  Mr W called Vitality again to enquire about adding Ms P to his policy. 
6 June 2018  Ms P was added to the policy and this is the start date of her cover. 
7 June 2018  Ms P attended her appointment with her GP and said she noticed a lump in 
her breast a week ago. 
July 2018  Ms P made a claim on the policy for a scan in relation to breast cancer.
Vitality reviewed the claim and cancelled Mr W and Ms Ps policy from the date Ms P joined 
on the basis that they were both aware of the breast lump prior to joining the policy and 
intentionally withheld details. Vitality said Ms P was added to the plan with the specific intent 
of claiming for a pre-existing condition and misrepresented the details of this when making a 
claim, to secure cover for a claim which they knew was ineligible.
Ms P and Mr W say they called the Vitality GP about the breast lump. However, Ms P says 
she called Vitality on 6 June 2018 which is the same day as joining the policy. Vitality has 
confirmed that Ms P would have called the helpline and didnt speak to a GP. Calls to the 
general advice line are anonymous and so there is no record of what was discussed. Ms P 
wouldnt have been asked for any personal or plan details and so Im not persuaded that 
Vitality were made aware of the lump.
Ive carefully considered what Ms P has said and although she feels she made Vitality aware 
of the lump, there is no record of the conversation for me to say either way, what was 
discussed. In addition, neither Ms P nor Mr W discussed this with Vitality prior to Ms P being 
added to the policy. Mr W had an opportunity to do this when he called on 5 June 2018. In any case, based on what Vitality has said, even if Ms P did mention her lump, no personal 
details were taken and so nothing was recorded about this. And so I dont think enough was 
done to make Vitality aware of the lump before Ms P was added to the policy. 
Mr W has said that in his experience of calling Vitality, a follow up call is usually received. 
However, as Vitality say no personal details were taken for Ms P when she called the 
general advice line, it wouldnt be possible to call back and discuss cover. 
Mr W also says that when Ms P contacted Vitality to make the claim in July 2018, it should 
have discussed the moratorium at that point. He also questions why a claim form was sent.
Ive seen that the moratorium clause is clearly set out in the insurance schedule and the 
policy terms and conditions. These were available to Ms P in June 2018 and she called to 
make the claim a month later. So Ms P ought to have been aware that the moratorium would 
apply. 
Ms P hadnt told Vitality about the lump she had found when she joined the policy and so it 
wouldnt know immediately that the lump was pre-existing. It was after Vitality requested and 
reviewed medical notes from Ms Ps GP that it found details of when Ms P first became 
aware of the lump. It was at that stage that Vitality considered what to do with the claim. And 
I dont think it was unreasonable for a claim form to be sent to capture the exact details of 
what Ms P was claiming for and for the claim to be considered. 
And finally, Mr W says Vitality hasnt dealt with its error in adding Ms P to the policy in April. 
As Mr W hadnt asked for Ms P to be added, and she was added and removed immediately, 
I cant see how this has caused any loss. Vitality has explained that an error occurred and it 
put matters right straight away. I consider that is reasonable and dont think Vitality needs to 
do anything further. 
Im very sorry to learn of Ms Ps ill health. And I appreciate Ms P and Mr W will be 
disappointed with my findings. But I dont think Vitality acted unfairly based on the 
information it had.
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont think Ms P and Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms P and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 27 October 2020.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman