DRN-3658478
The complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax removed funds from his account 
without his consent.
What happened
Mr Y holds an account with Halifax. Earlier this year, Halifax removed funds from the 
account. It says it had received an order from a Sheriff Officer directing it to do so. It said this 
related to money which Mr Y owed to a third party. Mr Y complained to Halifax. He said he 
didnt owe any money and that the funds belonged to a relative, so Halifax shouldnt have 
removed them. 
Halifax didnt uphold the complaint. It said that the account is in Mr Ys sole name and the 
funds were deemed to belong to him. It also said it was legally obliged to comply with the 
order and that, if Mr Y disputed it, he would need to contact the creditor or the Sheriff Officer.
Mr Y wasnt happy with Halifaxs response and brought the complaint to this service. He 
says that when he rang Halifax, the advisor told him that the letter hed received sounded 
like a scam. He says he doesnt owe any money and hasnt received notification of any court 
proceedings. He says he isnt willing to call the Sheriff Officer.
Our Investigator didnt think Halifax had done anything wrong. But Mr Y didnt agree and 
asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied that Halifax received an order from the Sheriff Officer in relation to enforcement 
of a debt owed by Mr Y. Under the terms of the order, Halifax was obliged to remove the 
funds from Mr Ys account. Im satisfied that it acted in line with the order. 
Mr Y says that the money wasnt his as it belongs to a relative. But the account is in his sole 
name and it isnt a trust account. From the information Ive seen, I find that Halifax was 
entitled to remove the funds. I dont think it acted unfairly or unreasonably by doing so.
Mr Y wants Halifax to return the funds to his account. But Halifax says it cant release them 
to Mr Y without confirmation from the Sheriff Officer. I think thats reasonable and its in line 
with the order Halifax received. I understand that the funds were due to be released to the 
Sheriff Officer automatically after a certain amount of time if Mr Y didnt sign and return a 
mandate which hed received. I understand that he hasnt returned it or contacted the Sheriff 
Officer.
In conclusion, I dont think Halifax acted unfairly or unreasonably here, so Im not going to 
uphold this complaint. I know Mr Y feels strongly about it, so I realise he will be disappointed 
with my decision. But Im only looking at the actions of Halifax here and I dont think it did 
anything wrong by complying with the order. If Mr Y remains unhappy about the order itself 
or disputes the debt, he should contact the creditor or the Sheriff Officer. 
I understand that Mr Y is unhappy about the legal process and enforcement action which 
has been pursued here. Im afraid I cant comment on that as its not within the remit of this 
service to do so. I would urge Mr Y to seek independent advice from a relevant professional 
or advice service if he still requires clarification about the process which has been followed 
here.
My final decision
For the reasons above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
Katy Kidd
Ombudsman