DRN-4230721
The complaint
Mr H complains that American Express Services Europe Limited hasnt refunded a payment 
he made using his credit card for items that he didnt receive.
What happened
In February 2023 Mr H ordered a number of items online from retailer which were to be 
delivered by courier a few days later. Mr H paid £141.50 in total for the goods using his 
American Express credit card.
When the box from the retailer was received, Mr H says he found that the front flap wasnt 
adhered as it should have been meaning the box wasnt secure. He says the items hed 
ordered werent in the box.
Mr H contacted the retailer and complained. The retailer said the items had been 
despatched and that they wouldnt be taking any further action. Mr H was referred to his 
credit card provider.
Mr H raised a chargeback dispute with American Express on the grounds he hadnt received 
the goods. American Express, in accordance with the scheme, raised the claim with the 
retailer who challenged the claim. They provided American Express with proof of delivery 
which included a photo of the box outside Mr Hs home.
Mr H disagreed with the evidence provided by the retailer. He said the photo showed the box 
up against the wall, so the unsecured flap was hidden, he said the box had been damaged 
on delivery and the items hadnt been in the box.
American Express raised a second chargeback but the retailer also challenged this. They 
provided evidence that the item had been delivered, that they box had been weighed when 
despatched and that no damage had been recorded by the courier. American Express 
closed the dispute.
Mr H, then made a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 as advised by 
an agent of American Express. Mr H was later informed that as none of the items hed 
ordered had cost £100 or more his claim was outside the scope of section 75 and this claim 
couldnt be accepted.
Mr H was unhappy at American Express decision to close his chargeback claim and he 
complained to it. American Express didnt uphold his complaint. It said that under the 
chargeback scheme, it acted as a mediator between Mr H and the retailer and so had to be 
fair to both parties. American Express said it had looked at the evidence provided by both 
sides and made its decision. American Express said it hadnt made any errors when dealing 
with Mr Hs chargeback claim.
Mr H made a complaint to this service about American Express handling of his chargeback 
claim. He said that American Express hadnt conducted a fair investigation into his claim.
Our investigator didnt recommend Mr Hs complaint should be upheld. She said American 
Express had done what she would expect it to do. It had raised two chargebacks, both of 
which had been defended by the retailer. Our investigator explained that isnt in this services 
remit to look at the scheme operated by American Express but to look at whether it had 
treated Mr Hs claim fairly. She said she was satisfied that American Express had acted fairly 
by closing the claim.
Our investigator said she appreciated it would have been frustrating for Mr H to have been 
wrongly advised about a section 75 claim, but this hadnt interfered with his right to raise a 
complaint with this service about his chargeback.
Mr H disagreed with our investigators view. He said the retailer had simply provided the 
same evidence to challenge each of the chargebacks. He said that although the box was 
weighed on despatch it wasnt weighed by the courier on delivery and this should have been 
investigated further by American Express. He said he didnt think American Express 
investigation had been thorough enough.
As the parties were unable to reach an agreement the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issue for me to consider here is whether American Express has handled Mr Hs claim 
for reimbursement of the cost of the items he had ordered but not received fairly. It isnt 
appropriate that I substitute my decision as to the evidence that was presented by both 
parties for the one American Express made, I need to consider whether American 
Express carried out a full and proper review of the evidence it had received. It also isnt 
for American Express to carry out its own investigation as to what happened to the items. 
Its role is to review what the parties provide when making and challenging a chargeback.
Chargeback is a process that involves the card issuer disputing payments made on the 
card through a dispute resolution scheme operated by the companies which run the card 
networks, here thats American Express itself. It allows customers to ask for a transaction 
to be reversed if there's a problem with the goods or services they've paid for. There's no 
automatic right to a chargeback and it isnt a guaranteed method of getting a refund.
Mr H made a claim because the goods werent in the box he received from the retailer. 
He provided a photo to show that the box flap wasnt secured. A claim was raised under 
the items not received category. As per the scheme rules, American Express raised this 
chargeback request with the retailer who defended it and provided evidence that the 
items had been delivered to Mr Hs address and that there were no problems discovered 
on delivery. A photo of the box outside Mr Hs home was presented. 
Mr H argued against the evidence provided by the retailer and American Express decided 
that a further chargeback should be raised on the basis of goods having been damaged 
as it didnt consider that the retailer had addressed Mr Hs evidence of the seal on the flap 
having been opened.
The retailer again challenged the claim. On this occasion the retailer provided the proof of 
delivery with the weight of the package and confirmation from the courier company that 
they always recorded damage to parcels and there was no such record for this box. 
American Express closed the claim.  I appreciate Mr H is frustrated by this decision as he say the proof of the weight of the box 
doesnt cover the delivery since the courier doesnt weigh a parcel when its delivered. 
But I cant say that because of that American Express hasnt fully reviewed the evidence 
it received from both parties when reaching its decision.
Looking at American Express actions I can see it properly opened a claim for goods not 
received and that this was defended by the retailer who provided evidence that the box 
had been correctly delivered. It then opened a second chargeback which was again 
refuted by the retailer with evidence. American Express, as the mediator, reviewed what 
was provided and found that under the rules of the chargeback scheme, the evidence 
provided by the retailer was sufficient to frustrate the chargeback claim. I cant reasonably 
say that American Express has acted unfairly in the way it has handled Mr Hs 
chargeback claims, evidence was received from both parties and considered before a 
decision was reached. American Express followed the process of the chargeback 
scheme. 
Ive seen that Mr H was wrongly advised to open a section 75 claim. Section 75 only 
applies when certain criteria are met and here the cost of the items meant this section 
couldnt apply. Although this would have been frustrating for Mr H, he was advised quickly 
that this was the case, so he didnt lose his right to raise a complaint with this service as 
to American Express handling of his chargeback claim.
So, although I appreciate this decision will disappoint Mr H, I am not upholding his 
complaint as I dont think that American Express has acted unfairly in its handling of his 
chargeback claim. Im satisfied it followed the processes set by the scheme.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Jocelyn Griffith
Ombudsman