DRN-4170271
The complaint
Miss D has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) closed her accounts with it when 
she asked for support putting her in a worse position financially. 
What happened
Miss D held two accounts with arranged overdrafts with Lloyds, one with an overdraft limit of 
£1,700 the other £100. The following points (while not an exhaustive list) show Miss D has 
struggled with the affordability of her overdraft over the years:
July 2020 Miss Ds account statements show she received a refund in overdraft 
interest;
November 2020 Lloyds internal notes record Miss D called it and informed it she was 
having financial difficulties and struggling to meet essential payments and was using 
her overdraft to make ends meet. Was suggested to get in touch with collections and 
a 30 day hold was put on overdraft charges;
July 2021 Miss D successfully applied to freeze overdraft interest online;
March 2022 Miss D informs behind on priority bills, requested further help and 
charges for 30 days were suspended and £30 paid as gesture of good will;
July 2022 Miss D informs struggling financially, behind on bills and requested further 
help and charges were suspended for a further 30 days and Lloyds discussed the 
benefits of closing the account to stop future overdraft interest and charges.
Miss D asked for further interest freezes on overdraft charges in October 2022 which Lloyds 
declined as she had already received a number of freezes on overdraft interest before. This 
being the case Miss Ds request was escalated to its complaints team. 
Lloyds upheld Miss Ds complaint saying it couldve done more at an earlier stage by offering 
longer-term financial support to manage the account when it was apparent Miss D was 
experiencing financial difficulty in July 2021 when she applied to have a freeze on overdraft 
interest online and offered to settle Miss Ds complaint by:
Refunding daily arranged overdraft interest totalling £530.22 on both her accounts 
backdated from 29 July 2021 and put a stop on all further overdraft charges; 
Pay compensation of £40 and £80 for accounts ending 4460 and 2068, respectively;
Remove the overdraft facility on both accounts with 30 days notice. If the accounts 
held a debit balance Lloyds would start the closure procedure and a default would 
be registered on Miss Ds credit file backdated to 29 October 2021; and
Reimburse Miss D the cost of travel insurance for a holiday as she no longer had the 
use of this benefit on her account.
One of our adjudicators looked at this and thought that Lloyds shouldve treated Miss D with 
forbearance as there were clear signs she was experiencing financial difficulty. But they 
thought that as what Lloyds had offered is in-line with what wed recommend and didnt think 
it needed to do anything more. 
Miss D disagreed, she is unhappy that she was forced to close her accounts and that the 
balance of the overdraft debt has been passed to a debt collector. She says this has caused 
her further stress and has impacted her credit score. Miss D has asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Lloyds has already agreed to
do to put things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her
complaint. Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. But for complaints about funds which shouldnt have been provided this isnt straight 
forward as the funds were provided and, in most cases  such as here, have long since 
been spent.
So we look to try and find some other way to put things right. And where a business 
increases or continued to allow a consumer to use a credit facility which it should have 
realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the consumer in the position theyd 
be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges on that credit. This means wed 
normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any credit from the 
point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those interest and 
charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year.
In this case, on review Lloyds agreed to refund all interest and charges applied to Miss Ds 
overdraft facility following her requesting an interest freeze in July 2021. Lloyds thought by 
this point longer term financial support shouldve been offered as Miss Ds financial position 
hadnt changed since shed been in touch with it in November 2020. 
And having reviewed Miss Ds statements and Lloydss internal notes Im in agreement that 
Lloyds shouldve done more to help Miss D with the knowledge it had at that time it was 
clear that Miss D was having financial difficulties and it wasnt just in the short term. Miss Ds 
bank statements show she was consistently overdrawn at the top of her overdraft limit with 
little credits coming into the account and often having direct debits returned. 
Following the action Lloyds took to put things right Miss D was left with an outstanding 
overdraft debt once all adjustments had been made, and she was refunded all of the 
interest, fees and charges caused by her overdraft and her overdraft has been removed and 
her account closed.
Miss D is unhappy with this, but it is clear from Miss Ds statements, Lloyds internal notes 
and her own testimony that the overdraft was not affordable for her. It would be irresponsible 
of a lender to not take this action. So while Miss D may be left with a balance to pay and will 
no longer have the overdraft facility and she might be unhappy with this, Lloyds has done 
what Id normally expect it to do here. I dont agree that allowing her to continue to have an 
overdraft facility which she says she cant afford would be appropriate or responsible. Miss D is also unhappy that as she didnt pay back the outstanding debt Lloyds reported a 
default on her credit file. But Lloyds has a duty to make sure the information it reports on its 
customers affairs to the credit reference agencies it subscribes to is factually accurate. So as 
Miss D was unable to pay back her overdraft debt and Lloyds reported a default on her credit 
file, I cant say it has done anything wrong here - it is obliged to report this.
So bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Lloyds has already done to put things 
right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of her case and so Im not 
requiring Lloyds to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Lloyds Bank PLC has already done to 
put things right for Miss D is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of her case. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 July 2023.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman