DRN-1579515
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society made a number of errors with his mortgage 
account. He asks that Nationwide corrects errors on his credit file, offers an exclusive 
mortgage rate and pays him compensation of £25,000.
What happened
Mr S has a mortgage with Nationwide. In late 2016 he agreed a three-month payment 
arrangement with Nationwide. Mr S says Nationwide made a number of errors, including:
not setting up the agreed plan correctly.
unfairly recording late payments/arrears on his credit file.
extending the mortgage concession for six months, in error.
cancelling and not re-instating his direct debit.
failing to sort out these errors for years  and still not correcting his credit file.
 
Mr S says this caused him inconvenience and distress, a mortgage application was declined 
in 2018 and he cant re-finance his mortgage with a lender offering a better rate, his credit 
and insurance costs are higher, he had financial difficulties, meaning he had to use an 
overdraft facility and work unsociable hours. Mr S says this led to a diagnosis of depression, 
requiring medication and counselling. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. The investigator said while 
Nationwide made errors, it had put matters right and didnt need to do more.
Mr S didnt agree, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S contacted Nationwide in October 2016 as he had a sudden drop in income, in part due 
to his property no longer being let out. At that time, Mr Ss mortgage account had a credit 
(overpayments) balance of £750. It was agreed that a plan would be set up for three months, 
November 2016 to January 2017, for interest only payments. Mr S wouldnt make any 
payments in November and December 2016 and the cost of this would be covered by the 
credit balance. As the credit balance would only cover part of the payment for January 2017, 
Mr S was to pay the balance.
Mr S didnt make any payments in January or February 2017. As these were not covered by 
the credit balance, his account fell into arrears. Mr S cleared the arrears in March 2017.Nationwide accepts it made errors when setting up the agreed plan in late 2016, which 
resulted in adverse information being recorded on Mr Ss credit file. Nationwide also set up 
the plan up for longer than agreed, ending in July 2017, and this was recorded on Mr Ss 
credit file. 
Nationwide told Mr S it would correct his account and amend his credit file to show an 
arrangement was in place from November 2016 to January 2017. It said it would remove 
information from his credit file about a plan being in place after this. It re-instated Mr Ss 
direct debit with effect from June 2017.
Nationwide didnt remove the arrears marker for March 2017 from Mr Ss credit file. Mr S 
asked for this several times. Nationwide said the arrears marker was correct as it reflected 
the missed payments in January and February 2017. However, when Mr S contacted it in 
2019 it agreed to remove the arrears marker as, after checking its notes, it found its 
collections team had told Mr S it would do so.
Nationwide offered compensation of £500 in total for its errors, and their effect on Mr S. I 
need to consider if Nationwide has done enough to put matters right.
Mr S says he has financial loss. He says adverse information on his credit file increased the 
cost of credit and insurance products. But to require Nationwide to pay compensation for 
financial loss, Id need evidence such as the amount of any increased cost to Mr S and that 
this was due to errors by Nationwide and not other information on Mr Ss credit record, or his 
financial situation. I appreciate it's difficult for Mr S to provide this evidence. 
Mr S provided a screen shot of a message from a mortgage broker about a possible problem 
with his credit record. Its difficult to establish from this that the problem was solely or mainly 
due to information wrongly recorded by Nationwide.
Nationwide corrected Mr Ss credit record, and agreed to remove the arrears marker relating 
to the missed payments in early 2017. Mr Ss credit report shows the three months 
arrangement agreed in late 2016, which I think it fair. 
Nationwide did make errors and Mr S had to contact it a number of times before it put 
matters right. Its right that it pays compensation for this. Mr S has described how the stress 
affected him. Mr S says he attended counselling for his depression, resulting from the stress 
caused by Nationwide's errors, and incurred parking costs. 
I need to take into account as well that the ongoing problems Mr S describes relate to the 
arrears marker recorded in March 2017. Mr S didnt make the payments due in January and 
February 2017. I think Nationwide made it clear to Mr S that he needed to make these 
payments. So I don't think it was inaccurate or unfair for Nationwide to record an arrears 
marker related to the missed payments. I agree though that Nationwide confused matters by 
giving Mr S inconsistent information about whether this would be removed.
After considering what the parties have said, I think the £500 compensation offered by 
Nationwide is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. This is because I think the compensation 
offered and steps taken by Nationwide Building Society are fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 June 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman