DRN-3759458
Complaint
Mr P has complained about a personal loan Everyday Lending Limited (trading as Everyday 
Loans) provided to him. He says the loan was unaffordable.
Background
Everyday Loans provided Mr P with a second loan for £2,500.00 in June 2018. This loan had 
an APR of 199.6% and a term of 24 months. This meant that the total amount to be repaid of 
£6,234.72, including interest, fees and charges of £3,734.72, was due to be repaid in 24 
monthly instalments of just under £260. One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ps complaint 
and he thought Everyday Loans ought to have realised that it shouldnt have provided Mr P 
with this loan. So he thought Mr Ps complaint should be upheld. Everyday Loans disagreed 
and asked for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr Ps complaint. Everyday 
Loans needed to make sure it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is 
Everyday Loans needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether 
Mr P could afford to repay any credit it provided. 
Our website sets out what we typically think about when deciding whether a lenders checks 
were proportionate. Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less 
thorough  in terms of how much information it gathers and what it does to verify it  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
The information Everyday Loans has provided suggested that it carried out credit checks 
before this loan was provided. The results of which showed that Mr P would be committing a 
significant proportion of his income towards repaying debts and this was in circumstances 
where he had at least one County Court Judgement issued against him for non-payment of 
debts. already had a significant amount of existing debt with high cost and payday lenders. 
Im also concerned that this loan, which had an eye-wateringly high rate of interest, was 
being used to consolidate much cheaper credit card debt.
All of this leaves me persuaded by what Mr P has said about already being in a difficult 
financial position at the time. And while its possible Mr Ps financial position reflected his 
choices rather than financial difficulty, Id add that my experience of these types of cases 
suggest this is unlikely, in the absence of any reasonable or plausible arguments from 
Everyday Loans, Ive been persuaded to accept Mr Ps version of events here. 
As this is the case, I do think that Mr Ps existing financial position meant that he was 
unlikely to be able to afford the payments to this loan, without undue difficulty or borrowing 
further. And Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more like than not 
have shown Everyday Loans that it shouldnt have provided this loan to Mr P. As Everyday 
Loans provided Mr P with this loan, notwithstanding this, Im satisfied it failed to act fairly and 
reasonably towards him. Mr P ended up paying and is being expected to pay interest, fees 
and charges on a loan he shouldnt have been provided with. So Im satisfied that Mr P lost 
out because of what Everyday Loans did wrong and that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Everyday Loans needs to do to put things right for Mr P
Having thought about everything, Everyday Loans should put things right for Mr P by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to Mr Ps loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr P made, whether to Everyday Loans or any third-party debt purchaser, 
should be deducted from the new starting balance  the £2.500.00 originally lent. If 
once all adjustments have been made this shows that Mr P has made overpayments, 
these overpayments should also be refunded to Mr P together with interest at 8% 
simple a year from the date they were made by Mr P to the date of settlement
if no outstanding balance remains after all adjustments have been made then all 
adverse information recorded on Mr Ps credit file as a result of this loan should be 
removed. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Everyday Loans to take off tax from this interest. 
Everyday Loans must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he 
asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Everyday Lending Limited 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 December 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman