DRN-1579326
The complaint
Ms M complains that TSB Bank plc (trading as Whistletree) has provided incorrect 
information to the credit reference agencies about her mortgage payment history. In 
particular, Ms M says payment arrangements that were agreed are not correctly reflected on 
her credit file.
Ms M says this is affecting her ability to obtain a new mortgage.
What happened
Ms M complained to Whistletree as she didnt think the information it had provided to the 
credit reference agencies was correct. She said that there were a number of occasions when 
she had a payment plan in place, but this was not reflected on her credit file.
Whistletree reviewed the information it had provided to the credit reference agencies. Having 
done so it accepted that there were a number of months in which a payment plan was in 
place, but this was not shown on Ms Ms credit file. It arranged from Ms Ms credit file to be 
amended accordingly. It also offered to pay Ms M £50 for the trouble and upset this matter 
had caused.
Ms M was not satisfied with Whistletrees response and brought her complaint to this 
service. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ms Ms complaint should be upheld. He said that 
Whistletree had provided this service with evidence to show that it had amended the 
information held by the credit reference agencies to show that a payment arrangement was 
in place for October 2016, December 2016, October 2017, September 2018 and February 
2019. 
He said he was satisfied that the updated information Whistletree had provided to the 
agencies was correct. He also said he had not seen anything to show there were any further 
payment arrangements in place that were not reflected in Ms Ms credit file.
He said if Ms M thought there were further dates when a payment agreement had been in 
place, but were still not reflected on her credit file, he would investigate this further if Ms M 
provided the details.
Ms M did not accept our investigators view. She set out some of the steps she had taken to 
address the arrears on her mortgage and said she didnt feel Whistletree had treated her 
fairly.
Our investigator reconsidered Ms Ms complaint. Having done so he noted that the issues 
Ms M had raised in response to his view on her complaint had already been considered by 
this service. He explained that he couldnt reconsider these issues.
Ms M remained unhappy with our investigators view and asked for her complaint to be 
considered by an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Ms position, but I cant reasonably uphold her complaint. Ill explain 
why.
I can see that Ms M is dealing with difficult personal circumstances. Despite this it is clear 
from the information that has been provided that Ms M has engaged with her lender about 
the arrears on this mortgage. I would encourage Ms M to continue to do so.
In order to uphold Ms Ms complaint, I would need to be satisfied that the information 
Whistletree has provided to the credit reference agencies is incorrect. Having reviewed the 
information that has been provided to this service, like our investigator, I am satisfied that the 
updated information it provided to the credit reference agencies is correct. 
I note Ms M says that there was an agreement in place from September 2016 to August 
2017. Ms M also says;  This pattern was repeated throughout 2017,2018 and 2019 
(although the premise changed) when they initially refuse to accept my offer of additional 
payments without having to mull it over it for a random period of time and eventually deciding 
my offer amount is acceptable (whether I can afford it or not) for the next 3 months.
Having reviewed all the information provided I havent seen anything that shows there were 
agreements in place that are not reflected on Ms Ms credit file. 
It is common for lenders to regularly review any agreements they make with customers in 
arrears. This is to allow any changes in a customers circumstances to be reflected in the 
agreement. I can see that Ms M feels Whistletree should have accepted payment offers she 
made and should have agreed these more promptly. But Whistletree is not required to 
accept any offer made by a customer and is entitled to request more information in order to 
consider whether the offer is affordable for the customer and will address the arrears on the 
mortgage.
Having carefully considered this matter I cant reasonably find that the information recorded 
on Ms Ms credit file is incorrect having cross referenced the information against the 
agreements to pay that were in place at any particular time.
If Ms M wants her credit file to better reflect the circumstances that led to the arrears on her 
mortgage - or why there are periods when no agreement was in place - she may wish to 
consider adding a notice of correction to her file which lenders can take into consideration 
in relation to any future credit applications.
My final decision
My decision is that, for the reasons I have set out above, I am not able to uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2020.
 
Suzannah Stuart
Ombudsman