DRN-1444963
The complaint
Mrs L complains that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
Although the policy was sold by another business, AXA France IARD (AXA) has accepted 
responsibility for the sale and this complaint. So, Ive referred to AXA during this decision.
What happened
Mrs L took out a store card in 1994. At the same time she was sold a PPI policy.
The PPI wouldve paid a monthly benefit if Mrs L was unable to work due to ill-health, an 
accident or if she lost her job. This would continue until either Mrs L returned to work or for 
up to 12 months. Our adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld.
Mrs L didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 25 years ago. I will make my decision based on whats 
more likely to have happened, taking into account the evidence available, what both parties 
have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ls complaint. Ill explain why.
AXA had to make it clear to Mrs L that the PPI was optional.
Mrs L most likely applied for the store card during a visit to a store.
Mrs L recalls that the application for the card and the sale of the PPI were integral, so she 
wasnt given a fair choice about whether to buy the policy.
AXA has shown us a copy of the original store card application form signed by Mrs L. The 
application was completed by hand. I cant be sure who completed the form, but I can see 
that the credit agreement was completed with personal details including Mrs Ls name, 
address and telephone numbers. So even if it were filled in by a member of staff, I think it 
must have been completed during a conversation with Mrs L, before being passed to Mrs L 
to check and sign.
I can see there is a section headed, Payment And Card Protection.  This section contains 
two boxes, one to accept PPI and one to decline it. I can see the box to accept PPI has been 
ticked and the other box has been left blank.After taking everything into account I think AXA most likely made it clear that Mrs L didnt 
have to take out the PPI to obtain the store card and she chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why she cant remember this after so many years.
I dont think AXA advised Mrs L to take the policy out. So, it didnt have to take steps to 
ensure the policy was suitable for her. But AXA did have to give Mrs L clear information so 
that she could make a choice about whether or not to take the policy out.
Its possible that AXA didnt give all the information it should have done. For example, it 
doesnt look like the cost was made clear. But thats not enough to uphold this complaint.      
I next need to decide whether or not Mrs L would have changed her mind about buying the 
policy if she had been given better or clearer information. I cant say she would have done.
I say this because.Mrs L was eligible for the PPI based on her circumstances at the time of 
the sale. So, shed have been able to make a claim if she needed to.
If Mrs L couldnt work due to ill-health the policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit every month 
for up to 12 months. And it wouldve paid the same benefit if Mrs L lost her job.
Mrs L would have received sick pay from her employer if she became too unwell to work. But 
the PPI could have paid a benefit in addition to her sick pay. And potentially it could have 
paid a benefit for longer than her full sick pay would last. So I still think Mrs L could have 
found the policy useful, particularly if she had been unable to work for a prolonged period.
Mrs L had some savings, but the PPI would have allowed her to keep her savings intact or 
use them for other living costs if she became unable to work.
The policy had some exclusions and restrictive terms. But Mrs L wasnt affected by these. 
For instance, Mrs L has told us she didnt have any medical conditions at the time of the sale 
which the policy wouldnt have covered.
So, taking everything into account I think its likely Mrs L was made aware the PPI was 
optional and chose to add it to her account. And I think that even if Mrs L had been given 
clear information about the policy shed still have gone ahead and bought it. 
My final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ls complaint against AXA France IARD.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman