DRN-2325756
The complaint
Mr T complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited have treated him unfairly by 
declining his claim under his motor insurance policy.
Mr T is represented by his partner Ms W but for ease Ill refer to Mr T throughout the 
decision.
What happened
Mr T had an existing motor insurance policy with Admiral which he took out in mid-June 
2017. At the end of April 2018, Mr T was involved in a car accident whilst travelling abroad 
so he claimed on his motor insurance policy.
Admiral declined Mr Ts claim. They said that under the terms of the policy, he wasnt 
covered if hed been outside the UK for more than 90 days. And based on the information 
hed provided when making the claim, they were satisfied that was the case.
 
Mr T didnt agree. He said that the terms of his policy said he would be covered unless he 
was outside the UK for more than 90 consecutive days. So he sent Admiral a copy of his 
policy and asked them to reconsider his claim. Admiral still felt the claim wasnt covered so 
Mr T raised a complaint.
Admiral didnt uphold the complaint. They said theyd acted in-line with the policy terms 
which said Mr T was covered for a maximum of 90 days, but if he intended to be abroad for 
more than 90 consecutive days, he should contact them before travelling. They also said 
that they would only provide cover if Mr T was a permanent resident in the UK, but as hed 
been out of the country for more than 30 days, hed also breached the terms of the policy.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint was upheld. She was satisfied that Mr T 
and Admiral were using the same policy terms, and she thought the policy was clear that it 
would only offer insurance cover for using a vehicle abroad for a maximum of 90 days during 
the period of the policy.
 
Mr T didnt agree as he felt there were conflicting policy documents which meant hed been 
treated unfairly - so he asked that the complaint was reviewed again. As an agreement 
couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
Mr T has told us that he feels Admiral should pay his claim as there are conflicting terms for 
using his vehicle abroad. So, I need to look at the policy documents he received from 
Admiral to see if theyve acted unfairly here. 
Ive looked at all the policy documents Mr T was given when taking out his policy, and I can 
see that the Motor Policy Schedule containing the important policy information says that this 
must be read along with the Car Insurance Guide. It doesnt however mention anything to 
do with travelling abroad. 
Looking at the Certificate of Motor Insurance I can see that it says the policy covers the 
vehicle for travel in Europe and that If your planned European journey exceeds 90 
consecutive days, please call Admiral prior to your departure. But I dont think this wording 
conflicts with the other policy documentation, or explicitly states that any journey up to 90 
days will be covered. It also says at the top of the document that it must be read in 
conjunction with the other two documents  the key document in this case being the Car 
Insurance Guide.
Ive looked at the Car Insurance Guide and seen that there is a specific section for using a 
vehicle abroad which is highlighted on the contents page at the beginning of the Guide.        
It clearly says in this section that Your policy automatically includes international motor 
insurance cover for a maximum of 90 days in a period of insurance and that Should you 
exceed the 90 days we will not provide cover under this policy. It also explains that if a 
consumer requires cover for longer than 90 days, to contact Admiral as they may be able to 
arrange this. 
Ive also seen that on page 12 under the Important section which says Please tell us 
beforeif you are going to take your car abroad and think you will exceed the 90 days cover 
in this period of insurance it also then directs the reader to the specific section for                 
going abroad Ive mentioned above.  
So based on what Ive seen, I dont think there are any conflicting terms in the policy 
documents. And I think Admiral made it clear that the maximum cover for travel abroad was 
90 days in any period of insurance - but should a policy holder require cover for longer than 
this, or for more than 90 consecutive days, they could contact Admiral, and they would try to 
arrange for the required insurance cover. 
Im also satisfied that the information needed for using the policy abroad was provided 
prominently and in clear language that a regular consumer would understand. So, I cant 
reasonably say Admiral have done anything wrong. 
I acknowledge that Mr T feels strongly about this, and that this wont be the outcome he was 
hoping for. However, having reviewed his complaint in full, I cant reasonably say that 
Admiral have acted unfairly here, so I wont be upholding the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
 
Jenny Lomax
Ombudsman