DRN-3682124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy as feel their travel insurance policy was mis-sold to them by Saga 
Services Limited.
What happened
Mr and Mrs L purchased an annual multi-trip travel insurance policy through Saga. The 
policy was to cover them for the period of 1 April 2021 to 31 March 2022.
Mr and Mrs L initially ran a quote for the policy online. And then called Saga to continue with 
the purchase. The policy was taken out, and policy documents confirming the cover were 
sent out to Mr and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L have said theyd been informed the policy provided cover for travel disruption 
due to the Coronavirus pandemic. And so, claims made for reasons related to Coronavirus 
would be settled.
In June 2021, Mr and Mrs L contacted their insurer to make a claim under the policy. A trip 
theyd been due to go on had been cancelled due to the impact of the Coronavirus 
pandemic. This meant some non-refundable flights theyd purchased to return to the UK at 
the end of the trip were no longer of use to them. So, Mr and Mrs L made a claim under their 
travel insurance policy for this loss. The claim was declined. In summary, the insurer said 
there were only particular instances related to Coronavirus that the policy covered. And Mr 
and Mrs Ls situation wasnt one of them.
Mr and Mrs L felt this was wrong  as theyd been told the policy provided cover in those 
circumstances when they purchased the policy. So, they said theyd been misled into taking 
the policy out.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs L raised their concerns with Saga. It responded and said it had 
listened to the call between it and Mr and Mrs L when the policy was taken out. Saga said it 
was satisfied its advisor had acted correctly  and it didnt consider the policy to have been 
mis-sold.
Mr and Mrs L remained unhappy. So, they referred their complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator considered this complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. They 
considered that the policy had been sold correctly. Our investigator said theyd listened to a 
recording of the sales call, and the advisor had made it clear that cover for cancellation and 
abandonment claims was only when the claim arose because of a positive coronavirus test 
result within 14 days of the holiday. So, the investigator didnt think Mr and Mrs L had been 
told the policy covered all travel disruptions claims arising from Coronavirus.
Our investigator also said looking at the website Mr and Mrs L had seen; they were satisfied 
this made it clear that cover was only in certain circumstances. And, the investigator found 
the policy documentation to be clear in explaining what cover was being provided. So, she 
didnt recommend Saga do anything in relation to this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. They remained of the opinion the policy had been mis-sold to 
them. And so, their complaint has been referred to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Mr and Mrs Ls policy was purchased on a non-advised basis. In a non-advised sale the 
party selling the policy isnt advising the potential policyholder of what cover would be most 
suitable for their needs. Instead, the obligation on the party selling the policy is to provide 
clear, fair and not mis-leading information, so that the potential policyholder can make their 
own informed choice as to whether the policy is suitable for their needs.
As Mr and Mrs Ls policy was purchased on this basis, Ive needed to consider that when 
selling the policy, Saga provided information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
 
Im aware that Mr and Mrs L began their sales journey by running a quote online. So, Ive 
looked through an internet archive, showing what was displayed on Sagas website at the 
time Mr and Mrs L were purchasing the policy.
Having done so, I can see the website explained there was cover in place for disruptions 
caused by Coronavirus. But the website was clear in noting this was only in certain 
circumstances. The website noted that the cover was for medical treatment of repatriation if 
falling ill on a trip, cancellation if there was a positive test for Coronavirus in the 14 days 
preceding travel and abandonment if a positive test was received whilst on a trip, and the trip 
needed to be cut short. It doesnt say there is cover in all scenarios.
Im satisfied the above is very clear is noting that cover wont be in place for all disruption 
caused by Coronavirus. But instead, limited to the cover mentioned. It isnt possible for an 
insurer to list everything not covered by a policy  and I wouldnt expect them to. But Im 
satisfied that the explanation online was clear, for Mr and Mrs L to make an informed choice 
as to whether they wanted to take out the cover or not. I dont think the information was 
misleading.
Mr and Mrs L contacted Saga, rather than completing the sale online. And they spoke to an 
advisor. Ive also listened to this conversation, to see what they were told about cover for 
events caused by Coronavirus. And Im satisfied they werent misled on this call either. 
During the conversation the advisor said:
As youve probably seen online, we do provide cover for Covid-19. The cover that we do 
provide is purely from a medical standpoint. So that means if you have tested positive for 
Covid, either yourself or your wife, within 14 days of your departure date and thats led you 
to cancel, that would be covered. And of course, when you are out on your trip, if youve had 
any symptoms of the virus or tested positive that would also be covered under our standard 
ten million pounds cover. We unfortunately dont cover things like the cancellation or 
abandonment as a result of Government lockdowns of the FCO changing their advice or the 
fear of catching coronavirus. Theyre the types of things that wouldnt be covered.
Having listened to the above, Im satisfied the advisor was clear in detailing what would be 
covered under the policy. During the call there wasnt any suggestion by the advisor that the cover provided was wider than this. And Mr and Mrs L didnt ask any questions about the 
above. So, I dont think Mr and Mrs L were provided with misleading information during this 
call.
Mr and Mrs L were sent their policy documents following the purchase of the policy. And Ive 
seen a copy of these too. Im satisfied these made cover in relation to coronavirus clear too. 
The cover letter provided with the documents highlighted that policy offered cover for 
cancellation or abandonment if you receive a positive test result of coronavirus within 14 
days of your trip departure date. As well as emergency medical cover and repatriation if you 
fall ill with coronavirus while on your trip. And the cover letter referred Mr and Mrs L to the 
policy booklet for full terms and conditions.
The Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) provided to Mr and Mrs L noted, under 
the What is not insured section that:
Apart from Coronavirus (COVID-19) cover under Cancellation and Abandonment and the 
Emergency medial and associated expenses sections, this policy does not cover any claim 
arising directly or indirectly, from any coronavirus disease, including but not limited to; 
Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and any mutated form of 
the virus. This includes the fear or threat of catching coronavirus, and the advice of, or 
action, of any government not to travel or preventing travel.
And, the policy booklet clearly detailed the full terms. Given this, Im satisfied Mr and Mrs L 
were provided with the necessary information to make an informed choice as to whether the 
policy was suitable for them. So, Saga didnt do anything wrong in the way it sold the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ls policy documents explained to them that they had a 14-day cooling-off period 
within which to cancel the policy if they decided they no longer wanted the cover. But Mr and 
Mrs L didnt call to cancel the policy in this time. Because Saga didnt mis-sell the policy, and 
Mr and Mrs L didnt cancel the policy within the cooling-off period, Im satisfied Saga dont 
need to do anything in relation to this complaint  such as providing any premium refund to 
them. 
My final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Saga Services Limited to do anything more in respect of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Rachel Woods
Ombudsman