DRN-3835317
The complaint
Mr R complains about the advice given by D C Financial Limited to transfer the benefits from 
his defined-benefit (DB) occupational pension scheme with British Steel (BSPS) to a 
personal pension. He says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused a 
financial loss. 
What happened
In March 2016, Mr Rs employer announced that it would be examining options to restructure 
its business, including decoupling the BSPS (the employers DB scheme) from the company. 
The consultation with members referred to possible outcomes regarding their preserved 
benefits, which included transferring the scheme to the Pension Protection Fund (PPF), or a 
new defined-benefit scheme (BSPS2). Alternatively, members were informed they could 
transfer their benefits to a private pension arrangement.
Mr R was concerned about what the recent announcements by his employer meant for the 
security of his DB scheme, so he sought advice. In October 2017 Mr R met with D C 
Financial and it completed a financial planning questionnaire with him to gather information 
about his circumstances and objectives. In summary this recorded that Mr D was 28 years 
old; he was working full-time; he was single but living with his partner; he had two children; 
he owned his own home with an outstanding mortgage of around £133,000 that had 25 
years remaining; and he had no savings or investments. D C Financial also carried out an 
assessment of Mr Rs attitude to risk, which it deemed to be moderate  a score of 5 on a 
scale of 1 to 10.
On 17 October 2017 D C Financial issued its formal written advice and it recommended 
Mr R transfer his BSPS benefits into a personal pension arrangement and invest the 
proceeds in investment funds, which D C Financial deemed matched Mr Rs attitude to risk. 
In summary the reasons for the recommendation were to provide flexible income; to provide 
the ability for Mr R to retire early and suffer no reductions; to provide better death benefits; 
and a transfer would give Mr R control and avoid the fund entering the PPF.
Around the same time, members of the BSPS were sent a Time to Choose letter which 
gave them the options to either stay in BSPS and move with it to the PPF, move to BSPS2 
or transfer their BSPS benefits elsewhere. The deadline to make their choice was 
11 December 2017 (and was later extended to 22 December 2017).
Mr Rs pension transfer completed in January 2018 and around £107,800 was received into 
the new personal pension.
Mr R complained to D C Financial in 2021 about the suitability of the transfer advice.
D C Financial didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint. In summary it said the recommendation was 
suitable because it met Mr Rs stated objectives, including providing better death benefits 
given he wasnt married and enabling him to take control of his pension removing the 
uncertainty about future changes to the scheme. It disagreed with Mr Rs complaint point 
that he didnt have the capacity to bear any risk with his guaranteed benefits because it said 
he had his workplace pension scheme and his state pension to cover his basic retirement 
needs. And it said the point about annuity rates being at historic lows wasnt relevant to 
Mr Rs needs because he made it clear that he wouldnt consider buying an annuity unless 
forced to, and in any event it would be counterproductive to purchase an annuity or 
guaranteed income with this type of pension fund.
Dissatisfied with its response Mr R asked this service to consider his complaint and an 
investigator upheld it and said D C Financial should pay Mr R compensation. In summary 
they said they didnt think the advice was suitable. They said given the growth rate required 
to match Mr Rs scheme benefits, he was unlikely to improve on them as a result of the 
transfer  something they said D C Financial acknowledged in the suitability report which 
said the critical yield was high and unlikely that an investment could provide the necessary 
return. They said Mr R already had flexibility through his current workplace pension so he 
wasnt giving up flexibility by retaining his BSPS benefits. They said death benefits wasnt a 
justifiable reason for the transfer  Mr Rs pension was intended to provide him with a 
pension income, it wasnt a legacy planning tool. And they said that Mr Rs concerns about 
the BSPS didnt outweigh the need for D C Financial to make a recommendation that was in 
Mr Rs best interests. They said that had a suitable advice been given, D C Financial 
shouldve advised Mr R to transfer his benefits to the BSPS2.
D C Financial disagreed. In doing so it provided a substantive response, which I have read in 
full. But in summary it said the BSPS2 did not exist at the time so it couldnt have 
recommended Mr R transfer to it. It said it doesnt think the critical yield and whether this 
was achievable should be a substantive consideration when looking at suitability. If the 
critical yield was considered it said the only relevant comparison would be to the PPF. But it 
didnt think critical yields were relevant as Mr R didnt intend to purchase an annuity. It said 
the past performance and what had happened since the advice, which it says shouldnt be 
disregarded, showed that in any event the level of growth required was achievable  during 
the time it managed Mr Rs portfolio it achieved returns of 5.11%. But it said even if the 
growth achieved through transferring meant the benefits of the new pension were the same 
as, or even slightly less than the DB scheme, the advice would still have been suitable as it 
met Mr Rs objectives. Overall it said it still felt that the recommendation to transfer was 
suitable as it allowed Mr R to achieve his goals. It also argued that it was not responsible for 
any losses caused by bad investment advice and said that if the ombudsman concludes 
that the advice wasnt suitable, it wants a provisional decision issued with an opportunity to 
consider and respond to before a final decision is reached.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change their opinion, so the complaint was passed to 
me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive taken into account relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and 
standards and codes of practice, and what I consider to have been good industry practice at 
the time. 
This includes the Principles for Business (PRIN) and the Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS). And where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened based on the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
The applicable rules, regulations and requirementsThe below is not a comprehensive list of the rules and regulations which applied at the time 
of the advice, but provides useful context for my assessment of D C Financials actions here.
PRIN 6 : A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
PRIN 7: A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate 
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading.
COBS 2.1.1R: A firm must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best 
interests of its client (the client's best interests rule).
The provisions in COBS 9 which deal with the obligations when giving a personal 
recommendation and assessing suitability. And the provisions in COBS 19, which 
specifically relate to a DB pension transfer.
Having considered all of this and the evidence in this case, Ive decided to uphold the 
complaint for broadly the same reasons as the investigator. My reasons are set out below.
Id firstly like to briefly address the point D C Financial made about the fact the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), previously undertook a review of its advice process in 
relation to members of the BSPS and they didnt highlight any concerns. It said, whilst the 
advice was tailored for each matter, it applied a consistent approach to determining 
suitability and recording its advice. So it has questioned how our service can come to a 
different conclusion that the transfer advice was unsuitable.
My role and that of our service is different to that of the FCA. My role is to look at the 
individual circumstances of a complaint - not a business processes and practices as a whole 
- and decide what I consider is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint 
taking into account the considerations I listed above. And that is what Ive done here.
I can also see that D C Financial has requested that I issue a provisional decision on this 
case before I make a final decision. But I dont think I need to do so. Having considered 
everything provided by both sides, Im upholding the complaint for largely the same reasons 
given by the investigator. Im not persuaded that any of the arguments raised by D C 
Financial in its submission after the investigators assessment are new. And Im satisfied that 
the investigator addressed these themes fully in their opinion letters. Im also not making my 
decision based on any new information provided by Mr R. So, it follows that I can issue a 
final decision.
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in COBS 19.1.6 that the 
starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it is unsuitable. So, D C 
Financial should have only considered a transfer if it could clearly demonstrate that the 
transfer was in Mr Rs best interests. And having looked at all the evidence available, Im not 
persuaded that it was in his best interests.
 
Financial viability
D C Financial carried out a transfer value analysis report (as required by the regulator) 
showing how much Mr Rs pension fund would need to grow by each year in order to provide 
the same benefits as his DB scheme (the critical yield). And this was based on his existing 
scheme benefits. But at the time of the written advice, the Regulated Apportionment 
Arrangement (RAA) (under pensions law, a RAA is a restructuring mechanism which allows a financially troubled employer to detach itself from its liabilities in respect of a DB pension 
scheme) was approved by the Pensions Regulator. As a result, scheme members would 
have a choice - either move into a new scheme (BSPS2) or remain in the existing scheme 
and move with it to the PPF.
This means that at the time of the advice, basing the analysis on the existing scheme was
somewhat redundant - the existing scheme was no longer an option. So analysis of that
scheme wasnt helpful to Mr R. I think its reasonable to say that, in light of the 
announcement and knowing that Mr R would be receiving his Time to Choose information 
in October 2017, D C Financial shouldve waited for the details of the new scheme and 
based the analysis and its advice on the BSPS2 instead. That way Mr R wouldve had all the 
relevant information to make a properly informed decision.
I can see that D C Financial has argued that BSPS2 was very far from being a certainty at 
the time of the advice, so the only comparison it could provide was the benefits available to 
Mr R through the PPF. But I think D C Financial is overstating the chance of the BSPS2 not 
happening. As I said above, the RAA had been formally approved and in my view all of the 
available information form the scheme trustees indicated that the new scheme would go 
ahead. So for these reasons I still think D C Financial shouldve waited and taken the 
benefits available to Mr R through the BSPS2 into account in formulating its advice so that 
he was able to make a properly informed decision. 
The advice was given after the regulator gave instructions in Final Guidance FG17/9 as to 
how businesses could calculate future 'discount rates' in loss assessments where a 
complaint about a past pension transfer was being upheld. Prior to October 2017 similar 
rates were published by the Financial Ombudsman Service on our website. Whilst 
businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on pension transfers, 
they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would have been considered 
reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
I can see that D C Financial has said it disagrees with the use of discount rates. But I think it 
is a reasonable additional consideration when seeking to determine what level of growth was 
reasonably achievable at the time of the advice. Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator required 
businesses to compare the benefits likely to be paid under a DB scheme with those payable 
under a personal pension by using reasonable assumptions. The discount rate would be 
considered a reasonable assumption of likely returns. And businesses were free to refer to it. 
So, whilst I agree businesses weren't required to refer to these rates when giving advice on 
pension transfers, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates would 
have been considered reasonably achievable for a typical investor.
Mr R was 28 at the time of the advice and the advice paperwork records that his preferred 
retirement age was 57. The TVAS dated 9 October 2017 set out the relevant critical yields; 
at age 65 it was 6.18% if Mr R took a full pension through the existing scheme and at age 57 
it was 6.95%. The TVAS didnt provide the critical yields for a reduced pension and tax-free 
cash. The critical yields required to match the benefits provided through the PPF at age 65 
were 4.77% if Mr R took a full pension and 4.55% if he took tax free cash and a reduced 
pension. And at age 57 they were 5.7% and 5.46% respectively.
But as Ive said above, Mr R remaining in his existing DB scheme wasnt an option at this 
time. So, the critical yields applicable to the BSPS2 benefits shouldve been provided. The 
lower annual increases under the BSPS2 wouldve likely decreased the critical yields 
somewhat. But I still think they wouldve likely been higher than those reflecting the PPF 
benefits.
The relevant discount rate closest to when the advice was given which I can refer to was 
published by the Financial Ombudsman Service for the period before 1 October 2017, and was 4.7% per year for 36 years to retirement  it was the same rate per year for 28 years to 
retirement based on a retirement age of 57. Ive kept in mind that the regulator's projection 
rates had also remained unchanged since 2014: the regulator's upper projection rate at the 
time was 8%, the middle projection rate 5%, and the lower projection rate 2%.
I've taken this into account, along with the composition of assets in the discount rate, Mr Rs 
recorded moderate attitude to risk and also the term to retirement. In my view, and contrary 
to D C Financials view, there would be little point in Mr R giving up the guarantees available 
to him through his DB scheme only to achieve, at best, the same level of benefits outside the 
scheme.
But here, the critical yield assuming Mr R took a full pension at 57 (the retirement age the 
advice appears to have predicated on) was 6.95% through the existing scheme and 5.7% 
through the PPF. If Mr R were to opt into the BSPS2 and take the same benefits at 57, I 
think the critical yield wouldve been somewhere between these two figures, but closer to the 
existing scheme of 6.95%. Given these rates were above both the discount rate and the 
regulators middle projection rate, I think Mr R was most likely to receive benefits of a lower 
overall value than those provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, as a 
result of investing in line with a moderate attitude to risk.
 
In my view, to have come close to achieving the level of growth required to exceed the 
benefits provided by the BSPS2 if he transferred to a personal pension, would have required 
Mr R to take a higher level of investment risk than I think he indicated he was prepared to 
take. And even then I think hed still be no better off as a result of transferring.
While the advice was geared towards a retirement age of 57, the critical yield assuming Mr R 
took a full pension at age 65 though the existing scheme was 6.18%. So I dont think the 
situation was any different here  I think Mr R wouldve been worse off in retirement as a 
result. 
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr R wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. As I 
said above, at age 57 the critical yield was 5.7% assuming Mr R took a full pension. And at 
age 65 it was 4.77%. While the critical yields based on a reduced pension were lower at 
5.46% and 4.55% respectively, I dont think the position was very different here  I think 
even based on a retirement age of 65 it seems likely to me that the opportunity to improve 
on the benefits provided by the PPF was limited if Mr R transferred out of the BSPS.
D C Financial has said that during the time it managed Mr Rs pension, it achieved a return 
of 5.11%. But this is lower than the growth rates required to match Mr Rs scheme benefits 
at 57, which as I said is the retirement age the advice was based on. And D C Financials 
own opinion at the time, as set out in the suitability letter, was that the critical yields werent 
realistically achievable. In any event, past performance is no guarantee for future
performance, so I consider the discount rates and the regulators standard projections to be 
more realistic in this regard in the long term rather than projecting historic returns forward, 
particularly over a long period of time as in this case. 
I can see that D C Financial says that the critical yield should not be a substantive 
consideration when looking at whether the advice was suitable. It also says the critical yield 
is of limited relevance because it is based on the growth required to produce a fund large 
enough to purchase an annuity and Mr R didnt want an annuity. But crucially the regulator 
required D C Financial to consider the rate of investment growth that would have to be 
achieved to replicate the benefits being given up. So, it needed to provide an analysis based 
on the critical yield and I do think it is a relevant consideration here, particularly as I dont 
think Mr R could realistically say with any certainty whether he would want to take a regular income at retirement or not. He wasnt expecting to retire for at least another 28 years and 
perhaps longer. Its entirely possible that Mr R would want at least some guaranteed income 
in retirement (which he could achieve by taking benefits from the DB scheme).
But I accept that financial viability isnt the only consideration when giving transfer advice, as 
D C Financial has argued in this case. There might be other considerations, which mean a 
transfer is suitable and in Mr Rs best interests, despite providing overall lower benefits. Ive 
considered these below.
Flexibility and income needs
It appears the key reason D C Financials recommended Mr R transfer out of the BSPS was 
to provide with him with flexibility  the ability to have a flexible income and to be able to 
retire at 57 without incurring a reduction to his pension.
But I dont think Mr R knew with any certainty whether he required flexibility in retirement. 
And in any event I dont think he needed to transfer his DB scheme benefits to achieve it.
Crucially Mr R was only 28 at the time of the advice. And based on what Ive seen, he didnt 
have concrete retirement plans  in fact I dont think he had any real plans. Mr Rs preferred 
target retirement age was 57  but I think this was simply driven by the earliest age 
legislation permitted accessing pension benefits rather than a specific objective of Mr Rs. I 
think Mr Rs retirement was so far in the future that he couldnt reasonably have had any set 
idea or plan as to what age he wanted to retire. As Mr R still had the majority of his working 
life in front of him before he could think about accessing his pension, I think it was too soon 
to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
I accept Mr R might have liked the idea of retiring early, but he already had this option 
available to him - he didnt have to transfer out to achieve this. I accept that Mr R couldnt 
take his DB scheme benefits flexibly. Although he could choose to take a cash lump sum 
and a reduced annual pension, Mr R had to take those benefits at the same time. But 
nothing indicates that Mr R had a need to take a cash lump sum and defer taking his income 
 for example it seems likely that Mr Rs mortgage would be repaid prior to his retirement - or 
to vary his income throughout retirement. So while Mr R might have indicated he liked the 
idea of taking a lump sum and delay taking his income, I dont think this had been decided. 
It strikes me that flexibility was simply a feature or a consequence of transferring to a 
personal arrangement rather than a genuine objective of Mr Rs.
So, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr R to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now when he didnt reasonably know what his needs in retirement would be.
D C Financials advice paperwork refers to Mr R being concerned about the DB schemes 
penalty for early retirement being too high and how a transfer would enable Mr R to retire 
early and suffer no reductions. I think what the adviser was referring to here was the 
actuarial reduction that would apply to Mr Rs DB scheme, or the PPF, if he took his benefits 
early at age 57 and before the schemes normal retirement age.
I accept the idea of potentially receiving less income a year wasnt something Mr R would be
happy about. But an actuarial reduction is intended to reflect the pension benefits being paid 
for longer. The starting monetary amount when compared with the full pension payable from 
age 65  the normal scheme retirement age  wouldve been less. But by taking an income 
at age 57 Mr R wouldve been receiving his pension for eight years longer. So its a trade-off, 
not a penalty. In my view the word penalty implies the DB scheme was inferior when in 
simple terms, it meant that Mr R couldnt have the same pension he was due at 65 at age 57 
 hed have to accept less because it would potentially be paid for longer.Likewise while taking benefits flexibly under a personal pension would allow Mr R to decide 
the level of his income without penalty, the amount he could take was entirely dependent on 
the sum available under the pension plan. And what Mr R took would deplete the plan  so it 
would not be without consequence as he might be left with less than he needed later on.
And I think this shouldve been better and more fairly explained to Mr R. Had D C Financial 
done so, I think its likely Mr R would have been less concerned than it has suggested.
Despite Mr R not having an apparent need for flexibility, importantly Mr R was contributing to 
his workplace Defined Contribution (DC) pension scheme, something Im not persuaded 
D C Financial properly considered in terms of the role this could play in Mr R future income 
generation  it simply acknowledged he had it, quoted the contribution rate and said this 
could be available to top up his income. But Mr R was contributing 6% of his salary and his 
employer a further 10% - so a total of 16% of Mr Rs salary was being invested here. And 
while Mr R was unhappy with how his employer had handled the BSPS, there was no 
indication that he intended to change employer prior to retirement. So given Mr R had the 
potential for at least another 28 years contributions and probably more - without accounting 
for growth, salary increases, or increases to Mr Rs contribution rate - this had the potential 
to be worth in excess of £147,000 and likely substantially more.
The nature of a DC scheme means this already provided Mr R with flexibility  he wasnt 
committed to take these benefits in a set way. Mr R couldve taken lump sums as and when 
required and adjusted the income he took from it according to his needs. So, I think if Mr R 
retained his DB pension, this combined with his new workplace pension, wouldve given him 
the flexibility to retire early - if thats what he ultimately decided  and would likely meet his 
income needs. 
So in any event, Mr R didnt need to transfer his DB scheme benefits at this stage to a 
personal pension arrangement in order to achieve flexibility in retirement. Of course, if Mr R 
did in fact have a greater need for flexibility beyond that which he already had, I think this 
couldve been explored closer to his intended retirement age, which as Ive said was still 
many years away. And by opting into the BSPS2, he wouldve retained the ability to transfer 
out nearer to retirement, if indeed it was required. This ought to have been clearly explained 
by D C Financial.
Turning to Mr Rs income need  I can see in the estimated income required section of the 
fact-find, a figure of £600 a month each for Mr R and his partner was recorded. But theres 
no evidence that D C Financial carried out a detailed income and expenditure in retirement 
analysis to determine this and whether this was appropriate or realistic. And the suitability 
report simply said: You dont know what level of income you will require in retirement as this 
is a considerable time off. So it strikes me that Mr R didnt really know what his income need 
in retirement would be  presumably because his retirement was so far off. And in my view 
this is a key point  why did Mr R need to transfer now when he didnt know what his plans 
were? 
But as I said above, theres nothing to indicate that Mr R needed variable income throughout 
his retirement. And in my view, nothing to indicate that the income from the BSPS2 or the 
PPF (if the new scheme didnt go ahead) wouldnt have provided Mr R with at least a solid 
income foundation upon which his other provision could supplement, to likely meet his 
overall need.
For example, D C Financials analysis estimated that if Mr R took a full pension under the 
existing scheme at age 57 his starting pension would be £7,398 a year. And at age 65 this 
rose to £11,861.Because of the reduced revaluation factors, under the BSPS2 these figures would be lower, but in my view still close to these figures. Although its unlikely this alone 
wouldve met Mr Rs retirement income need in full, I think it nevertheless still provided a 
useful and guaranteed income element. And importantly a solid foundation upon which Mr R 
could use with his other pension provision, to meet his overall need until his state pension 
became payable at age 68, rather than risk things to achieve it. As I said above, Mr R 
wouldve likely had a not insignificant pension to draw on through his DC scheme. And this 
fund couldve been used flexibly to meet Mr Rs needs by taking income and/or lump sums. 
It would also allow him to take the DB scheme benefits together, or at age 65 if he so chose 
 and not incur an actuarial reduction  depending on when he wanted to retire and what his 
income need was at the time. Its also the case that the amount Mr R took from the DC 
scheme couldve been reduced, if necessary once he reached state pension age. Im mindful 
too that D C Financial recorded Mr R had surplus income each month - so he had the 
potential to build savings over the remainder of his working life, which he could use later on 
to supplement his needs in retirement.
If the BSPS2 hadnt gone ahead, Mr R wouldve moved with the scheme to the PPF. At age 
57 D C Financial indicated hed be entitled to a pension of just over £6,700 and at age 65 it 
was just over £8,800. And while this was likely lower that the pension hed be entitled to 
under the BSPS2, I dont think it was substantially lower such that it shouldve made a 
difference to the recommendation at this time. As Ive said above, Mr Rs retirement plans 
and needs werent known and he wouldve had his DC scheme to draw on flexibly until his 
state pension became payable.
Ultimately I think it was too soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the 
DB scheme. Mr R didnt know what his needs in retirement would be or when, so I dont 
think it was a suitable recommendation or in Mr Rs best interests to give up his guaranteed 
benefits now just to have flexibility that Im not persuaded he really needed at the time. If 
Mr R later had reason to transfer out of his DB scheme, which the BSPS2 wouldve allowed, 
he couldve done so closer to retirement.
Death benefits
The advice paperwork records that Mr R was concerned about the inflexible death benefits 
of the existing scheme and he wanted to leave his pension fund to his family.
Death benefits are an emotive subject and of course when asked, most people would like 
their loved ones to be taken care of when they die. The lump sum death benefits on offer 
through a personal pension was likely an attractive feature to Mr R. But whilst I appreciate 
death benefits are important to consumers, and Mr R might have thought it was a good idea 
to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension because of this, the priority here was to 
advise Mr R about what was best for his retirement provisions. 
A pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement  not as a legacy provision 
tool. So I dont think the potential for greater or different death benefits should have been 
prioritised over this and Mr Rs security in retirement. 
And I say potential, because the sum left on Mr Rs death was dependent on investment 
returns  so if he lived a long life, and/or investment performance was lower than expected, 
there may not have been a large sum to pass on anyway.
While Mr R was single (co-habiting) at the time, he was young and its possible he couldve 
married later on. In which case the spouses pension provided by the BSPS2 scheme 
wouldve been useful to his wife if Mr R predeceased her. This was guaranteed and 
escalated  under the BSPS2 the spouses pension would also be calculated as if no tax-
free cash had been taken. Its also the case that it was not dependent on investment 
performance, whereas the sum remaining on death in a personal pension was.But in any case, D C Financial recorded that Mr R had death-in-service cover through his 
employer if he died before retirement. So he already had lump sum death benefits available, 
which he could nominate his partner to receive if he hadnt already done so. And it also knew 
that Mr R was paying into his workplace DC pension scheme and he wouldve been able to 
nominate his partner and/or children as beneficiaries of this plan too  again if he hadnt 
already done so. 
Furthermore, if Mr R genuinely wanted to leave a legacy for his family over and above that 
which was already available, and which didnt depend on investment returns or how much of 
his pension fund remained on his death, I think D C Financial shouldve instead explored 
additional life insurance. And the starting point for this neednt have been to assume Mr R 
required a sum assured equivalent to the transfer value of his pension. This is because 
basing the sum assured on the transfer value would essentially assume that Mr R would 
pass away on day one following the transfer, which isnt realistic. Ultimately, Mr R wanted to 
leave whatever remained of his pension to his spouse and / or children, which would be a lot 
less than this if he lived a long life and/or if investment returns were poor. So, the starting 
point ought to have been to ask Mr R how much he would ideally like to leave to his family,  
after taking into account the above existing means. And this couldve been explored on a 
whole of life or term assurance basis, which was likely to be a lot cheaper to provide, 
particularly given Mr Rs age. I think this was a viable alternative and one D C Financial 
shouldve properly explored. 
Overall, I dont think different death benefits available through a transfer to a personal 
pension justified the likely decrease of retirement benefits for Mr R. And I dont think D C 
Financial did enough to explore or highlight the alternatives available to Mr R to meet this 
objective.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
D C Financials advice paperwork says Mr R was concerned about the future of the DB 
scheme and he was concerned about entering the PPF and losing flexibility.
I have no doubt that Mr R was concerned about his pension. His employer had recently 
made the announcement about its plans for the scheme and he was worried for his pension 
given the general uncertainty. There was also lots of negative sentiment about the PPF. So 
its quite possible that Mr R was leaning towards the decision to transfer because of the 
concerns he had about his employer and what might happen. But it was D C Financials 
obligation to give Mr R an objective picture and recommend what was in his best interests.
As Ive already explained, at the time of the advice it seemed likely the BSPS2 was going to 
go ahead. So I think D C Financial shouldve waited for the details of the BSPS2 so it could 
properly take the benefits available to Mr R through the BSPS2 into account. And I think this 
wouldve alleviated Mr Rs concerns about the scheme moving to the PPF.
In any event, even if there was a chance the BSPS2 wouldnt go ahead, and the scheme 
moved to the PPF, I think that D C Financial shouldve reassured Mr R that the scheme 
moving to the PPF wasnt as concerning as he thought or was led to believe. As I set out 
Mr R didnt have any real retirement plans. But I think the income available to Mr R through 
the PPF wouldve still provided a solid base, which his other means could supplement to 
likely meet his income need at retirement. Importantly he was also unlikely to be able to 
exceed this by transferring out. And although the increases in payment in the PPF were 
lower, the income was still guaranteed and was not subject to any investment risk. Mr R 
might not have been able to later transfer out of the PPF  but for the reasons Ive set out 
earlier, there was no apparent need for him to do so. So I dont think that Mr Rs concerns shouldve led to D C Financial recommending he transfer out of the DB schemes altogether.
Summary
I accept that Mr R was likely motivated to transfer out of the BSPS and that his concerns 
about his employer were real. And I dont doubt that the flexibility, control and potential for 
higher or different death benefits on offer through a personal pension wouldve sounded like 
attractive features to Mr R. But D C Financial wasnt there to just transact what Mr R might 
have thought he wanted or sounded like a good idea. The advisers role was to really 
understand what Mr R needed and recommend what was in his best interests.
Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr R was suitable. He was giving up a 
guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income, whether through the BSPS2 or the PPF at a 
time when I dont think his retirement plans were in any way formulated. By transferring to a 
personal arrangement Mr R was likely to receive lower overall retirement benefits at his 
retirement age  whether at age 57 or 65. And I dont think there were any other particular or 
compelling reasons which would justify the transfer and outweigh this. So, I dont think it was 
in Mr Rs best interests for him to transfer his DB scheme to a personal pension at this time.
So, I think D C Financial shouldve advised Mr R that he should not transfer the benefits of 
his DB scheme to a personal pension arrangement. And if things had happened as they 
should have and D C Financial had waited until the details of the BSPS2 were known before 
formulating its advice, which was imminent at the time of its formal written advice, I think it 
shouldve recommended that Mr R opt into the BSPS2.
I appreciate that the BSPS2 wasnt guaranteed to go ahead at this time as D C Financial has 
repeatedly said. But as Ive already said, I think everything pointed to it going ahead, so this 
ought to have been the position D C Financial adopted. Because Mr Rs retirement plans 
were very far from being set in stone, I don't think that it would've been in his interest to 
accept the reduction in benefits he would've faced by the scheme entering the PPF, as it 
wouldn't be offset by the more favourable reduction for very early retirement. And by opting 
into the BSPS2, Mr R wouldve retained the ability to transfer out of the scheme nearer to his 
retirement age - if he needed to. Also, the annual indexation of his pension when in payment 
was also more advantageous under the BSPS2.
Of course, I have to consider whether Mr R would've gone ahead anyway, against D C 
Financials advice. 
Ive considered this carefully, but Im not persuaded that Mr R wouldve insisted on 
transferring out of the BSPS against D C Financials advice. I say this because, while 
Mr R was motivated to transfer when he approached D C Financial, on balance, I still think 
he wouldve listened to and followed D C Financials advice if things had happened as they 
should have. Mr R was not an experienced investor  the fact find records he had limited 
knowledge and in my view he had no real direct investment experience. 
So I dont think he was someone who possessed the necessary skill, knowledge or 
confidence to go against the advice they were given, particularly in complex pension 
matters. So, if D C Financial had provided Mr R with clear advice against transferring out of 
the BSPS, explaining why it wasnt in his best interests, I think he wouldve accepted that 
advice.
Im not persuaded that Mr Rs concerns about his employer were so great that he wouldve 
insisted on the transfer knowing that a professional adviser, whose expertise he had sought 
out and was paying for, didnt think it was suitable for him or in his best interests. If D C 
Financial had properly considered Mr Rs retirement needs and explained that he could likely meet his objectives without risking his guaranteed pension, I think that wouldve carried 
significant weight. So, I dont think Mr R would have insisted on transferring out of his 
scheme against D C Financials advice.
In light of the above, I think D C Financial should compensate Mr R for the unsuitable advice, 
using the regulator's defined benefits pension transfer redress methodology. And as per the 
above, it is the benefits available to him through the BSPS2 that should be used for 
comparison purposes.
I can see the investigator also recommended an award of £300 for the distress and
inconvenience the matter has caused Mr R. 
So Ive also thought about whether its fair to award compensation for distress and 
inconvenience - this isnt intended to fine or punish D C Financial  which is the job of the 
regulator. But I think its fair to recognise the emotional and practical impact this had on 
Mr R. Taking everything into account, including the importance Mr Rs retirement provision 
means to him, I think the unsuitable advice has caused him some distress. So I think an 
award of £300 is fair in all the circumstances.
I can see that D C Financial says that it shouldnt be responsible for any losses as a result of 
any subsequent bad investment advice  a reference I believe to any losses stemming from 
the investments choices made after it ceased managing Mr Rs pension investment. But the 
investments would not have arisen at all were it not for D C Financials unsuitable advice. 
So, in the circumstances I dont think it is fair to conclude that D C Financials responsibility 
for any loss Mr R has suffered as a result of the unsuitable advice he received should cease 
at the point its ongoing servicing agreement with Mr R ended.
Putting things right
On 2 August 2022, the FCA launched a consultation on new DB transfer redress guidance 
and set out its proposals in a consultation document - 
https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/consultation/cp22-15.pdf
In this consultation, the FCA said that it considers that the current redress methodology in 
Finalised Guidance (FG) 17/9 (Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable 
defined benefit pension transfers) remains appropriate and fundamental changes are not 
necessary. However, its review has identified some areas where the FCA considers it could 
improve or clarify the methodology to ensure it continues to provide appropriate redress. 
A policy statement was published on 28 November 2022 which set out the new rules and 
guidance- https://www.fca.org.uk/publication/policy/ps22-13.pdf. The new rules will come into 
effect on 1 April 2023.
The FCA has said that it expects firms to continue to calculate and offer compensation to 
their customers using the existing guidance in FG 17/9 for the time being. But until changes 
take effect firms should give customers the option of waiting for their compensation to be 
calculated in line with the new rules and guidance.
Weve previously asked Mr R whether he preferred any redress to be calculated now in line 
with current guidance or wait for the new guidance /rules to come into effect.
Mr R has chosen not to wait for any new guidance to come into effect to settle his complaint. I am satisfied that a calculation in line with FG17/9 remains appropriate and, if a loss is 
identified, will provide fair redress for Mr R. 
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for the D C Financial to put Mr R, as far as 
possible, into the position he would now be in but for D C Financials unsuitable advice. If 
suitable advice had been given, Mr R would most likely have opted into the BSPS2. So it is 
the benefits under the BSPS2 which should be used for comparison purposes. 
D C Financial must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators 
pension review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised 
Guidance 17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension 
transfers.
For clarity, Mr R has not yet retired, and he has no plans to do so at present. So, 
compensation should be based on his normal retirement age of 65, as per the usual 
assumptions in the FCA's guidance.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Rs acceptance of the decision.
D C Financial may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mr Rs contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). 
These details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which 
will take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Rs SERPS/S2P 
entitlement. 
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Rs pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr R as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax 
rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr R within 90 days of the date D C Financial receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. 
Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year 
simple from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess of 
90 days, that it takes D C Financial to pay Mr R.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90-day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90-day period in which interest wont apply.If the complaint hasnt been settled in full and final settlement by the time any new guidance 
or rules come into effect, Id expect D C Financial to carry out a calculation in line with the 
updated rules and/or guidance in any event.
In addition, D C Financial should pay Mr R £300 for the distress and inconvenienced caused 
in this matter.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
D C Financial pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require D C Financial Limited 
to pay Mr R the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a maximum of 
£160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr R any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require 
D C Financial Limited to pay Mr R any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
D C Financial Limited pays Mr R the balance. I would additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr R.
If Mr R accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on D C Financial Limited.
My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr R can accept my 
decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr R may want to consider getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 March 2023. 
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman