The complaint
Mrs P, on behalf of her husband Mr P, complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited provided 
incorrect information about the level of the sum assured on his whole of life policy. 
What happened
Mrs P has raised a number of concerns about Mr P's policy, mainly concerning reductions in 
the sum assured. These have been administered separately, under adifference reference. 
This decision concerns solely an issue that arose in December 2017 when Mrs P says she 
was misinformed about the policy's sum assured. She says she was told in a phone 
conversation that the sum assured was still at its original level of just under £30,000, when it 
had actually decreased significantly by that point. 
HSBC Life looked into the matter but as it had no recording of the call it wasn't able to 
conclude with any certainty what had happened. It nevertheless offered to pay Mr P £300 to 
compensate him in the event that the wrong information had been provided. 
Mrs P didn't accept this and the matter was referred to this service. Our investigator reached 
a similar conclusion to HSBC Life. He said he didn't think it was likely that wrong or 
misleading information was given, so I he wouldn't ordinarily recommend HSBC Life pay 
anything. But as it had already offered £300, he felt this is fair in the circumstances.
Mrs P didn't agree. She felt the offer was insulting given the lack of clarity in HSBC Life's 
notes on the conversation. 
As no agreement could be reached, the matter's been referred to review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, while I recognise that Mr 
and Mrs P will be very disappointed, I've reached the same conclusion as the investigator 
and for broadly the same reasons. In the circumstances, there's not much more I can 
usefully add. 
I've no reason to doubt Mrs P's recollections but without independent evidence, such as 
a  recording of the phone call, to confirm what was said I don't think it would be fair to make 
a finding that HSBC Life acted incorrectly. So, I think its offer to compensate Mr P in any 
event is a fair one, particularly given the fact that - as the investigator noted - Mr and Mrs P 
were provided with other information in writing that would have confirmed that the policy's 
sum assured was no longer at its original level.  
DRN-1234482My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I don't uphold the complaint as I consider the 
offer already made by HSBC Life (UK) Limited to be fair and reasonable. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 February 2020.
James Harris
Ombudsman