DRN-3481282
Complaint
Mr B has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected his claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background 
Mr B bought solar panels for his home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, Mr B alleges that the installer misled Mr B into believing 
that the panels would be self-funding.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators. He thought that the documents 
from the time of sale (which Mr B signed) made it clear that the benefits of the solar panel 
system would not cover the purchase price over the term of the loan and therefore the 
system would not be immediately self-funding in the way Mr B says he was led to believe. 
So, the adjudicator did not think a misrepresentation had taken place.
Mr B (through his representatives) disagreed but didnt make any further comments.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved by our adjudicator, Ive been asked to make a
decision.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained
by the adjudicator, I do not uphold this complaint.
Im satisfied that Mr B was provided with the sales documents, as his representative sent us 
a copy. It seems likely that he wouldve seen these at the time of sale, as he has signed the 
document.
The contract for the sale of the solar panels sets out the cash price of the solar panel system 
(£7,895) next to the total estimated year 1 benefit provided by the solar panel system 
(£340.19-£445.57). It also sets out that Mr B will be using a 120 month (i.e. 10-year loan) 
from Ikano to pay for the solar panels system. 
These figures are not hidden away in small print, but are, in my view clearly visible. And 
Mr B has signed directly beneath this section  so, I think he wouldve, at the very least, 
seen this comparison when he signed the document. 
I think its apparent that a benefit amount of around £445.57 (which is the higher estimate), 
would not cover the yearly payments of a 10-year loan for £7,895. Even without considering 
the interests and costs associated with taking out finance, Mr B would have to pay around 
£789.50 per year for the loan. Overall, I think it would have been clear to him that the solar 
panels would not be self-funding in the way he says he was told they would be. 
If Mr B had been told something different, on being asked to sign this document, I would 
have expected him to have questioned what he had been told. Ive seen no evidence that he 
did, so I think that suggests that the document most likely did not contradict Mr Bs 
understanding, at that time. 
The document described above, in my view, clearly displays the expected first year benefit 
Mr B would receive against the cash price  which shows the solar panels would not be 
immediately self-funding. Mr B then went on to take out finance to fund the purchase of the 
solar panel system, further increasing his cost, as he agreed to pay not only the cash price 
of the solar panels, but also interest on top of the amount borrowed. As it was clear the 
benefit provided by the system would not be sufficient to cover the cash price of the solar 
panels,  I think he ought reasonably to have known that the benefit provided by the system, 
would also not be sufficient to fund the monthly finance payments which included interest on 
top of the cost of the solar panels. 
While Ive carefully considered Mr Bs testimony, I find the documents from the time of sale 
to be more persuasive in terms of what information he was likely given at the time of sale. 
So, on balance, I think the evidence suggests that it is unlikely there was a 
misrepresentation that would enable me to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 July 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman