DRN-2257721
The complaint
Mrs P says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
Background
Mrs Ps complaint is about the sale of a PPI policy, which ran alongside a credit card she 
took out in June 1999.  Its not clear when the PPI was added to Mrs Ps credit card account, 
but Lloyds has told us its likely it was sold to Mrs P somewhere between June 1999 and 
January 2000.
The policy cost no more than 79p per £100 of Mrs Ps outstanding monthly statement 
balance. And if she was too ill to work or made involuntarily redundant, it would have paid off 
5% of that balance for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ps case. Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mrs Ps complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mrs P that the policy was optional, and it had to get her 
consent before applying PPI to her account. Lloyds says it would have done this, but Mrs P 
says she wasnt aware PPI was added. 
The sale took place a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need to decide what I think is most likely to have happened 
when the PPI was sold. 
Over the years, weve seen a number of Lloyds cases involving various methods of sales 
from around the same period Mrs P would have been sold her PPI. Using what I know 
generally of Lloyds sales practices at the time, I think its more likely than not Mrs P would 
have been given an option to take out the PPI and that Lloyds would have gained her 
consent before adding it to her credit card account. 
In addition to this, I can see the PPI appeared on Mrs Ps credit card statements as 
CARDHOLDER PROTECTION PLAN and I think this is quite prominent. So, while Mrs P 
says she didnt know she had PPI, I think its likely she would have seen this and if she 
wasnt sure what it was for, I would have expected her to query the transactions with Lloyds 
much sooner. 
For these reasons, I think its more likely than not that Mrs P was aware she had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
Mrs P says she didnt receive any advice from Lloyds. But Lloyds doesnt know how the 
policy was sold and whether it gave advice or not, so its reviewed the sale as though advice 
was given. This puts more responsibility on Lloyds  it means it had to check the policy was 
suitable for Mrs P. So, in fairness to her, Ive considered the case on the basis that advice 
was given.
Based on what Mrs Ps told us about her circumstances at the time, the policy appears to 
have been suitable for her because:
From the information Ive seen, Mrs P was eligible for the policy.
Mrs P doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the things that might have made it 
harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having a pre-existing medical condition, or 
unusual employment circumstances.
Mrs P says she didnt have a sick pay entitlement from her employer, and she didnt 
have any savings. Mrs P says she had a car valued at around £3,000 and that her 
parents could have helped her. But I think its unlikely Mrs P would have wanted to sell 
her car if she could avoid doing so and while her parents may have offered to help, 
circumstances could change which means their help couldnt always be relied on. So 
overall, I dont think this shows the policy wasnt right for her. 
I also havent seen anything to show the policy was unaffordable for Mrs P. 
In addition to making sure the policy was suitable for Mrs P, Lloyds also needed to give her 
enough information about the policy so she could decide whether to take it or not.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs P about the terms and cost of the policy wasnt 
as clear as it should have been. But for the same reasons as I think the policy was suitable 
for Mrs P, I dont think better information would have made a difference to her decision to 
buy it.
It follows that I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs P about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell Mrs P, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
My final decisionI dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs P. 
Lloyds Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mrs P any commission and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 February 2021.
 
Hanna Johnson
Ombudsman