DRN-4429509
The complaint
Mr L has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a fee-paying 
Additions account, which was sold to him in January 2001.
Mr L says that the Additions account was an evolution of his student account. Mr L says that 
he was told that he needed to pay the monthly fee if he wanted to keep his student overdraft 
and to avoid fees.
Mr L says that over the years, he mentioned in branch that he didnt need the benefits on the 
account and says he was told that unless he repaid his overdraft, he would need to keep his 
account.
Account history
 Opened as a fee-free account 
 Changed to a Student and Graduate account 1997
 Changed back to a fee-free current account June 2000
 Upgraded to a fee-paying Additions account January 2001
 *Migrated to a fee-free account with a Tech Pack added January 2017
 Tech Pack removed September 2019
* Barclays withdrew the Additions account and migrated all Additions accounts over to being 
a standard fee-free current account, but with a Tech Pack added. Account holders were 
given the choice to opt out of adding the Tech Pack, if they didnt need the cover it provided. 
This change to the account is essentially treated as being a continuation of the previous 
packaged account.
What happened
Barclays said that Mr L had complained too late. I issued a decision to explain that Mr L had 
complained within the relevant time limits that apply when using this service, and so his 
complaint was one that our service is able to look into.
One of our investigators then assessed the complaint and they concluded that the Additions 
account had not been mis-sold. Mr L disagreed with the investigator, so the matter was 
referred for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged accounts on our website and 
Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. And having considered everything, Im 
unable to conclude that the Additions account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
When Mr L raised his complaint with Barclays, I can see that he said that he was led to 
believe that having the Additions account was an evolution of his account as he was no 
longer able to have the Student and Graduate account. So his account was essentially 
automatically changed to being an Additions account, so that he could retain his overdraft. 
However, Mr Ls recollections of events dont correlate with the account history that Barclays 
has provided.
Based on the evidence that Barclays has provided, once Mr Ls Student and Graduate 
account came to an end, his account was not changed to fee-paying packaged account as 
Mr L recalls. It was in fact changed to being a standard fee-free account. 
At the time Mr Ls account was changed to a standard fee-free current account, it was still 
heavily overdrawn and Mr L was being charged a fair amount in overdraft interest and 
charges each month. For example, in the month before Mr Ls account was upgraded to 
being an Additions account, Mr L was charged £26.48 in overdraft interest, plus a £5 
monthly overdraft usage fee on 27 December 2000.
The fact that Mr L was charged an overdraft fee (rather than an unarranged overdraft fee) 
indicates that Mr L had an overdraft on his account at the time  although it seems he 
mayve at times exceeded that limit as he was occasionally charged an unarranged overdraft 
fee when he did. Therefore, Im satisfied that Mr L should really have been aware in 2000 
that he didnt have to have a fee-paying account to retain his overdraft facility on his account.
In January 2001, the Additions account cost £6 per month and one of the main features it 
included was a £100 interest free overdraft facility. Also, importantly, by having the Additions 
packaged account, Mr L was not charged the £5 monthly overdraft fee that he was charged 
when his account was a fee-free current account. At the time the account only included a 
limited amount of other benefits such as purchase protection and cardholder protection.
By agreeing to the Additions account, because of the overdraft interest rates at the time 
(which I believe to have been 18.8% EAR), it essentially worked out slightly cheaper for
someone to have the Additions account than a fee-free account, when they were regularly 
using an overdraft each month. And looking at the account ledgers that Barclays has 
provided, I can see that Mr L was regularly using his overdraft around the time he upgraded 
to the Additions account.
So, in the circumstances, although there is little evidence available from the time, I think the 
overdraft saving was likely explained to Mr L  being the main benefit of the account at the 
time. And given Mr Ls circumstances at the time, I think it was likely the reason why Mr L 
agreed to the Additions account  rather than because he thought he had no choice but to 
agree to the upgrade to retain his overdraft limit. And as the account was sold as a package, 
Mr L couldnt pick and choose what it came with. So even if Barclays had given Mr L more 
information about the account and the other benefits, I dont think he wouldve been put off 
from upgrading to it, given his circumstances at the time.
Finally, I note that Mr L says that he mentioned not needing the Additions account to branch 
staff and he says he was told that he had to pay off his overdraft if he wanted to change his 
account. Unfortunately, other than Mr Ls testimony, Ive not seen any other evidence to 
show (or even indicate) that Mr L was actually told this. However, if Mr L was asking about 
closing his account, then that is correct, he would need to clear his overdraft before he could 
close the account. Alternatively, I cant rule out the possibility that Mr L did discuss 
downgrading but was talked out of downgrading once it was pointed out what overdraft 
benefits he would lose.
As such, when deciding whats most likely to have happened, I cant conclude that Barclays 
incorrectly told Mr L that he couldnt downgrade his account to a fee-free account without 
first paying off his overdraft.
So taking everything into account, Im unable to conclude, albeit on balance, that the 
Additions account was mis-sold. Nor am I able to conclude that Barclays has acted unfairly 
or unreasonably in this matter.My final decision
Because of the reasons given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 December 2023.
 
Thomas White
Ombudsman