DRN-3857424
The complaint
Mr D complains about how CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV dealt with a claim 
against his private dental insurance plan.  
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr D is a member of a group private dental insurance plan. In 
April 2022, he asked his dentist for an appointment as soon as possible to repair a 
detached filling. On 4 May 2022, Mr D had an emergency dental appointment during 
which he had an examination, x-ray, and filling. He made a claim against his plan for the 
total charge of £346.40. 
CIGNA settled the claim against the emergency benefit and paid Mr D £200, which is the 
cap for each emergency claim. Mr D didnt think that was fair. He says that only the 
charge for the examination should be dealt with under the emergency benefits, the x-ray 
was preventative treatment, and the filling was minor or major treatment. Mr D wants 
CIGNA to settle the remainder of his claim. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. Initially, he said that CIGNA 
acted fairly in dealing with Mr Ds claim under the dental emergency medical benefit 
provisions of the policy, as Mr D had emergency treatment. Mr D provided additional 
information. The investigator reconsidered the matter and said that Mr Ds treatment 
wasnt emergency treatment, as defined by the policy. So, it wasnt reasonable for 
CIGNA to deal with Mr Ds claim under the dental emergency medical benefit provisions. 
The investigator said that Mr Ds treatment would fall under the minor and major 
treatment section of the policy. He recommended that CIGNA reconsider the claim and 
settle it under those provisions. 
Mr D agreed with the investigator, but CIGNA didnt. It said that the invoice from Mr Ds 
dentist states that this was an emergency and that Mr D had pain/sensitivity from a hole 
in his tooth, which wasnt resolved by a temporary filling. CIGNA said that the terms and 
conditions for emergency treatment refer to the relief of pain  Mr D had pain and the 
filling the dentist gave stopped that pain. It said that the dentist said this was an 
emergency appointment, not a standard, routine appointment. CIGNA said that any 
treatment on the day of an emergency appointment is paid from the emergency benefit. 
CIGNA asked for an ombudsman to consider the complaint, so it was passed to me to 
decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the plan, the relevant parts of which say  as 
follows:
Plan Benefits
Dental emergencies (up to 4 dental emergencies per year of insurance at £200 each)
[]
100% Preventative treatment []
80% Minor and major treatment
Emergency  when severe pain not stopped by painkillers, or facial swelling, or 
uncontrollable bleeding from the oral cavity takes place outside your [] dentists business 
hours, []. Palliative treatment is covered to stabilise the immediate problem and relieve 
severe pain, swelling or bleeding.
has the claim been handled fairly and reasonably?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that CIGNA has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably. Im upholding                
Mr Ds complaint because I dont think that CIGNA treated him fairly and reasonably in 
settling his claim. I say that because:   
CIGNA says any treatment on the day of an emergency appointment is paid from 
the emergency benefit, but thats not consistent with the plans terms.  
Ive set out above the plans definition of an emergency. Mr Ds dentist refers to his 
pain/sensitivity from the hole in his tooth but theres no evidence to suggest that  
Mr Ds pain was severe or that he had facial swelling or uncontrollable bleeding. 
When Mr D asked his dentist for an appointment he said that a filling had detached 
and asked for an appointment as soon as possible to get it repaired. What 
happened here wasnt an emergency within the definition of the plan. 
The invoice from Mr Ds dentist refers to an emergency examination. The dentist 
has explained that he referred to it like that because it wasnt part of Mr Ds routine, 
scheduled appointments. But that doesnt mean that what happened here comes 
within the plans definition of an emergency. 
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that CIGNA treated Mr D fairly and 
reasonably in settling his claim on the basis that it was for a dental emergency. 
Mr D has suggested that the examination was a dental emergency, the x-ray was 
preventative, and the filling was minor or major treatment. I dont think thats quite 
right. None of what happened here comes within the plan definition of an 
emergency and theres no basis on which to conclude that the x-ray was 
preventative: it appears to be part of the dentist delivering appropriate treatment. 
Based on what Ive seen, the appointment on 4 May 2022 comes under Minor and 
major treatment. So, CIGNA should reassess Mr Ds claim accordingly, subject to 
the remaining terms of the plan. If an additional payment is due to Mr D, CIGNA 
should also pay interest on the amount of the additional payment, from the date of 
Mr Ds claim to the date of settlement. Putting things right
In order to put things right, CIGNA should deal with Mr Ds claim under the Minor and major 
treatment part of the plan, subject to the remaining terms of the plan. If an additional 
payment is due to Mr D, CIGNA should also pay interest on that amount at the simple rate of 
8% per year, from the date Mr D made his claim to the date it makes the payment. 
HM Revenue & Customs requires CIGNA to take off tax from this interest. CIGNA must give 
Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ds complaint. CIGNA Europe Insurance Company    
SA-NV should now take the steps Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 February 2023.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman