DRN-3554444
The complaint
B, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc cancelled direct debits on its 
account and didnt reinstate one for the loan resulting in arrears.
What happened
HSBC says that B applied for breathing space on loan repayments. And that HSBC 
cancelled the direct debits as a result. As it couldnt find a call confirming B was told this it 
paid it £50 in compensation. In error it didnt reinstate the loan direct debit leading to arrears. 
It paid B £500 to reflect this. Now that the complaint has been referred to this service it had 
recognised that it didnt compensate B for the other direct debits that were cancelled. It has 
offered a further £150 in compensation making a total of £700. It has confirmed that the 
credit record for B will be amended.
Our investigator didnt recommend that HSBC do anything more than it has now offered to. 
She said that the monthly loan payment was £540.52 of which £123.86 was interest. The 
direct debit wasnt taken in August and September 2021 and in October 2021 B made a 
manual payment. Those missed payments werent the fault of B although it was still fairly 
liable to pay them now. She thought that Bs credit record should be corrected provided it did 
so and that the compensation was fair.
B didnt agree. It said that it had never asked for a breathing space. And that it would 
transfer money from another business to cover payments as they fell due. It still wants the 
arrears of the loan cleared by HSBC to reflect the additional interest. And it doesnt think that 
the compensation is sufficient to reflect the inconvenience. It didnt receive any letter about 
the compensation saying that it just appeared in its account.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint on 18 May 2022. I set out below what I 
said.
Id asked through our investigator for some more information about the current position on 
the loan. And what amendments had been made to the credit history. HSBC provided an up 
to date statement and details of the arrears. It confirmed that there was no interest applied to 
the arrears or arrears fees. The record of missed payments had been removed up to 
January 2022. Its collections team had reached a stalemate with B and no further payments 
had been made. So missed payments would be showing again from February 2022.
I noted from Bs statements that the loan payment due on 13 July 2021 was returned unpaid 
because there were insufficient funds in the current account. HSBC wrote to B on 16 July 
2021 and said that it would try and collect the money again 14 days after the original 
payment due date. On 20 July 2021 HSBC wrote to B to say that it was going to be giving it 
breathing space on its loan and that it wouldnt be contacting it for 60 days about payments. 
The letter set out that any payments it did make would go to the loan, but that B should also 
make sure it could pay its priority bills.
It doesnt have a call recording of any discussion with B about this. But it says that as part of 
that discussion B would be told that the direct debit would be cancelled. I found it unclear 
why other direct debit mandates would be cancelled. But those relating to important 
payments including a utility bill for B were cancelled. And B has explained the inconvenience 
caused.
B complained and on 6 August 2021 HSBC told it that all direct debits and standing orders 
had been reinstated. And it paid B £50 in compensation.
The loan repayments due in August and September 2021 werent taken by direct debit. B 
realised and arranged to make a payment for October 2021 manually. It complained and on 
20 October 2021 HSBC issued a final response accepting the error and arranging for £500 
compensation to reflect the interest on the missed payments and compensation for the 
inconvenience. It told B that it still remained liable for the capital element of those 
repayments. I could see that the credit was made that day.
HSBC has now offered a further £150 to compensate B specifically for the inconvenience 
caused as a result of direct debits to third parties being cancelled. Bs credit record has been 
amended as set out above.
B doesnt think that the compensation is sufficient and that it should pay the arrears as it 
understands that it will be charged extra interest on the loan.
I noted that the loan was nine payments in arrears: no further payments have been applied 
since the manual payment in October 2021.
my assessment
B was caused inconvenience when important direct debits were cancelled. Not all regular 
payments from the account had been cancelled. And I couldnt see how this should arise 
from providing breathing space on the loan. It was clearly something B didnt expect as it 
immediately complained. And HSBC cant evidence that this is something B agreed to. I 
noted reference to a specific issue with three different third-party payees was made. B had 
to deal with the inconvenience and reputational impact. Although HSBC has now offered to 
pay £150 to compensate B for this I considered that the appropriate compensation for this 
element is £300.
The loan direct debit was cancelled too. Frankly B hadnt paid the amount due in July 2021 
as the direct debit had been returned. And even it hadnt been aware that the direct debit 
was cancelled there were insufficient funds to take that payment on a second attempt at the 
end of July 2021 when B was over the limit for its account and standing order payments 
were being returned unpaid. But I accepted that this was overtaken by other issues with the 
direct debit.
The loan is a fixed sum one. At the outset the interest due over the term and so the monthly 
fixed repayment was established. As our investigator says there were 60 monthly payments 
of £540.52 and average interest per month included was £123.86. The loan statement 
shows the full initial capital sum including all interest over the loan term. HSBC has 
confirmed that no additional interest will be added as a result of the missed payments. But 
as set out above there are nine payments in arrears.
I understood that B was in dispute over making the three specific payments for July, August 
and September 2021 as a result of its complaint and didnt think it should pay these. I said I 
would come to that. But I didnt see any similar reason why it wouldnt think it needed to 
continue the further payments. And HSBC removed any reporting of missed payments up to January 2022. B has been paid £550 to date to reflect the issue with the loan direct debit. I 
found that to be reasonable and I didnt see any basis for HSBC to cover all or any part of 
these arrears. B has said it had money from a separate source to make payments as they 
fell due. I thought HSBC was entitled to expect it to do so even during the period when a 
complaint had been referred to this service. And thats especially as Bs position always 
seems to have been that it didnt need any breathing space for the loan.
I didnt see a basis to require HSBC to amend the credit record further but in response to this 
provisional decision I said it might want to say whether it does intend to do anything else as 
a goodwill gesture once the outcome of this complaint is finalised. It will fairly be a matter for 
B to contact HSBC about repayment including of the arrears. 
In summary I considered that HSBC should pay B a further £300 for the reasons Id 
explained. I appreciated that the representatives of B will be disappointed by my provisional 
findings. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC said it accepted my provisional decision and didnt make any other comments 
including about any further alterations to credit record reporting for B.
B said it had agreed a breathing space to get the business running as it traded 
internationally. HSBC was still contacting it about not keeping up with repayments. But when 
B speaks to HSBC it realises there are notes about this.
I have looked carefully at what B said in response. And it didnt really state whether or not it 
accepted my resolution. I consider its had a reasonable time to review this and I dont see a 
basis to depart from my provisional findings. As Ive said it will need to discuss repayment of 
the borrowing with HSBC.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint in part, and I require HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay B 
a further £300 making a total of £850.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2022.
 Michael Crewe
Ombudsman