DRN-3746420
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) recorded a fraud prevention marker against 
him. 
Background
In January 2022, Mr Hs account received two credits of £75, a credit of £100, a credit of £85 
and two further credits of £80. The funds were transferred on to other third-party accounts. 
Monzo subsequently received notifications from three different third-party banks which were 
responsible for sending most of the payments to Mr Hs account stating the senders of the 
funds had reported being victims of fraud. Monzo then received a similar notification from 
another of its customers. 
Given these notifications, Monzo decided to review Mr Hs account. As a result of its 
investigation, Monzo decided to close Mr Hs account and also record a fraud prevention 
marker.
Mr H complained. Monzo looked at Mr Hs complaint and didnt uphold it. As Mr H remained 
dissatisfied he referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Mr Hs concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Mr H unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Mr H disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Mr H is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Mr Hs account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Mr H was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Mr H allowing someone else to use his account in order to receive an illegitimate 
payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was unwitting; there 
should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Mr Hs complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had enough 
evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Mr Hs account and that his actions suggest he 
was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo has done this 
here. Id like to explain why in a little more detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Mr Hs 
account in January 2022, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Mr H was complicit in allowing his account to receive 
these illegitimate payments. 
When questioned about the activity on his account, Mr H told Monzo he didnt know anything 
about the activity on his account. He said the last transaction he made was a transfer to 
himself, which left this account with a zero balance. And the first he learned of this activity 
was when he contacted Monzo after receiving an email from Monzo telling him that his 
account was going to be closed. Mr H has suggested his account might have been hacked 
as a result of being compromised by phishing or a similar approach.
Ive thought about what Mr H has said. But I havent seen anything to suggest that Mr Hs 
Monzo account was hacked. Mr H has speculated about the possibility or having falling 
victim to a phishing scam but hes not provided any detail at all on how this might have 
happened, or any explanation on when he might have been asked to provide his details as 
part of any such scam. 
Weve not been provided with any indication that any other accounts Mr H had were 
compromised in this way or subject to similar activity either. Furthermore, while I accept its 
possible for this to have happened, it would nonetheless be somewhat of a coincidence for 
Mr Hs account to have been used in this way, later on in the same day he transferred all of 
his remaining funds out and he says he stopped using this account. 
Ive also seen a record of the devices used to login to Mr Hs account. And while its fair to 
say more than one device was used, its clear that Mr Hs main device was used to login 
after the last transaction he says he made. Given this is the case, I cant reasonably say that 
Mr H couldnt have known what was going on his account. And while its possible Mr H may 
not have physically moved the funds himself, the available evidence does suggest that the 
most likely explanation here is that Mr H allowed his account to be used in this way. 
Im afraid the lack of anything to corroborate Mr Hs version of events means that I cant 
reasonably conclude he was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think its more likely 
than not that he was complicit in the fraudulent activity which took place on his account. So I 
dont think that Monzo acted unfairly towards Mr H and Im not upholding this complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Mr H. But I hope Mr H will understand the 
reasons for my decision and that hell at least feel his concerns have been listened to. 
Furthermore, Mr H might find that hes able to open an account with another bank as long as 
he applies for a Basic Bank Account, rather than a full Current Account or any such 
equivalent.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman