DRN-4133336
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as T, complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly 
delayed releasing security after the loan it secured was repaid. 
T is represented by one of its directors, who has appointed his son to represent him in 
bringing this complaint. Ill refer to the directors son as Mr G. 
What happened
In early June 2020, T repaid its borrowing from HSBC UK Bank Plc. The borrowing was 
secured on some properties. 
In August 2020, Mr G started chasing HSBC to release their security. 
Also in August 2020, the bank blocked Mr Gs personal accounts and put them under review. 
Mr G kept chasing HSBC to release the property charges and made a complaint about the 
delay. He said he stood to lose millions on a property deal if the bank didnt release the 
security. 
The bank told Mr G that his accounts were under review and they couldnt give any 
timescales for the review. 
On 14 October 2020, HSBC completed their review and that same day began the process of 
releasing the charge over the properties. They also responded to Ts complaint, apologising 
for any inconvenience caused. They didnt offer any compensation. 
Mr G asked the Financial Ombudsman to look into what had happened. He said the delay 
had meant he had had to complete late on his property deal. This had led to him incurring 
various costs and caused him considerable stress, because of the risk of the deal collapsing. 
I wrote to Mr G asking for further evidence of costs incurred by T. In the absence of a reply, I 
issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2023. I concluded that HSBC had made some 
errors that had caused delay. But I wasnt persuaded that T had made a loss as a result of 
the errors. In summary, I said:
These events occurred during the pandemic. Inevitably and understandably, this 
meant that things were taking longer than they would have done before. 
Nonetheless, having considered all the circumstances, I still thought four and a half 
months for the review was too long. 
However, I didnt think that any of the evidence provided by Mr G demonstrated that 
T incurred a loss as a result of the delay. I didnt doubt that Mr G consulted lawyers. 
But for me to uphold a consequential loss claim, I would need to see evidence that 
the bank's error had caused T itself - rather than Mr G, or anyone else - to incur 
costs. 
I also hadnt seen any evidence to support Mr Gs allegations that HSBCs RM 
behaved rudely to him. Neither did I think there was any malicious intent behind the 
delay. 
HSBC had said in writing several times in August that they had instructed the release 
of the security, but they hadnt in fact done so. I hadnt seen any evidence that they 
informed Mr G that their letters were incorrect. But Mr G understood that the security 
delay was caused by the review. So I didnt think the banks poor communication 
caused any additional problems. The problems were caused by the delay itself. 
I could see that the delay caused Mr G considerable distress. I thought that was 
shown by the amount and content of his communication with the bank (and anyone 
else he could think of who might help). There was also no doubt that the bank was 
fully aware of this distress, given that HSBC twice asked the Police to carry out a 
welfare check on Mr G. But the customer in this case is T, not Mr G. 
As a limited company, T cannot be distressed. I didnt have the power to award 
compensation for distress experienced by its directors or its directors 
representatives. 
HSBC said they had nothing further to add. Mr G responded to say he had provided lots of 
evidence of the banks negligence. He also reiterated that HSBC had an issue with him 
because they had paid compensation for mis-selling a swap. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of any new evidence or arguments, I havent been persuaded to change my 
provisional view. I will also add that Im satisfied that HSBCs decision to carry out a review 
was based on usual procedures and Ive seen no evidence that it was influenced by the 
previous swap complaint. 
In summary, I think HSBC took too long over this review, even allowing for the impact of the 
pandemic. T is the party able to refer its complaint to our service. This is Ts claim and to 
uphold it, I would need to see evidence of losses made by T, not Mr G. I havent seen this 
evidence, so I am not going to award any compensation. 
My final decision
HSBC made errors here that caused a delay. But Im not awarding any compensation for 
these errors, as I havent seen evidence that T made a loss as a result. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 September 2023.
 
Louise Bardell
Ombudsman