DRN-2442000
The complaint
  Mr H has complained that TFS Loans Limited (TFS Loans) provided him with an 
unaffordable loan.
What happened
TFS Loans provided Mr H with a loan of £7,500 in March 2018. This loan had a 48-months 
term with a monthly repayment amount of £288.13. This all meant the total amount 
repayable of £13,830.24 was due to be repaid.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint and thought that TFS Loans unfairly 
provided this loan as proportionate checks would have shown it was unaffordable. TFS 
Loans disagreed with our investigator and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about unaffordable/irresponsible lending - 
including the key rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. And Ive 
referred to this when deciding Mr Hs complaint.
I need to take into account the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice.
When TFS Loans lent to Mr H, the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and 
relevant regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).
TFS Loans was entering a regulated credit agreement. So, it had to carry out a reasonable 
assessment of Mr Hs creditworthiness before it entered the agreement. This means that 
TFS Loans had to consider both the risk to it that Mr H wouldnt make the repayments under 
the agreement when due, and the risk to Mr H of not being able to make these repayments. 
In particular, TFS Loans had to consider Mr Hs ability to make repayments under the 
agreement as they fell due over the life of the agreement, without him having to borrow to 
meet the repayments, without him failing to make any other repayment he had a contractual 
or statutory duty to make, and without the repayments having a significant adverse effect on 
his financial situation.
The rules dont set out any specific checks which must be completed to assess 
creditworthiness. But the lender should take into account the borrowers income (over the full 
term of the loan) and their ongoing expenditure for living expenses and other debts. Whilst it 
is down to the lender to decide what specific checks it wishes to carry out these should be 
reasonable and proportionate to the type and amount of credit being provided, the length of 
the term, the frequency and amount of the repayments and the total cost of the credit. So, a 
lenders assessment of creditworthiness would need to be flexible and what is appropriate 
for one person might not be for another. And what might be sufficient for a borrower in one 
circumstance might not be so for the same borrower in other circumstances.
In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential risk to the 
consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way. So, for example, Id 
expect a lender to seek more assurance by carrying out more detailed checks:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of credit is likely to be greater and the borrower is required to make repayments 
for an extended period).
Bearing all of this in mind, in coming to a decision on Mr Hs case, I have considered the 
following questions:
Did TFS Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr 
Hs loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
If not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
Did TFS Loans make a fair lending decision?
Ive carefully thought about all of the relevant factors in this case.
Were the checks that TFS Loans carried out reasonable and proportionate?
I can see from the documents TFS Loans have submitted that it verified Mr Hs income by 
asking him for payslips. Mr H declared his income to be £1200 but TFS Loans used a figure 
of £1063 that it said came from verifying from the payslips he submitted. It also asked Mr H 
about his expenses and used a credit search to check for his credit commitments. It says 
after it did this, it worked out that Mr Hs disposable income was £178.72 after it factored in 
the loan repayment. 
Ive carefully considered what TFS Loans has said. But when I consider the amount Mr H 
was borrowing in relation to his income, the total cost and length of the loan, I think TFS 
Loans should have carried out a complete review of his finances to see whether the loan 
repayments were sustainable over the life of the loan.  
As I cant see that this TFS Loans did do this, I dont think that the checks it carried out 
before providing Mr H with his loan were reasonable and proportionate.
Would reasonable and proportionate checks have indicated to TFS Loans that Mr H 
would have been unable to repay this loan?
As reasonable and proportionate checks werent carried out before this loan was provided, I 
cant say for sure what they wouldve shown. So, I need to decide whether it is more likely 
than not that a proportionate check would have told TFS Loans that Mr H would have been 
unable to sustainably repay this loan.
Mr H has provided bank statements to our service from a short period of time leading up to 
when the loan was granted and Ive carefully considered the information provided. Having 
done so, its clear Mr H was gambling significant amounts of money in relation to how much 
he was earning, leading up to the date when he applied for the loan. I can also see that he 
was making payments to other short term loan providers. Bearing all this in mind, Im satisfied that reasonable and proportionate checks would more 
likely than not have shown TFS Loans that Mr H would not have been able to repay this loan 
in a sustainable manner as the information he has provided shows he was having problems 
managing his finances. In particular his gambling transactions were such that he was paying 
out more than he was earning. On balance, I think it would have become apparent to TFS 
that the loan repayments wouldnt have been sustainable over the life time of the loan. So, 
Im satisfied that its failure to carry out proportionate checks resulted in it unfairly providing 
this loan to Mr H.
So, it follows that TFS Loans needs to put things right.
  
Putting things right
  Having thought about everything, I think it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Hs complaint for TFS Loans to put things right by:
removing all interest, fees and charges applied to the loan from the outset. The 
payments Mr H made, direct to TFS Loans and any third-parties, should be deducted 
from the new starting balance  the £7,500 originally lent. 
If there is a balance still to be repaid, then TFS loans will need to exercise 
forbearance and arrange an affordable repayment plan with Mr H.
If Mr H has already repaid more than £7,500.00 then TFS Loans should treat any 
extra as overpayments. And any overpayments should be refunded to Mr H;
adding interest at 8% per year simple on any overpayments, if any, from the date 
they were made by Mr H to the date of settlement
 HM Revenue & Customs requires TFS Loans to take off tax from this interest. TFS Loans 
must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
 For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint about TFS Loans Limited 
and it now needs to put things right in the way set out above.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 September 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman