DRN-3788472
The complaint
Mrs H has a maximum benefit pet insurance policy with Healthy Pets Limited. She complains 
that several years after first taking out the policy, Healthy Pets introduced changes to the 
frequency of which excesses are charged and introduced co-payments.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as our investigator for these reasons:
Its for an insurer to determine the level of risk theyre willing to cover, and how 
policyholders will be charged for this. Our Service doesnt have the power to tell an 
insurer how much to charge, though we can check that a customer has been treated 
fairly and consistently with other customers. While I appreciate Mrs Hs strength of 
feeling on the matter, I cant ask Healthy Pets to remove and/or change the term 
regarding charging an excess per condition each year, nor can I ask them to remove 
the requirement for a co-payment. Healthy Pets sold the policy to Mrs H, but it isnt 
the insurer  thats a separate business. So, it isnt responsible for setting the level of 
cover or deciding how much to charge. As such, I wont be asking Healthy Pets to 
reimburse the excesses and co-payments she paid while her dog was insured with 
them.
What Healthy Pets is responsible for is the sale of the policy. What I have been able 
to consider is the extent to which Mrs H might have understood her policy could 
change when she first took it out. Ive not seen anything to show how Mrs Hs policy 
was sold, or the information she was given alongside her policy document. However, 
having reviewed her policy documents Ive not seen anything to persuade me Mrs H 
was given sufficient information regarding the way her policy could change over the 
years. As such, I consider this would have limited her ability make an informed 
decision about whether this policy was right for her  particularly when it came to the 
possibility of co-payments being introduced.
While Im satisfied Mrs H wouldnt have known her policy could change in the way it 
did, I dont consider it would have prevented her from taking out the policy altogether. 
Thats because Ive listened to calls she had with Healthy Pets in which she 
explained the importance of having sufficient cover for her pets, and the difficulties in 
getting cover for pre-existing conditions. She clearly wanted this type of insurance for 
her pet. And if she had chosen a different insurer, its likely there would have been 
some changes to the excess or level of premium over the years. Ive also had to 
place weight on the fact the changes to her policy were first introduced in 2015. 
Mrs H didnt change insurers after this date, despite saying she would be looking for 
cover elsewhere.
It would have been concerning for Mrs H when she needed to make claims under her 
policy. I consider its at this point she would have felt the impact of the changes to the 
terms and conditions. However, Mrs H has multiple pets insured with Healthy pets, 
and Im aware of at least one of her other pets policy being subject to the same 
changes. The evidence Ive seen suggests claims made under Mrs Hs other pets 
policy would have highlighted the issues shes complained about in this case. As 
such, I dont consider this policy Ive investigated means Mrs H would have suffered 
additional confusion  because she would have already been aware of what the 
changes meant for her dog insured under this policy. Im also aware that Mrs H 
discussed the changes to the terms and conditions with Healthy Pets in late 2014. In 
the relevant call, the adviser explained the reasons for the changes. This further 
persuades me Mrs H hasnt suffered additional confusion or distress in having to 
navigate the changes in terms and conditions for this policy. 
Given Mrs H raised a similar complaint (for her other policy) and received an award 
for the distress and inconvenience she experienced, I dont consider an additional 
award is fair or reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Given the above, while I appreciate Mrs Hs disappointment, Im not upholding her 
complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint about Healthy Pets Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman