DRN-3977016
The complaint
Mr S complains about how Santander UK Plc handled a claim he made in relation to a 
transaction on his credit card.
What happened
Mr S paid a deposit to a travel agent (the supplier) towards a holiday. 
Mr S says that he wasnt able to travel to the destination when originally intended due to 
restrictions which came about as a result of the global pandemic. So he arranged with the 
supplier to change the holiday to October 2021. 
Mr S says that in August 2021 he knew the balance for the holiday needed to be paid. He 
said he called the supplier and spent hours trying to get through. He says that when he did 
get through he expressed his concerns about travelling as the destination was on the red 
list. Mr S says that the supplier offered him the opportunity swap the holiday for another, but 
this would incur a transfer fee. Mr S says he wasnt given much time to make up his mind 
and the supplier said it needed to know by close of business that day.
Mr S did not swap his holiday, and he did not pay the balance for his October 2021 holiday. 
This resulted in Mr S having his holiday cancelled. Mr S was not happy with this and says 
the customer service he got from the supplier has been very poor. So he made a claim to 
Santander to recover his money.
Santander did not uphold the claim. It noted that the supplier acted in line with its terms and 
conditions so there was no breach of contract that would give rise to a successful claim 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75).
Mr S complained about the outcome of his claim, but Santander did not change its position. 
So he brought his complaint to this service. 
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. She said, in summary:
 There was no breach of contract or misrepresentation giving rise to a successful 
Section 75 claim.
 There was no valid chargeback claim because it was too late to raise a chargeback 
(under the scheme rules) and the service was still available and only became 
unavailable when the balance payment was not paid to the supplier. She noted that 
the destination had come off the red list by the time Mr S was due to travel.
Mr S wants the matter considered by an ombudsman. In summary, he says there is a lot of 
focus on the supplier  but the issue is separate  the reason he raised the complaint with 
Santander is because he was asked to pay several thousands of pounds for a holiday which 
nobody knew would go ahead in future. He did not refuse to pay for the holiday but was not 
given the chance. He says he paid for something that he did not receive.
I issued a provisional decision on this case. In this I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sorry to hear that Mr S didnt end up going on the holiday in connection with concerns 
around the global pandemic. But it is worth noting that Santander did not market or supply 
the holiday which is the subject of this dispute. So in considering what it should fairly do to 
resolve matters I consider its specific obligations as a provider of financial services. Here I 
have focused on the relevant card protections  in this case these are chargeback and 
Section 75.
Section 75
Section 75 in certain circumstances will allow Mr S to make a like claim against Santander 
for breach of contract or misrepresentation by a supplier paid by credit card in respect of an 
agreement it has with him for the provision of goods or services. It is worth noting here that 
general customer service issues with the supplier will not necessarily be enough to 
constitute a breach of contract or misrepresentation for the purposes of Section 75.
Certain criteria need to be met in order that Section 75 will apply in any given circumstance. 
This includes that Mr S as the debtor who has the credit card agreement with Santander 
also has an agreement with the supplier paid using the credit provided by Santander. I have 
looked at the situation here to see if that agreement is in place.
Firstly, I note the supplier which received the credit card payment marketed the holiday and 
carried out admin in relation to the booking. However, a separate company (Company A) 
provided the package holiday. It is worth noting that any Section 75 claim Mr S might have 
against Santander would not be in respect of Company A. This is because his credit card 
payment was not made to Company A but to the supplier providing separate travel agency 
services. 
I have turned to whether Mr S has got a contractual agreement with the supplier for the 
services it is providing. But after doing so I am not sure that he has. I say this because the 
booking appears to have been made by someone else. I note the correspondence from the 
supplier is made out to this person who appears to be travelling on the trip and acting as the 
lead booker. I note the suppliers request for the remaining balance for the holiday is to this 
person and not Mr S.
I have carefully considered if any information, including the booking terms of the supplier, 
indicates that Mr S has an agreement with the supplier. But I dont think it does- I think the 
agreement is with the third party travelling with Mr S. So overall, I am not persuaded Mr S 
has a Section 75 claim against Santander in respect of the actions of the supplier (or 
Company A for the reasons stated above).
It is worth noting that even if I were satisfied that Mr S had an agreement with the supplier  I 
am also not persuaded he would have a valid claim for either breach of contract or 
misrepresentation here. I will briefly explain why.
Firstly, although the booking was a package holiday I do not consider the implied terms 
regarding refunds in the Package Travel Regulations 2018 apply here as I am satisfied the supplier was not the organiser of the package (as defined by the Regulations) but the 
retailer. It simply marketed the holiday but did not combine the elements of the package. 
Company A is the organiser and is established in the United Kingdom. Therefore, as the 
retailer the suppliers responsibilities are more limited when it comes to any implied terms 
brought about by the Regulations.
Turning to the actions and responsibilities of the supplier here (as set out in its terms and 
conditions) I dont think it has done anything in respect of this situation which would be 
considered a breach of contract or misrepresentation. I note its terms state that if the full 
balance of a deposit is not paid by the due date it will notify the supplier who might cancel 
the booking and charge the cancellation fees set out in their booking conditions. This is what 
appears to have occurred here.
While Mr S says that he wasnt given enough time to decide whether to change the booking 
and that he didnt outright refuse to pay there appears no dispute that the balance was not 
paid on time. So contractually I dont consider that the supplier has done anything wrong by 
notifying Company A which as a result cancelled the booking and retained the deposit in 
accordance with its own terms.  Furthermore, after considering the relevant terms and 
conditions I dont see where in the situation that occurred here the supplier was required to 
or promised to refund the deposit. 
So with Section 75 in mind, in light of my findings above, I dont think Santander has made 
an error in not upholding a Section 75 claim. Therefore, I turn to chargeback.
Chargeback 
The chargeback scheme is one way which Santander might have been able to recover funds 
for Mr S. However, it is limited by the particular scheme rules that apply (in this case 
Mastercard). I have considered the relevant chargeback scheme rules and additional 
scheme published guidance in light of the pandemic in order to decide if Santander has 
acted fairly here.
From what I understand Santander did not pursue a chargeback for Mr S. While it is often 
good practice to raise a chargeback I dont think Santander was acting unfairly in not raising 
a chargeback. I say this because I dont think the chargeback had a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding in the particular circumstances.  
I can see it was initially agreed with the supplier that the original holiday would be rearranged 
for a future date. For completeness I note that, in accordance with the guidance issued by 
Mastercard, this agreed postponement would not prevent Mr S from having chargeback 
rights if the alternative was then not available to use as agreed. However, I dont think the 
alternative was not available  as I will explain.
In cases where services are not available often the reason code relating to services not 
being provided would be relevant. For the sake of completeness I dont think chargeback 
time limits are necessarily an issue here due to Mr S contacting Santander within 120 days 
from the last date of expected service. However, I think a chargeback using this reason code 
would likely not have succeeded in any event because the service was provided and still 
available. What appears to have occurred is that it was effectively cancelled by the customer 
(and deposit retained in line with the terms and conditions of the booking) because the 
balance was not paid as agreed.
So I dont think that service not provided is an appropriate reason code for what occurred 
here - and I think any chargeback pursued via this reason code would be unlikely to succeed in the circumstances. I have also considered if there is another clearly relevant chargeback 
reason that would have had a reasonable chance of success here. But after doing so I dont 
think there is. For example, although there is a reason code relating to credit not processed 
I am not able to say this would have likely succeeded in the particular circumstances here 
where there was no apparent contractual term or agreement by the supplier (or Company A 
for that matter) which would require a refund of the deposit paid in this situation. So overall, I 
dont think that Santander has acted unfairly or likely caused Mr S a loss by not pursuing a 
chargeback here.
I note Mr S has indicated what has happened is very unfair, and the supplier acted poorly. 
The situation created by the pandemic no doubt presented difficult and changing 
circumstances for Mr S and anyone he was travelling with - which I sympathise with. 
However, I underline that here I am considering what Santander is fairly liable for in its role 
as a provider of financial services and the specific criteria around a Section 75 or 
chargeback claim. After doing so I am unable to fairly conclude that it should reimburse Mr S 
for the deposit here.
My provisional decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I asked the parties for their comments. Santander said it had nothing further to add. Mr S 
disagreed with my findings. In summary he said:
He never refused to pay the balance  at the time it was due the destination was on 
the red list, so he was not in the wrong to ask for a change to somewhere else.
His partner booked the holiday as she deals with their holidays  however, he paid 
for it.
He is extremely disappointed with what he has read  he is concerned that a 
company can keep hundreds of pounds for a service they werent going to provide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr S for his comments. However, he has not added anything that gives me cause to 
change my provisional findings (as copied above). I still consider these fair and reasonable.
Further to some comments Mr S has made it is important to underline that my role here is 
providing an informal and impartial dispute resolution service between Mr S and Santander. 
In doing so I am able to fairly consider what Santander is responsible for here as a provider 
of financial services. My considerations are not about the general customer service of the 
supplier here but the particular role of Santander taking into account the chargeback scheme 
and the law of Section 75.
Unfortunately, as I have explained - despite the situation from the global pandemic resulting 
in Mr S losing money it is not something I can fairly hold Santander responsible for in the 
particular circumstances here.
One thing Mr S has said in his response is that the service was not provided  but there is 
not persuasive evidence that the holiday was not still going ahead at the time the booking was cancelled due to non-payment of the balance. I also note that the destination Mr S was 
going to appears to have been removed from the red list before the holiday was due to take 
place. As I have said in my provisional findings, rather than a case of a service not provided 
what appears to have occurred is that it was effectively cancelled by the customer (and 
deposit retained in line with the terms and conditions of the booking) because the balance 
was not paid as agreed.  So I dont think a chargeback is likely to have succeeded for 
service not provided.
Furthermore, although Mr S paid for the holiday he has confirmed he did not book it with the 
supplier - so I dont think he has a valid Section 75 claim against Santander in respect of the 
actions of the supplier for the reasons given in my provisional decision.
However, as I have said in my provisional decision  even if Mr S did have a valid Section 75 
claim I dont think Santander is liable to refund him because there was no apparent breach 
of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier here. 
Mr S has again said he did not refuse to pay the balance and has mentioned his concerns 
about paying this at the time it was due and feeling rushed to make a decision. I do 
understand his concerns and appreciate these  but as I have already said:
contractually I dont consider that the supplier has done anything wrong by notifying 
Company A which as a result cancelled the booking and retained the deposit in accordance 
with its own terms.  Furthermore, after considering the relevant terms and conditions I dont 
see where in the situation that occurred here the supplier was required to or promised to 
refund the deposit. 
Once again, I am very sorry to hear about what happened with Mr S not going on the 
planned holiday and losing the deposit. However, as I have already indicated  I am looking 
at what Santander is fairly responsible for here  and after doing so I am unable to fairly 
conclude that it should refund him here.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 March 2023.
 
Mark Lancod
Ombudsman