DRN-3915876
The complaint
Mr A complains about the management and administration of his account by Creation
Financial Services Limited (Creation). In particular Mr A is unhappy with information
recorded by Creation with one or more third party credit reference agencies in respect of his
account.
What happened
In 2017 Mr A purchased some furniture costing £3,769.64 from a company that I will call B.
Mr A financed the purchase with a fixed sum loan agreement (agreement) with Creation.
Under the terms of the agreement Mr A, everything else being equal, undertook to pay a
deposit of £377.00 followed by 36 monthly payments of £94.24 (commencing March 2018),
making a total repayable of £3,769.64 at an APR of 0%.
Mr A paid the deposit of £377.00 followed by one monthly payment, in March 2018, of
£94.24. This meant that as of April 2018 Mr A still owed Creation £3,298.40.
In February 2019, and having received no further payments from Mr A, Creation recorded
Mr As account as being in default with one or more third party credit reference agencies.
In August 2020 one of our investigators, following a complaint made to our service by Mr A,
found that Creation should pay Mr A £250.00, withdraw the charging order it had secured
against his property and remove any adverse information it may have recorded with one or
more third party credit reference agencies.
In November 2020 Creation paid Mr A £250.00.
In February 2021 Creation confirmed to Mr A that it had withdrawn the charging order it had
secured against his property and that somebody would be in touch with him to make
arrangements for repayment of his liability. But Creation confirmed to Mr A that it wasnt
prepared to amend the adverse information it had recorded with one or more third party
credit reference agencies because this information was (in its view) an accurate reflection of
his account with it.
In March 2022 Mr A complained to Creation that nobody had been in contact with him to
make arrangements for repayment.
In May 2022 Creation issued Mr A with a final response letter (FRL). Under cover of this
FRL Creation apologised it hadnt been in contact to make arrangements for repayment (and
it would be in contact in this respect shortly) and to confirm it would credit Mr As account
with £100 by way of an apology.
In May 2022 Creation credited Mr As account with £100. This brought his liability down to
£3,198.40 (from £3,298.40 outstanding since April 2018).
In May 2022 Creation called Mr A to make arrangements with him for repayment. Mr A said
he was prepared to pay £94.24 a month but only after his credit file had been cleared.
However, this proposal wasnt acceptable to Creation because it wasnt prepared to make
any changes to the adverse information it had reported, and was reporting, to one or more
third party credit reference agencies.
In June 2022 Creation advised Mr A that if he didnt contact it within seven days to pay it (or
make arrangements to pay it) the sum outstanding and owing on his account it would instruct
a company that I will call T to contact him.
In July 2022 T contacted Mr A as Creation advised, in June 2022, would be the case if Mr A
didnt contact it within seven days to pay it (or make arrangements to pay it) the sum
outstanding and owing on his account.
Mr As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who came to the view that it
should be upheld, and that Creation should remove all adverse information it had recorded
with one or more third party credit reference agencies in respect of Mr As account.
Mr A accepted the investigators view, but Creation didnt respond to it. And because of
Creations lack of a response Mr As complaint was passed to me for review and
decision.
In January 2023 I issued a provisonal decision on this case. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I can confirm that Im satisfied that Creation has done enough to
compensate Mr A and it need do nothing further, and this includes the removal of adverse
information it has recorded with one or more third party credit reference agencies.
Based on a credit report supplied by Mr A, from one of the third party credit reference
agencies, the following information has been recorded by Creation:
September 2018 to February 2019 status code 6 (6 months arrears)
March 2019 to June 2020 status code U (in dispute)
July 2020 to December 2020 status code 8 (in default)
January 2021 to March 2021 status code 8 (in default) balance £3,298
April 2021 to May 2022 status code ? (nothing being reported) balance £0
June 2022 to December 2022 status code 8 (in default) balance £3,198
Having had regard to what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied that the above
is a true reflection of Mr As account status. And it should be remembered that a business is
under an obligation to report correctly and accurately the status of its customers accounts to
third party credit reference agencies because this reported information is relied upon by
other businesses when deciding whether to grant credit.
Now I accept that one of our investigators, in August 2020, found that Creation should
remove any adverse information it may have recorded with one or more third party credit
reference agencies. But as this was the view of one of our investigators, rather than a final
determination by one of our ombudsman, Creation was under no obligation to do what it was
being asked. And as Mr A is aware, Creation didnt do what it was asked.
Mr A took the decision to stop making his monthly payments to Creation in April 2018. This
means that in February 2019  when default was registered by Creation  Mr A was 10 or 11
months in arrears.Now I can understand that Mr A was unhappy with the quality of an item he had purchased
from B, but the option was open to him to continue making his contractual payments whilst
his concerns in this respect were being investigated by Creation and he elected not to do so.
It was also open to Mr A, as an alternative, to make reduced payments to Creation, but
again, he elected not to do so. Furthermore, Mr A didnt commence payments once the
quality issue with the relevant item had been rectified in, as I understand it, July 2018.
So, given that I think its both fair and reasonable for a business to default an account when
its between three and six months in arrears I find that Creation did nothing wrong in
recording Mr As account, with one or more third party credit reference agencies, in
February 2019 as being in default.
Although in July 2022 Mr A was looking for Creation to remove all adverse information it had
recorded with one or more third party credit reference agencies before recommencing
payments to it, I dont think this was a reasonable stance for Mr A take. In my view what it
would have been fair and reasonable for Mr A to have done was to recommence payments
to Creation but on the basis that he didnt accept that adverse information recorded with one
or more third party credit reference agencies by Creation shouldnt have to be removed by it
and this issue should be subject to an investigation  and a finding  by our service.
Now I say the above because even if I was to find that Creation should have, in line with our
investigators findings in August 2020, removed the adverse information (including the
registered default) in August 2020 (or shortly afterwards) it would, in my view, have been
entitled to register a new default in late 2022 after Mr A refused to recommence payments in
July 2022. And this would be more detrimental for Mr A because defaults remain recorded
for six years. Put another way, the current recorded default will be removed in
February 2025 whereas any new default registered in late 2022 wouldnt be removed until
late 2028.
So, given what I say above and given that Creation has already paid Mr A (by way of an
account credit) £100 for having not been in contact with him between February 2021 and
April 2022 to make arrangements for repayment it need do nothing further.
Creation responded to my provisional decision to say that it accepted it.
Mr A responded to my provisional decision to say that he didnt accept it. In summary he 
reiterated his previous submissions and to say he wouldnt pay Creation anything until it 
clear[s his] credit file of any defaults and [he would] get a solicitor if [he had] to. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.Given that Creation accepted my provisional decision and Mr A added nothing materially 
new for my consideration, Mr A simply reiterating his previous submissions all of which I took 
into account before I issued my provisional decision, I can confirm I see no good reason to 
depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as final.
My final decision
My final decision is that having credited Mr As account with £100 Creation Financial
Services Limited need do nothing further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2023.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman