DRN-1612719
 
The complaint
Mrs C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc ("RBS") mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. The complaint is brought on her behalf by a claims 
management company. 
 What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 2003. The policy was added to 
Mrs Cs credit card account when she applied for the card by post. The policy covered her 
for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint should be upheld. Mrs C disagreed. 
Her representative said, on her behalf and in summary, that:
The policy provided no useful benefit to Mrs C.
There was a 30 day deferral period and Mrs C had no means to cover the credit card 
payments during this period. This service upheld another complaint because of the 
deferral period.
There was no option on the application form to decline the PPI and the tick box could 
have been ticked by the bank either before or after Mrs C signed the application. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Cs complaint because:
The postal application form included a separate section about payment protection and a 
"Yes" box to tick if Mrs C wanted her payments covered. I find that it was reasonably clear - 
from the need to tick a box - that the PPI was optional and I don't think it was necessary for 
there to be a "no" box to make this clear.
Mrs C's representative says the box could have been ticked by the bank. But it hasn't 
provided any evidence to support this - except that Mrs C says now that she didn't want PPI. 
After careful consideration, and on balance, I think it's more likley than not that Mrs C ticked 
the box.
So, overall, I think RBS made Mrs C aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to 
take it.
RBS didnt advise Mrs C to take the policy so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
But it did need to provide enough clear information for Mrs C to decide for herself if the policy was suitable for her circumstances. She's told us she wouldn't have received any sick 
pay and didn't have any other means of meeting the card repayments if she couldn't work 
due to sickness or an accident. The policy would have paid out for up to 12 months in the 
event of a successful claim. And it covered her if shed become unemployed. So I think the 
policy could have been a useful benefit.
There was a 30 day deferral period. But this isn't unusual for these types of policies. And I 
think it's likely - even though she didn't have any other source of income or savings available 
- that Mrs C would have been able to use her last salary payment to meet the first month's 
card payment if she couldn't work. Mrs C's representative refers us to another complaint it 
referred to our service which was upheld because of the deferral period. But that complaint 
had entirely different circumstances and doesn't have a bearing on my conclusion here.
Its possible the information RBS gave Mrs C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs C chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. She wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely  despite what she says 
now  that Mrs C would have made a different decision if better information had been 
provided. On balance I think she would still have taken out the policy. 
My final decision
For the reasons I've explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman