DRN-2950507
The complaint
Mr B complains that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has turned down a claim he made on his
personal private medical insurance policy.  
What happened
In June 2019, Mr B took out a personal private medical insurance policy on a moratorium
basis. This meant that AXA wouldnt cover claims for any pre-existing conditions Mr B
already had in the five years before he took out the policy, unless hed been trouble-free
from a condition for two years in a row after hed taken out the policy.
Mr B saw a private GP in early August 2019. The GP noted that Mr B was suffering from a
chronic cough and breathlessness. She also detected that Mr B had a heart murmur. So she
referred Mr B to a cardiologist and also to a respiratory consultant. The cardiologist carried
out tests and ultimately diagnosed Mr B with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Separately, the
respiratory consultant diagnosed with Mr B with early bronchiectasis and air flow obstruction.
Mr B made a claim on his policy for the costs hed incurred.
AXA turned down the claim. It said that the medical evidence showed that Mr B had suffered
from a chronic cough for a number of years and other possible symptoms of a heart murmur,
such as breathlessness, dizziness and ankle swelling. So it considered that while Mr Bs
cardiac condition had only recently been diagnosed, hed been suffering with symptoms of it
in the five years before the policy started. This meant the condition wasnt covered.
Mr B was unhappy with AXAs decision and he asked us to look into his complaint. He
provided evidence from both his cardiologist and respiratory consultant which stated that his
cough and wheeze werent linked to his heart murmur.
Our investigator didnt think AXA had treated Mr B unfairly. He considered the medical
certificate Mr Bs GP had filled out, which specifically linked his existing symptoms to his
underlying heart murmur. So he felt it was fair for AXA to conclude that Mr B had been
experiencing symptoms of a heart murmur in the two years before he took out the policy.  
I issued a provisional decision on 7 July 2021, which explained why I didnt think AXA had 
treated Mr B fairly. I said:
The relevant regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims promptly and fairly. And
they mustnt turn down claims unreasonably. So Ive considered, amongst other things, the
terms of Mr Bs policy and the available medical evidence, to decide whether AXA handled
the claim fairly.
First, Ive considered the terms of Mr Bs policy, as this forms the basis of his contract with
AXA. I can see from the membership certificate that Mr Bs policy was provided on a
moratorium basis. As I set out above, this meant that AXA wouldnt cover any medical
conditions Mr B had had in the five years before he took out the policy, until hed been a
policyholder for two years and had two years in a row where a condition had been trouble-
free.
AXAs defined what it means by a pre-existing medical condition. The policy says:
(A) pre-existing condition is any disease. illness or injury that;
 you have received medication, advice or treatment for in the five years before the start of
your cover, or
 you have experienced symptoms of in the five years before the start of your cover,
whether or not the condition was diagnosed.
Mr Bs complaint is about AXAs refusal to pay his claim for costs associated with his cardiac
condition, because it considers he was experiencing symptoms of that condition during the
five years before he took out the policy. So Ive carefully considered the available medical
evidence to decide whether this was a fair conclusion for AXA to draw.
Ive looked closely at both the private GPs letter dated 5 August 2019 and the medical
information form filled out by Mr Bs own GP on 24 October 2019. The private GP stated:
You have also advised me that you have been breathless on exertion for at least 2 years
and have also noticed some possible wheeziness. She noted too that Mr B had had a
chronic cough for many years, as well as a history of lethargy. And she recorded that Mr B
had had an episode of vertigo a few weeks before. During the consultation, she detected a
heart murmur and referred Mr B to two separate specialists.
Mr Bs GP stated on the medical information form: it was only on discovering the heart
murmur that the significance of the underlying symptoms of cough and breathlessness
became apparent.
Given the clear linking of Mr Bs cough and breathlessness with his cardiac diagnosis by his
GP, I can understand why at this point, AXA considered the condition to fall within its
definition of a pre-existing condition. So I dont think it was unfair for AXA to turn down Mr
Bs claim at this point, especially given shortness of breath can be a symptom of
hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
However, Mr B has since provided both AXA and this service with medical evidence from
both his treating cardiologist and his respiratory consultant in support of his claim. Mr Bs
cardiologist stated:
In your case a heart murmur was identified and you had developed some breathlessness
which we know was due to a different reason. A cough is not recognised as a symptom
of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. (Bold is my emphasis).
Mr Bs respiratory consultant also didnt link Mr Bs cough with his cardiac diagnosis. He
said: I understand that he is also being reviewed by a cardiologist. I dont think his systolic
murmur is responsible for his cough and wheeze. Additionally, the respiratory consultant
stated: The clinical impression was one of air flow obstruction as evidenced by wheeze.
The symptoms of cough and breathlessness are possibly linked to air flow obstruction.
Ive placed significant weight on the evidence of Mr Bs treating specialists. Thats because
theyd both had the opportunity to examine Mr B at first hand and carry out investigations
into the causes of his symptoms. Both doctors are specialists in their fields. They both
independently appear to have reached the conclusion that Mr Bs breathlessness and cough
werent linked to his heart murmur. In my view then, this is persuasive medical evidence that
these symptoms, while pre-dating the inception of the policy, on balance, are of a separate
medical condition to his cardiac condition. It seems more likely to me that the heart murmur
was an incidental finding by the private GP while investigating Mr Bs presenting symptoms.AXA considers its current position is supported by information about cardiomyopathy on the
NHS website. Ive thought about this carefully and I accept that dizziness and shortness of
breath may be symptoms. But in this case, given Mr Bs treating consultant doctors have
stated that his cough and breathlessness were separate to the cardiomyopathy, Im more
persuaded by their patient-specific, specialist evidence. So I currently think it was unfair for
AXA to turn down Mr Bs claim for his hypertrophic cardiomyopathy.
In my current view, the fair outcome would be for AXA to now reassess Mr Bs claim for the
costs associated with his cardiac condition, as Im not presently persuaded that this is linked
to his existing symptoms. It would be for Mr B to provide evidence in support of his claim and
to demonstrate which of his costs were associated with his hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and
relevant investigations into that condition.
I note that Mr B has included legal fees in a previous breakdown he sent to AXA. Its
important I make it clear that Im not planning to direct AXA to pay these costs. Thats
because it was open to Mr B to bring his complaint to us, free of charge, without legal
representation. So I dont think it would be fair to tell AXA to reimburse Mr B for any legal
expenses hes incurred while disputing the decline of his claim.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider.
Both Mr B and AXA accepted my provisional decision. AXA said it would allow cover for the 
treatment Mr B has received to treat his cardiomyopathy, in line with the remaining policy 
terms. It stated though that it would require receipted invoices for the treatment Mr B 
received for cardiomyopathy before it could assess the claim. It also pointed out that Mr Bs 
policy had lapsed on 29 September 2020, so it said it would only cover eligible treatment up 
until that date.
Mr B asked me to reconsider my findings relating to his legal fees. He said hed thought he 
had to try and resolve his complaint with AXA with the help of a solicitor before he could 
access our service. He stated that if AXA had accepted and settled his claim, there wouldve 
been no need for him to incur legal fees.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, my final decision is the same as my provisional decision and Ill explain 
why.
Im pleased AXA has accepted my provisional findings and has now agreed to consider Mr 
Bs claim for his cardiac condition in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the 
policy. As I explained in my provisional decision, it will be for Mr B to provide AXA with the 
evidence it requires to assess his claim and for Mr B to demonstrate the costs hes incurred 
for the treatment of cardiomyopathy. 
Its clear Mr B feels strongly that his legal fees should be paid and Ive considered this. Id 
reiterate that we are a free service and a consumer doesnt need legal representation in 
order to bring a complaint to us. Ive also noted that it seems Mr B paid the legal fees in early 
November 2019, prior to AXA issuing its final response letter. But he didnt provide AXA with 
the letters from either the cardiologist or the respiratory consultants which clearly excluded a 
link between Mr Bs cardiomyopathy and breathlessness until late December 2019 and early 
January 2020. As Ive explained, I think that based on the medical evidence available to AXA when it initially turned down Mr Bs claim (and indeed, in November 2019) I think it was fair 
for it to conclude there was a likely link between his existing symptoms and the cardiac 
condition. I dont think it was in a position to accept the claim until itd received the 
subsequent medical evidence from the specialists in December 2019 and January 2020. For 
this reason too then, I dont think I could fairly conclude that AXA ought to reimburse Mr B for 
his legal fees.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
uphold this complaint.
I direct AXA PPP Healthcare Limited to reassess Mr Bs claim for his cardiac condition, in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 September 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman