DRN-3233653
The complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard is holding him 
responsible for borrowing on a credit card account that he didnt apply for.
What happened
Mr M says he found out that an account had been taken out in his name. He knew nothing 
about this. He was unhappy to be contacted about repayment and that Barclaycard had sold 
this debt to another business.
Barclaycard said that it considered Mr M was responsible for the debt. The account had 
been opened in 2008 and it was well maintained until July 2018 when a payment was 
missed. It had been contacted in September 2018 about Mr Ms financial difficulties asking 
for a payment plan. The account was passed to recoveries in November 2018. It had 
received contact about a dispute in 2019 through an agency involved in managing the 
account. The additional information it had then requested wasnt provided. The account was 
then sold on and it had provided documents to that business. Barclaycard said that it didnt 
consider that the history of the account showed that it was fraudulently opened. It said that if 
Mr M had any other evidence to support this it would be considered.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Barclaycard do anything further. She said that the 
initial application had captured correct details for Mr M. In addition, details of the account 
from which repayments were made over a 10-year period were also provided. Repayments 
were made as required which she thought unusual if the account had been opened 
fraudulently. Shed established that these repayments had come from a joint account in the 
name of Mr M and his wife and thought hed reasonably be aware of these. Shed examined 
the letter sent to Barclaycard in September 2018 which included an income and expenditure 
planner. This contained detailed information and corresponded with other financial 
commitments Mr M had shown on a copy of a credit report hed provided to her.
Mr M had told her that he separated with his wife in 2018 and that she had managed the 
bank account and he didnt have online access. He said he didnt recognise the handwriting 
on the letter to Barclaycard or the signature and he wanted to see a copy of the original 
application. Our investigator explained that we wouldnt be able to analyse a signature 
forensically and that Barclaycard wouldnt be expected to keep details of an application 
indefinitely. But that the operation of the account wasnt consistent with it being opened 
fraudulently by an unknown third party.
Mr M didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed. He said that the maiden name 
for his mother on the application wasnt correct. He would expect to see a signed document 
when he applied. His wife would have details of the payments to the credit card account and 
which he wasnt disputing. He hadnt been contacted about the account for 10 years and the 
first correspondence was in October 2018 when the address had been changed. He wanted 
to know why a balance of over £8,600 was still due given this was after more than 10 years. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am looking here at Mr Ms complaint about Barclaycard. Ive been through copies of all the 
account history. And I can see that the balance outstanding did fluctuate over the period and 
at times between 2008 and 2018 had been completely paid off. I find it unlikely that a 
fraudster would have operated the account in this way. I think it instead most likely as much 
money would have been taken as quickly as possible and not then repaid and redrawn. The 
operation of the account is consistent with genuine use by Mr M or someone hed allowed to 
use the account  not with that of an unknown third party acting without his authority.
That finding is supported as well by the fact that payments came from the joint account. I 
cant know what arrangements he had with the other account holder. But he accepts that he 
paid money into the account and I consider he ought to have been reasonably aware of how 
the account was being used. Again, I see no explanation of how an unknown third party 
would have been able to maintain such payments to his credit card account over this period 
and also why this would have happened.
Ive also looked at the letter received by Barclaycard in September 2018 asking for a 
payment plan. Payments had stopped in July 2018 when Barclaycard was told that the direct 
debit mandate was cancelled. I cant resolve who filled in the form and analyse the 
signature. But to me this letter seems a genuine one and something it is unlikely again that 
an unknown third party would either have the information for or want to send.
I appreciate Mr M wants to see the original application. I understand from the information 
provided by Barclaycard that this was made online. And I agree with our investigator that I 
wouldnt expect information to be retained indefinitely. The key information about Mr M 
allowed checks to be made and the application approved. I dont think that the incorrect 
information he refers to which is typically used for a security question would have been 
checked.
Having considered all the information and what Mr M has said Im afraid I dont agree that it 
is most likely he has been the victim of identity theft. And that an unknown third party had 
been able to set up an account in his name and use it as Ive described over a 10-year 
period. So, I find that he was reasonably responsible for this account and the borrowing. 
Barclaycard transferred this to a third party as it was entitled to under the terms. I wont be 
requiring Barclaycard to do anything further now.
My final decisionMy decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman