DRN-3632527
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as S has complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Limited 
(RSA) unfairly turned down its business interruption insurance claim after it was impacted by 
the Covid-19 pandemic.
Ms S, a director of S, has brought the complaint on Ss behalf.
What happened
S held a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. It operates a surgery.
As a result of the restrictions imposed by the Government in response to Covid-19 S had to 
restrict the treatments it was able to carry out in its surgery from 25 March 2020.
S claimed on the policy. It told RSA that Ms S and another director of S had symptoms of 
Covid-19 in February 2020 and were unable to work.
RSA declined the claim. It said prior to 5 March 2020 Covid-19 was not deemed to be a 
notifiable disease. Therefore, the policy extension for notifiable diseases did not trigger 
even though people might have been on the premises and displaying symptoms of the 
disease before this date. It said it would consider any evidence of Covid-19 being on the 
premises from 5 March 2020 until the date Government restrictions came into effect.
Ms S brought Ss complaint to our service. Our Investigator looked into it but didnt 
recommend it be upheld. She thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy. She said there was nothing to suggest that Ss business had 
been interrupted due to a case of Covid-19 at the premises. 
S asked for an Ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Ss business. But I dont intend to uphold its complaint. Ill explain why.
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
whether RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the 
policy when declining Ss claim.
The most relevant part of Ss policy is an extension to the policy that covers losses resulting 
from:
closure or restrictions placed on the Premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority as a result of a notifiable human disease 
manifesting itself at the Premises.
There are a number of elements in this wording and breaking them down in their correct 
causal sequence they are:
1. a notifiable human disease manifesting itself on Ss premises which causes
2. closure or restrictions placed on the premises on the advice or with the approval of the 
Medical Officer of Health of the Public Authority which in turn causes
3. an interruption or interference with Ss business that is the cause of financial loss. 
Ms S has referred to the fact that a director of S caught Covid-19 on 1 February 2020 and 
she also had the virus in February. She said the other director had symptoms of Covid-19 
until 19 February 2020. She thought he might have continued to be infectious after that and 
was almost certainly still carrying the virus in his body in March 2020.
The problem for S is that it needs to show on the balance of probabilities that its business 
was restricted because Covid-19 had manifested itself at its premises. In this context I 
understand the words manifesting itself to mean that someone must have been on the 
premises when they had Covid-19 and that they either displayed symptoms of Covid-19 or 
they were diagnosed as having the virus. As with any insurance claim, the burden of proof 
initially rests with the policyholder to demonstrate that its suffered a loss its policy covers.
There is no evidence to suggest that Ms S or the other director were still displaying 
symptoms or testing positive in March 2020 when the business closed. In fact, as healthcare 
professionals, I think its more likely than not that they wouldnt have gone back to work on 
the premises in February 2020 if they had still been displaying symptoms or testing positive 
for Covid-19. So, I am not persuaded that Ss business was restricted due to a case of 
Covid-19 at its premises immediately before it closed in March 2020. As such, I think it was 
fair and reasonable for RSA not to accept that there was a manifestation of a notifiable 
human disease at Ss surgery before they were impacted by restrictions imposed by the 
Government.
I note RSA queried whether a manifestation of COVID-19 prior to 5 March would be 
considered a manifestation of a notifiable disease. But, even if I were to agree with Ms Ss 
arguments here, I am not satisfied that the evidence demonstrates there was most likely a 
manifestation of COVID-19 at the premises at the relevant time.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome S was hoping for but, having considered the matter very 
carefully, I dont think I can fairly require RSA to pay Ss claim.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Elizabeth Grant
Ombudsman