DRN-3430836
The complaint
E, a limited company, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt deal fairly with a 
chargeback request leading to financial loss.
What happened
E explains it purchased cladding from a merchant to use in a building project for a client. It 
says that there were issues with the quality and that it had to be removed and replaced and 
the client was charged for this. It couldnt reach agreement with the merchant and so raised 
a chargeback. E is unhappy that this wasnt accepted and that the money was re-debited to 
its account without warning.
Barclays said it had applied a temporary credit of £5,943.76 to Es account. The chargeback 
was refused. And that the merchant had sent evidence showing that it had offered E a 
replacement product. It said it had sent those comments to E and it hadnt received any 
response. Barclays accepted that the decision letter about the chargeback was sent to an 
old address for E and the re-debit of the money as a result caused financial issues. So, it 
paid E £50.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. There had in fact been a 
second chargeback for the same merchant, but this hadnt been dealt with by Barclays in 
any complaint. She was looking at what had been considered in its final response.
She said that under the relevant chargeback rules E would have needed to show that it had 
returned or attempted to return the product. And that the merchant had refused to accept it. 
She had reviewed all the correspondence both between E and the merchant and directly 
from its client with the merchant. She didnt think sufficient attempt to return the goods had 
been established and noted that the client appeared to have been compensated by the 
merchant for the cost of removal of the cladding and for a new product. 
Barclays had written to E about the chargeback on 2 September 2020. This had gone to an 
old address for E. But the director had received this. Barclays was unable to show that it had 
written to E with any response from the merchant. But as E hadnt established it had met the 
chargeback rules she didnt think that this would have made a difference. The letter about 
the outcome of this chargeback dated 20 December 2020 had again gone to the old 
address. And the money was re-debited on 4 January 2021 and E said it hadnt had notice of 
this. She thought the payment reflected the inconvenience.
E didnt agree and wanted the complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The chargeback scheme is one operated by the card industry and the rules are set by the 
relevant card scheme. Im satisfied that Barclays asked E a number of relevant questions 
about the dispute. And once E had received this it responded on 20 September 2020. Those 
questions included ones about attempts to send the goods back. These details were clearly 
submitted through the card scheme to support the dispute. Because there was then 
feedback from the merchant which said that it had ongoing discussion with E and the client 
about resolving the issue and provided correspondence about this. 
It was then a matter for Barclays to decide whether to appeal this. I cant see as our 
investigator says any evidence that it asked E for more information about the dispute for this 
specific payment. I think instead that by time in October 2020 E had raised the further 
payment dispute and was asked for information about that. Im not persuaded that even if it 
had been asked anything more about the first disputed payment that this would have made a 
difference here. The goods hadnt been returned and were of considerable value. There had 
clearly been ongoing discussion about the goods with the client which E was aware of. And 
arrangements for a settlement and E said in a conversation with our investigator that it 
charged the client for further work. And Im not persuaded that the merchant refused to take 
the goods back and that efforts were made to return items. 
There was some confusion over the correct address for E. I dont see that affected the 
outcome here given what Ive said about the information. The address issue was identified in 
September 2020 and correspondence to E went to a new address in October 2020. But the 
outcome letter for this dispute stating that the amount would be re-debited again went to the 
address used in September 2020. As I say this was a significant amount and while Barclays 
was entitled to re-debit the amount E didnt have the notice Barclays intended. It has paid 
compensation for this which I think was reasonable.
I know E will be disappointed when I say that I wont be asking Barclays to do anything 
more.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 June 2022.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman