DRN-2538706
The complaint
Mr O is unhappy that Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited (Lloyds Bank) have recorded 
two claims against him on his buildings insurance. He says he didnt go ahead with either 
claim so feels Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly by recording them. He says the claims have 
increased his premium so he wants Lloyds Bank to remove both claims from his policy. Mr O 
also complains a member of staff at Lloyds Bank was rude to him during a call.  
What happened
Mr O reported two claims to his insurer. Both claims were referred to Lloyds Bank as claims 
handlers for the insurer. One claim was for loss of an item of jewellery and another for a 
crack to his window pane. In relation to the first claim, Mr O later found the item of jewellery 
and told Lloyds Bank. And, in relation to the second claim, Lloyds Bank declined this on the 
basis the cause of damage wasnt covered by Mr Os policy. Mr O later arranged the repairs 
himself. When Mr O was making enquiries to renew his policy he found out the two claims 
had been recorded against his policy which led to his premium increasing. 
Mr O complained about the two claims being recorded and asked for them to be removed as 
neither claim had proceeded. Lloyds Bank explained they appreciate the claims didnt 
proceed, but they still appointed contractors and suppliers to validate the claims. So, this 
generated invoices which were required to be paid regardless of whether the claims went 
ahead. Lloyds Bank said they couldnt delete the claims from Mr Os policy. They said they 
are duty bound to register any claim submitted by him and didnt uphold Mr Os complaint.  
 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O and thought that Lloyds Bank hadnt acted 
unfairly or unreasonably in relation to the recording of the claims. Mr O disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand Mr O will be 
disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
The claims
I think its helpful for me to firstly provide a summary of the CUE process. This is a database 
of incidents which includes motor, home and personal injury. Its purpose is to identify 
misrepresentation and prevent fraud. Not all insurers are signed up to CUE, but the majority 
are. If an insurer is signed up to CUE, theyll make a record of any incident theyve been 
made aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not. Insurers have a duty to make accurate 
records. 
Lloyds Bank have provided claim notes which show details of the two claims made by Mr O 
and the action theyve taken. The first claim involves an item of jewellery which went missing 
while Mr O was on holiday. The claim notes show that Lloyds Bank instruct a company  
who Ill refer to as company L, to provide a quote for the item of jewellery. A quote is then 
received from company L. Lloyds Bank also instruct a second company to look into the 
claim. Lloyds Bank receive an invoice from company L which they pay. Lloyds Bank then 
receive confirmation that the item of jewellery has been found by Mr O. Lloyds Bank then 
pay the fees incurred by the second company.  
 
The second claim relates to a crack to the inside of Mr Os window pane. The claim notes 
say Mr O wants it to be looked into. An inspection is then carried out which confirms the 
damage is due to thermal expansion  which isnt covered under Mr Os policy. The notes 
say Lloyds Bank tried to call Mr O to explain the claim has been declined but there was no 
answer so they left a voicemail. Ive seen an invoice from the company who carried out the 
inspection and the claim notes say this was paid by Lloyds Bank. 
Taking this into account, I dont think Lloyds Bank have acted unreasonably in recording the 
claims. The evidence shows two claims were made by Mr O and this led to Lloyds Bank 
having to pay fees for work relating to the claims. I do understand Mr Os frustration at his 
premium increasing on the basis of claims which he decided not to proceed with. While I 
have noted this, I cant say Lloyds Bank have made an error here as the information they 
have recorded is accurate.   
 
Ive listened to recordings of phone calls between Mr O and a company who provide claims 
administration services in relation to the policy  who Ill refer to as company D. Ive listened 
to the two calls Mr O makes to company D to report his claims. And, in both cases, the call 
handler explains to Mr O that any claims he makes on his policy may affect the terms and 
conditions of his policy for renewals and premiums. Mr O then confirms hes fine to proceed. 
Lloyds Bank have made Mr O aware of the impact the claims will have on his premium. 
Therefore, I dont think Lloyds Bank have acted unfairly in refusing to remove the claims. So, 
I dont uphold this part of the complaint. 
Mr O has questioned the difference in the amount hes been told was paid out and the 
amount which our investigator has said was paid out. I wish to reassure Mr O Ive looked 
carefully at the information provided and can see the amount of the payments are £147.60 
for the first claim and £185.70 for the second claim. 
Customer service   
Mr O says the call handler he spoke with when he reported his claim about his window pane 
was rude. Ive listened to this call and note Mr O explains to the call handler that there had 
been storm conditions and he then noticed a crack on the inside of his window pane. Mr O 
describes the damage and the call handler explains it doesnt sound as though storm 
conditions wouldve been the cause. The call handler says it might be down to thermal 
expansion which isnt covered. Mr O again says he noticed the damage after storm 
conditions and, although he didnt see anything strike his window, he also couldnt rule out 
whether there had been accidental damage. 
The call handler says Mr O needs to pay the excess before they can send someone out to 
have a look at the damage. Mr O disputes this and explains the excess only needs to be 
paid if the claim is settled. Mr O queries where it says in the policy that he must pay an 
excess upfront. The call handler says its not in the policy but thats how they do things. Mr O 
continues to dispute this. The call handler then records the claim as accidental damage and 
explains shes arranged for the damage to be inspected. 
I can see from Mr Os home insurance policy, which sets out the terms and conditions, that 
the excess is described as the amount Mr O has to pay towards the first part of any claim. The policy says the excess amount will be deducted from any claim settlement. Lloyds Bank 
say the excess is always applied at the earliest possible stage. They say there might be 
occasions where a contractor goes out to carry out an inspection and, if the excess has 
already been paid, they can proceed to carry out repairs. I can see why, given what the 
policy says, the explanation given by the call handler caused confusion. I can see Lloyds 
Bank have apologised and they say feedback has been provided to the call handlers team 
manager. In addition to this, I can see that an inspection was then arranged without Mr O 
needing to pay his excess. So, I think Lloyds Bank have acted reasonably here and I wont 
be asking them to take any further steps. 
I cant say I agree the call handler was rude to Mr O. During the conversation, the call 
handler does give her opinion on the likely cause of the damage but this was based on the 
account given by Mr O. I note Mr O was concerned about how the call handler can give an 
opinion without any inspection but I dont think the call handler was being rude. And, instead 
she was explaining why the damage appeared to be down to thermal expansion  which 
later proved to be the case. 
So, in summary, I dont think Lloyd Bank have acted unfairly or unreasonably in recording 
the information they have in relation to the claims which Mr O reported.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2021.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman