DRN-2319597
The complaint
Mr H complains that Lighthouse Advisory Services Limited failed to provide him with financial 
advice despite it being in receipt of commission relating to the products about which he 
wanted advice.
What happened
Mr H took out some investments on the advice of a predecessor business of Lighthouse in 
1995. In 2019 he received a letter from the provider of one of these investments explaining 
that it was no longer going to manage investment accounts, so Mr H would need to transfer 
his account to another provider. 
Mr H contacted Lighthouse for advice on this but was told that because of commercial 
changes in the period since hed been recommended the investments, it no longer had a 
responsibility to provide advice in respect of the initial agreement. So, if Mr H wanted to 
proceed with advice, hed need to pay a fee.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with this response. He was of the understanding that the agreement 
reached in 1995, which involved the payment of trail commission by the provider, entitled 
him to receive advice as and when needed. 
The complaint was referred to this service. Our investigator accepted Lighthouses position 
that liability for the ongoing provision of advice hadnt been passed on as part of the 
takeover of the original advising business. 
But she felt this change hadnt been made clear to Mr H, so hed suffered a loss of 
expectation when he sought advice in 2019. The investigator suggested that Lighthouse 
make a payment of £300 to Mr H to compensate him for this. Lighthouse didnt accept the 
investigators findings, but it did agree to make the payment in the interests of bringing the 
matter to a close. 
But Mr H didnt accept this. He said, in brief;
He broadly agreed with the investigators view but felt the suggested compensation 
didnt fully reflect the circumstances and consequences. 
Hed been in poor health when hed received the letter concerning the change in 
provider and it had come as a shock that he wasnt entitled to free advice. He had to 
accept the default option.
Since the initial advice in 1995, hed twice been offered free advice, so had been 
reassured.
Lighthouse had benefitted from his misunderstanding of the situation as he hadnt 
requested the provider to stop payment of trail commission.
His loss could reasonably be based upon the missed cost of annual reviews  which 
Lighthouse had indicated was £940+VAT.
If hed been informed sooner that he wasnt entitled to free advice he wouldve made 
alternative arrangements.
The investigator wasnt persuaded to change her opinion, so the matters been referred to 
me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It appears to be generally accepted that Lighthouse, as a result of the various commercial 
rearrangements that have taken place since 1995, no longer has any contractual 
responsibility for providing any type of servicing of, or advice on, Mr Hs investments. 
For clarity Ive looked at the evidence provided relating to this and have seen nothing that 
suggests otherwise. The changes that have occurred over the last 25 years appear to be 
generally in keeping with the way financial service providers have operated during that 
period. In short, its not at all unusual for this type of situation to arise, where a business 
takes on anothers clients but limits its liability in some way going forward.
So, it appears that the crux of the matter is in respect of how the changes were, or were not, 
communicated to Mr H. 
Over the years Mr H did receive two letters relating to the provision of free advice. But it 
seems these were issued at the point of changes in the businesses  effectively trying to 
generate new clients  rather than them being in respect of the original agreement made in 
1995. 
This was the case when in 2012 Mr H queried the ongoing payment of trail commission and 
it was confirmed to him that Lighthouse was still receiving it from the provider. The response 
included one of the offers of a free review and I can see why this might have led him to 
assume that he still had an ongoing entitlement to free advice. 
So, I can also understand his disappointment upon finding out in 2019 that he was not going 
to receive free advice. It would clearly have been better for him if hed been properly 
informed of any changes when they occurred. 
But even if that had happened, from 2012 onwards, following the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Retail Distribution Review, all new advice was required to be paid for in the form 
of an up-front fee rather than through commission. So had Mr H wanted or needed advice 
any time after 2012 he wouldve had to pay for it regardless of who provided it. 
I note what Mr H has said about making other arrangements sooner if hed been better 
informed. But it seems clear that hes been content with how his investments have been 
operating since 1995. He didnt need to seek advice prior to 2019 and only did so in light of 
the provider contacting him. So, I think on balance, that had he been told sooner that there 
was no free ongoing servicing or advice provision, its unlikely he wouldve looked to make 
changes at that point, as advice wasnt needed and wouldve been charged for if it had been 
needed. 
As such, Im satisfied this is a matter of loss of expectation rather than financial loss  the 
disappointment felt by Mr H in response to Lighthouse not providing advice. I do understand 
that it came at a difficult time for him health-wise, but in all the circumstances I think that the 
£300 suggested by the investigator is fair compensation.
Putting things right
Lighthouse must pay Mr H £300. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint and direct Lighthouse 
Advisory Services Limited to pay Mr H £300. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2020.
 
James Harris
Ombudsman