DRN-3832981
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Birmingham Midshires 
Mortgages (Birmingham Midshires), has incorrectly calculated their contractual monthly 
payment (CMP) on their buy to let mortgage and is essentially overcharging them.
What happened
At the start of 2020, Mr and Mrs R accepted a buy-to-let mortgage offer from 
Birmingham Midshires which provided them with a fixed interest rate deal until 31 March 
2023.
In July 2021, Birmingham Midshires wrote to Mr and Mrs R to let them know that it would 
be changing the system it used to manage mortgage accounts. In September 2021, 
Birmingham Midshires wrote to Mr and Mrs R again to confirm that the migration to the 
new system had happened, and the impact that change had on their mortgage. It 
included a new account number, and a difference to the way that interest was being 
calculated on the account (including held over interest). As a result of the latter, there 
was a new CMP of £902.12 from October 2021, an increase of £1.47 per month. Mr and 
Mrs R complained that this increase could only result from a mistake on Birmingham 
Midshires part, as their mortgage account was subject to a fixed interest rate, therefore 
the CMP could not legitimately increase.
Birmingham Midshires rejected their complaint, explaining that its calculations were 
correct, so Mr and Mrs R came to this Service.
During the course of our investigation, Birmingham Midshires realised and accepted that 
as a result of an overpayment made on the mortgage account in March 2021, it 
recalculated the interest and CMP. However, it made a mistake at that point, meaning 
that the CMP between then and October 2021 led to an underfunding of the account. It 
has since reconstructed the account to ensure things are correct, and it offered Mr and 
Mrs R £100 in compensation for that mistake. Mr and Mrs R accepted that, so I wont be 
dealing with the March 2021 miscalculation in this decision, but Mr and Mrs R still 
maintained that the CMP going forward was too high.
Having considered all the evidence, the investigator thought that Birmingham Midshires 
hadnt done anything wrong beyond the mistake it had identified and redressed, so didnt 
uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs R disagree, reiterating their belief that the CMP cannot 
fairly change during a fixed interest rate period, therefore there must be a mistake which has 
caused them to lose out, and have asked an Ombudsman to look at their case.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding it, and Ill explain why.
Firstly, I will clarify my remit and role. Mr and Mrs R have said that, Any Ombudsman 
assigned to make a final determination would have to be suitably qualified in financial 
mathematics. Furthermore, Mr and Mrs R say that if I am lacking in skills such that I am 
...unable to investigate the banks systems and processes..., then I ought to report 
Birmingham Midshires to the regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). This is a 
fundamental misconception of the Ombudsman role. I am not a forensic accountant, and it is 
not my remit (or that of any other ombudsman colleage) to audit Birmingham Midshires. My 
statutory function is to determine whether or not Birmingham Midshires has treated Mr and 
Mrs R fairly and reasonably, in all the circumstances of this case. I can reassure them that I 
have the skills and experience to do so.
Mr and Mrs R have discussed their potential losses in this case in terms of the entire term of 
the mortgage, namely 25 years. So they have talked about 282 monthly payments having 
increased from £900.65 to £902.12. Whereas, of course, the fixed interest rate deal only 
runs until 31 March 2023, after which point, the applicable interest rate and CMP will change 
anyway and are unpredictable. (The 2020 mortgage offer indicates that the CMP from 1 April 
2023 would be £1,324.07.)
So the increased CMP which is the subject of this complaint is only relevant for 18 months  
from October 2021 to March 2023 inclusive. That means that, even if I were to find that 
Birmingham Midshires had made a mistake, and the increase could not be justified, that 
would equate to a total loss for Mr and Mrs R of £1.47 x 18 months, namely £26.46.
However, the evidence Ive seen leads me to the view that there is no additional mistake on 
Birmingham Midshires part, beyond that it has already identified. Firstly, the assertion that a 
CMP cannot change during a fixed interest rate period is fundamentally incorrect. What 
cannot contractually change is the interest rate charged on the account. Indeed, I note from 
the 2020 mortgage offer that the CMP indicated during the fixed rate deal was £916.16. The 
mortgage was advanced in March 2020, and by May 2020 the CMP was showing at 
£900.65. In April 2020 it would seem to have been £902.34. As is set out in section 5.9 of 
the General Terms and Conditions for this mortgage, Birmingham Midshires is able to, 
...change the length of the intervals at which interest is calculated or charged.... And that 
action can alter the CMP by small amounts.
Secondly, I think Birmingham Midshires have offered Mr and Mrs R a lot of information about 
its recalculations and how those have led to the £1.47 increase. It has set out the issues 
around the March 2021 miscalculation and underfunding, and how it has changed its 
calculation methodology going forward. Mr and Mrs R dont agree or accept, which is a 
matter for them. I have seen nothing which persuades me that there has been a mistake or 
that Birmingham Midshires hasnt provided Mr and Mrs R with evidence in a spirit of 
transparency. 
Ultimately, despite Mr and Mrs Rs feeling that the subject matter in this case is extremely 
complicated, requiring advanced accounting scrutiny, I can find no evidence of an 
unresolved mistake on Birmingham Midshires part. I dont think it has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in increasing the CMP on this account by £1.47 for 18 months, and am 
satisfied that it has offered appropriate evidence and explanations.
As explained, our service doesnt provide an auditing service. I have, however, examined the
records of Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage accounts and the calculation information provided by
Birmingham Midshires. Having done so, I find nothing to suggest that Birmingham Midshires 
has acted unfairly.
I hope my explanation provides some assurance to Mr and Mrs R. If Mr and Mrs R wantfurther clarity about how the specific calculations have been reached, they are free to have
their account and Birmingham Midshires calculations examined by an independent 
accounting or checking service. Such a service is likely to be able to run through their 
account in detail.
Mr and Mrs R would need to meet the cost of any check themselves.
Having found no evidence that Birmingham Midshires has acted unfairly, it therefore follows 
that I dont uphold the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint and Birmingham Midshires 
doesnt need to do anything.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2023.
 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman