DRN-3403869
The complaint
Mr M complains Revolut Ltd (Revolut) unfairly blocked and reviewed his account. And, that 
its communication and customer service in relation to this was very poor. 
As a result, Mr M says hes suffered substantive distress and inconvenience. Mr M is 
represented by his wife. To keep matters simple I will only refer to Mr M in my decision. 
What happened
On 22 May 2020, Revolut blocked Mr Ms account. Revolut say it did this as a suspicious 
mobile phone device had been used to log onto Mr Ms account. Revolut contacted Mr M the 
same day and he responded by using its online chat. 
Revolut explained it had noticed suspicious activity on Mr Ms account and asked for some 
information. Mr M provided this information but didnt hear from Revolut again on the chat 
service until around ten days later, on 1 June 2020. Mr M made several attempts to contact 
Revolut between this time.  
Revolut asked Mr M for more information in relation to the checks it was carrying out, which 
he provided. Revolut apologised for the delays but reiterated it had placed a security lock 
on Mr Ms account because of suspicious activity on it. 
Mr M explained hes been suffering with severely poor health and Revoluts actions have 
exacerbated this along with causing him severe distress and inconvenience. 
Mr M and Revolut discussed the suspicious phone issue on the chat on 2 June 2020. 
Because of the information both of them shared, Revolut said it had disconnected the 
fraudulent device from Mr Ms account. Revolut said it had to cancel Mr Ms card and would 
send him a new one. 
On 6 June 2020, Revolut asked Mr M what purpose he was using his account for as activity 
on it had been flagged. Mr M said he had partially used the account for carrying out business 
activities by taking payments due the impact of the pandemic. 
Revolut explained Mr M couldnt use his account for business purposes and gave him a 
warning that if the account is used in this way again it could lead to the account being 
restricted. Mr M apologised for misunderstanding the rules. 
Mr M asked Revolut to close his account and the previously restricted funds were released 
to him. 
During the time Mr Ms account was restricted he complained to Revolut. In short, Revolut 
didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint saying it sometimes needs to review accounts in this way to 
meet its legal and regulatory obligations. 
Unhappy with this, Mr M referred his complaint to this service. Before the complaint was 
looked at by one of our Investigators, Revolut offered Mr M £20 as full and final settlement. 
Mr M did not accept. 
One of our Investigators then looked into the matter. In summary they found: 
- Revolut didnt act unfairly when blocking and reviewing Mr Ms account given the 
legal and regulatory obligations it must follow 
- Revolut took this action because its security systems flagged an unknown and 
unauthorised device had been linked to Mr Ms account. Had Revolut not looked into 
this, Mr M risked losing his funds    
- Revoluts block prompted a further review about the account activity. Mr M said he 
was using the account to receive payments relating to his business. The account 
terms do not permit this. So Revolut did nothing wrong in asking Mr M about certain 
transactions and what he was using the account for
- Mr M is unhappy he couldnt speak to someone but Revolut is free to choose how it 
operates 
- Revoluts generic, poor, and unhelpful responses to several messages from Mr M did 
nothing to alleviate his concern. Revolut could have been more proactive in how it 
communicated with Mr M. Because of this it should pay £100 for the trouble and 
upset caused
Mr M did not agree. Amongst other things, he says: 
- £100 does not cover the time he spent attempting to communicate with Revolut
- Revoluts actions have caused detriment to his wellbeing
- He doesnt believe there was an attempt to log onto his account by a new device 
As Mr M didnt agree, the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold this complaint in part. Ill explain why. 
Regulated financial business in the UK, like Revolut, are strictly regulated and must take 
certain actions in order to meet their legal and regulatory obligations. They are also required 
to carry out ongoing monitoring of an existing business relationship. That sometimes means 
they need to restrict, or in some cases go as far as closing, customers accounts.
Mr M says Revolut are being dishonest about its reasons to restrict and review his account. 
Revolut have sent me screenshots from its internal systems that show a new mobile device 
had attempted to log into Mr Ms account. Ive also looked very closely at the chat history 
between Mr M and Revolut. And having done that, I can see it asked Mr M if he had a 
certain model of a popular mobile phone. Mr M said he didnt. The model number Revolut 
asked Mr M about was consistent with what the records show as being the device which 
attempted to log onto his account. 
So, because of this, Im satisfied Revolut had genuine concern and reason enough to have placed the account under review and block activity on it. If it had not, its possible Mr M may 
have lost the funds held in it to fraud. So by doing what it did, Im satisfied Revolut did 
nothing wrong, was acting responsibly and in line with obligations placed upon it to 
safeguard its customers from financial harm.  
Revoluts systems had also flagged the transaction activity on the account but its concern 
about potential fraud had initially overridden this. I note from the chat history that Mr M 
accepted and apologised that he shouldnt have used his account for activities related to his 
business. As this contravened the terms of the account, I dont think Revolut did anything 
wrong by asking question about it and further restricting the account whilst conducting a 
review. 
All in all, both lines of investigation were carried out cumulatively under two weeks before 
Mr Ms funds were released to him. In broad terms, I dont think this is an unreasonable time. 
But I do accept Revoluts handling, more specifically, its communication with Mr M, fell short. 
Mr M was left days initially without any update on the app - Revolut did not respond at all for 
the first ten days. And when there was a response, it was generally unhelpful and generic. 
Mr M held substantive funds in the account, so them being restricted would no doubt have 
caused him worry. But Ive already said Revolut did nothing wrong in carrying out its review.  
Revolut were not aware, before carrying out its review, of Mr Ms medical condition. I can 
understand why Revoluts poor communication would have had an impact on this, but this 
would likely have largely been caused by the restriction of the account  the poor 
communication flowed from that.  
In essence, I need to determine what I think is fair compensation for Revoluts poor 
communication with Mr M during the period his account was under review. Its difficult to 
isolate the impact this had from any impact the account review had. 
So, because of that Im persuaded £100 is fair compensation. It likely would be much more if 
Revolut unfairly restricted the account and caused avoidable delay in relation to this. But Ive 
already said Revolut did nothing wrong in this regard.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, I uphold this complaint in part. To put things right I direct 
Revolut Ltd to pay Mr M £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience it has 
caused. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 May 2022. 
Ombudsman