DRN-2933142
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy The Shepherds Friendly Society Limited (SFSL) has declined his claim 
and then cancelled his income protection policy.
What happened
In January 2020, Mr M applied for his policy through a broker. His application was accepted 
and he was insured. In July 2020, Mr M made a claim on the policy as he wasnt working 
due to mental health problems.
In order to understand and assess Mr Ms claim, SFSL contacted his GP. On receipt of his 
medical information, SFSL discovered that some personal details provided on Mr Ms 
application by the broker didnt match his medical records. SFSL declined Mr Ms claim and 
cancelled his policy. It said that it had checked with its underwriters and the differences 
between the details in Mr Ms height and weight meant it wouldnt have been able to insure 
him. It refunded him his premiums. 
Mr M raised a complaint with SFSL, but it didnt uphold his complaint. It was satisfied it had 
reached the right outcome.
Mr M came to our service, but our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He explained that 
while he could see Mr M had provided different information to his broker than was given to 
SFSL, the broker was his representative. So this meant the mistake still sat with him and not 
SFSL. And as misinformation was provided to SFSL, the act that relates to the sale of 
insurance sets out that, in cases like this, a premium refund should be provided. So this 
meant that SFSL had done nothing wrong.
Mr M asked for a final decision. He was unhappy that his claim had been declined when it 
didnt relate to his height or weight. And he said that both of these could change over time, 
which was important as he was only just over the acceptable criteria for this policy.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr M, but Im in agreement with the findings 
reached by the investigator. I dont agree SFSL has treated him unfairly in this case.
Its not in dispute that the broker Mr M appointed to assist in his application gave SFSL the 
incorrect details. What is in dispute is if SFSL should cover Mr Ms claim despite this.
As our investigator set out, there are rules that cover the sale of insurance policies like the 
one Mr M took out. And these rules also set out how things should be handled in cases 
where the incorrect or untrue information has been supplied.
The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA) sets out that 
if a consumer has misrepresented, which in this case Mr M had  albeit via a broker  and 
this misrepresentation was careless, then SFSL should look at what wouldve happened if 
the right information had been given. SFSL has shown our service that had it known Mr Ms 
medically recorded height and weight it wouldnt have sold him this policy. And Ive seen its 
underwriting guide which confirms this is the case. So under CIDRA its required to only 
refund Mr M his premiums, which it has already done. It isnt required to cover his claim.
Mr M has explained that he doesnt understand why his claim has been declined, as even if 
he accepts that the information about his height and weight was incorrect, neither have any 
great impact on his mental health  which is what hes claiming for. But as our investigator 
has set out, SFSL is entitled to check on Mr Ms eligibility for the policy at the time he 
claimed  as his medical file showed conflicting information to his application. And as this 
information then meant he would never have been taken on as a customer for this policy, 
SFSL was entitled to cancel his policy and refund his premiums. In a situation like this, it 
doesnt matter whether or not the misinformation at application relates to the later claim. If 
Mr M would never have been sold this policy, then we cant fairly say he can then claim on it.
I accept that Mr M was only just above the acceptable criteria for this policy. And that weight 
fluctuates  and height can, to a degree. But due to this, we cant rely on what these figures 
are now, for example. The only evidence I consider we can safely rely on now is what Mr M 
told the broker on the phone at the time  which is very close to his medical records. And 
this information does mean he wouldnt have been accepted for this cover. 
Due to the above, Im satisfied SFSL has treated Mr M fairly by refunding his premiums. I 
fully accept he did provide more accurate information to his broker  and that it made an 
error when it them completed the application with SFSL. However, I cant hold SFSL 
responsible for this, or ask it to continue with Mr Ms policy and so the claim, when it would 
never have insured him under this cover if it had received the correct application information.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman