DRN-3325278
Complaint
Mr H is unhappy with what Santander UK Plc (Santander) has agreed to do to put things 
right after he complained about the interest, fees and charges added to his overdraft.
Background
Ive separately explained why Im only able to look at the charges applied to Mr Hs account 
from January 2019 onwards. As this is the case, this decision is only looking whether 
Santander acted fairly and reasonably towards Mr H from January 2019.
As a result of our adjudicators assessment, Santander agreed to refund all the interest, fees 
and charges it added from January 2019. Our adjudicator that what Santander had agreed to 
do to put things right was fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances of the case. Mr H 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having carefully considered everything, I think that what Santander has already agreed to
do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of his complaint. 
Ill explain why I think this is the case. 
Santander has agreed that it ought to have realised that it was unfair to continue charging   
Mr H for his overdraft in the way that it did from January 2019. And it has agreed to refund all 
the interest, fees and charges added it to Mr Hs overdraft from then in order to put things 
right. It also wants to remove the overdraft from Mr Hs account.
It might help for me to start by explaining that where a business accepts (or we decide) it did 
something wrong, wed expect the business to put the consumer in the position they would 
be in if that wrong hadnt taken place. And in an ideal world, wed tell a business to put a 
consumer in the position theyd now be in if they hadnt been given the credit they shouldnt 
have. However, thats not possible in cases where funds that shouldnt have been advanced 
were advanced because typically those funds will have already been spent. 
So we have to look at a way of asking a business to put things right in a fair and reasonable 
way. And where a business provided, or continued to allow a consumer to use, a credit 
facility which it should have realised was unsustainable, wed typically expect it to put the 
consumer in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt paid any further interest and charges 
on that credit.
This means wed normally expect a lender to refund the interest and charges added to any 
credit from the point the lender ought to have realised it was unsustainable. And if those 
interest and charges were paid also add 8% simple interest per year. Thats what Santander 
has agreed to do here, so it has agreed to do what Id normally expect a firm to do in these 
circumstances.
That said, we do look at each case individually and on its own particular merits. And while 
we have a general approach to how we how we might tell a lender to put things right where it 
continued to provided credit it shouldnt have (such as here), we can and will tell it to do 
something different and/or something more if theres a strong reason to say thats what 
would be fair and reasonable to do in the circumstances of that individual case.
Mr H believes that Santander should do more. As I understand it, he wants Santander to 
refund all the charges applied to his account from January 2013. But Ive already separately 
explained why we cant look at what happened on Mr Hs account prior to January 2019. And 
while I can understand Mr Hs disappointment, Im afraid that Santander refunding 
everything from this point onwards means that there arent any further charges I can ask it to 
refund. 
Bearing in mind all of this, Im satisfied that what Santander has already done to put things 
right for Mr H  reworking his account so that all the interest, fees and charges added since 
January 2019 are removed  is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this case and Im 
not requiring it to do anything more. As this is the case, its up to Mr H to decide whether he 
wishes to accept Santanders offer and I leave it to him to let us know whether he does.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im satisfied that what Santander UK Plc has already agreed 
to do to put things right for Mr H is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of his complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman