DRN-2334807
The complaint
Mr and Ms B complain that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt fairly settled a claim they made on 
their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Ms B jointly hold a home insurance policy with AXA. In June 2020 Ms B noticed that 
the diamond from her engagement ring was missing from the setting. Ms B thought she may 
have lost the diamond while washing up. So, Mr and Ms B instructed a plumber to attend 
their property in order to remove the pipes in the bathroom and kitchen to search for the 
missing diamond. However, this was unsuccessful.
Mr and Ms B reported the loss of the diamond to AXA and explained that they wanted to 
make a claim on their policy. However. AXA informed Mr and Ms B that it wasnt willing to 
settle their claim because they werent insured for personal possession cover  as was 
required in order to make a successful claim.
Mr and Ms B asked AXA to cover their lost under the accidental damage section of their 
policy. They said that the loss of the diamond had led to the ring being damaged and no 
longer fit for purpose. Bur AXA didnt agree with Mr and Ms B and it declined to cover their 
lost diamond under the accidental damage section of their policy as it said this applied to 
damage only claims. And it said this was a claim for loss.
Mr and Ms B werent happy with AXAs repudiation decision. So, they referred a complaint to 
our service, which was considered by one of our investigators. After our investigator 
considered everything Mr and Ms B and AXA had said they didnt recommend upholding this 
complaint. They thought that Mr and Ms Bs claim had been reasonably dealt with by AXA. 
And they didnt think that it needed to do anything further because it had fairly applied the 
terms of Mr and Ms Bs policy in how it determined their claim. But Mr and Ms B didnt agree 
with our investigators view of their complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as the investigator  that AXA acted fairly 
and within the terms of Mr and Ms Bs policy when it offered to settle their claim. Ill explain 
why.
Id like to thank Mr and Ms B and AXA for the level of detail contained within their 
submissions. Ive read and considered all the information provided and, I havent specifically 
referred to a point that Mr and Ms B or AXA have made it isnt because I havent considered 
it. My decision will focus on what I think are the key issues, which is an approach that 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
Id like to say that I recognise how upsetting it must have been for Mr and Ms B to have lost 
the diamond from their engagement ring. I can see that this ring is of considerable 
sentimental value. But, while I sympathise with Mr and Ms B, the issue here is whether AXA 
has fairly assessed and settled this claim. And I think it has. Ill explain why.
In determining whether AXA acted fairly and reasonably Ive considered what Mr and Ms B 
have said about what happened, the comments AXA made, and the terms of the policy Mr 
and Ms B hold. Ive also considered notes made during telephone discussions Mr and Ms B 
had with AXA about their loss. I can see Mr and Ms B are disappointed that AXA didnt 
record those telephone calls. But this was due to AXAs staff working remotely during the 
Coronavirus pandemic and I cant fairly criticise AXA for not being able to record calls in a 
working from home environment.
I can see that when Mr and Ms B took out their policy with AXA they were offered optional 
extra cover for items such as personal possessions and accidental damage. This is in 
common with many home insurance policies as it allows a policyholder to tailor their policy to 
meet their specific requirements.
I understand that, while Mr and Ms B opted to take out cover for accidental damage, they 
didnt choose to include personal possessions cover within their policy.
Mr and Ms Bs policy defines accidental damage as an unintentional and unexpected one-
off incident that causes damage to a policyholders buildings or contents. Their policy 
outlines, in clear intelligible language, the circumstances in which accidental damage must 
occur if it is to be covered by AXA  this can be found at page 25 of Mr and Ms Bs policy 
booklet.
Ive carefully considered whether the circumstances of Mr and Ms Bs loss meets any of the 
one-off specified incidents AXA have set out in their policy. But I cant fairly conclude that it 
does. I say this because accidental damage covers incidents of damage rather than loss. 
And I havent seen anything that could lead me to safely conclude that the missing diamond 
is as a result of a one-off specified incident  or that the loss would, or should, be covered 
under the accidental loss section of Mr and Ms Bs policy. 
Its clear from AXAs policy booklet that to be able to successfully claim for the loss Mr and 
Ms B have suffered theyd need to make a claim under personal possessions cover. I say 
this because personal possessions cover would provide for accidental loss and damage 
either in or outside a policyholders home. And this type of cover would include items which 
are normally used, worn or carried about the person  in this case an item of jewellery.
I appreciate that Mr and Ms B will be disappointed with my decision. But, as they didnt take 
out personal possessions cover when they incepted their policy with AXA, I cant say its 
done anything wrong in declining to cover their claim for a lost diamond. 
In the overall circumstances of this complaint, theres nothing to persuade me that AXA has 
treated Mr and Ms B unfairly or unreasonably. Its settled their claim in line with their policy 
terms and there arent any grounds for me to fairly and reasonably require it to cover the 
claim Mr and Ms B made. Im therefore not going to ask it to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Ms B to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman