DRN-3623970
The complaint
Mr H complains about West Bromwich Building Society (WBBS) for its handling of his 
instruction, and his subsequent concerns. He wants WBBS to increase its offer of 
compensation and to resolve his complaints more fully.
What happened
Mr H held an investment bond with WBBS. This was due to mature at the start of April 2022. 
In March 2022, Mr H sent in an instruction of where to pay the bond, which at that time was 
worth around £125. 
WBBS wrote back to Mr H, advising that it needed to verify his identity and asking for 
identification documents. The letter it sent was the incorrect template and it gave the reason 
as that Mr Hs signature had not corresponded with the signature it held. 
The reason it ought to have given was that WBBS did not have a signature on file anymore. 
WBBS did not hold up to date contact numbers for Mr H, so was unable to call him to 
discuss this.
Mr H wrote back, concerned at the correspondence. He asked a number of questions and 
believed that WBBS was treating him unfairly. He stressed that if his instruction was not 
carried out on time then he would take legal action. 
Mr H sent further correspondence, and this crossed over with replies from WBBS. WBBS 
explained that the signature Mr H had provided on his original application had been securely 
destroyed. WBBS apologised that the wrong letter wording had been used, but explained 
that it would need to carry out verification. 
WBBS then carried out an alternative verification and processed Mr Hs instructions. His 
account matured and was paid out as instructed on time. 
Mr H made complaints to WBBS. These included complaints about issues which we cannot 
consider. 
WBBS responded to Mr Hs complaint. It apologised that he had been given an incorrect 
explanation for the reason for verification, and offered him £50 for his distress and 
inconvenience. 
Mr H was not happy with this. He raised further complaints, and WBBS confirmed it had 
provided its final response. 
Mr H then contacted us.
Our investigator has carried out a thorough review of Mr Hs complaint and did not 
recommend upholding it. He considered that WBBS had acted reasonably in its responses 
and that it had made a reasonable offer of compensation. 
Mr H did not accept that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My colleague has explained in detail why we are limited in what we can consider from Mr Hs 
complaint. He has explained that Mr H would need to contact other organisations if he 
wishes to take those issues further. I agree with his comments. 
The crux of Mr Hs complaint which we can consider is that Mr H was wrongly advised that 
the signatures didnt match, rather than that there was no signature held for him. 
I appreciate that that caused him upset and concern. WBBS has explained that this was an 
error in the letter template used and has explained that the requirement to carry out 
verification would have been the same in any event. 
I am satisfied that WBBS was not wrong to require Mr H to verify his identity before 
processing his instruction, and it is quite proper to carry out customer verification. 
I have seen no evidence of discrimination in any correspondence, or evidence to suggest 
that WBBS treated Mr H any differently to any other consumer in this regard. 
Mr H did not provide the identification requested, so WBBS used other methods to verify his 
instruction, and processed this in good time. 
I understand that Mr H has been upset by the correspondence he received, and that he has 
questions about regulation and documentation, but as my colleague explained we cannot 
consider these within our remit. 
I am satisfied that WBBS has acted reasonably in response to its error and has given an 
explanation and an apology, with an offer of compensation of £50 to Mr H. 
This is in line with other awards we would direct and I am satisfied that it is reasonable. Mr H 
was caused initial upset, but his instruction was followed on time and he has been given 
reasonable responses. 
I do not ask WBBS to do anything further. 
I realise that this will be disappointing to Mr H but I hope it explains my decision clearly. 
WBBS has confirmed that its offer remains open to Mr H should he choose to accept it.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint and do not ask West 
Bromwich Building Society to do anything further.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 November 2022.
 
Laura Garvin-Smith
Ombudsman