DRN-3014431
The complaint
Miss L complains Highway Insurance Company Limited unfairly increased the premium for 
her telematics motor insurance policy.  
Miss Ls had a representative providing information for this complaint. For simplicity Ive 
referred to their actions and words as being Miss Ls. For the same reasons Ive referred to 
those of Highways representatives as being its own. 
What happened
In early December 2019 Miss L took out a Highway motor insurance policy. She paid a 
premium of about £1,940 (not including other fees) for the 12-month policy. The policy terms 
required her to have a telematics box fitted to her car. This allowed various aspects of the 
cars use, including its speed, acceleration and braking, to be monitored. The behaviours 
were given individual scores. Those scores were combined to produce an overall year to 
date driving score. These were rated as 0 to 20 very poor, 21 to 40, poor, 41 to 60 good, 
61 to 80 very good and 81 to 100 excellent.  Under the policy terms Miss Ls premium 
could be increased or reduced based on her overall score. Premiums were influenced by the 
scoring banding.   
In February 2020 Miss Ls premium was reduced, with a refund of £267, due to her 
excellent driving score of 87. In mid-December 2020 Miss L renewed the cover. The 
premium was around £1,540 (not including other fees) based on her overall score of 67 
(excellent) at the point renewal was offered. 
In late December 2020 Miss L raised a concern that the telematics system wasnt providing 
an accurate score for acceleration. Soon after she was warned her premium may increase 
due to her overall score having reduced. In mid-January 2021 Miss L received a response to 
a complaint. It explained the telematics system had been checked with no anomalies, issues 
or score inaccuracies found. She was told the policy terms set out that the cost of the 
insurance was subject to change in the overall driving score. 
In February 2021 Miss L received a letter explaining her overall score of 50, good but no 
longer excellent, meant an additional £235 would be charged. The letter said this would be 
added to her direct debits and her policy may be cancelled if not paid. In January 2021 she 
came to this service. She said the telematics system wasnt providing a fair acceleration 
score. She said she was worried her policy will be cancelled and didnt want her premiums to 
increase.
In August 2021 our investigator assessed the complaint. She wasnt persuaded Highway 
had done anything wrong or treated Miss L unfairly. She said the evidence persuaded her 
the box was working correctly and the additional premium had been charged fairly and in line 
with the terms of her policy. 
Miss L didnt accept the assessment, so the complaint was passed to me to consider. She 
feels the datas been deliberately manipulated to justify an increase in her premium. Miss Ls 
provided analysis of her driving data she feels supports her position. She wants the 
additional premium returned and for this service to recognise Highways acted fraudulently. 
In August 2022 I issued a provisional decision. In it I explained I wasnt persuaded the data 
had been deliberately manipulated. But I said Highway had relied on inaccurate data to 
unfairly charge Miss L an additional premium. I said I intended to require it to refund that 
amount and pay her £200 compensation. My reasoning form part of this final decision, so 
I've copied it in below. 
I also invited Miss L and Highway to provide any further information they would like me to 
consider before issuing a final decision. Highway didnt accept my proposed outcome. It 
provided some objections. Miss L said she would accept my findings if I included, in my final 
decision, some additional text from her. Ive addressed their responses below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Miss Ls raised many complaint points. Shes provided a lot of evidence, data 
analysis and information in support. Highways provided similar in response. As this 
is an informal service, I havent addressed all of it here. Instead Ive focused on what 
I consider the key issues and evidence. But I would like to reassure Miss L and 
Highway that Ive considered everything provided. 
By their nature telematics systems are highly technical. This service cant provide its 
own technical assessment of the data or system. Instead Ive considered the 
evidence and explanations, provided by Miss L and Highway, along with my 
knowledge and experience of these types of policies, to decide what I thinks most 
likely. 
Miss Ls policy terms say her premium may be adjusted during the cover term to 
reflect her driving score. My focus for this complaint has been to consider if Highway 
acted fairly when setting her premium by reference to the driving data.  
Unhelpfully Highways provided, at different points during the complaint, inconsistent 
datasets. For example on certain days a different overall score is given, by separate 
spreadsheets, for the same date. 
Miss L feels this supports her position that the data is meaningless and deliberately 
manipulated in Highways interest. In response it said this problem results from a 
historical data transfer issue. It says this was identified and corrected  with any 
unfair additional premiums to other policyholders refunded. Its provided what it 
considers to be an accurate dataset. 
The scores for the relevant dates, in this latest dataset, do align with those referred to 
in emails sent to Miss L for her renewal and premium adjustments. So Im satisfied 
its the data used to set Miss Ls premiums. However, it only provides data up until 
April 2021 rather than to the end of her cover with Highway in December 2021.
Miss Ls provided this service with analysis of her driving scores to show how, around 
October 2020, the pattern for acceleration and braking appears to suddenly reverse. 
After this service passed the information a further review of the data and device was 
undertaken by its provider. Highway accepted there had been a problem with the accuracy of the data from 
October 2020. It was of the opinion the box had been moved and not reinstalled 
correctly. Miss L confirmed she had changed the cars battery at that point, with the 
telematics device being reinstalled. Highway feel the box probably wasnt reinstalled 
at the correct angle  increasing sensitivity to acceleration whilst reducing it for 
braking. In June 2021 Miss Ls scores for the two behaviours returned to something 
closer to their pre-October 2020 pattern. Highways explanation is that the box may 
have been moved again and/or recalibrated over time. 
So its reasonable to say between October 2020 and June 2021 the system wasnt 
providing accurate data for Miss Ls acceleration and braking. I also think its 
something that should have picked up on when she reported her concerns in 
December 2020. The sudden switch in scoring patterns is plain to see when 
considering the data. Highways representative said the system had been checked, 
but unfortunately the issue wasnt picked up until this service raised it much later. 
So Im satisfied Highway got something wrong here. But this service doesnt only 
consider if a firm made a mistake. We also ask what difference any errors made to 
the customer. So Ive considered if Miss L lost out financially as a result. To do that 
Ive tried, as best possible, to consider what her overall score would probably have 
been if the device reinstallation issue had been picked up and corrected.  
From February to September 2020 Miss Ls score reduced from 86 to 79  so about 
one point per month. But from October 2020 (when the device begins recording 
inaccurately) her score drops around 7 or 8 points per month up until January 2021. 
At that point its around 50. 
Miss Ls renewal premium was set based on her November 2020 score  67 (a 
banding of very good). Without the device issue, and her score following its previous 
pattern, it seems likely her score would have been higher - around 76 perhaps. But it 
would still have been in the same very good band  and so her renewal premium 
would likely have been the same. So I cant say that Miss L lost out financially here.  
However, I do think she was unfairly charged the additional premium, for falling into 
the good band, in February 2021. As I understand it a score needs to remain in a 
new band for a month or two for a premium adjustment to take place.  
Before the device error Miss Ls score dropped by about one point per month. This 
pattern returns from June 2021 (based on a second dataset covering this period) - 
when the error appears to have corrected itself. On the day before the error is 
introduced, in October 2020, the overall score was at 77. Miss Ls cover ran for 14 
months after this. I accept it would probably have continued to fall without the device 
issue. But it seems unlikely, at about one point per month, her score would have 
fallen to below 61 (and into the good band) in time for an additional premium to be 
applied.
So in my opinion Highway acted unfairly by relying on the inaccurate data, Miss L 
had raised concern about, to charge her an additional premium. So to put things right 
it should provide a refund. To recognise Miss L being without those funds it should 
add simple interest at 8% from the date of payment to the date of settlement.     
Miss L hasnt accepted Highways explanations for any data inaccuracies. She feels 
the data is not just inaccurate but has been deliberately manipulated to justify a 
premium increase. Ive considered everything Miss Ls provided to support her 
assertion  including a range of data analysis and commentary. But Im not persuaded theres been any deliberate manipulation of the data. Instead, where there 
has been inaccurate data, it seems most likely to be the result of genuine and honest 
mistakes 
That said I feel the failure, in December 2020, to accept Miss Ls concerns and 
uncover the device error has caused her unnecessary distress and inconvenience. 
The issue wasnt acknowledged until almost one year later  after Miss L had 
provided a great deal of correspondence and supporting evidence.  
I think its likely that Miss L would have been more accepting of a genuine error had it 
been accepted and corrected earlier. That would have avoided some of the 
inconvenience resulting from the issue not being resolved. It would also have 
avoided the distress she experienced from being concerned her driving scores might 
result in the cancellation of her policy. To recognise the impact of this on Miss L I 
intend to require Highway to pay her £200 compensation.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the text Miss L would like added to my decision. However, its for me to 
decide the content of my decisions. Its not something for Miss L or Highway to determine. 
And setting out her suggested additions here wouldnt make any difference to the outcome 
of the complaint. Nor would it provide for a better understanding. The comments dont 
provide anything I havent already considered. Instead they repeat points and thoughts 
previously provided by Miss L. 
 
Miss L also said I had made a mistake in how I reported one of the data sets. I said it only 
provides data up until April 2021 rather than to December 2021. She said the data does 
extend to the later date. I accept there is data set that covers up until then  but the version I 
was referring to runs only up to April 2021. 
Highway said it wasnt provided with the opportunity to consider information provided by 
Miss L. That isnt correct. Its representative was provided with the relevant information. It 
provided responses to Miss Ls data analysis and commentary. Highway also said Miss L 
didnt provide relevant information at the time of her initial complaint. However, I feel that at 
that point she made her concerns about the data clear. 
The data and system were apparently checked at the time  with no concerns found dispite 
an obvious sudden reversal of the two scores. However, the problem was picked up by a 
different system check undertaken much later. As Ive said I feel that probably should have 
happened at the earlier date. I dont accept Highways claim that opportunity to investigate 
Miss Ls concerns wasnt provided.  
Highways also said Miss L admitted she reinstated the box upside down - causing 
acceleration and braking scores to be swapped. Miss Ls said only that the box was removed 
and reinstalled. Theres nothing to support a claim that she put it back upside down. 
Frustratingly this upside down box suggestion has been repeatedly refererred to. It was first 
raised, by the team reviewing the data, as a possibility to consider. I misunderstood the 
resulting report  understanding it to be offered as a possible explaination. Instead the report 
and review team has ruled it out.Highway raised a suggestion, given previously, that Miss L may have benefitted from the box 
reversing the two scores. This is a reference to different weightings, in the overall score, 
given to braking and acceleration. Ive already considered this possibility. But for the reasons 
outlined, in my provisional decision, I dont think it likely Miss L did benefit. Instead it seems 
she probably lost out through receiving a lower overall score than she would otherwise.  
Having considered the latest information I dont see any reason to change my position. So 
Highway will need to reimburse Miss L the £235 additional premium (plus simple interest at 
8% from the date of payment to settlement) and pay her £200 compensation. 
Finally Highway asked that I make it clearer the distinction between its actions and those of 
a broker. In response Ive amended a few words in my provisional decision  nothing 
significant or material. However, the broker acted as a representative for Highway for this 
complaint. Where I feel it was doing so, Ive referred to the actions as being those of 
Highway.  
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Highway Insurance Company Limited to: 
reimburse Miss L the £235 additional premium (plus simple interest at 8% from the 
date of payment to settlement) and 
pay her £200 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2022.
 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman