DRN-4108204
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M have complained that Santander UK Plc is incorrectly reporting information 
about their mortgage account (referred to as the 01 account) and their secured loan (referred 
to as the 02 account) to credit reference agencies. 
To settle the complaint, Mr and Mrs M say that the least Santander can do is extend the 
term of the mortgage to make our day to day living easier.
What happened
I do not need to set out the entire history of the complaint. There are several reasons for this. 
First of all, this has been set out in detail in correspondence, and in the investigators letter 
dated 25 April 2023. All parties have a copy of that letter, so there is no need for me to 
repeat the details here. 
Furthermore, Santander has acknowledged its made errors, so rather than analysing 
everything thats happened to see whether the bank is at fault, I will instead concentrate on 
looking at what Santander has done to put things right. In addition, our decisions are 
published, so its important I dont include any information that might lead to Mr and Mrs M 
being identified. So for these reasons, I will instead concentrate on giving the reasons for my 
decision, rather than reciting the entire history of the matter.
Mr and Mrs M had a payment arrangement on their mortgage to pay the monthly repayment 
plus £32.46 per month. This was incorrectly set up as a fixed payment, rather than whatever 
the monthly payment might be (subject to interest rate fluctuations), plus £32.46 per month.
Santanders acknowledged that when interest rates changed, resulting in an increase to the 
mortgage payments, the bank didnt collect the increased payments that were needed on the 
01 account. This caused arrears of £103.08 on the 01 account, and I note that Santander 
has now removed these, along with interest of £14.98.
In relation to the 02 account, Santander has accepted that its mistake in setting up the 
payment arrangement meant that the £32.46 monthly payments that should have gone 
towards the 02 account werent being made. This led to the 02 account falling behind by 
£42.42, which Santander agreed to cover.
In addition Santander agreed to update Mr and Mrs Ms credit files to reflect the correct 
position. Santander also paid compensation of £300 for distress and inconvenience. But 
Santander didnt agree to cover increased loan repayments Mr and Mrs M were having to 
pay, or make changes to the mortgage that Mr and Mrs M were requesting
Mr and Mrs M werent happy with this and brought their complaint to our service. The main 
point in their complaint is that they believe Santander was incorrectly reporting their 
mortgage account as being in arrears, whereas, in fact, they were in an arrangement to pay. 
As a result, Mr and Mrs M say this has affected the credit theyve been able to access. 
An investigator looked at what had happened. Having done so he was satisfied that the 
arrears had been correctly reported, but the payment arrangement hadnt been noted. 
Santander had now put this right and the CRAs were reporting the payment arrangement 
from 2017, on the 01 account up to the date the arrears were capitalised, and on the 02 
account from September 2017 to date. The investigator didnt think Santander needed to do 
anything more than this on the credit files. He was also satisfied that Santander had put right 
the mistake in relation to the fixed payments, and that the £300 compensation was fair and 
reasonable. 
The investigator also explained that if Mr and Mrs M werent happy with what one credit 
reference agency in particular had reported, they would need to take this up with that 
agency. The investigator was satisfied that the information Santander had provided to the 
agencies correctly reflected the position on the accounts.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. They 
werent disputing that Santander had rectified historic errors on the account. However, they 
didnt think the £300 compensation sufficiently recognised the level of damage theyve 
suffered. Mr and Mrs M also said that the impact of having a missed payment versus an 
arrangement to pay affecting their credit profiles must be considerable.
Mr and Mrs M also raised new issues about what had happened since theyd first raised their 
complaint, and provided spreadsheets showing their calculations of the mortgage account. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note that during the course of the complaint Mr and Mrs M have raised new complaints that 
they would like us to investigate. The investigator has explained that we cant add new 
issues to an existing complaint and that Mr and Mrs M will need first to refer those matters to 
Santander. I am therefore not looking at any new issues Mr and Mrs M have raised with us 
since they first brought the complaint to our service. This complaint is about the issues 
covered in the final response letter dated 4 July 2022, which is that Santander didnt 
correctly report an arrangement to pay entered into in 2017.
Santander has acknowledged it should have reported the arrangement to pay, and Im 
satisfied that it has now put this right. However, it appears that Mr and Mrs M are under the 
misapprehension that this correction should have resulted in no arrears showing on the 
account.
I will begin by explaining that when the number of months of arrears are recorded on a 
credit file, this is not the number of actual payments that have been missed. Rather it is the 
number of months the amount of the arrears equates to, when compared with the 
contractual monthly payment  the amount of arrears divided by the amount of the monthly 
payment. 
Strictly speaking, what a mortgage company reports to credit reference agencies isnt 
missed payments. The report it makes each month is a number between 0 and 6. A zero 
means the account is up to date. A number between 1 and 6 represents arrears which total 
one or more monthly payments. (Although arrears can obviously add up to more than six 
months of payments, reporting stops at 6.) Therefore, even where there is an arrangement 
to pay, the arrears on the account will still show on the credit files. Given this, Im satisfied that Santander has now put the credit files in the position they 
should have been in in 2017, by reporting an arrangement to pay, as well as correctly 
reporting that there are more than six months arrears on the loan. 
Potential creditors are entitled to know about the past conduct of an account  including 
arrears and arrangements to pay. Ive noted what Mr and Mrs M have said about 
Santanders error affecting their ability to raise credit. But even if the error in not reporting 
the payment arrangement hadnt been made and the payment arrangement had been 
recorded since September 2017, the credit files would still have shown that there had been 
arrears on the 01 account (now capitalised) and that there are arrears on the 02 account. 
That is the factual position, whether or not there is any payment arrangement in place.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ms spreadsheets setting out their calculations of the payments 
theyve made, which they feel dont equate to Santanders figures or whats being reported. 
However, the Financial Ombudsman Service doesnt provide an auditing service. Its always 
open to Mr and Mrs M to have their account professionally audited, at their expense. If the 
result of this was to identify errors by Santander that have caused financial loss or detriment 
to Mr and Mrs M, then they would be free to raise another complaint about this and claim the 
cost of the audit as part of the redress if their complaint was successful. But its not 
something that our service is able to do for consumers.
In the circumstances, I dont require Santander to do anything further. Santanders put right 
the errors it made in not collecting enough for the mortgage payments when interest rates 
increased. Im also satisfied that the £300 compensation paid is fair and reasonable. I 
therefore dont require Santander to do anything further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 June 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman