DRN-2150430
The complaint
Ms S and Mr A are unhappy that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) declined their claim for 
damage caused by an escape of water.
What happened
Ms S and Mr A had building insurance with UKI. The policy was in joint names but, for ease, 
Ill refer only to Ms S throughout my decision.
While having her bathroom refitted, Ms S became aware that the floor and walls had 
significant water damage. She claimed under her insurance and UKI instructed a Loss 
Adjuster (LA) to inspect the damage. 
The LA reported that the damage was caused by water leaking through the sealant around 
the shower tray. Based on the findings, UKI declined Ms Ss claim. 
Ms S complained to UKI because she said the damage was caused by a leak from the pipe 
under the bath and she didnt have a shower tray. UKI maintained its decision to decline 
because the pattern of damage wasnt consistent with the leak she described.
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Ss complaint. He thought that the cause of damage 
described in UKIs report was more consistent with the damage shown in the photos.
Ms S didnt agree. Her plumber said the bath waste trap had been leaking and Ms S felt 
strongly that the damage was consistent with a leaking pipe.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise that Ms S will be disappointed, Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. Ill 
explain why.
The issue here is that Ms S thinks UKI has declined her claim based on an incorrect 
assessment of what caused the damage. She would like UKI to accept her claim for water 
damage which she believes was caused by a leaking pipe.
UKI thinks the damage is consistent with failed sealant, which is excluded from cover under 
the policy.
In considering the complaint, Ive looked at whether each party has fulfilled their 
responsibilities under the policy. Firstly, Ms S must show that an insured peril has happened 
 escape of water. Then, because UKI declined the claim, it must show that an exclusion 
clause applies.
Ms Ss policy covers:
Water or oil escaping from fixed water or heating systems
We also cover water or oil escaping from:
underground drains and pipes
domestic appliances
storage tanks.
So Im satisfied it was reasonable for Ms S to make a claim under her insurance for the 
escape of water.
UKI declined the claim relying on a policy exclusion:
We dont cover:
damage caused by the failure, wear and tear or lack of grouting or sealant
So, Ive considered whether it was fair for UKI to decline the claim for this reason. To do this, 
Ive looked at its LAs report and Ms Ss plumbers report.
The photos in the LAs report show the bathroom after it had been stripped. The water 
damage is concentrated in the corner of the bathroom directly underneath where the bath 
was. The damage also extends to one wall where the showerhead was. Ms Ss contractor 
provided photos of the bathroom before it was stripped. The corner tile directly above the 
bath and to the side of the showerhead was missing. The grout in that corner was more 
discoloured than the rest of the wall. Based on this information, it seems likely that water ran 
through the sealant where the tile was missing and to the floor below. I can see why UKI 
declined the claim under the exclusion and I think thats fair.
But, I havent disregarded the information Ms S provided. She is certain that the bath waste 
pipe had been leaking and thats supported by her plumbers report. UKI said it found no 
evidence of a leak, but the pipework had been stripped out. Ive thought carefully about this 
point, but I dont think the pattern of damage is consistent with a leaking pipe. Thats 
because the damage is clearly concentrated in a corner rather than spreading out and 
around where the pipe was. The photos also show that there is evidence of water damage 
and mould on the lower support of the wall frame, above floor level but not rising from the 
floor. This suggests the water ran down from higher up the wall and is consistent with failed 
sealant on the wall where the showerhead was attached.
That said, I have no reason to doubt that Ms Ss plumber found a leak from the pipe and I 
accept that it mightve contributed to the damage. Having looked at UKIs account notes on 
this matter, I can see that it did consider the plumbers report. But UKI didnt have an 
opportunity to see the evidence because the pipe had been stripped out and discarded. So I 
cant reasonably ask it to accept the claim for something it hasnt seen. 
Even so, Ive thought about whether UKI wouldve accepted Ms Ss claim if it had seen 
evidence of the leaking pipe. Ms S provided a copy of an email conversation with her 
plumber when she was arranging to have her bathroom refitted a week or two before the 
floor damage was found. While the original question to the plumber isnt included, a couple 
of points stand out - the plumbers response is about work required following an escape of 
water, possibly from the shower area, and his observations following a visit to provide a 
quote make it clear that the plumbing in the bath/shower was not installed correctly. So, if UKI were to consider Ms Ss claim again, based on her plumbers report alone, I think 
its likely that it would still decline the claim. Thats because the policy specifically excludes 
cover for poor workmanship.
Just like most insurers we dont cover:
Faulty workmanship, faulty design or the use of faulty materials.
So, even if Ms Ss report persuaded me that the damage was caused mainly by a leaking 
pipe, I think there would be little benefit in asking UKI to reconsider the claim. Thats 
because an exclusion clause still applies.
As a final point, I can understand that UKIs reference to a shower tray mustve left Ms S 
feeling that it hadnt properly inspected the damage. But I must point out that the bathroom 
had been stripped so it wasnt aware of the layout. And as the flooring appeared to have 
been laid around a shower tray rather than a bath, I can see why it made that mistake. 
However, I dont think UKIs mistake is material to its handling of Ms Ss claim or the 
outcome of her complaint.
Overall, I can sympathise with Ms S because there has clearly been significant damage to 
the bathroom in her relatively new house. But, whether I place greater weight on UKIs report 
or her own plumbers report, Im satisfied that UKI declined the claim fairly under the policy 
exclusions.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Ms S to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 December 2020.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman