DRN-3821943
The complaint
Mr S complains about charges made by Mercedes-Benz Financial Services UK Limited 
(MBFS) when he returned his vehicle. 
Mr S is represented in this complaint, but for clarity Ill only refer to Mr S throughout my 
decision. 
What happened
Mr S entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new vehicle with MBFS in March 2018. 
The agreement was for 48 months, with the vehicle due to be returned in March 2022.
Collection agents collected the car for MBFS on 18 March 2022. It was inspected upon 
collection, and again on 23 March 2022 at the collection agents premises. The report from 
these inspections notes damage outside of fair wear and tear and the cost to Mr S as 
follows: 
Front screen  Cracked - £225.33
Right hand rear quarter panel  dented 15-50mm - £35
Right hand rear door  dented up to 15mm with paint damage - £260
Left hand front wheel  spoke damaged - £110
Right hand front wheel  spoke damaged - £110
Front bumper  scratched over 50mm - £210
Left hand rear door  scratched greater than 25mm through topcoat - £210
Right hand front door  scratched greater than 25mm through topcoat - £210
Left hand front door  dented with paint damage - £260
Left hand front inner door shut  dented 15-50mm - £130
Rear bumper  dented with paint damage - £260
Right hand front inner door shut  dented with paint damage - £130
Left hand rear quarter panel  dented with paint damage - £260
Left hand front door pad  hole up to 25mm - £176
Left hand rear door pad  hole over 25mm - £96.88
MBFS also charged Mr S £518.40 including VAT for excess mileage. 
MBFS removed the charges for the front screen, the right-hand rear quarter panel, and the 
right-hand rear door. They said although they were satisfied the damage had been sustained 
to the vehicle as reported by the collection agents, the photographs didnt supply the 
required evidence of the damage. This left a total of £2,162.88 for Mr S to pay for the 
damage. 
Mr S paid the charge for excess mileage, but he complained to MBFS about the charges for 
damage. He said the prices were extortionate and he wanted an opportunity to check the 
vehicle condition and reported damage in person. Mr S also asked MBFS for proof the 
repairs had been completed. 
MBFS sent Mr S their final response to his complaint in April 2022. They said Mr S had been 
provided with a copy of the vehicle return standards to review prior to collection and so had 
an opportunity to have the work completed himself before handing the car back. They said 
the agreement sets out that they dont have to repair, and Mr S is liable for the estimated 
cost of the work where they chose not to repair. MBFS told Mr S all of the damage charged 
for was visible on both inspections, and so they were satisfied the charges remained 
payable. 
Unhappy with this, Mr S brought his complaint to this service for investigation. He said hed 
returned the car in a good condition for a four-year-old vehicle. Mr S was unhappy that 
MBFS denied him access to the car to check the damage being charged for, the sums being 
charged were excessive, and hadnt been justified by MBFS. Mr S said hed like all of the 
charges to be waived. 
Our investigator gave his view that the majority of the charges were fair, except for the 
charge for the left-hand rear quarter panel, which he thought MBFS should remove. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said the level of the charges is fictional and no attempt has been made 
by MBFS to show actual loss, he wasnt able to inspect the car after the damage was 
assessed which is a breach of natural justice, he didnt believe the damage was outside of 
what would be considered fair wear and tear after four years, and the size of the damage 
couldnt be assessed from a photo alone. 
As an agreement cant be reached, the case has been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S signed a hire agreement in March 2018. The terms of the agreement set out that the 
vehicle must be returned at the end of the agreement in line with the vehicle return 
standards. It confirms that an inspection will be carried out by trained technicians and goes 
on to set out the acceptable return standards, beyond which it allows MBFS to charge for the 
costs of either repairing and / or refurbishing the vehicle, or the cost of the consequent 
reduction in the sale value of the vehicle. 
Its clear from the agreement that Mr S was responsible for returning the car in good 
condition. 
Mr S has said that the level of charges applied are excessive. 
Ive looked into the damage charges, and I can see that the costs are included on a charging 
matrix on MBFSs website. So, Im satisfied that Mr S could have reviewed these and 
decided whether to have the damage repaired instead of incurring end of contract charges. 
Ive looked at the charging structures for other manufacturers, and the charges applied by 
MBFS are higher than others. I have the power to require businesses to act in relation to an 
individual where something has gone wrong, but not to order a business to change its 
practices more generally. So, I cant say what MBFS should charge for damage when hire 
vehicles are returned, and Ive taken into consideration that charges do differ by 
manufacturer. But I can look at whether they have applied those charges fairly. I am satisfied 
that MBFS apply the same charges to all consumers at the end of the hire agreement, so I 
dont think theyve been applied unfairly in this case. Mr S has asked for evidence that MBFS have completed the repairs, or otherwise suffered a 
loss in respect of the damage. The agreement allows MBFS to charge for damage outside of 
fair wear and tear to reflect the cost of carrying out the repair, or to reflect the reduction in 
the vehicles value. So, Im satisfied that the charges can be applied, even if MBFS havent 
completed the repairs.  
Mr S said that MBFS didnt allow him to review the vehicle after the damage had been 
recorded. 
Mr Ss agreement states that charges will apply if the vehicle isnt returned in line with the 
vehicle return standards, which are included in full in the agreement and sent to Mr S six 
months before the agreement ended. Mr S also had an opportunity to be present at the 
inspection that was completed when the car was collected, but the report from the collection 
confirms that he wasnt present. 
So, Im satisfied that Mr S did have the opportunity to review and repair the damage in line 
with the vehicle return standards prior to handing the car back. And MBFSs website 
contains a matrix of charges that will apply so he had the opportunity to review the costs he 
might have to pay if he didnt have the damage repaired. He also had the opportunity to be 
present during an inspection of the vehicle. 
Its often the case that cars are sold at auction or re-leased quickly after collection, so I dont 
think its unreasonable for MBFS to have refused to allow Mr S to inspect the car after itd 
been collected. 
Mr S has said the car was returned in good condition for a four-year-old car, he doesnt 
agree that the damage is outside of fair wear and tear and the size of the damage cant be 
assessed from a photo alone.
Along with the vehicle return standards set out in the agreement, there are industry standard 
guidelines published by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA) which 
set out what is considered to be fair wear and tear in respect of a hired vehicle. So, I have 
also considered these in deciding what its fair for MBFS to charge on return of the car.
I havent considered the damage to the front screen, right-hand rear quarter panel or right-
hand rear door, as these have already been removed by MBFS. 
The photos provided by MBFS have made use of measuring devices and zebra boards to 
show the size of the damage, and Ive considered whether this is evident when Ive looked at 
each area of damage. 
Wheels
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that minor scuffing or damage 
under 25mm to the vehicle alloy, steel rim edge or wheel face is acceptable. The BVRLA fair 
wear and tear standards say that scuffs up to 50mm on the total circumference of the alloy 
wheel are acceptable. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the wheels, and Im satisfied they clearly 
show scuffs on over 50mm of the total circumference of both front wheels. So, Im satisfied 
that the charge of £220 for the two wheels has been fairly applied.
ScratchesThe hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that light surface scratches not 
through the top-coat which can be removed by polishing / touching up are acceptable. The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that surface scratches of 25mm or less where the 
primer or bare metal is not showing are acceptable, provided they can be polished out. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the scratches to the front bumper, left hand 
rear door and right-hand front door, and Im satisfied that they clearly show scratches to 
each area exceeding 25mm and through to the primer. So, Im satisfied that the charge of 
£630 for these three items has been fairly applied. 
Dents
In respect of dents, the hire agreement says that minor body dents are acceptable, provided 
they are less than 13mm in diameter and there are no more than four per vehicle. The 
BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that dents of 15mm or less in diameter are 
acceptable provided there are no more than two per panel and the paint surface is not 
broken. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the dents to the left-hand front door, left hand 
and right hand front inner door shuts and the rear bumper, and Im satisfied that they clearly 
show dents more than 15mm in diameter. So, Im satisfied that the charge of £780 for these 
four items has been fairly applied. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS for the left-hand rear quarter panel, and Im not 
satisfied that this shows a dent over 15mm in diameter. So, I dont think the charge of £260 
for this item has been fairly applied, and MBFS should remove it from the charges theyve 
asked Mr S to pay. 
Interior
The hire agreement sets out in the vehicle return standards that broken or damaged interior 
mouldings, trim pads, instrument panels, sun visors or headlining etc. are not acceptable.  
The BVRLA fair wear and tear standards say that the interior upholstery and trim must be 
clean and odourless with no burns, scratches, tears, dents, or staining; and that torn or split 
floor coverings and damaged surrounding trim panels are not acceptable. 
Ive reviewed the photos provided by MBFS of the left-hand front and rear door pads, and 
Im satisfied that they clearly show holes/tears in the fabric. So, Im satisfied that the charge 
of £272.88 has been fairly applied for these two items. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited to remove the charge for the left-hand rear quarter panel from the end 
of contract charges. This leaves a bill of £1,902.88 for Mr S to pay. 
Under the riles of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2022. 
 
Zoe Merriman
Ombudsman