DRN-2252596
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy Covea Insurance plc (Covea) has declined their claim for 
subsidence under their home insurance policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs Bs property has an extension that was built in 1986 for the previous owner.
 
In 2018, Mr and Mrs B noticed cracks in their property, so they asked a structural surveyor to 
take a look. He said the damage was consistent with subsidence and recommended they 
contact their insurer. Mr and Mrs B made a claim in July 2018.
Covea sent its agent to investigate the subsidence, it found the damage is a result of root-
induced clay shrinkage and it also said the foundation to the extension and retaining wall are 
inadequate for the site conditions. So, in January 2019 Covea declined the claim under the 
policy exclusion for faulty workmanship and defective design. Investigations had shown that 
the foundation of the extension was 1.7m deep but only 400mm of this was below the lower 
ground level and the retaining wall was 200mm below the lower ground level. But Covea 
thought the extension foundation should be at least 2.5m deep and designed by an engineer 
based on standards applied by a builder of new homes (N).
Mr and Mrs B didnt agree with this, so they asked a structural engineer, he said as far as 
can be ascertained, the extension was built in line with the relevant building regulation that 
was in place when the extension was constructed. He didnt think it was fair for Covea to rely 
on N standards as this isnt relevant to the construction of the extension.
Covea didnt agree and maintained its decision to decline the claim. 
Our investigator upheld the complaint. She wasnt persuaded Covea had done enough to 
show her the extension didnt comply with the building regulation at the time it was built.
To resolve this complaint, she recommended:
Covea cover the costs of the reports obtained from Mr and Mrs Bs structural 
engineer, it should pay 8% simple interest per annum from the date the invoice was 
paid to date of settlement, subject to invoice(s) being provided.
Covea deals with the claim. If this is cash settled, they should apply 8% simple
interest per annum from the date of loss to date of settlement.
Covea pays £500 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B has
experienced.
Covea didnt accept the investigators view and asked for an ombudsman decision. So, the 
complaint has been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint, for largely the same reasons as our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Its not disputed that subsidence is occurring. Whats in dispute is if the damage was 
predominantly a result of faulty workmanship or defective design.
Covea has said the subsidence is due to root induced desiccation. However, it is relying on 
general exclusion 14 in the policy that excludes any loss, damage or liability caused by or 
arising from. faulty design or workmanship or the use of faulty materials; it also excludes 
subsidence damage caused by foundations which did not meet building regulations at time 
of construction. The onus is on Covea to show the damage has been caused by faulty 
design or a failure to meet the relevant regulations if it wishes to rely on these policy terms.
Covea has said in order for it to consider whether the foundation depth is the dominant 
reason for the subsidence it referred to the N standards available at the time of construction, 
because this gives more specific advice on foundation depths in relation to building near 
trees - Practice Note 3 (1985). It has said that the relevant minimum construction 
requirements at the time the extension was built, in accordance with N standards for 
foundations was 1m when building on clay. However, when taking into consideration the 
relative water demand of the tree and the distance from the property it says this document 
can be used to calculate the depth requirement or obtain the design of the foundations.
It also says that N standards is supported by the recent edition of BS 8004 (2015) which 
states Guidance on building near trees can be found in N standards, chapter 4.2. Covea 
says based on the guidance the foundations should have been constructed to a depth 
greater than 2.5m and designed by an engineer. Covea said the depth of the extension 
foundation was found to be 400mm beneath ground level and it said it felt it should be a 
minimum depth of 2.5m.
However, although I understand latter editions of the building standards may refer to the N 
standards, it wasnt referred to in the regulation that was in force at the time and needed to 
be adhered to when the extension was built. I havent seen any evidence to show that Mr 
and Mrs Bs extension was subject to these standards. The standards apply to builders 
working for and registered with N when building new homes. The extension wasnt built as 
part of a new home. And theres been no suggestion the builder who constructed the 
extension was working for or under the supervision of N. So, Im not persuaded it would be 
fair to judge the design of the foundation against these standards.
Covea has said the building regulations in force at the time of the construction of the 
extension were Building Regulations 1985. And it has referred to requirement A2, which 
says:
The building shall be so constructed that movements of the subsoil caused by swelling, 
shrinkage or freezing will not impair the stability of any part of the building.
Covea says that because theres been subsidence as a result of clay shrinkage, this point 
hasnt been met. Im not persuaded taking requirement A2 as literally as Covea has would 
produce a fair outcome. It would amount to concluding that any claim for subsidence caused 
by clay shrinkage meant the foundation was faulty and the damage wasnt covered by the 
policy.Covea has also referred to the British Standard Code of Practice and it says at the time of 
the extensions construction the standard was (BS) 101 (1972) which became BS8004:1986 
(formerly CP 2004). It has referred to section 2.3.3.2 shallow foundations, which says: 
Where shallow foundations are founded on clays, the possibility of ground movements due 
to seasonal variations in moisture content should be considered. Where this is a problem, it 
may be advisable to place the foundations at a lower level or to use a piled foundation.
Covea says it is evident that given the degree of damage that prompted the claim, there has 
been significant movement of the structure and by default it does not comply with the 
appropriate British Standard.
I think the key comment in the above paragraph is maybe advisable It doesnt say they 
must and doesnt give any indication what depth the foundation should be. 
I think a competent builder ought to consider the surrounding situation, including the type of 
soil and trees that are likely to pose a risk to stability. And I can see Covea thinks the 
standards of N ought to be applied. But I havent seen that the regulations require a builder 
to refer to the standards of N to determine the foundation depth. And Ive explained above 
why I dont agree the standards of N are relevant here.
BS8004 also mentions 900mm as a minimum to aid stability when building in clay.  From 
what Ive seen this property is on a site where there are different ground levels. The report 
done by the insurer shows that the foundation of the extension is 1.7 metres but because 
there is a lower ground level the foundation is 400 mm below the lower ground level. So, 
although I can understand why Covea has mentioned this, I can still see the extension is 
supported by a foundation of 1.7m which is beyond the 900mm mentioned in BS8004. Ive 
therefore not been persuaded that the extension didnt meet the requirements at the time it 
was built. 
Covea has also pointed to previous decisions issued by this service which it thinks supports 
its view. Every case is different, and we consider each on one its own merits. So, I wont be 
considering this point any further.
Ive also considered that the extension has stood for 32 years with no prior issues, up until 
February 2018. So, I think had the foundations been defective, I wouldnt have expected the 
extension to have stood for such a long time without any problems especially considering it 
wouldve stood through many subsidence summers already. And Covea hasnt given any 
explanation for why the damage would only arise now if the foundation had been defective 
when built in 1986. For these reasons Im not persuaded Covea has shown the foundation 
design was faulty. It follows that I dont think it was fair for Covea to decline the claim.
Putting things right
To put things right, Covea should now accept the claim for subsidence damage.
Mr and Mrs B have told us that this claim has caused them a lot of stress and upset as they 
had to worry that the claim wouldnt be covered, and theyve spent time and costs in getting 
their own independent structural engineer involved to help get a resolution to Covea 
declining the claim, and this shouldnt have been necessary. I agree with our investigators 
recommendations and Covea hasnt made any comments in response to that. So, Im 
satisfied Mr and Mrs B should be compensated for the trouble and upset caused and be paid 
the costs of any reports/letters.My final decision
I therefore uphold the complaint and instruct Covea Insurance plc to:
Pay the costs of the reports/letters obtained from Mr and Mrs Bs structural engineer, 
it should pay 8% simple interest per annum* from the date the invoice was paid to 
date of settlement, subject to invoice(s) being provided.
Accept the claim. If this is cash settled, they should apply 8% simple interest per 
annum from the date of loss to date of settlement.
Pay £500 compensation for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs B has
experienced.
Covea should pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr and 
Mrs B accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
* If Covea considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs B a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Angela Casey
Ombudsman