DRN-3031583
The complaint
Mrs O complains about how Automobile Association Insurance Services Limited (AA) 
administered her motor insurance policy. She wants a refund and an apology. 
What happened
AA wrote to Mrs O and said her insurer had found that she hadnt disclosed a non-fault claim 
from 2016 when she took out her policy. It said the insurer had re-rated the policy and 
required an additional premium. Mrs O was unhappy as she thought AA should have picked 
this up from another policy she held with it. But AA said it wouldnt cross-reference policies 
due to data protection rules and it was her duty to disclose the claim when asked. Mrs O 
remained unhappy. 
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought Mrs O 
was required by the policy terms and conditions to provide full and accurate information 
about her personal and insurance details. He thought three annual renewal letters had 
reminded Mrs O to check her information was accurate and up to date, and to tell AA if any 
changes were needed. He thought it was fair and reasonable for AA to write to Mrs O asking 
for an additional premium required by the insurer. And he thought this was the action it 
would take for any policyholder in the same position.
Mrs O replied that AA already had the relevant information to hand. She asked for an 
ombudsmans review. So her complaint has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mrs O was upset when she received AAs letter asking for the 
additional premium due to the non-disclosed claim. Mrs O and her partner are named drivers 
on each others policies with the same insurer. The claim from 2016 was recorded against 
Mrs Os partners policy and in his name. I can see that Mrs O didnt disclose this claim when 
she renewed her policy. She was then asked:
Have you or any person who will drive been involved in any accident or suffered any loss 
(whether to blame or not) involving a motor vehicle - whether or not the subject of an 
insurance claim - in the last five years?
I think its for Mrs O to provide accurate information when asked a question relevant to the 
insurers risk. So I think it was for Mrs O to notice that the claim wasnt recorded on her 
policy documents and to tell AA about it in response to its question. 
Mrs O thought AA should have checked her other policy details and it would have then noted 
the claim from 2016. But, as our investigator has explained, AA isnt able to cross-reference 
policies. And if it had it was likely the insurer would have asked for an increased premium 
from 2018. So I think Mrs O hasnt been caused any loss by this. 
Also, AA is the broker and the insurer holds details of previous claims. So AA wouldnt be 
aware of them unless it was informed. 
Mrs O thought AA may have charged her an incorrect additional premium. But I can see that 
the additional premium was charged by the insurer, not AA. So if Mrs O remains unhappy 
with this, she should complain directly to it. From what I can see, the additional premium was 
just for the current year of cover. 
So, in summary, when Mrs O renewed her policy I think she was required to disclose any 
claims made in the previous five years by herself or the named driver. The incident from 
2016 wasnt on the policy schedule and so Mrs O should have corrected this. But she didnt. 
The insurer ran a validation check and noticed the mistake. It then re-rated the policy and 
charged Mrs O an additional premium. A premium may increase even if the claim is non-fault 
as the risk to the insurer may increase. AA pointed out the error to Mrs O and asked her for 
the additional premium, as it would any other consumer. So I cant say it made a mistake or 
needs to make any refund or apology. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 December 2021.
 
Phillip Berechree
Ombudsman