DRN-2360873
The complaint
Mr G complained about a number of loans he took out through a company called Gain Credit 
LLC, trading at the time as Lending Stream. Mr G says he was lent to irresponsibly and the 
loans caused him financial problems.
To keep things simple, Ill refer mainly to Lending Stream throughout this decision.
What happened
We now know that Mr G took out 4 loans from Lending Stream between October and 
December 2012. Ive enclosed a summary of Mr Gs borrowing with Lending Stream, based 
on the information it provided to us:
 
Date Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 10-10-2012 19-10-2012 5 £115 £63
2 07-12-2012 SOLD 6 £265 £132
3 17-12-2012 SOLD 6 £220 £227
4 27-12-2012 SOLD 4 £75 £274
Lending Stream has made an offer to settle the complaint in respect of loan number 4 only. It 
has agreed to compensate Mr G in accordance with our normal approach to these matters 
although I see the loan is outstanding.
One of our adjudicators has looked into the rest of the complaint, specifically in respect of 
loan numbers 1, 2 and 3. They said they didnt think the complaint regarding these loans 
should be upheld. But Mr G still thinks all the loans were mis-sold, so Ive been asked to 
make an ombudsmans final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. Ive followed this 
approach when thinking about Mr Gs complaint.
Lending Stream needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr G could repay the loans he was given in a sustainable manner. These checks ought to 
have taken into account a range of different factors, such as the amounts being lent, the total 
repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks 
might be reasonable and proportionate. However, certain factors might point to the fact that 
Lending Stream should have fairly and reasonably done more to establish that any lending 
was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income)
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. Ive carefully considered all of these things 
and what they mean for Mr Gs complaint.
Lending Stream told us it carried out certain checks before agreeing to lend to Mr G, 
including assessing his income, expenditure and creditworthiness. It says that based on 
what was said, this information showed that Mr G would be able to make the loan 
repayments he was committing to on all occasions. 
Taking account of what Ive said about the proportionate nature of checks at the early stages 
of lending, I think the checks Lending Stream carried out would have been at the less 
detailed end of the spectrum. Im not dealing with loan 4 here - because Lending Stream 
says itll settle this one  but for loans 1 to 3 I think these would have revealed some, but by 
no means all, of Mr Gs overall financial profile. 
However, loans 1 to 3 were for relatively moderate amounts. And I can see that what Mr G 
himself disclosed about his income and his expenditure would have made the amounts 
borrowed seem both affordable and sustainable. Loan number 1, for example, was paid 
back before loan 2 was granted, although I take note that his loan 3 application followed 
soon thereafter.
I also see some creditworthiness checks were ordered by the business. However, in respect 
of loan number 1, much of the apparently outstanding credit issues were quite old ones. For 
loans 2 and 3, I think the active credit accounts could relate to what Id call mainstream 
credit, such as credit cards. So, in short, I dont think the information revealed by the credit 
searches showed reasons not to lend for loans 1 to 3. I accept that by loan 4, such a reason 
may well have existed, but to be fair, we do have an offer from the business in respect of 
that loan.
Im afraid all this means that for loans 1 to 3, these show that certain basic checks were 
done. I dont think they revealed much, and Lending Stream was therefore entitled to rely 
more heavily on what Mr G was saying about his finances, especially given that the lending 
had only just begun. By loan 3, the lending hadnt yet reached a point where more 
comprehensive checks or thorough verification was what Id have expected to see. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr G.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint or direct Gain Credit LLC to do anything.
 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman