DRN-3117885
The complaint
Mr B complains that LRUK (RETAIL) LIMITED (LRUK) provided him with credit that he 
couldnt afford and failed to help him when he told it he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, instead just increased his credit limit.
What happened
In February 2018 LRUK approved Mr B for a catalogue shopping account with a limit of 
£150. Mr B maintained the account for the first few months, but then failed to make 
repayments from August 2018 onwards. In September and October LRUK increased Mr Bs 
credit limit to £170 and £190 respectively. In November 2018 it then issued a default notice 
on the account after it heard nothing from Mr B.
Mr B complained to LRUK as he felt that it hadnt carried out sufficient checks when it 
opened his account, and that it hadnt helped him when he couldnt manage his repayments. 
LRUK could find no evidence that Mr B had told it he was having difficulties, and believed 
that the restricted credit limit it had granted him was acceptable given the results of the 
checks it carried out. It also said that it had only increased his credit limit to enable him to 
stay within the limit, i.e. to help him, in avoiding the need to report that he was over his limit 
on his credit file.
Mr B disagreed and so brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator thought that 
LRUK should have carried out more in-depth checks at account opening; should not have 
increased Mr Bs credit limit; and should have frozen the account earlier than it did. He 
recommended that LRUK refund the interest charges levied after October 2018. LRUK didnt 
accept that and asked that the case be passed to an Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am reaching some different findings from those set out by the adjudicator, however, as 
those findings have no bearing on the ultimate outcome of the complaint, I didnt feel the 
need to set them out in a provisional decision.
There are three matters at issue in this case. Whether LRUK should have accepted Mr Bs 
application for credit; whether it should have twice increased his credit limit; and whether it 
should have frozen the account and stopped charging interest sooner than it did. I will deal 
with them separately.
Should LRUK have given Mr B an account at all?
It ultimately transpired that Mr B had had an earlier account with LRUK, which had in fact 
been defaulted in 2017. However, LRUK didnt realise that in February 2018 when Mr B 
applied for the account under consideration as some of the details, like the address, were 
different. Presumably for the same reasons, LRUK couldnt locate a credit history for Mr B. 
So it verified his basic identity and then gave him what it describes as a restricted credit 
limit of £150.
When considering this application, LRUK essentially did not unearth any concerns about Mr 
Bs ability to pay. In fact, it didnt unearth anything. I accept that the £150 limit it allowed was 
low, and was a reasonable decision to make under the circumstances. After all, at some 
point everybody lacks a credit history. And so small amounts of credit are often granted in 
such situations. LRUK did not identify that Mr B had previously defaulted on an account, and 
so I think its checks and lending decision were proportionate.
This is in contradiction to the adjudicators views on this point, however, as no action to put 
things right as a result of the account opening has ever been suggested, my findings in no 
way impact the outcome of the complaint.
Should LRUK have increased Mr Bs credit limit in September and October 2018?
LRUK has explained that it only did this in order to keep Mr Bs account within the agreed 
limit. The balance was going up due to late charges and interest. It says it wasnt, in fact, 
extending Mr Bs indebtedness, as the increases did not create any ability to borrow 
money 
I have seen no evidence to support that. The statements from the relevant months show an 
increased amount available to spend in response to the limit increase (albeit in this case 
admittedly very small amounts). Ive seen nothing to suggest that LRUK contacted Mr B to 
clarify why the limit had been increased or that it wouldnt allow him to actually buy anything 
else. So I dont accept LRUKs assertions on this issue.
In this case, this is essentially a moot point, as Mr B didnt try and buy anything else and so 
didnt actively use the increased credit limit. However, I dont accept that would have been 
an impossibility, and so LRUKs decision had the potential to enable a customer in financial 
difficulties to deepen his indebtedness. I struggle to see how that could be deemed to be in 
line with LRUKs responsibilities under the regulations in force.
In addition, LRUKs decisions effectively masked the true difficulties with this account, which 
its difficult to see as in line with its duty to report accurate information to credit reference 
agencies.
In short, I dont think LRUK should have increased Mr Bs credit limit as it did, regardless of 
its stated intentions in doing so, but in this instance Mr B has suffered no loss as a result. So 
I wont be directing LRUK to do anything in relation to this point.
Should LRUK have suspended interest and charges sooner than it did?
The adjudicator thought that LRUK should have frozen this account in October 2018, when it 
instead increased Mr Bs credit limit. He thought that would have been a better response on 
LRUKs part to the unfolding situation.
LRUK didnt accept that, highlighting that Mr B hadnt contacted it to inform it of any 
difficulties. The evidence does indeed show no record of Mr B contacting LRUK or asking it 
for help. However, LRUK shouldnt have needed any contact from Mr B to be able to identify 
by October 2018 that the account was in serious trouble. Mr B had only ever made small, 
likely minimum, repayments since the account was opened, and none since August. So I 
agree with the adjudicator. The account should have been frozen in October 2018 when 
LRUK instead increased Mr Bs limit.Putting things right
I require LRUK to take the following steps.
Remove all interest and charges (including any BNPL interest) incurred on the 
account since 25 October 2018.
Calculate the balance on that date after those adjustments, and ensure any 
repayment made by Mr B since then is used to reduce that balance.
If that calculation means the adjusted balance would have been cleared, LRUK must 
refund any remaining sums to Mr B with 8% simple interest*, calculated from the date 
of overpayment to the date of settlement.
If this rework means that Mr B owes no more money, LRUK must remove adverse 
information about this account from 25 October 2018 onwards from Mr Bs credit file.
If after the adjustment an outstanding balance remains, LRUK must try to arrange an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr. This may involve LRUK repurchasing the debt 
from a third party, or liaising with that third party to ensure the above steps are 
undertaken. Once the balance has been fully cleared, any adverse information about 
the account should be removed from Mr Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue and Customs requires LRUK to deduct tax from any award of interest. It must 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax has been taken off if he asks for one. If it 
intends to apply the refund to reduce an outstanding balance, it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold this complaint and direct LRUK (RETAIL) LIMITED 
to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 February 2022. 
Siobhan McBride
Ombudsman