DRN-3031151
The complaint
This complaint is about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Miss G says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold that PPI policy. 
What happened
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale complaint, but they thought Barclayss offer to 
pay back some of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Miss G paid was fair in the circumstances.
Miss Gs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. They didnt raise any new 
or additional points but repeated the same complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered all 
the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time. 
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some example final decisions that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like this. I havent set out that detailed information 
here but Ive taken into account all relevant considerations in deciding this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered the 
issue of non-disclosure of commission. And Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the 
commission it received - but that Barclayss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness caused is fair in the circumstances. Ive summarised my 
reasons for each of these conclusions below. 
Was PPI mis-sold? 
In summary, my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint are set out 
below. 
I can see from the PPI questionnaire that Miss G said she thought PPI had been sold to her 
on the phone at the same time as she applied for her credit card. But Ive seen application 
form Miss G completed at the point of sale, and I think she either bought the policy through 
the post or in a Barclays branch. Barclays treated this as a branch sale as that put more 
responsibility on it to check the PPI was right for Miss G. That being so, I have also treated 
this as a branch sale. 
The first thing Ive looked at is whether Barclays made it clear that Miss G didnt have to take 
out the PPI if she didnt want it. I can see from the application form that there were two 
equally prominent boxes to mark in respect of PPI  one to indicate Miss G wanted a PPI 
policy, and another to mark if she did not. I can see the yes box has been selected. I think 
the wording on the application form is sufficiently clear to indicate Miss G had a choice about 
the PPI policy. And I think the person selling the cover to her would have also made that 
clear. 
As PPI was sold in a branch of Barclays, Ive treated this as an advised sale. So Barclays 
had to check that the PPI was right for Miss G. To help me decide whether the cover was 
suitable, Ive looked at what we know about the terms and conditions. And Ive also given 
careful thought to the information Ive been provided with about her personal circumstances 
at the relevant time. 
I can see that if shed had to make a claim on the PPI policy, 10% of Miss Gs credit card 
balance would have been repaid for every month she was out of work after redundancy or if 
she was off sick for up to 12 months for each claim. Her card balance would have been paid 
in full in the unfortunate event of her death. 
Ive been provided with very inconsistent information about Miss Gs personal circumstances 
at the point of sale. In the PPI questionnaire submitted by her representatives, it was stated 
that she was a full-time student, but that she was also earning a full time salary as a teacher. 
This was at odds with the information on the application form, which indicated Miss G was 
employed by a large employment agency. And I can see that Miss G also told Barclays in 
2015 that she was on a full-time permanent contract with a different business through the 
employment agency. She stated she worked in an administration role. Given the 
inconsistencies, I think its most likely Miss G worked through the employment agency, but 
on a permanent contract, as this is consistent with the contemporaneous information from 
the point of sale. 
With that in mind, I think Miss G would have had some sick pay entitlement, but I think its 
most likely the PPI would have lasted for longer than such pay. Miss G told us she had some 
savings when PPI was sold. But again, it looks as though the PPI would have lasted for 
longer than those savings. So I can see how the policy could have been helpful if Miss G 
was out of work. 
Ive next considered whether Miss G would have been affected by any of the policys 
exclusions or limitations. I can see Miss G told us that shed had her appendix removed 
some years before the policy was sold. The evidence doesnt suggest that Miss G had any 
ongoing issues from this surgery when the cover was sold, and I wouldnt expect this illness 
to recur. I also note that Miss G previously told Barclays she was in good health when the 
cover was sold. So I dont think shed have been affected by any of the policys exclusions 
about medical conditions. I can see those representing Miss G made a number of submissions about the policys 
alleged limitations in respect of back and mental health conditions. But after considering the 
policy document at some length, I am satisfied such conditions werent excluded, nor were 
claims limited for either of those conditions. 
I havent seen anything unusual about Miss Gs circumstances that would have stopped her 
being able to make a successful claim if she needed to. As I said above, although Miss G 
worked for an employment agency, she told Barclays she was a permanent employee. So I 
dont think shed have been affected by any of the limitations on fixed term contracts. So Im 
satisfied that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her, and that Barclays 
PPI recommendation was suitable. 
Even so, Barclays still had to give Miss G enough information about the PPI cover so she 
could decide for herself whether it was a good fit for her needs. I accept its possible the 
information Barclays gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But 
Ive found that she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. The 
cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Miss G as I concluded above, nor too dissimilar to 
what she reasonably thought she was buying from the information she was most likely given. 
It also looks like it was affordable, so it seems like it could have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Miss G would have declined the cover 
had Barclays given her more or better information about it. 
The representative raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, which 
it says apply to all PPI complaints. These general points include: a claim that the Financial 
Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling 
PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because of the number of significant 
exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost 
good faith meant Barclays should have disclosed the poor value and explained the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances of making 
a claim.
But the representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of this individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in this particular case. But these 
points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the mis-
sale element of this complaint. 
This means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including 
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Barclays should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that Barclayss offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness 
caused is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?Barclays didnt tell Miss G about the high levels of commission and profit share she paid in 
this case. So taking into account: 
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose 
commission gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected 
commission and profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
Barclays and Miss G was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because Barclays didnt tell her about the high levels of commission and profit share 
in this case 
I dont think Barclays acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss G because it failed 
to disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
The representative made a number of submissions about this part of the complaint including 
the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act 
on the complaint.
In summary, it was argued Miss G should get back all the money she paid for the policy 
because: Barclays failed to tell Miss G about the high commission and profit-share rates 
paid; the low claims ratio; and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. It was submitted that 
these things meant the policy was poor value and I should find that Miss G wouldnt have 
taken out the policy had she known about the level of commission. It was further submitted 
that Miss G should receive a refund of all the premiums paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
the Supreme Courts judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
a court would have a range of powers available under section 140B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a 
consumer would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; 
and
the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge 
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance 
about mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipTaking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, at this stage, my role as 
an ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by Barclays not disclosing the high level of 
commission before the policy was sold.
I am also mindful of the following: 
the FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by 
the consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, 
plus interest in order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose 
the level of commission; and
refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order 
which, in my view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under 
section 140B of the Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness.  
I am not, as the representative suggests, driven to conclude that the policy wouldnt have 
been purchased but for the failure to disclose the level of commission, for the reasons Ive 
given above. I think it was fair for Barclays to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs 
guidance and return some of the money Miss G paid for the PPI policy. 
I consider this fairly removes the source of the unfairness. This is because it leaves Miss G 
with the policy Ive concluded above would still have been taken out if Barclays had done 
everything it should have done, but with lower commission and profit share levels.
So I consider that Barclayss offer of payment of an amount equivalent to the commission 
and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where 
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont uphold the mis-sale element of the complaint or make any award for this 
part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that Barclays 
Bank UK PLC should pay Miss G an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable) if it 
hasnt already done so.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 December 2021.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman