DRN-3875881
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as A, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC delayed the 
opening of its Bounce Back Loan (BBL) by approximately a year and a half.
As complaint is brought to this service by one its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr B.
What happened
A wanted to apply for a BBL in 2020. But before A could do so, it needed to apply for a 
business current account (BCA), which could then be used to service any BBL which A 
might then successfully apply for. However, Lloyds didnt process As application for a BCA 
in a timely manner. This led to A raising a complaint against Lloyds which was ultimately 
considered by this service, wherein the complaint was resolved in As favour. This led to 
Lloyds opening a BCA for A in December 2021.
Following the opening of the BCA, A successfully applied to Lloyds for a BBL, the funds from 
which it received in January 2022. But Mr B felt that Lloyds had unfairly delayed the opening 
of the BBL by their delaying the opening of the BCA, and that A had incurred consequential 
losses as a result. Mr B wasnt happy about this, so he raised a complaint on As behalf.
Lloyds looked at As complaint. They accepted that A had been inconvenienced by the delay 
in opening the BBL, and they apologised for this and made a payment of £150 to A as 
compensation for that inconvenience. But Lloyds noted that A had committed to the costs it 
now sought to reclaim before its application for a BCA had been approved, and so didnt feel 
they should fairly be asked to reimburse those costs. Mr B wasnt satisfied with Lloyds 
response, so he referred As complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They didnt feel As claim for consequential 
losses should fairly be met by Lloyds, and so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr B remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I've carefully considered what Mr B has said about A's consequential losses, but I don't feel 
there is sufficient evidence to support this claim in this instance.
The losses that A are claiming arise from it not being able to complete a property purchase, 
which Mr B explains happened because A didnt receive the BBL funds it was reasonably 
expecting to receive in a timely manner. 
However, it must be noted that A had committed to purchasing the property  and so put 
itself at risk of incurring the losses it did eventually incur  before it had made any BBL 
application to Lloyds. And while BBL applications werent generally subject to the same 
amount or level of checks and criteria as standard loan products, it wasnt the case that the 
success of a BBL application was guaranteed. Instead, it was always the case that a BBL 
application could be unsuccessful.
As such, it seems to me that A knowingly incurred costs it intended to pay using the funds of 
a loan product it hadnt yet applied for and the application for which wasnt guaranteed to be 
successful. And, in this scenario, I dont feel that Lloyds should fairly be instructed to 
reimburse those costs to A.
Additionally, I also feel that A could reasonably have mitigated against the incurred costs it 
now claims by waiting until it had successfully applied for a BBL  and so until it definitely 
had the means to cover those costs  before committing to them. 
Finally, I also feel the £150 Lloyds have paid to A as compensation for the inconvenience A 
incurred by having to wait to apply for a BBL does already provide fair compensation for that 
inconvenience. And I confirm that this compensation amount is commensurate with what I 
might have instructed Lloyds to pay in this regard, had they not already done so.
All of which means Im satisfied that the response that Lloyds have issued to As complaint 
already provides a fair and reasonable resolution to what happened here, and it follows from 
this that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Lloyds to take any further action. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr B was wanting, but I hope hell understand, given what 
Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2023.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman