DRN-2783081
The complaint
Mr S complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC (trading as Tesco Bank) treated him
unfairly when it refused to provide a refund for goods and services he bought using his credit
card.
What happened
In June 2018 Mr S paid over £3,000 to a third party (that Ill call F) using his Tesco Bank
credit card in order to fund treatment for his partner, that F would provide. F ceased trading 
before the treatment was complete so Mr S contacted Tesco Bank and asked for a refund 
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA).
Tesco Bank rejected the claim. It says the agreement for treatment was made between F
and Mr Ss partner, not Mr S  meaning the relationship required to bring a successful claim 
under section 75 is missing. Tesco Bank thought about raising a chargeback but considered 
this was out of time under the relevant scheme rules.
Our investigator doesnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. She accepts Mr S paid
F, but shes satisfied the paperwork for the treatment is in his partners name, this
treatment (by its very nature) means only his partner would receive it and the
debtor-creditor-supplier (d-c-s) link required under section 75 isnt present. She doesnt
think Tesco Bank has acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances.
Mr S disagrees. He thinks his claim would have been upheld if he and his partner were
married and hes been discriminated against, because they werent. He says people who 
pay for a gift on a credit card should know that they only have protection if theyre buying 
certain goods. He feels he was misled into thinking he had more protection when making a
purchase over a £100 on his credit card. As far as hes concerned, he bought goods and
services and the contract wasnt fulfilled so he should be entitled to a refund. He asked for
an ombudsman to review the matter.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this matter on 8 March 2021. Having considered the 
available evidence, I was not minded to uphold the complaint. My reasons werent quite the 
same as the investigators however and I thought it was fair to let the parties see my 
provisional findings and make further submissions (if they wanted to) before I made my final 
decision. My provisional findings are reproduced below (in italics for ease of reference). 
Im sorry to hear about the issues that Mr S and his partner had with F. I should make it clear
at the outset however that its not within my remit to make a judgement about F in this
decision. My role is to consider Tesco Banks response to Mr Ss complaint and I make my
decision based on what I consider to be fair and reasonable in all of the circumstances 
taking relevant law into account, amongst other things.
section 75
Section 75 provides that the borrower under a credit agreement has an equal right to claim
against the credit provider if there is a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the
supplier of goods or services, in certain circumstances. So, Ive considered section 75 when
Ive looked at whether Tesco Bank has taken appropriate steps in relation to this complaint.
The requirements set out under section 75 are strict. Im satisfied that one of those
requirements is there must be a valid d-c-s link. Section 75 says
If the debtor under a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement falling within section 12(b) or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against the 
creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
A d-c-s agreement (for our purposes) is defined under section 12(c) of the CCA as
An un-restricted use credit agreement which is made by the creditor under pre-existing
arrangements between himself and a person (the supplier) other than the debtor in the
knowledge that the credit is to be used to finance a transaction between the debtor and
supplier
Im satisfied that Tesco Bank is the creditor and Mr S is the debtor here (as Mr S paid for
the treatment using credit provided by Tesco ). So, for the d-c-s relationship required
under section 75 to be present, Mr S must also have the necessary relationship with F, the
supplier.
Having seen a copy of the treatment plan, which sets out in detail the treatment to be
provided with a breakdown of the estimated cost, Im satisfied this is in the sole name of Mr
Ss partner. I accept that wont always mean that there isnt a valid d-c-s link. In some
instances, where an agreement relates to joint affairs - such as the purchase of something
that will be used by two parties, for example - its possible that the person who pays for
goods or services may receive a direct benefit from an agreement thats in the name of
someone else. I am not persuaded however that I can reasonably find thats the case here.
Given the nature of this particular treatment, I cant reasonably conclude that anyone other 
than Mr Ss partner contracted with F. Im satisfied the treatment was specific to her and she 
alone would consent to and receive it. As far as I can see, Mr S received no goods or 
services from F and he wasnt party to the relevant agreement.
Im afraid this means the d-c-s relationship required under section 75 isnt present. And I
cant fairly find it was wrong of Tesco Bank to reject the claim that Mr S made under section 
75 in this situation. I understand Mr S thinks things might have been different if he and his 
partner were married and hes been discriminated against as a result. I want to assure him 
that his marital status is not relevant and the outcome would have been the same if they 
were married.
chargeback
Chargeback is a process that allows a customer to ask for a transaction to be reversed if
theres an issue with the goods or services theyve paid for. Theres no automatic right to a
chargeback but we generally think a financial business should attempt one if theres a
reasonable chance of success.
Whether a chargeback succeeds or not is decided under the card scheme rules. Its for the
financial business to decide if a chargeback is likely to succeed - albeit wed expect it tomake that assessment on a reasonable basis. So, Ive considered whether Tesco Bank
followed the rules of the relevant scheme (which is Visa here) when it decided not to raise a
chargeback. Just to be clear however, Im not deciding on the merits of any claim that Mr S
might have against F.
Ive considered the relevant scheme rules. Im satisfied a chargeback must be brought within
120 calendar days of either the date of the transaction or the date the services or
merchandise were received - subject to a maximum time limit of 540 calendar days from the
date of the transaction.
Mr S told us he made the relevant payment on 6 June 2018. Im satisfied this means the 540
day longstop time limit would have run out in November 2019. Mr S didnt contact Tesco
Bank until 28 February 2020 so a chargeback request was out of time at that point - under
the timeframes allowed in the relevant scheme rules. 
I realise this probably feels unfair to Mr S. As I understand it, he contacted Tesco Bank the 
same day that he discovered F had ceased trading and he couldnt have done so any earlier. 
Unfortunately, that doesnt extend the time under the scheme rules and I cant fairly find it 
was unreasonable of Tesco Bank to decline a chargeback in this situation.
I realise my provisional conclusions are likely to come as a disappointment to Mr S, as this
isnt the outcome he hoped for. I appreciate he feels strongly that Tesco Bank should
provide a refund  especially since F is no longer trading. But, for the reasons Ive explained,
I am not persuaded that a chargeback would have been successful and Im satisfied the
relevant d-c-s link required for a successful claim under section 75 isnt present. So, I dont
think it would be fair or reasonable to require Tesco Bank to provide a refund or do anything
further.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I invited the parties to consider my provisional decision and let me have any further
comments or evidence by 22 March 2021. Tesco Bank has not objected or added anything 
further. Mr S is disappointed with my provisional conclusions. He thinks its unfair that the 
public are not made more aware that some credit card purchases do not fall within the 
criteria set out under section 75. And he feels lenders, such as Tesco Bank, should do more 
to inform customers that they may be left without protection on certain purchases if a 
company shuts down.  
I have a great deal of sympathy for the situation Mr S finds himself in but, for the reasons I 
explained in my provisional decision, I remain of the view that a chargeback would probably 
have been unsuccessful and the d-c-s link required for a successful claim under section 75 
isnt present here. I see no reasonable grounds to depart from my provisional conclusions so 
I cant reasonably require Tesco Bank to provide a refund or do anything further. 
I realise this decision is likely to disappoint Mr S, but he doesnt have to accept what Ive 
said  in which case, it remains open to him to pursue the matter through the courts or by 
any other means available.    
 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my decision is I do not uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2021.
 
Claire Jackson
Ombudsman