DRN-3176332
The complaint
Mrs R would like to make a complaint about a mortgage repayment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy that she says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold to her and the late Mr R.
The policy was sold in 1990, and amended in 1991, and 1992.
Mrs R is supported in her complaint by her son  Mr R (Jnr).
What happened
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that it should be upheld.
Mr R (Jnr) asked for a final decision on the complaint, as he disagreed with the date that the 
MPPI was sold. So, the complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs R and the late Mrs Rs complaint.  
Having done so, I agree with the outcome that the adjudicator has reached. I understand 
that Lloyds has already made an offer in line with what our adjudicator set out in their view. 
But for completeness, I will set out why I agree that the complaint should be upheld.
From the information I have seen, Lloyds recommended the MPPI policy to Mrs R and the 
late Mr R, so it needed to take extra steps to make sure that the policy was suitable for them. 
However, I can also see that at the time the policy was sold, Mrs R was working on a part-
time basis  and was working less than 16 hours per week.
This means that she didnt meet the eligibility employment criteria needed for the MPPI 
policy  and she wouldnt have been able to make a claim on the policy. So, Lloyds didnt 
meet its obligations in selling a policy that was suitable for Mrs R and the late Mr R. And the 
MPPI policy should never have been sold to them. It follows that I think that this complaint 
should be upheld.
I understand that Mr R (Jnr) disputes when the policy was sold to Mrs R and the late Mr R. 
He says that the MPPI policy was sold when Mrs R and the late Mr R first took out their 
mortgage. He has provided paperwork which he feels supports what he has said. 
Ive looked at the letter that Mr R(Jnr) has provided which he says shows that the policy was 
in place since Mrs R and the late Mr R took out their mortgage (which was 1983), but Im 
afraid that I disagree with Mr R(Jnr)s interpretation of this letter.
The letter states the following;
I am sure youll agree that your C&G Payment Protection policy gives you peace of mind. 
Should you become unable to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment, you know 
that your mortgage payments will be protected for up to 12 months.
The price of this protection has remained the same since the plan was first made available in 
1984, but the increasing level of claims unfortunately means that it is no longer possible to 
hold premium rates down. We have managed to keep the increase to a minimum. However I 
am writing to tell you that your monthly premium from 1 January 1992 will be £4.88 
I dont think letter means that Mrs R and the late Mr R had their MPPI policy from 1984  
only that the policy had been available to consumers from 1984, and the price of this policy 
hadnt increased previously.
Lloyds doesnt have any records of MPPI being paid or applied for prior to1990  and 
nothing else that has been provided to this service shows any evidence of premiums being 
paid before this time.
So, Im not persuaded that Mrs R and the late Mr R paid for this MPPI policy prior to 1990.
 
Putting things right
Lloyds should put Mrs R and the estate of the late Mr R in the position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out MPPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled 
already, and Lloyds should:
Pay the amount paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when it was paid it until Mrs R and the estate 
of the late Mr R get it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a 
year from then on.
If a successful claim was made under the MPPI policy, Lloyds can take off what was paid 
for the claim from the amount it owes.  
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must provide a 
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if asked for one.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint; Lloyds Bk PLC should put things right as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R and the 
estate of Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2022.
 
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman