The complaint  
Mr J complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) settled a cyclists claim  
against his motor insurance policy. He wants his No Claims Bonus (NCB) restored and  
compensation for his losses.  
What happened  
Mr J said he was going through a green light when a cyclist passed in front of his car and  
was knocked off. Mr J said the cyclist said it had been his fault. But, two months later, the  
cyclist made a claim against Mr J. RSA settled this and Mr J lost his NCB an d his premiums  
have increased. RSA said it thought it wouldnt be able to defend the matter if it went to  
court. And so it settled the claim on Mr Js behalf. Mr J was unhappy with this and that RSA  
hadnt obtained a police report of the incident.  
Our Inv estigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought RSA  
was entitled to decide how to settle the claim. And he thought its decision was fair and  
reasonable given the evidence available. The police report wasnt yet finalised. And he  
thought that, as the police attended after the incident and didnt witness it, then it wouldnt  
change the outcome.  
Mr J replied that he thought this was unfair as he thought the cyclist had been at fault and he  
had lost his NCB.  
What Ive decided  and why 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and  
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand that Mr J feels frustrated by RSAs decision. Hes told us that the cyclist  
went through lights tha t were green for Mr J and didnt dismount his cycle at a toucan  
crossing. I can also see that Mr J lost six years NCB and this will have a financial impact on  
his future premiums.  
The Investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide who  was responsible for  
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this  
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made the decision to settle the claim. Did it  
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy? And has it  
treated Mr J the same as someone else in his position.  
Im satisfied that RSA is entitled under the terms and conditions of its policy with Mr J to take  
over, defend, or settle a claim as it sees fit. Mr J ha s to follow its advice in connection with  
the settlement of a claim, whether he agrees with the outcome or not.  
DRN-3777934This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and I dont find it unusual. Insurers are  
entitled to take a commercial decision about wheth er it is reasonable to contest a third party  
claim or better to compromise.  
 
That said, we expect an insurer to reasonably investigate a claim and consider the evidence  
available before making its decision on liability.  
 
RSA considered Mr Js version of events and the location of the incident. There were no  
independent witnesses or CCTV evidence for RSA to consider.  
 
I can see that RSA considered the damage to the bike which showed that it had been hit  
from behind. This was confirmed by Mr Js version of events as he said he had to repair his  
cars grill. And so it thought this would be difficult to defend as it thought the cyclist must  
have been at least part -way in front of Mr J when they collided. Also, it thought Mr J had a  
duty of care to b e aware of cyclists. RSA thought the cyclist was there to be seen and he  
had priority over Mr J. It also thought a court would look more favourably on the cyclist.  
 
Mr J said the police attended the incident and the cyclist told them it was his fault. RSA tried 
to obtain the police report, but it wasnt yet completed. However, RSA did consider whether  
this would add further evidence and it decided that it wouldnt change its decision. This was  
because:  
 
 RSA thought the cyclist may have initially admitted li ability, but he had later changed 
his mind. This isnt unusual and it thought a court wouldnt take the admission at the 
scene as final.  
 
 RSA said the police attended after the event and so didnt witness it.  
 
 It thought that whilst the police may uphold c riminal law, the decision on liability was 
based on civil and case law. And so any opinion formed by the police wouldnt affect 
its decision about what a court would decide.  
 
And so I think RSA reasonably investigated the claim and considered the evidence available.  
I think RSA fairly and reasonably decided that it wouldnt be able to successfully defend Mr J  
if the matter went to court. And so it settled the cyclists claim and held Mr J at fault, as Im  
satisfied its entitled to do by the policys terms and conditions. I can see that this outcome  
affected Mr Js NCB, but I cant ask RSA to restore it as I dont think it did anything wrong.  
 
My final decision  
 
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complai nt. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or  
reject my decision before 9 December 2022.  
 
Phillip Berechree  
Ombudsman  