DRN-3639225
The complaint
Mrs H complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money didnt treat her fairly 
when she experienced financial difficulties.
 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead, Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator. I know Mrs H 
will be disappointed, so Ill explain why. 
Mrs H had a credit card account with Virgin Money to which she was contractually required 
to pay the minimum monthly payment each month. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic, Mrs Hs 
financial circumstances were impacted, and she was unable to obtain any financial support 
from the government. This meant she couldnt keep up with her minimum monthly 
contractual payments to her credit card account. 
In these circumstances, a lender has an obligation to treat a consumer positively and 
sympathetically. And from what Ive seen Virgin Money agreed to accept reduced payments 
(a payment plan) of £10 per month. Based on the information Ive seen, the payment plan 
was initially put in place for three months and was later extended to allow Mrs H time to get 
her finances back on track. In doing so, Im satisfied that Virgin Money treated Mrs H 
positively and sympathetically here.
Mrs H says that Virgin Money bombarded her with letters and demanded that she cleared 
the account in full which she couldnt do. Mrs H has said the letters made her feel intimidated 
and harassed. I think it would be helpful to explain that all lenders have a regulatory 
obligation to send letters like the ones Mrs H has mentioned  even when a payment plan is 
in place. This is to ensure the account holder is kept up to date with the status of their 
account, what is needed to bring the account update, and the consequences of not doing so 
if their financial difficulties persist. Having looked at the content of some of the letters     
Virgin Money sent Mrs H, I consider these to be standard letters I would expect to be sent in 
Mrs Hs circumstances.  
I appreciate Mrs H has told us that some of the correspondence she received said she didnt 
need to make any payment, but she continued to pay £10 per month. But from what Ive 
seen the £10 per month she was paying was still below the amount that she was 
contractually required to make. This was explained in the letter sent by Virgin Money in  
January 2021  for example, in December 2020 the minimum payment due was £14.44.
 
I understand Mrs H received these letters during what was a difficult time for her and that 
she wasnt in a financial position to do more than she already was. And Im sorry to hear how 
receiving the letters made Mrs H feel. But Im satisfied Virgin Money didnt do anything 
wrong when it sent the letters it did. 
When a lender agrees a reduced payment plan, such support isnt meant to last indefinitely  
particularly, when the financial difficulties appear more long term. In these circumstances, 
other action may be more appropriate. Virgin Money has provided records of Mrs Hs 
account. Im satisfied the records are contemporaneous customer notes recorded on Mrs Hs 
account, so Im satisfied the notes fairly represent what happened at the time. 
As mentioned above, the records show that Virgin Money initially extended Mrs Hs payment 
plan to give her time to get her finances back on track. But in August 2021 - after Mrs H had 
been on a repayment plan for some time. Ive seen that Virgin Money had a conversation 
with Mrs H in which she indicated her circumstances hadnt improved. So, Im satisfied     
Mrs H financial difficulties werent short-term  after a period of time on a payment plan, she 
wasnt able to return to her contractual payments. Ive seen that Virgin Money gave Mrs H a 
further 30 days breathing space to complete an income and expenditure (I&E) breakdown. I 
find this was a fair approach. By completing and I&E Virgin Money would be able to assess 
what  if anything, Mrs H could afford to pay and decide the next steps.  
 
I can see that Mrs H made an offer to increase her monthly payment but, unfortunately, this 
wasnt enough to meet her monthly contractual payment and by this point Mrs H had been 
making reduced payments for some time so Virgin Money decided it was unable to agree to 
a further repayment plan. 
I should explain that guidance set out by the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) says 
that a lender can default an account when it has been in arrears between three to six 
months. So, as Mrs H was unable to return to her contractual payments and her account had 
been arrears for more than three months, I dont think Virgin Money did anything wrong 
when it defaulted her account. And the terms of her account  which she agreed to when 
she opened the account, allow Virgin money to sell her account to a third-party debt 
collection firm in these circumstances. So, I dont find that Virgin Money did anything wrong 
when it sold her account.   
I do understand that Mrs H may feel that Virgin Money has punished her  particularly as her 
financial situation was impacted by events out of her control. But by defaulting the account 
no further interest or charges are applied to the account, meaning Mrs H will be able to pay 
off her debt faster. And a debt collection agency can generally accept lower payments  
more in keeping with what Mrs H can afford. So, I find that Virgin Money acted fairly here.
  
I acknowledge that this has all had a negative impact on Mrs Hs credit file. But lenders are 
required to report accurate information on how an account has been managed to the credit 
reference agencies (CRA). And I havent seen anything which would make me think that 
Virgin Money has reported inaccurate information to the CRA. 
Mrs H found herself in financial difficulty due to an unprecedented event. And Im genuinely 
sorry to hear what has happened. But I can only uphold this complaint if I concluded              
Virgin Money has done something wrong or treated Mrs H unfairly, and Ive not found that it 
did. So, I wont be asking Virgin Money to take any further action in respect of this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 December 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman