DRN-3124726
The complaint
Mr S complains to Clydesdale Bank Plc about the service he received when he was trying to 
plan for the maturity of his investment. He says the poor service caused considerable stress 
and worry which he would like to be compensated for.
What happened
In 2016, Mr S invested £40,000 into a Term Deposit account with Clydesdale, who now also 
trade as other names including Virgin Money who have responded to this complaint  Ill 
refer to them as the bank. The five year term concluded in February 2021  the proceeds 
were transferred out and account closed on 16 February. Despite this, Mr S was unhappy 
with the customer service he received when trying to call the bank for information and 
reassurance about the process.
Ive seen a copy of Mr S maturity options form. He selected option 2 which was to close his 
term deposit and to have the full amount sent to a nominated bank account. Mr S form was 
dated 18 January and stamped as received by the bank on 21 January. 
Mr S called the bank on 28 January to check his instructions had been received. He says he 
remembers being told to call back. Mr S called the bank again on 9 February  but despite 
spending a considerable amount of time on hold, the call handler wasnt able to locate his 
account. Mr S says he was promised a call back, but this didnt happen and he had a 
sleepless night worrying about where his money might have gone. He tried calling the bank 
at 2am and 3am, but the calls didnt connect. The next day, Mr S was able to speak to 
someone who could help, but he remained unhappy about what had happened the day 
before so asked for a manager to look into it for him.
The bank wrote to Mr S on 15 February to acknowledge his concerns, and sent their final 
response to his complaint on 9 April. They apologised that their front line staff werent able to 
access information about Mr S type of account, and explained that another team could. 
They recognised Mr S had waited a long time to get through, and had been disconnected 
meaning he had to call back again. They offered Mr S £30 to apologise for the service theyd 
provided.
Mr S didnt think this was enough, he wanted £130 compensation given the stress caused 
and the considerable sum of money at stake. He also noted that even within the complaint 
correspondence, the bank made errors in giving him phone numbers to use which didnt 
work. So he asked for our help.
One of our investigators had a look at what had happened. But she thought the offer the 
bank had already made was sufficient. Though she appreciated Mr S concern about his 
money, she noted that the information hed required was shared just one day later. So she 
thought £30 was enough. Mr S didnt agree and said, in summary:
Hed spoken to four different members of staff, yet only one could give him 
information about his account. The other three indicated it was closed, which was a 
concern.
He had asked to speak to a manager about his concerns, but this didnt happen.
He didnt think the £30 was enough given nearly £45,000 of his money wasnt 
traceable.
He was given phone numbers to use which either didnt work or only sometimes 
worked. 
He also thought our service ought to be holding the bank to account, but instead we 
were letting them off the hook while he had no idea where his money was. 
As an agreement wasnt reached, the complaint was passed to me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that much of the concern Mr S has about how he was treated centres around the 
calls he had with the bank. He says he was subjected to long wait times, transfers, and staff 
who couldnt help him. And that assurances of a call back were not kept to. To help with our 
investigation, the bank supplied us with three calls which I have listened to: 
During the recording on 28 January, Mr S said hed tried to call another number 
which wasnt working and the member of staff agreed the number shouldnt be given 
out. Mr S asked whether his maturity form had been received and the member of 
staff confirmed that it had, so the money would be transferred to his account upon 
maturity. Mr S also asked which number to use if he had any further queries, and this 
was confirmed for him.
We have part of a recording on 9 February  it appeared that Mr S had been 
transferred from a member of staff who couldnt help, to another member of staff who 
also couldnt help trace his account. This member of staff was unable to get a 
manager to take over the call so asked Mr S to leave it with them, and they would get 
someone to call him back. 
However, Mr S called the bank back the next morning. During the recording on 
10 February, Mr S explained what had happened the previous day  where he had 
waited for half an hour on hold on multiple occasions and members of staff werent 
able to trace his account  he said he wasnt happy, wanted to complain and was told 
a manager would phone him. But this hadnt happened, and he was very concerned 
about tracing his account. 
The member of staff explained theyd switched over to a new system and wondered if 
this had caused the problem  nevertheless, they took the details and went to speak 
to the team who handled term deposits. The team confirmed they had received Mr S 
instructions, that his nominated bank account had been verified and that the funds 
would be transferred upon maturity. Though this had resolved Mr S query, the 
member of staff said they would get a message to their manager about the service 
provided. 
Before I continue I should say it appears there may well have been more calls than the three 
we have been provided with  I say this as during one of the calls Mr S reiterates other 
information hed been told that is not covered within the three calls I have on file. However, 
the bank have sent us a screenshot which illustrates the search they did to find call 
recordings  importantly, I note that phone number they searched for matches the phone 
number we have on file for Mr S, the date range they checked was 1 January to 1 March 
2021 which was the relevant time, but the system shows only three records were found.From everything Ive heard, the first and last calls went to plan and Mr S was given the 
information he needed. However it was his second call on 9 February which didnt go to 
plan. 
What we now know is that Mr S product type was not one that was visible to all staff using 
the front line systems when taking incoming calls  instead, their staff had to contact a 
different department to get the information needed. While this was not helpful for Mr S, I 
understand that there can be complexities to systems which can be difficult to overcome for 
a variety of reasons, so the important thing is instead how they dealt with this issue for him. 
The member of staff concluded the call on 9 February by asking Mr S whether hed leave it 
with them and theyd get someone to call him back. Mr S agreed. This call ended at around 
2:12pm. But it was the next morning at 9:20am that Mr S called back. I dont think it was 
unreasonable that a manager from the bank hadnt called Mr S back before his further call in 
given it was only a few working hours that had passed by.
I appreciate Mr S was anxious throughout the night, but I dont agree that this means the £30 
offer ought to be increased. I say that because on 28 January Mr S had already been told 
that the bank had received his instructions, and so on 9 February he was again calling 
ahead of maturity, so there wasnt going to be anything new to be told  and during the call 
on 10 February, it was clear Mr S was just calling again to check his instructions had been 
received as there was no other information sought  so this was the same content that had 
been addressed on 28 January. I dont know why Mr S decided to call the bank on 
9 February, but I dont have any evidence to suggest that he had been asked to call back as 
he recalls. 
I appreciate Mr S may have been given a phone number that wasnt working  this might 
have been to do with the change between Virgin Money and Clydesdale as he mentioned, or 
perhaps to do with the pressure placed on helplines during the change in working conditions 
brought about by the pandemic  but given he was able to speak to the bank on an 
alternative number, and that a member of staff confirmed it was one he could use again, I 
dont think this is something the bank also needs to compensate him for. 
In conclusion, I agree the bank could have handled Mr S call on 9 February better  with 
hindsight it seems the member of staff ought to have asked the right team to help Mr S with 
his query  but I think the apology given and the £30 offer is enough to recognise this. I dont 
think the offer needs to be any more given Mr S got the information he wanted the following 
morning, and that information was largely the same that he had been told nearly two weeks 
prior.
 
My final decision
For the reasons explained, I think the offer made is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  unless they have already done so, I direct Clydesdale Bank Plc to pay £30 
for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 June 2022.
 
Aimee Stanton
Ombudsman