DRN-3853382
The complaint
Ms H is unhappy that BUPA Insurance Limited (BUPA) didnt refund the entire annual 
premium from her policy when it was cancelled.
What happened
Ms H took out an annual private medical insurance policy with BUPA which covered 
her and her son from 1 March 2021 to 28 February 2022.
She asked for the policy to be cancelled on 1 February 2002 and as this happened 
before the policy had expired, BUPA refunded Ms H with £247.07 for the remainder 
of the term. 
Ms H was unhappy and wanted the full premium shed paid as she hadnt made any 
claims throughout the term of the policy. BUPA said the refund is made on a pro rata 
basis and is not backdated in line with the policy terms and conditions.
Ms H didnt agree and brought the complaint to this service.
After investigating, our investigator concluded the complaint should not be upheld. 
This is because the policy terms and conditions are clear in that if a policy is 
cancelled after the initial 21 days of taking it out, the consumer can cancel the policy 
and any refund due would be paid on a pro-rata basis. 
Ms H didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its been 
passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
To be able to uphold Ms Hs complaint, I need to decide whether BUPA refunded an 
amount which wasnt in line with the terms and conditions of Ms Hs policy at the time 
it was cancelled. 
Ms Hs policy terms and conditions on page 8 Your right to cancel state that a 
policyholder may cancel their membership within 21 days of taking the policy out (or 
renewing it) and, if no claims were made within the 21 days, a full refund would be 
provided. And, if the request to cancel the policy is after the 21 days, a pro rata 
refund would be made for any unused period. 
Ive considered the relevant terms and conditions in regard to cancelling a policy and 
I think they are clear. I dont think its fair and reasonable for BUPA to refund any 
further premiums to whats already been provided. I appreciate Ms H has said that 
they didnt make any claims during the period they had the policy. But it should be 
noted that just because a claim isnt made during the policy term, it doesnt mean that 
cover isnt available. So, all the time Ms H had the policy in force, they had cover 
available should they have needed it. 
Ms H cancelled her policy on 1 February 2022 with just less than a month left on it 
and BUPA provided a refund of £247.07. Having considered this, I dont think this 
was unfair or unreasonable. This is line with whats expected under Ms Hs policy 
terms and conditions.
I understand Ms H has also said the policy wording ought to be amended to make it 
clearer. I acknowledge her comments but its not our role to ask BUPA to change its 
wording on a policy document. 
Overall, Im not persuaded BUPA should refund Ms H the full premium for the year 
that theyd paid, as the policy was in force and available for cover should the need 
have arisen during that period. I dont think therefore BUPA has done anything wrong 
in providing a pro rata refund on the policy. It follows that I dont require BUPA to do 
anything further. 
For these reasons, I dont uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Ms Hs complaint against BUPA Insurance Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 January 2023.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman