DRN-4412144
The complaint
Miss B complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly closed her accounts without 
providing an explanation or warning. Miss B says this caused her to miss out on a promised 
incentive payment from another bank.
What happened
Miss B had accounts with NatWest. 
In October 2022, following a review, NatWest decided to close Miss Bs accounts. NatWest 
wrote to Miss B giving her 60 days notice that she needed to make alternative banking 
arrangements. NatWest closed Miss Bs accounts in December 2022.
During the closure period Miss B had full access to her accounts and applied to switch her 
account to another bank, which I will refer to as C. At the time, C were offering a £200 
incentive payment to customers who opened certain types of accounts and had at least two 
direct debits set up on the new account. Miss B opened an account with C, but NatWest 
blocked the switch process, so Miss B missed out on the £200 bonus. 
Miss B complained to the bank and asked for an explanation behind her accounts being 
closed and why shes been blocked from using the account switching service. NatWest 
wouldnt give Miss B much information. It said it had closed her accounts in line with the 
account terms and conditions and regulatory obligations. And it explained that it hadnt done 
anything wrong in declining her switch application. So, it didnt uphold Miss Bs complaint.
Unhappy with this response, Miss B brought her complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Miss B told us that shed been a good 
customer of the bank for a number of years. She said NatWests actions had caused her a 
great deal of anxiety and worry  especially as at the time she was due to travel overseas to 
do some work for a charity. This meant she had to quickly set up a new bank account to 
make sure she could finance her trip, which was very stressful. Overall, she said her health 
and well-being had been impacted by the banks actions. And didnt think shed been treated 
fairly.
The investigator asked NatWest to provide more information about why it had closed Miss 
Bs account. But NatWest said it couldnt provide anything more than it had already provided 
to us. And it maintained that it hadnt treated Miss B unfairly when it had closed her 
accounts. It also pointed out that during the notice period Miss B had full access to her 
accounts. And that it hadnt done anything wrong in stopping Miss Bs account switch 
application so it couldnt be held responsible for her missing out on any switch incentive 
payments.
The investigator said based on the limited information the bank had provided, they couldnt 
say the bank had treated Miss B fairly when it had closed her accounts and had caused her 
inconvenience when it blocked her from using the account switching service. So, the 
investigator said NatWest should pay Miss B £150 compensation. NatWest accepted what 
the investigator said. Miss B didnt. She said that the amount of compensation doesnt 
adequately reflect the level of trouble and upset she has suffered. And she wants NatWest to 
compensate her for the incentive payment she missed out on. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter came to me to decide. After reviewing 
everything I issued a provisional decision which said the following:
Firstly, banks are entitled to decide for themselves whether to do business or continue doing 
business with a customer. Each financial institution has its own criteria and risk assessment 
for deciding whether to continue providing accounts and providing an account to a customer 
is a commercial decision that a financial institution is entitled to take. Thats because it has 
the commercial freedom to decide who it wants as a customer. And unless theres a good 
reason to do so, this service wont usually say that a bank must keep a customer. But they 
shouldnt decline to open an account without proper reason, for instance of unfair bias or 
unlawful discrimination. And they must treat new and existing customers fairly.
Miss B wants NatWest to explain why it no longer wanted her as a customer. But NatWest is 
under no obligation to tell Miss B the reasons behind the account review and closure, as 
much as shed like to know. So, I cant say its done anything wrong by not giving Miss B this 
information. And it wouldnt be appropriate for me to require it do so. 
NatWest can only close accounts in certain circumstances and if its in the terms and 
conditions of the account. NatWest have relied on the terms and conditions when closing 
Miss Bs accounts. The terms explain that the bank can close the account with notice. 
However, although NatWest doesnt need to explain to Miss B the reasons behind its 
decision to close her accounts, NatWest still needs to provide information to this service so 
we can fairly decide a complaint. Despite being asked by the investigator, NatWest has 
failed to provide information about why it no longer wanted Miss B as a customer. 
Ive considered what NatWest has said about why it wont provide further information to our 
service about the reasons it closed Miss Bs accounts and declined her account switch. This 
service has the power to request evidence of this nature under the dispute resolution rules 
(DISP) and Im not persuaded the reasons given by NatWest exclude it from complying with 
these rules. So, in this particular case, because of the lack of information I cant be satisfied 
that NatWest has treated Miss B fairly when it closed her accounts. Taking this into account, 
I agree NatWest should pay Miss B compensation for the trouble and upset caused by 
closing her accounts and having to manually move her account to C, after it blocked her 
account switch.
NatWest agreed to pay £150 as recommended by the investigator. Miss B says this isnt 
enough to cover the emotional distress she suffered and amount of time she had to spend 
sorting out a new account and phone calls she made to NatWest. Having considered what 
Miss B has told us about how the closure of her accounts impacted her, Ive no doubt this 
was a worrying and upsetting time for her. She was due to go overseas on an important trip 
to work for charity and had to go to the trouble of quickly finding and opening a new bank 
account. But having looked at all the evidence and circumstances of this complaint, I havent 
found grounds to increase the level of compensation. So, whilst Miss B may disagree with 
me, Im satisfied that £150 compensation is a fair amount of compensation and proportionate 
to the trouble and upset Miss B was caused by NatWest closing her accounts.  
Miss B has argued that she missed out on a £200 switch incentive payment from C because 
NatWest blocked her account switch. In support of what shes said she has provided us with 
copies of her new bank account statement that she opened with C  showing that shed 
opened the type of account eligible for the incentive payment and set up the required 
number of direct debits on her new account. So, she would have been eligible for the 
payment. 
Having looked at the information Miss B has provided, and Cs terms and conditions relating 
to the switch payment, Im satisfied that its more likely than not that she would have 
received the £200 incentive payment for opening an account with C  had the switch been 
completed. C has confirmed that NatWest blocked the switch, so it wasnt able to pay Miss B 
the bonus. NatWest told the investigator that it blocked Miss Bs switch to C. But despite 
being asked by the investigator to provide its reasons for doing so, NatWest hasnt provided 
enough information for me to be able to conclude it treated Miss B fairly when it declined her 
switch application. So, Im currently minded to say NatWest should also compensate Miss B 
for this loss and pay her a further £200 compensation. 
To put things right I said that National Westminster Bank Plc should:
 
Pay Miss B a total of £350 compensation for the trouble, upset and financial loss 
caused by the bank closing her accounts and declining her switch application 
Both Mrs B and NatWest accepted my provisional decision. Now both sides have had an 
opportunity to comment I can go ahead and issue my final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have accepted my provisional decision, and not offered any more evidence 
of comments to consider, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my 
provisional decision, which is repeated above and forms part of this decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. To put things 
right National Westminster Bank Plc should: 
Pay Miss B a total of £350 compensation for the trouble, upset and financial loss 
caused by the bank closing her accounts and declining her switch application
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman