DRN-4122067
The complaint
Mr P has complained about the way Tesco Underwriting Limited dealt with a claim for repairs 
under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
In September 2022 Mrs P as named driver reported that a third party had reversed into their 
car while parked. 
Tesco arranged for an approved repairer (AR) to carry out incident related repairs. 
When the car was returned to Mr P, he and Mrs P made a complaint. They said theyd told 
Tesco that the car had an engine warning light before repairs were carried out which they 
believed was incident related. The car had broken down around two weeks after it had been 
repaired and Mr P says the engine warning light returned. 
Mr P was unhappy with the length of time it took for the car to be booked in for repairs - and 
the lack of updates. 
Tesco said it would await the outcome of a main dealer diagnostic report as its AR said the 
appearance of an engine warning light would not have been related to the incident damage. 
Tesco agreed it had caused a delay, but said this was outside of its control due to 
replacement parts ordered by the AR taking longer to arrive. It apologised for the lack of 
updates. 
Mr P asked us to look at his complaint. He said in order to provide a report, an engineer 
would need to dismantle the engine and the costs to do so are too expensive. Mr P says 
Tesco has acted neglectfully as the AR should have properly investigated the warning light 
which he believes was incident related. He doesnt feel it is fair for him to pay the costs to 
provide a report. 
Our Investigator thought Tescos request for an independent report was reasonable as the 
AR didnt agree the engine warning light could be related to the incident. But he thought 
Tesco should pay compensation of £100 for the distress and inconvenience caused by its 
lack of updates. 
Mr P doesnt agree that it should be his responsibility to pay for the costs to have the engine 
stripped as he believes the AR overlooked incident related damage. He says their car was in 
good working condition before the incident and there were no warning lights or oil leaks. So 
he wants an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the Investigator explained, there doesnt seem to be a dispute that there was an engine 
warning light which Mr P reported a few days after they reported the incident to Tesco. 
Photos provided by both Mr P and Tesco show this.
Tescos AR says that the warning lights were not related to the incident damage. We can 
only rely on the professional opinion of the engineer(s) involved in assessing the vehicle. I 
can see that Mr Ps car broke down two weeks after repairs were carried out. Tesco advised 
Mr P that it would consider the outcome of a diagnostic report from an independent garage. I 
understand that the costs to provide this are costs Mr P says he cannot afford. But without 
any independent evidence to contradict the opinion of Tescos AR engineer, I cannot safely 
conclude that Tesco has acted unreasonably. 
From the notes provided by Tesco, its clear that Mr and Mrs P had to chase Tesco for 
updates as to when their car would be booked in for repairs. I think Tesco should have been 
more proactive in keeping Mr and Mrs P updated - and it accepts this in its response to their 
complaint and apologised. For the distress and inconvenience caused, I think Tesco should 
pay Mr P £100 compensation. This is line with awards we give in similar circumstances. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Tesco Underwriting Limited 
to pay Mr P £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its lack of 
updates about repairs during the claim.
Tesco Underwriting Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which 
we tell it Mr P accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple rate 
of 8% a year.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 September 2023.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman