DRN-1802210
The complaint
Mr G complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough to prevent and deal with 
unauthorised payments from his account.
What happened
Mr G says he noticed that a payment of £15 a month had been taken from his account to a 
company he didnt recognise. These payments started in May 2019 and eight payments 
were taken. He contacted HSBC in February 2020 and was unhappy with its attitude to what 
happened. He says he hadnt willingly signed up to a subscription with this company and that 
he must have inadvertently clicked a box to do so while on another online site. Mr G said 
that HSBC should protect him and other customers from such unscrupulous companies.
HSBC raised a chargeback dispute for him but said it could only look at payments in the 
prior 120 days. Payments had stopped anyway after December 2019. It credited his account 
with two payments of £15. Mr G complained and when it reviewed his complaint it noticed 
that the company had refunded eight payments on 1 March 2020 - a total of £120. For 
reasons that are unclear it wrongly thought Mr G had been making payments since January 
2018  a total of 22 payments and so £330. It refunded him a further £210. When it provided 
its complaint file to this service it therefore said he had received £240 (£210 plus £30) more 
than the amount of the disputed payments.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that we would 
only be able to look at the actions of HSBC here in dealing with the disputed payments. We 
wouldnt be able to look at the actions of the company that took the payments. And we will 
only look at the circumstances of this complaint not what might have happened to other 
customers or at HSBCs processes generally.
A continuous payment authority had been established from Mr Gs account. This seemed to 
have happened when he had used another website and his payment details had been 
provided to this company when hed ticked a part of a pop up box. This had given the 
company the means to debit his account.
Here Mr G had been refunded for all the payments. And hed been paid a further £240 by 
HSBC. So, he hadnt made a loss. She didnt think that HSBC ought to have noticed these 
payments or flagged them as suspicious. So, she said she wouldnt be asking it to do 
anything further as the additional amount was compensation for the poor service HSBC 
accepted it had provided including during a call.
Mr G didnt agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has received all his money back. But I fully understand his position about the way the 
payments were originated. And in contrast HSBC says that there is nothing untoward about 
the company he was making payments to and that it could only have taken them after a free 
trial period if he had provided his bank details. I understand that Mr G was particularly 
unhappy with a call he had with HSBC when he was disputing the payments. And I know 
HSBC accepts that it could have handled that better.
I dont agree with Mr G that HSBC had a duty of care here to stop him entering into this 
continuous payment authority in the first place. Or that it should have noted his payments as 
suspicious. It considered it was acting on his payment authority. And it seems that when 
contact was made with the company, then that company took the view that there were 
grounds to refund the money. HSBC itself made a refund error  but in Mr Gs favour - and 
so as set out above he has had a net credit of £240. 
I appreciate that this compensation isnt what he was looking for from his complaint. His 
issue was with HSBCs processes. But those are not something I can review as we are not 
the regulator. And I dont have a reasonable basis to require HSBC to do anything further 
about his complaint for the reasons Ive explained. I know Mr G will remain disappointed with 
this outcome.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Michael Crewe
Ombudsman