DRN-3602865
The complaint
Miss A has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited or its repair management 
agents failed to provide her with a courtesy car under her motor policy following an accident.
What happened
Miss A was involved in a road traffic accident where her car was damaged. She made her 
claim to Admiral on 10 November 2021. Admiral decided to involve its sister management 
repair company (MRC) to arrange the repairs for her car and to supply her with the courtesy 
car her policy said she was entitled to. 
The garages used by the MRC didnt have an automatic courtesy car available so whilst 
Miss As car was repaired and she paid her excess, she complained about the lack of the 
courtesy car.
The MRC upheld her complaint but provided no redress, so Miss A brought her complaint to 
us. 
The investigator was of the view that Admiral were ultimately responsible, and it should pay 
Miss A £300 compensation. Admiral didnt agree it was responsible or that it should pay Miss 
A any compensation, so Miss As complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding this complaint. Ill now explain why. 
Its very clear Admiral merely asked the MRC or its sister company as Admiral described it 
as to Miss A, to organise and manage the repairs of her car. Miss A paid her excess too. So, 
this wasnt a credit hire agreement where Miss As entire claim was passed on to a credit 
hire company, with Miss As agreement and understanding that her claim wasnt now being 
dealt with by her insurer, namely Admiral.
Here Admiral merely decided to instruct its sister company as it likes to call it, to arrange 
the repairs of Miss As. That arrangement merely means the MRC is acting as Admirals 
agent. Admiral remains liable to Miss A for everything that this MRC does in relation to Miss 
As claim under her policy. There was no dilution or alteration of the policy terms that existed 
between Miss A and Admiral. If the MRC did anything wrong thats a matter for Admiral to 
sort out itself with the MRC being its own agent and it doesnt concern Miss A.#
The MRC upheld Miss As complaint thereby noting it was wrong for Miss A not to be 
afforded a courtesy car. The courtesy car Miss A was entitled to under her policy with 
Admiral is as follows:
 Our approved repairers, or another company instructed by Admiral will:
arrange collection and re-delivery of your vehicle
 give you a courtesy car while your vehicle is being repaired.
Miss A said she needed an automatic car because it was what she normally drove. Its clear 
from the MRCs file that no automatic car was available from either the two repairing garages 
it involved in the repair of Miss As car. 
Normally we wouldnt expect any courtesy car in instances where a car was being repaired 
like Miss As was, to be no more than a small usually manual car, but here no one explained 
that to Miss A or frankly just dealt with her policy entitlement for a courtesy car whilst her car 
was being repaired.  
Therefore I agree with the investigators recommendation that Admiral should pay Miss A 
£300 for the upset and inconvenience it and its agents the MRC caused her by failing to 
provide her with a courtesy car when her own was being repaired as part of the terms of her 
motor policy with Admiral. 
My final decision
So, for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Admiral Insurance Company Limited to pay Miss A the sum of £300 
compensation for failing to provide her with a courtesy car which she was entitled to under 
her policy. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 October 2022.
 
Rona Doyle
Ombudsman