DRN-2123649
The complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account. AXA France IARD (AXA) didn't actually sell the PPI, 
but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to AXA as the seller to keep 
things simple.
Ms R says AXA mis-sold her the PPI.
What happened
Ms R opened a store card account in a shop in 1998. At the same time she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance on Ms Rs store card 
each month if shed made a successful claim for injury, sickness or unemployment. It also 
included some purchase protection cover and life cover.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Ms R disagreed with the adjudicators view, so 
the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Rs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Ms Rs complaint. Ill explain why.
Ms R says she the PPI was added without her knowledge. Ive been provided with a 
copy of Ms Rs application form for the store card. It includes a section headed Payment 
& Purchase Protection (PPI). Theres a brief description of the cover, then it says If you 
would like cover please tick the box below. Theres a tick in the box, indicating that Ms R 
wished to take the cover.
Im satisfied that the way that the PPI was presented on the form made it clear that it was 
optional. And I think its most likely that Ms R decided to take the cover, knowing that she 
didn't have to - although its understandable if shes forgotten this, given that the sale took 
place more than 20 years ago.
Ms R has told us she cant remember whether AXA gave her advice, or recommended that 
she take out the PPI. AXA says no recommendation or advice would have been given. 
And I think thats likely to be right, based on what we know about how these policies were 
sold at the time. This means AXA didnt need to check that the policy was suitable for 
Ms R. It was for Ms R to decide whether to take the PPI, knowing what other means shed 
have had of making her monthly store card repayments if she was off sick or if she lost her 
job. But AXA still had a responsibility to give Ms R enough information to enable her to 
decide for herself whether the policy was right for her.
Ms R has commented that she considers the section on PPI in the form is rather 
misleading. Shes explained that this is because although it states that the cover is for 
accident, sickness and involuntary unemployment, it doesnt say that the cover wont be 
suitable if the applicant has other cover. 
Ms Rs told us that shed have been entitled to six months full pay from her employer if 
shed been off sick. But the policy would potentially have paid out for longer than Ms Rs 
told us shed have been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more, it would have paid out in 
addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay that Ms R received from her employer. So 
she could have used those to meet other day-to-day expenses.
Ive borne in mind that Ms Rs told us that she had some savings. Unsurprisingly, given 
the time thats passed, shes not sure how much. But based on what shes told us about 
the likely amount, I think her savings were probably only worth a small proportion of her 
annual income at the time. And although Ms Rs provided evidence that she had an 
income protection plan, it wouldnt have paid out unless she was off work for 12 months 
due to sickness or disability. So taking everything into account, I think she could still 
have found the policy useful.
Its possible the information AXA gave Ms R about the PPI wasn't as clear as it should 
have been. But Ive mentioned that Im satisfied that Ms R chose to take out the policy 
when she didn't have to. So she seems to have wanted it at the time, even if shes 
understandably forgotten this now, so many years later. Based on what Ms R's told us 
about her circumstances at the time, she was eligible for the policy, and she doesn't 
appear to have been affected by any of the main things it didn't cover. 
Its possible that AXA could have given Ms R clearer information about the cost of the 
PPI. But the policy was competitively priced, and Ive seen nothing to suggest that it was 
unaffordable for her. The premiums would have shown on Ms R's store card statements. 
And as she was paying for it monthly, she could have cancelled it at any time if her 
situation changed, or if she decided she no longer wanted the cover.
Taking everything into account, Im not convinced that better information about the PPI 
would have put Ms R off taking it out. So I dont think shes lost out as a result of 
anything AXA may have done wrong.
Ive taken account of all Ms Rs comments, including what her representatives have said 
about the PPI section on the application form stating how a free period can start. They 
consider this to be misleading, as they believe Ms R couldve thought it was a free service 
and just ticked it anyway without realising the implications this would cause as the policy 
wasnt properly advised to her.The section on PPI explains that the insurance covers the store card repayments in the 
event of sickness, accident and involuntary unemployment and death. And it says it includes 
12 months Purchase Cover at no extra cost. Next to the tick box it says Yes I want my 
Account covered by Payment and Purchase Protection Insurance (subject to eligibility). 
Please debit my Account with the relevant monthly premium until further notice. 
I think it would have been clear that the reference to no extra cost referred to the purchase 
cover. And Im satisfied that it was clear from the form that there would be monthly premiums 
to pay for the PPI. So while Ive thought about what Ms Rs representatives have said, it 
doesnt change my view. 
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 December 2020.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman