DRN-3364827
The complaint
Miss S complains that a car she obtained through a conditional sale agreement with 
Moneybarn No. 1 Limited (Moneybarn) was not of satisfactory quality. She wants a 
replacement car and compensation for the costs shes incurred since the car has been off 
the road.
What happened
Miss S obtained a second-hand car in February 2020, financed through a conditional sale 
agreement with Moneybarn.
Miss S said she experienced several problems with the car and, when it broke down in April 
2020, a third-party garage told her it was due to a modification that had been made to the 
car. It advised her not to drive the car and its been off the road since.
She complained to Moneybarn in August 2020 after she couldnt get a satisfactory response 
from the supplying garage. Moneybarn said the issues appeared to be due to wear and tear 
and would not have been present at the point of sale, otherwise they would have failed much 
sooner than they did. But Moneybarn also arranged for an independent inspection of the car. 
The engineer concluded the issues werent the responsibility of the supplying garage. As 
such, Moneybarn said it couldnt help Miss S further.
Miss S stopped making the monthly payments in November 2020, following a payment 
holiday. After she referred the complaint to us, Moneybarn told us it had terminated the 
agreement and took possession of the car.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She was satisfied 
there was a fault with the car but didnt think this was present or developing when the car 
was supplied.
Miss S didnt agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I was minded to uphold the complaint and I explained why. I said:
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law 
and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and 
(where appropriate) what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
The relevant law says that under a contract to supply goods, there is an implied term 
that the quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold this complaint, I 
would have to be persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a 
breach of contract has taken place.
In deciding whether a car is of satisfactory quality, some of the factors to consider are 
its age when it was supplied, how much mileage the car covered since it was 
supplied and how long after supply the fault materialised.
The car was around nine years old when it was supplied in February 2020 and its 
mileage was around 105,000 miles. I would expect a car of this age and mileage to 
have more wear and tear issues than a newer vehicle.
Im satisfied that the car has a fault  it broke down within a couple of months and a 
third-party garage advised Miss S not to drive it. I need to decide whether the fault, or 
faults, is due to a wear and tear issue  which Miss S would be responsible for fixing. 
Or due to a fault which was present when the car was supplied  which would be the 
responsibility of Moneybarn.
In considering this, I have placed reliance on the report supplied by Moneybarn, 
because it was completed by an independent expert. I appreciate Miss S has some 
concerns that the inspection wasnt thorough enough, but Im satisfied the report 
provides me with enough information to make a decision here. Im also mindful that 
the inspection took place around eight months after the car broke down. But I dont 
think this makes its findings unreliable because the car had been off the road all this 
time.
The inspectors conclusion was that:
Due to the time and mileage elapsed since the date of vehicle sale we would not 
consider the faults to have been developing at the point of purchase unless the 
customer does have sufficient documentation and/or evidence to suggest these faults 
were happening at an earlier date and/or mileage.
The defect/s reported are considered a maintenance repair on a vehicle.
I accept Miss S drove around 9,300 miles before the car broke down. And that this is 
a considerable number of miles in a relatively short space of time. But I dont agree 
with the conclusion of the report. I say this because:
The inspector confirmed what Miss S was told by the third-party garage about a 
modification to the car. The report says:
We did notice an aftermarket induction kit has been fitted to the vehicle. We did also 
notice what we believe to be a vac pipe is not connected. This should on factory 
fitment be connected to the vehicles airbox.
And it recommends that, to fix the fault:
We would highly suggest the intake system does revert back to factory fitment.
I note the report also concludes that We do not consider any fault to be wear and 
tear and/or maintenance related.
So, the report is clear that the fault was most likely caused due to the modification 
that was made to the car. It follows that, if this modification was made before the car 
was supplied to Miss S, then the car was not of satisfactory quality when it was 
supplied.
I havent seen evidence to show when the modification was carried out. But I think it 
was more likely than not carried out before the car was supplied to Miss S. I say this because shes been consistent in her testimony that she was unaware of the 
modification until it was pointed out to her when the car broke down. And it doesnt 
seem plausible that she would make a modification to the car, knowing it could affect 
the validity of her insurance policy.
I find that, on balance, the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. It 
follows that Moneybarn is responsible for putting this right.
Moneybarn told us the agreement had been terminated. But Miss S is unaware of 
this. We asked Moneybarn to provide evidence of the termination and tell us the 
current position before I made a decision. But it hasnt replied. I would ask it to do so 
in response to this provisional decision.
And I explained what I thought Moneybarn needed to do to put things right. I said I was 
minded to order Moneybarn to:
1. Terminate the agreement, if it hasnt ended already, and collect the car.
2. Refund all monthly payments Miss S made, except for two monthly payments to 
reflect her use of the car. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date the 
payments were made to the date of settlement.
3. Refund any deposit Miss S paid. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date 
the deposit was made to the date of settlement.
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file or remove the 
agreement altogether.
5. Ive found Miss S was supplied with a car that was not of satisfactory quality. This 
has naturally been upsetting for her and has caused her inconvenience for which 
she should be compensated. I consider £250 to be fair and reasonable.
I also said that if Miss S could supply further evidence, I would consider the following:
1. Miss S says shes incurred taxi costs. If she can provide evidence of any costs 
shes incurred whilst the car was off the road, I will consider whether Moneybarn 
should reimburse her.
2. Miss S says her insurance was voided because of the modification. If Miss S can 
provide evidence, I will consider whether she made any loss because of the 
cancellation of her policy, and whether this should be reimbursed. I will also 
consider whether the voiding of the policy is likely to impact her ability to take out 
insurance in the future and what Moneybarn needs to do to put this right.
Neither party responded to my provisional decision, despite reminders and an extended 
timescale.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party responded to my provisional decision, I find no reason to depart from my 
earlier conclusions. Unfortunately, I cant consider reimbursement of any additional costs 
Miss S has incurred, or any loss due to her insurance policy being cancelled, because I havent seen any evidence of these costs and losses.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited should:
1. Terminate the agreement, if it hasnt ended already, and collect the car.
2. Refund all monthly payments Miss S made, except for two monthly payments to reflect 
her use of the car. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date the payments were 
made to the date of settlement. *
3. Refund any deposit Miss S paid. It should add interest at 8% simple from the date the 
deposit was made to the date of settlement. *
4. Remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ss credit file or remove the 
agreement altogether.
5. Ive found Miss S was supplied with a car that was not of satisfactory quality. This has 
naturally been upsetting for her and has caused her inconvenience for which she should 
be compensated. I consider £250 to be fair and reasonable.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Moneybarn No. 1 Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Moneybarn No. 1 Limited must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its 
taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 April 2022.
 
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman