DRN-3347449
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complain that The Royal Bank of Scotland plc failed to carry out their 
instructions when they asked it to open an Executors Account.
What happened
Mr P and Mr D were appointed under the terms of the late Mrs Bs will as her Executors. 
They wanted to open an Executors account with RBS. They provided duly completed 
account opening forms and an Executor mandate to RBS in September 2020. They 
specifically asked for the account to be domiciled at RBSs branch located at A. The 
mandate stated the account was to be operated on a both to sign basis and no debit cards 
were required. It also specified the contact address which RBS was to use when 
corresponding with the Executors.
The Executors say that, contrary to their instructions, RBS issued a debit card to Mr D and 
sent it to his home address. The Executors also noted this was not the contact address they 
had requested RBS to use and the account was domiciled at RBSs branch located at B. 
The Executors complained to RBS.
RBS investigated the complaint. It said it wasnt possible to open the account at branch A. 
The reason for this was because RBSs policy was to arrange for new accounts to be 
opened at the same branch as the existing relationship was held at. RBS says that the 
existing relationship was at its B branch. It said it had updated the contact address for the 
account. It also accepted it shouldnt have issued a debit card for the account. RBS 
apologised for this and asked the Executors to confirm if they still wanted to proceed. It 
offered to pay the Executors £75 by way of compensation for the inconvenience theyd 
experienced. 
The Executors werent satisfied with this response. They said their existing relationships with 
RBS were for personal accounts. The Executors account was for a separate legal entity 
and shouldnt have been aligned to any existing relationship. They said they wanted an 
Executors account opened at RBSs A branch in line with their original instructions.  RBS 
considered their request but it said it wasnt able to comply with their instruction. It said the 
Executors could use any of its branches irrespective of the branch where the account was 
domiciled. RBS offered an additional £75 (£150 in total) by way of compensation.
The Executors did not accept the offers of compensation nor the explanations offered by 
RBS. They referred their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint. He thought RBS had explained why it wasnt 
able to set up the account at the branch requested by the Executors. RBS had been 
consistent in its explanation as to why that was the case. He noted the Executors were able 
to use any branch of the bank. RBS had acknowledged it made mistakes and had offered 
the Executors compensation for the inconvenience theyd experienced because of what 
happened. Our investigator thought this offer was fair and reasonable.
The Executors didnt agree. They said theyd been able to open the account with another 
financial organisation and it had been able to comply with their instructions. They said RBS 
hadnt acted reasonably. Our investigator didnt change his view. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the application form and the Executors mandate which Mr P and Mr D 
completed.
The application form was for a Select account which is an account from RBSs personal 
range of accounts. It is not a business account. I dont know the circumstances which led to 
that particular account being chosen but on the application form the Executors signed a 
declaration which stated:
We are aware of the range of accounts The Royal Bank of Scotland offer, including 
fee paying and non-fee paying accounts. We are happy to open the Select Account 
as it meets our needs.
So, the application here was to open a personal account. On the application form the 
Executors indicated that they did not want any debit cards and they wanted the account to 
be domiciled at the branch located at A. 
The Executors Mandate reiterated that the Executors wanted the account operated on the 
basis of both to sign and statements were to be sent to Mr P at the address stated on the 
form.
There is no dispute that RBS didnt comply with all of the instructions. It did open a Select 
Account but it opened it at the branch located at B. It also, in error, issued a debit card and 
it didnt appear to have noted the address for all correspondence to be sent to Mr Ps 
address.
When these matters were brought to its attention RBS acknowledged its errors. It agreed to 
cancel the debit card and update its records so that correspondence would be sent to the 
address stated on the application form. But, it said it wouldnt be able to arrange for the 
account to be domiciled at the branch located at A. The reason for that was because the 
account was a personal account and its policy was for any new personal accounts to be 
operated at the branch where the existing relationship was held. But, it did assure the 
Executors that this shouldnt cause them any issues since they could use any RBS branch to 
conduct their business.
So, the unresolved part of the dispute is about the branch where the account is domiciled. 
The Executors argued that the Executry was a separate legal entity. So, there should be no 
requirement to link the new account to the existing relationship. The Executors said it would 
be wrong to do that and RBS shouldve opened a business account.
Ive looked at RBSs website. There is a link there to a webpage with various questions and 
answers about an Executor account. The information states:
What is an Executor account?An Executor account is an account which allows the Executor(s) to gather payments 
due to the deceased's estate before being distributed to the beneficiaries, such as 
the proceeds from the sale of a house.
This type of account also allows payments to be made on behalf of the deceased, 
such as a payment for maintenance of a house belonging to the deceased's estate.
What steps do I need to take to open an Executor account?
Firstly you will need to open an everyday bank account. You can do this online(opens 
in a new window).
Once the account is open you can complete an Executor(s)/Administrator(s) Account 
mandate form(opens in a new window) in order to change the account to an Executor 
account. Once completed drop this off at your local branch with a form of photo 
identification and proof of address.
Having read this information and the request to open the account, as set out on the 
application form, I dont think RBS did anything wrong when it opened a Select account. That 
was the account type requested on the application form and it was also an everyday bank 
account as stated in the questions and answers on its website. The account was designated 
as an Executors account and the appropriate mandate form was completed. I havent seen 
anything to indicate that the Executors couldnt use the account in the way that was needed 
to ingather payments and make distributions or that a business account wouldve been more 
suitable for their purposes. 
RBS also made clear that even though the account was domiciled at its branch located at 
B, the Executors could use any of its branches. 
The Executors dont accept the reason RBS has given for not opening the account at its A 
branch. But, RBS has confirmed that this is its procedure. And, what it says is in line with the 
information on its website. Its not within the remit of our service to tell RBS how it should run 
its business or the procedures that it must apply. We look at whether it has treated its 
customers fairly and reasonably.
Having looked at everything here, I think RBS has acted fairly and reasonably. It 
acknowledged the errors it had made with the debit card and the correspondence address. 
But, it did open an Executors account in line with its procedures and Im persuaded, on 
balance, that the account it opened was capable of being used to carry out the purposes for 
which it had been requested. 
It is the case that when considering complaints our service can only award compensation 
to an eligible complainant. That is defined in the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) 
Handbook in the DISP rules. These say that the eligible complainant here is the estate of 
Mrs B. So, I can look at any financial loss the estate of Mrs B has experienced as a result 
of what happened. I cannot award any compensation for any loss, distress or 
inconvenience the Executors of her estate have experienced as a result of what 
happened.
RBS offered to pay the Executors of the late Mrs B £150 (in total), by way of 
compensation for the poor service it provided. It is a matter for the Executors to decide 
whether they wish to accept that offer. Whilst, I would expect RBS to honour the offer its 
already made, I cannot require it to increase that offer.RBS also explained the reason why the account was opened at B branch in line with its 
procedures. But it told the Executors they could use any of its branches to operate the 
account. It said all of its branches provided the same service to its customers and there was 
no advantage or extra service available at the branch where an account was domiciled. 
Having thought about everything here I think RBS has acted fairly and reasonably. I dont 
require it to have to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold this complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 25 April 2022.
 
Irene Martin
Ombudsman