DRN-3670727
The complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the adverse information that UCFS Europe Company has 
recorded on their credit files.
What happened
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in August 2022 in which I described what 
had happened as follows:
Mr and Mrs G entered into a fixed sum loan agreement with UCFS which they 
signed in September 2015 to pay for a cleaner. The loan was for £1,595 which they 
agreed to repay by 48 monthly payments of £56.50. There were some issues with 
their payments in 2016 and they say that they became aware in October 2020 when 
their mortgage application was rejected that UCFS was recording adverse 
information on their credit file. They say that their credit file was corrected but that 
UCFS again recorded late payments in December 2020 which caused another 
mortgage application to be rejected.
They complained to UCFS and it said that the reason that their account was showing 
as in arrears was due to missing contractual payments between April and August 
2016  and although they made-up for the payments in arrears, interest was 
accumulated on the account due to the arrears that was never paid which caused 
their account to be reported as in arrears. It said that it had asked the credit 
reference agency to update the status of their account but, because their account 
was still in arrears, the arrears were reported again. It said that it again contacted the 
credit reference agency and provided a letter to Mr and Mrs Gs mortgage company. 
It also said that it was writing-off their outstanding balance and closing their account.
Mr and Mrs G werent satisfied with its response so complained to this service and 
say that they want UCFS to refund all of the interest that theyve paid and to pay 
them £2,500 in damages. Our investigator didnt recommend that their complaint 
should be upheld. She said that there were multiple missed payments in 2016 and 
arrears letters were sent to Mr and Mrs G and that there was accumulated interest on 
the account due to arrears that werent paid. She also said that there were other 
defaults on Mr Gs credit file that may have impacted their mortgage applications. 
She was satisfied that it was fair for UCFS to report the arrears from 2016 on their 
credit files.
Mr G has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says that 
at the time the arrears were reported the account was no longer in arrears and that 
his credit score has been heavily impacted and that when the misreporting was 
corrected his credit rating went from very poor to good. Mr G says that this complaint 
is also about irresponsible lending  but that didnt form part of the original complaint 
to UCFS so that issue is being dealt with separately.
I set out my provisional findings in my provisional decision which were as follows:
Mr and Mrs G entered into the fixed sum loan agreement in September 2015 and its 
clear from their account statement that there were missed payments in 2016 which 
put the account into arrears. Theyd agreed to make monthly payments of £56.50 to 
the account and UCFS says that it was agreed that the monthly payment would be 
increased to £65 to repay the arrears in August 2016. But Mr and Mrs G continued to 
make monthly payments of £56.50 so the arrears on the account continued to 
increase until April 2018 when they started repaying £65 each month.
UCFS says that under the agreement with Mr and Mrs G, the arrears were moved to 
the end of the loan so that they wouldnt be charged default fees every month. Mr Gs 
credit report that he provided shows that arrears of less than four months were 
recorded on his account between March to September 2016 and at all other times 
until March 2020 no arrears were shown. The report then shows increasing arrears 
from February 2020.
Mr and Mrs G continued to make monthly payments of £65 to the account until 
November 2020 when UCFS wrote-off their outstanding balance of £53.27 and 
closed their account. UCFS also says that it has contacted the credit reference 
agency about the account and provided a letter to their mortgage company to say 
that the arrears were from 2016.
I consider it to be clear that Mr and Mrs G didnt make all of the monthly payments 
that were due under their agreement in 2016 which caused the account to go into 
arrears and that they made underpayments from September 2016 to April 2018. I 
consider that the missed payments and arrears should have been recorded at the 
time that they occurred. UCFS is required to record true and accurate information 
about their payment history to the credit reference agencies. I dont consider that 
reporting increasing arrears on their credit file from February 2020 is a true and 
accurate record of their payment history.
If UCFS had recorded the missed payments on their credit files in April to August 
2016, that information would have stayed on their credit files for six years so would 
now have either been removed or would be about to be removed. The information 
that UCFS has recorded will stay on Mr and Mrs Gs credit files for six years from the 
time that it was recorded (staring in February 2020)  I dont consider that to be fair 
or reasonable. I consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances 
for UCFS to remove any adverse information that it has recorded on Mr and Mrs Gs 
credit files about their account. 
Mr G says that the key point of this complaint is his credit score before and 
immediately after the adverse information from UCFS was corrected . But a credit 
score is affected by many factors and a mortgage providers decision as to whether 
or not to accept a mortgage application will also be affected by many factors. Mr G 
has provided an e-consumer view of his credit report but it shows that he had two 
accounts that had been defaulted and those defaults could have caused a mortgage 
provider to reject a mortgage application from him. It also shows that a loan from 
September 2015 with monthly payments of £56 - which appears to be the loan from 
UCFS - as settled.
Mr G says that his credit score is now good and that hes had a mortgage application 
accepted and Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that his 
mortgage application was rejected because of the adverse information that UCFS 
had recorded on his credit file so I dont consider that it would be fair or reasonable 
for me to require it to pay Mr and Mrs G any compensation because of the rejected 
mortgage application. But I consider that UCFS hasnt acted correctly in the way that its reported information to the credit reference agencies. That will have caused 
distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs G and I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for UCFS to pay them £100 to compensate them for that distress and 
inconvenience.
I sympathise with Mr and Mrs G for the difficulties that theyve experienced, but I see 
no basis on which a compensation payment of £2,500 would be justified. Nor am I 
persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require UCFS to refund to 
them any of the interest that theyve paid under the agreement.
Subject to any further representations by Mr and Mrs G or UCFS, my provisional decision 
was that I intended to uphold this complaint. Mr G says that he accepts my provisional 
decision but UCFS says that it agrees to remove the adverse information from Mr and 
Mrs Gs credit files but it acted properly with the credit reference agencies and would like my 
decision for it to pay the £100 compensation to be reconsidered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not persuaded that I should change my provisional decision. For the 
reasons that I set out in my provisional decision, I dont consider that UCFS acted correctly 
in the way that it reported information to the credit reference agencies. I consider that that 
will have caused distress and inconvenience for Mr and Mrs G and I find that it would be fair 
and reasonable in these circumstances for UCFS to pay them £100 to compensate them for 
that distress and inconvenience. UCFS has agreed to remove the adverse information from 
Mr and Mrs Gs credit files.
Putting things right
I find that it would be fair and reasobsle for UCFS to take the actions described in my 
provisional decision and as set out below.
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint and I order UCFS Europe Company 
to:
1. Remove any adverse information about Mr and Mrs Gs account that it has recorded 
on their credit files.
2. Pay £100 to Mr and Mrs G to compensate them for the distress and inconvenience 
that theyve been caused.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision before 1 December 2022.
 
Jarrod Hastings
Ombudsman