DRN-3319215
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs W are unhappy that Fairmead Insurance Limited (Fairmead) declined their 
claim for damage to one of their outbuildings. They jointly held buildings and contents 
insurance with Fairmead but, for ease, Ill refer only to Mr C throughout my decision.
What happened
Mr C found that one his outbuildings had partially collapsed, and he claimed under his 
buildings insurance with Fairmead. Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the 
damage and Mr C was provided with the report. Five months after he first made his claim, 
Fairmead declined it under the wear and tear exclusion.
Unhappy with the decision, Mr C complained to Fairmead, but it maintained its view that the 
damage wasn't caused by an insured event.
Our investigator upheld the complaint in part. Although the evidence suggested the damage 
was caused by wear and tear, our investigator thought Fairmead hadnt handled the claim 
well. There were gaps in Fairmeads contact with Mr C, so our investigator recommended 
that it should pay him £200 compensation.
Neither party agreed. Mr C thought the investigation was one-sided and asked for further 
consideration. Fairmead didnt think it had failed to handle the claim properly because the 
delays were due to usual processes. However, it agreed that it couldve provided Mr C 
without more material updates and suggested £100 compensation was a more reasonable 
figure.
The complaint was passed to me to decide.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I realise Mr C will be disappointed, Ive decided to uphold his complaint in part, for 
similar reasons to our investigator. Let me explain.
My role here is to look at the evidence and decide whether Fairmead treated Mr C fairly 
when it declined his claim. Im not a building expert so I wont be deciding what caused the 
building to collapse. Instead, I must rely on the evidence provided and from that decide 
whether Fairmeads decision was fair in the circumstances.
Claim outcome
When making a claim, its the policyholders responsibility to show that an insured event has 
happened. It is then the insurers responsibility to settle the claim unless it shows that the 
policy excludes cover for the event.
Here, Mr C claimed for his outbuilding after he found it had collapsed. Although he 
referenced some wet weather and winds below gale force, I havent seen that he claimed the 
damage was caused by a storm. Indeed, I cant see that he explained to Fairmead what he 
thought had caused the damage.
Fairmead appointed a loss adjuster to determine the cause and they reported that it was due 
to wear and tear, citing the following contributory reasons:
Beetle infestation
Lack of maintenance.
I understand Mr Cs point that the building likely wouldve been built to the proper standards 
many years ago, and its unfair to rely on wear and tear which would obviously have 
happened over the years. But thats exactly the point Fairmead is making. Its more likely 
than not that the building collapsed due to wear and tear  general damage which happened 
gradually over the years. Thats a maintenance issue and something Fairmead could 
reasonably expect Mr C to have carried out to minimise the risk of damage.
I cant see that Mr C has offered any other suggestion as to the cause of the damage, so the 
only report I can rely on to inform my decision is that of the loss adjuster appointed by 
Fairmead. Having considered that report, I have no reason to doubt its conclusion that wear 
and tear was the main cause of the building collapse.
Mr C says the conclusion that wear and tear is the more likely cause doesnt provide 
certainty. I agree. But as Ive said, its not Fairmeads responsibility to determine the cause, 
merely to explain why an exclusion applies. Its Mr Cs responsibility to show why he thinks 
an insured event occurred, and in the absence of any other suggestion for the buildings 
collapse, Im satisfied that Fairmead responded fairly and reasonably to Mr Cs claim.
Compensation
Fairmead didnt think it had caused any delays in handling Mr Cs claim, so it didnt agree 
that compensation was warranted. Mr C didnt think the proposed compensation went far 
enough.
Ive looked at the progress of the claim from first notification to Fairmeads confirmation that 
it was declined. I can see that Fairmead was working on the claim in the background, albeit 
without Mr C being aware of that. So, I understand why Fairmead doesnt think it did 
anything wrong. However, I think it couldve done more to keep Mr C up to date with what 
was happening, especially as it originally told him, incorrectly, that he didnt have cover 
under his policy for the outbuildings. 
I note that Fairmead recorded its decision to decline the claim in January, although for 
different reasons to those given later - it didnt think the outbuilding was covered under the 
policy. Fairmead went on to decline the claim, citing wear and tear, at the end of March. 
Looking at the communication between Fairmead and its agents, I accept that plenty was 
happening in the background. But I cant see any clear evidence that the five-months wait 
from claim to notifying Mr C of its decline was necessary. Therefore, Im satisfied that 
compensation of £200 by way of apology is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Summary
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence indicates Fairmead declined Mr Cs claim fairly and in 
line with the policy exclusion for wear and tear. However, it took too long to tell Mr C his 
claim was declined, and without providing sufficient material updates for him. For that 
reason, I can understand why Mr C wouldve been shocked at the outcome and reluctant to accept Fairmeads decision. For these reasons, Fairmead should pay Mr C £200 
compensation.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold the complaint in part and 
Fairmead Insurance Limited must:
pay Mr C and Mrs W £200 by way of apology for the time taken to decline their claim 
and the failure to provide material updates during its consideration of their claim.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2022.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman