DRN-3217287
The complaint
Miss M complained about Lloyds Bank General Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under her home insurance policy. 
Other companies have been involved in this complaint, but as Lloyds Bank are responsible 
for it, Ive just referred to them in this decision.
What happened
Miss M made a claim under her home insurance policy after subsidence problems at her 
property. It took Lloyds Bank a long time to advance the claim and it is still ongoing. Miss M 
complained to Lloyds Bank about a number of issues which have been dealt with separately. 
Miss M advanced this complaint, which solely focussed on the delay in dealing with her 
subsidence claim between 4 December 2020 and 30 July 2021 and the costs Miss M 
incurred for alternative accommodation (AA). Lloyds Bank accepted that it had provided 
some poor service and offered £50 by way of compensation, acknowledging some delay by 
its contractor in responding to Miss M. But as Miss M remained unhappy she complained to 
this service.  
Our investigator looked into things for her and partly upheld her complaint. Although she 
didnt uphold Miss Ms complaint about costs incurred for alternative accommodation (AA), 
she was of the view that Lloyds Bank had delayed the subsidence claim and failed to liaise 
with the third party which impacted on the timeliness of the claim as well. And so, she 
thought it should pay Miss M £350 by way of compensation. 
As Lloyds didnt agree, believing that Miss M also contributed to some of the delay as she 
wasnt able to agree to some of the monitoring appointments, the matter has been passed to 
me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be partly upheld. I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Lloyds Bank, but Ill explain why. 
As Miss M seems to accept the investigators position about the AA I dont propose to go 
over the finer detail of this here. I know Miss M felt that she needed to move to her own 
alternative AA, and I can understand why she felt this was more convenient and comfortable, 
but I agree that her own property was habitable. And so, I dont feel that Lloyds Bank need to 
do anymore about this.
Turning to the delays in dealing with the subsidence claim I agree that there have been a 
number of delays in dealing with the claim. As our investigator highlighted there was a delay 
in responding to the third party about the claim for a number of months when the information 
that they were requesting was on file and easily accessible. It is difficult to say how this 
affected moving the claim forward, given the further monitoring delays that took place and 
are discussed below, but this clearly didnt help.
As outlined above, this complaint about delays in dealing with the subsidence claim and the 
cause of the subsidence relates to the period between 4 December 2020 and 30 July 2021. 
The actual claim was made in 2018 under Miss Ms buildings insurance policy and the lack 
of progression has caused Miss M stress, worry and inconvenience, especially as she felt 
the need to move to an alternative property due to her health and safety fears.
In Lloyds response to this complaint it offered £50 compensation as Miss M had to chase its 
contractor for a report. But it was waiting for a full report and the monitoring to be completed 
before providing its full response to the third party regarding the cause and level of the 
subsidence problem. Ultimately Lloyds didnt identify any failings in how its contractor was 
advancing the claim. 
But Miss M says that she has made several requests for the contractors to attend her 
property and monitor the damage caused in this case over the eight months that this 
complaint relates to. She just wanted the trees that were causing the problem removed and 
her claim progressed. 
I know Lloyds Bank says its contractors suggest some of this was down to Miss M allowing  
access as she was on holiday at one point and couldnt make another of its proposed 
appointments. However, Miss M doesnt feel that she contributed to the delays and I would 
expect a greater degree of flexibility from Lloyds Banks contractor here, especially as the 
matter has dragged on so long. Plus, there hasnt really been any explanation about why 
things werent chased and advanced with Miss M generally and before the February period. 
And Lloyds Banks response doesnt really explain the overall delay of eight months. Indeed, 
the monitoring took over a year and given the importance of it in allowing this claim to move 
forward that doesnt really feel fair.
Given all of this, and while I accept that subsidence claims can be lengthy, difficult, and 
generally more drawn out than other claims, I still think more could have been done here. So 
I think the £50 compensation doesnt really reflect the stress and inconvenience the ongoing 
delay caused Miss M. And as the dragged-out nature of the monitoring has caused a fair 
degree of unnecessary additional stress I feel £350 compensation feels fairer. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I uphold this complaint. I require Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited to pay Miss M £350.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2022.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman