DRN-3648024
The complaint
Mr N complains that Wise Payments Limited wont reimburse him money he lost using their 
services as the result of a scam.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a brief overview of some of the key events here.
Between February and May 2021 Mr N sent over £13,000 to a payee in another country. The 
transfers were made through his account with Wise. Mr N says that the payments were for 
spiritual healing services and products and that he has been the victim of a scam. 
He reported this to Wise who declined to reimburse him. In summary they didnt believe they 
ought to have intervened in the transfers and said that once an international transfer is sent, 
there is often little they can do to help recover the money. I understand that Mr N also 
reported this to the police who were ultimately unable to assist. 
Mr N complained to Wise who maintained their decision in relation to a refund. But they 
acknowledged theyd failed to log his complaint when it was first raised and offered him £150 
compensation for the impact of this. 
The complaint had been referred to our service and one of our Investigators didnt 
recommend it should be upheld. Mr N disagrees and has asked for an Ombudsman to make 
a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party is disputing that Mr N has been the victim of a scam. So Ive gone on to 
consider whether Wise are responsible for Mr Ns loss (or a part of it). I dont think they are 
and Ill explain why. 
Wise have obligations to be alert to fraud and scams. But the service that Mr N was using 
was to send money internationally. Mr N had previously sent money (to different recipients) 
in the same country that the scam payments went to. And more importantly I dont think the 
activity on the account would have appeared suspicious or unusual to Wise at the times the 
payments were made. 
The account is primarily intended to make international payments. And the activity on it isnt 
going to resemble a traditional bank account where there is more likely to be an established 
pattern of use against which to assess any potentially unusual payments. So, taking all of 
this together, I dont think there was any reason for Wise to have stopped and done more 
before following the instructions Mr N provided to send the transfers.
Wise were also unable to recover any of the transfers after Mr N had reported that they had 
been made as the result of a scam. Im satisfied Wise did what they could to try to recover 
Mr Ns funds, its unfortunate that this didnt result in any money being returned. 
Im of course sorry to hear the Mr N lost such a large amount of money, and Ive no doubt 
that this had and continues to have a significant impact upon him. But my role requires that I 
remain impartial, and as I dont think Wise did anything wrong that caused or contributed to 
the loss, I cant fairly tell them to do more to resolve this complaint. 
Whilst I appreciate this isnt a core part of Mr Ns complaint, for completeness, I think the 
£150 compensation Wise offered for the service failings is fair. Im satisfied the service 
provided didnt impact on whether Mr N would recover any of his loss.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 October 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman