DRN-4217445
The complaint
A limited company, which Ill refer to as G, is unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC transferred its
business current account (BCA) and Bounce Back Loan (BBL) to their recoveries
department.
Gs complaint is brought to this service by one of its directors, whom Ill refer to as Mr K.
What happened
G had a BCA with Lloyds, the balance of which was often close to or above the accounts
£20,000 overdraft limit. In May 2021, Mr K spoke with Lloyds about the balance of the BCA,
at which time it was agreed that G would be allowed to keep its overdraft facility so long as a
payment was made to bring the balance of the account back within the agreed overdraft limit
within a reasonable amount of time.
On 9 June 2021, Mr K made a payment of £2,000 into Gs BCA to bring the account balance
back within the agreed overdraft limit as agreed. However, Mr K later discovered that Lloyds
had subsequently terminated Gs overdraft facility and moved Gs BCA and BBL to its
collections and recoveries department. This led to G receiving a letter from a third-party debt
recovery company demanding the full balance outstanding on the BBL. Mr K wasnt happy
about this, so he raised a complaint on Gs behalf.
Lloyds looked at Gs complaint. They felt their decision to transfer Gs accounts to their
recoveries department was a fair one but accepted that G hadnt received the standard of
service surrounding that decision as should have been the case  including that Gs account
had been passed to a debt collections agency when it shouldnt have, and that G hadnt
received a phone call from Lloyds that it should. Lloyds apologised for these service
mistakes and made payments totalling £170 for any inconvenience G may have incurred. Mr
K wasnt satisfied with Lloyds response, so he referred Gs complaint to this service.
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. They felt the responses Lloyds had issued
to Gs complaint, including that the transferral of Gs accounts to their recoveries department
hadnt been unfair, already represented a fair outcome to what had taken place. Mr K
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 26 May 2023 as follows:
It seems to me that the key point of this complaint is whether it was fair for Lloyds to 
have transferred Gs accounts to their recoveries department when they did. Mr K 
contends that it wasnt fair for Lloyds to have done so, because it was agreed with 
Lloyds during the phone call that took place on 20 May 2021 that G would be allowed 
to keep its overdraft facility so long as a payment was made to bring the balance of 
Gs BCA back within the agreed overdraft limit  which Mr K believes he did on 9 
June 2021.
Lloyds dispute the details of the agreement that was reached between them and G 
on the 20 May telephone call and say that G were told that a payment to bring the 
balance of the account back within the agreed overdraft limit would be required by 
the end of May 2021. Unfortunately, neither Lloyds or G have been able to provide a 
recording of this call, meaning that Ive been unable to confirm what was or wasnt 
agreed at that time.
Lloyds have been able to provide details of internal discussions between the team 
that would issue the final demand, and transfer Gs accounts to Lloyds recoveries 
department, and the Relationship Manager (RM) who worked with G and who 
spoke with Mr K and made the agreement with him. And the RM is clear in these 
internal communications that Gs account should be moved to the recoveries 
department because G had failed to clear the overlimit excess by the end of May 
2021, which it appears the RM believes was a condition for Gs overdraft being 
renewed.
However, I havent been able to find anything in the information and evidence 
provided to this service which I feel provides any definite confirmation that G had 
been told it needed to address its overdraft balance by the end of May 2021.
Lloyds have provided notes from a call which took place on 17 May when Mr K 
explained that G were owed a significant amount of money by the end of that month 
but which dont specify when G was expected by Lloyds to make a payment to 
reduce its overdraft balance. Following this, Lloyds have notes dated 25 May which 
state that Gs overdraft has been extended to August 2021, at which time G will be 
looking to reduce the balance.
Additionally, when our investigator questioned Lloyds about the arrangement it made 
with G and asked Lloyds to obtain the recollections of the RM in question, the RM 
wasnt able to provide a definite answer as to what date G had been given to take the 
necessary action  only that agreement was to clear the excess within a month.
Mr K has always maintained that G wasnt expected to bring its overdraft balance 
back within the limit by the end of May 2021. And given that the notes that are 
available confirm that G was expecting a payment by end of May 2021, it seems 
unlikely to me that Mr K would make an arrangement with Lloyds which provided G 
with no wiggle room should the payment that Mr K was expecting have been even 
slightly delayed.
However, these considerations are balanced by the fact the £2,000 payment that Mr 
K did make to Gs account on 9 June 2021 didnt in fact bring the balance of the 
account back within the agreed credit limit because it didnt account for the monthly 
interest that was debited from Gs account that same day  which I think Mr K should 
reasonably have been aware of and anticipated.
But what I feel maybe the most salient point here is that Lloyds didnt then proceed to 
default Gs account while the balance of the account remained above the agreed 
overdraft limit. Instead, Lloyds only defaulted the account in July 2021, by which time 
Mr K had made further payments to Gs account which had brought the balance of 
the account back within the agreed limit.This doesnt feel fair to me, and I also feel that its questionable  given that Mr K did 
make a payment in June 2021 which he believed had brought the balance of Gs 
account back within the agreed overdraft limit and which left the balance of Gs 
account only approximately £50 above that agreed limit  whether the defaulting of 
Gs account by Lloyds in those circumstances  even if the account had been 
defaulted while the balance of account remained above the agreed limit  was in 
keeping with relevant industry standards.
For instance, standards issued by the Lending Standards Board (LSB) include that 
firms should demonstrate an empathetic approach to the customers situation and 
apply an appropriate level of forbearance. And the LSB standards also include that: 
If a Firm is aware that a customer is, or suspects that they are, in financial difficulty 
but is able to uphold their borrowing commitments to the Firm, the customer should 
be given the opportunity to take action to turnaround the business.
Lloyds may argue that they were empathetic to Gs position and did give G an 
opportunity to turn things around  but that G didnt take requisite action within a 
timeframe that was acceptable to Lloyds. But it remains that case that when Lloyds 
did move to default Gs account, G had by that time taken action to bring the balance 
of its account back within the agreed overdraft limit. And so, its difficult to understand 
why G wasnt reasonably given ongoing forbearance and opportunity at that time.
Additionally, regarding Gs BBL, I feel that its fair to ask  given that the BBL wasnt 
in arrears  why it was moved to Lloyds collections department along with the 
overdrawn BCA? Lloyds have confirmed that when one account is moved to 
collections, its their policy to move all other accounts held by that business to 
collections also. But Im not convinced that such a blanket approach will always lead 
to a fair outcome, given the potentially unique nature of a BBL account holders 
circumstances.
In this instance, G have confirmed that they wouldnt have been able to afford to 
repay the impending BBL payments without the overdraft facility present on the BCA. 
However, as alluded to above, I dont feel it was fair that Lloyds defaulted Gs BCA 
as they did here, and so it follows that I also dont feel it was fair that Lloyds defaulted 
Gs BBL account either. And this means that Ill be provisionally upholding this 
complaint in Gs favour and instructing Lloyds to reinstate both the BCA and the BBL 
accounts accordingly.
Mr K feels that, following the transferral of Gs BBL to Lloyds recoveries department, 
G was unfairly denied access to a Pay As You Grow (PAYG) repayment option on 
the BBL. Im in agreement with this point, and so my provisional instructions to Lloyds 
will also include that they must allow G to avail of the PAYG options it would have 
been able to avail of, had its BBL not been unfairly defaulted by Lloyds.
Finally, Mr K has complained about the standard of service G received from Lloyds
surrounding the events described above. Lloyds have agreed that some aspects of 
the service they provided to G was poor. Specifically, Lloyds acknowledged that Gs 
account shouldnt have been passed to a debt collection agency when it was, and 
that Mr K should have received a courtesy call advising that Gs accounts had been 
passed to Lloyds recoveries department and that a previously agreed call regarding 
Gs accounts was no longer relevant and wouldnt be made.
Lloyds apologised to G for this, and they made compensation payments totalling 
£170 for the inconvenience G incurred as a result. Matters of compensation can be 
subjective, but I feel that these payments do already provide fair compensation for the inconvenience incurred by G as a business surrounding these specific events, 
and so I wont be instructing Lloyds to make any further payments in this regard.
All of which means that my provisional instructions to Lloyds are as follows:
Lloyds must reinstate Gs BCA as if was never defaulted with the balance of 
the account being what it was at the point of default and with no accrual of 
overdraft interest or charges from that point until the time of reinstatement.
Lloyds must also reinstate Gs BBL account on a similar basis and allow G to 
avail of any PAYG options which would have been available to G had the BBL 
not been defaulted.
Lloyds must remove all adverse credit file reporting for both the BCA and the 
BBL resultant from the unfair defaulting of these two accounts.
Both Mr K and Lloyds responded to my provisional decision and confirmed that they had no 
further points they wished to make. As such, I see not reason not to issue a final decision 
upholding this complaint in Gs favour on the basis described above. And I therefore confirm 
that I do uphold this complaint on that basis accordingly.
Putting things right
Lloyds must reinstate Gs BCA as if was never defaulted with the balance of the account 
being what it was at the point of default and with no accrual of overdraft interest or charges 
from that point until the time of reinstatement.
Lloyds must also reinstate Gs BBL account on a similar basis and allow G to avail of any 
PAYG options which would have been available to G had the BBL not been defaulted.
Lloyds must remove all adverse credit file reporting for both the BCA and the BBL resultant 
from the unfair defaulting of these two accounts.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC on the basis 
explained above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 July 2023. 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman