DRN-1571192
The complaint
Mrs and Mr L are unhappy Ageas Insurance Limited declined claims for accidental damage 
to their furniture they made against their Staingard warranty polices. Theyre also unhappy 
with the service they received.
When I refer to Ageas I means all its agents, including any third parties involved in the 
complaint. As the insurer, Ageas is ultimately responsible for a complaint about a declined 
claim.
What happened
Mrs and Mr L made claims against the warranty on three pieces of furniture after noticing 
deep scratches and chips to the surfaces. They couldnt be sure when the damage had 
occurred but were certain it had been done accidently.
Ageas sent out a technician to assess the furniture. He reported the damage to all three 
pieces of furniture had built up over time. The technician also said any damage that might 
have been caused accidently could not have been reported straightaway as Mrs and Mr L 
were not aware of when it had occurred. 
Ageas declined Mrs and Mr Ls claims. They said the terms of their Staingard warranty 
policies didnt cover damage that had occurred gradually over time or as a result of general 
wear and tear. Ageas also said Mrs and Mr Ls claims had been invalidated as theyd not 
reported the damage within seven working days of it happening.
Mrs and Mr L complained to Ageas. They accepted some of the finer scratches mayve been 
caused by wear and tear, but said the larger scratches and chips were damage as a result of 
specific accidents. And they disputed any delay in them reporting the damage couldve had a 
detrimental effect of the furniture. Mrs and Mr L also said the service theyd received had not 
been acceptable.
Ageas said the damage to Mrs and Mr Ls furniture didnt fall within the terms of the three 
Staingard polices. And whilst they referenced a claim having to be made within 14 days of 
the damage occurring, as opposed to seven working days in the terms, they said the 
damage wasnt reported within that timescale. Mrs and Mr L remained unhappy, so they 
referred their complaint to our service.
One of our investigators looked into things. He didnt uphold the complaint. Our investigator 
was satisfied the damage appeared consistent with wear and tear. And that it hadnt been 
reported with seven days as the policies required. Hes also considered Mrs and Mr Ls 
comments about the service theyd received but didnt feel Ageas had done anything wrong.
Speaking to our investigator after receiving their opinion, Mrs and Mr L raised further issues 
with the service theyd received when the technician visited their home. They were unhappy 
hed turned up late and that he started to fix one chip before deciding the damage wasnt 
covered. Also, once hed arrived Mrs and Mr L said he spent too long in their house however 
not enough time inspecting the furniture. At one point they said he even started playing their 
piano. 
Our investigator asked Ageas for their comments. They spoke to the technician. He couldnt 
recall the job specifically but said whilst he might have passed comment on it, hes never 
touched a piano in a customers home. Ageas also said theyd received no other complaints 
raised about his professionalism, and that his lateness would have been unfortunate but 
unforeseen. Our investigator said she could appreciate the behaviour described by Mrs and 
Mr L would be disappointing but acknowledged there was a difference of opinions as to what 
had happened so he didnt feel he could ask Ageas to compensate them. Mrs and Mr L 
remained unhappy and asked for their complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I recognise Mrs and Mr L will be disappointed, Im not upholding their 
complaint.
Mrs and Mr L acknowledge some of the finer scratches to their furniture are likely the result 
of general wear and tear. So I dont consider Ageas exclusion of damage caused gradually 
over a period of time to be in dispute. But Mrs and Mr L say the deeper scratches and chips 
to their furniture were caused by specific incidents of accidental damage so they feel they 
should be repaired.
Ive looked at the terms of the three polices Mrs and Mr L were sent at the time of taking 
them out. And the conditions of making a claim are set out clearly. They say, In order to 
make a claim you must notify the service provider as soon as possible after the incident, and 
in any event no later than seven working days after the occurrence. Mrs and Mr L 
acknowledge they cant be certain exactly when the damage occurred, so Im satisfied it 
wasnt reported within the agreed time.  
I understand that by the timeframe in which they had to make a claim being included within 
the Claims Procedure section of the polices, Mrs and Mr L dont agree the information was 
presented to them clearly. But I dont think its unreasonable considering its a condition of 
making a claim. Furthermore, the same condition is again stated prominently in the second 
paragraph of the welcome letters which accompanied the terms. And on these occasions, in 
each letter it was highlighted in red.
The terms of the policies go on to say, Any delay in notification may result in permanent 
damage and will invalidate your claim. I acknowledge Mrs and Mr L dispute that any time 
passed would have had a detrimental effect on the damage to their furniture. But its not 
possible to be certain of this. Mrs and Mr L dont know when the damage occurred and as a 
result dont know the original extent of any damage that an accident may have caused. And 
in any case the terms simply say not reporting the damage within seven working days will 
invalidate a claim. So Im satisfied Ageas have acted fairly and reasonably when declining 
the claims on this occasion.
I also thought carefully about the concerns Mrs and Mr L have raised about the service they 
received. Such is the informal nature of our service, Ive not gone into detail about the 
technicians behaviour. This doesnt mean Ive not considered everything theyve said and 
Im in no way doubting Mrs and Mr Ls summary of his visit to their property. However, 
Ageas dont agree with Mrs and Mr Ls version of events. I simply cant be sure exactly what happened during the technicians visit. But in any case, I 
must consider the impact on Mrs and Mr L. The specific behaviour of the technician wasnt 
mentioned until after our investigator gave his opinion. And whilst I can understand why Mrs 
and Mr L would have found the behaviours described disappointing, I think had it impacted 
them more greatly it wouldve been raised earlier.
For the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think Ageas acted unreasonably or unfairly when 
declining Mrs and Mr Ls claims. And Im satisfied they made that decisions in line with the 
policies terms and conditions. I also wont be asking Ageas to pay any compensation in 
respect of the service they provided.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 30 October 2020.
 
Sean Pyke-Milne
Ombudsman