DRN-1072276
The complaint
Mr Y says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) alongside 
a credit card in 2001.
What happened
In 2001 Mr Y applied for a credit card, by completing an application form which he returned 
to Capital One by post. At the same time he bought a PPI policy.
The cost of the PPI was charged to the credit card. So Mr Y paid this extra cost with interest 
in line with the terms and conditions of the card. Mr Y thinks the PPI was mis-sold.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint, but didn't think it should be upheld. Mr Y didn't 
agree with our adjudicator. The complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Y's case.
I've decided the PPI wasn't mis-sold. I'll explain why.
I've first considered whether Capital One made it clear the PPI was optional. Mr Y applied for 
the PPI at the same time as he applied for the credit card. To apply for PPI he needed to 
mark a box labelled "YES" next to the statement "Please enrol me in Capital One's payment 
protection scheme. (See leaflet enclosed)". The box is marked. There's another box that isn't 
marked, labelled "NO". Mr Y completed the application by post, without the involvement of 
anyone from Capital One. So though Mr Y now says he didn't realise the policy was optional, 
I think it's more likely that he knew he had a choice and chose to buy the policy.
Capital One didn't recommend the policy to Mr Y, so it didn't need to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have to give Mr Y the information he'd need to work out for himself if he 
wanted the policy.
It's possible the information Capital One gave Mr Y about the policy wasn't clear enough. But 
Mr Y chose to buy the policy - so I think he wanted this type of cover. He wasn't affected by 
any of the main things the policy didn't cover. Based on what I know about his 
circumstances, it looks like the policy could have been useful to him. Though Mr Y got some 
pay from his employer if he was off work sick, this policy would have repaid 10% of the 
outstanding balance for up to a year if he was off work sick. It would also have covered him if 
he'd been made redundant. So I don't think better information would have stopped him 
buying it. 
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr Y about that. Because Capital One didn't tell Mr Y, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that's fair in this case.
I've considered the other points Mr Y has made - but these don't change my decision.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasn't mis-sold, so Capital One (Europe) Plc doesn't need to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr Y.
But Capital One (Europe) Plc does have to pay back to Mr Y any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I don't award further compensation.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2019.
Edward Hardman
Ombudsman