DRN-2835718
The complaint
Miss C complains that Soteria Insurance Limited charged her an additional excess for using 
a non-approved repairer when she claimed on her car insurance policy. She also complains 
that she wasnt made aware of this term when Soteria sold her the policy. 
Miss C is represented in this complaint, for ease of reading any reference to Miss C also 
includes her representatives. 
What happened
Miss Cs car was damaged, so she called Soteria to claim on her policy. During the call Miss 
C asked to use a repairer of her choice. Soteria said the repairer Miss C had chosen wasnt 
one of its approved repairers. Because of this it said Miss C wouldnt get a courtesy car and 
would also need to pay an additional £200 excess. 
Miss C didnt think it was fair she had to pay an additional £200 excess for using her own 
repairer, as it meant Soteria would save money by not paying for a courtesy car. So, she 
complained to Soteria.
Soteria didnt uphold Miss Cs complaint. It said the terms and conditions sent to Miss C 
before the policy renewed were clear about the additional £200 excess. It also said as Miss 
C didnt want to use one of its approved repairers, she would need to pay the additional 
excess in line with the policys terms and conditions. Miss C didnt think this was fair and 
referred her complaint here. 
Our investigator looked into Miss Cs complaint and didnt recommend it was upheld. He 
found that the renewal documents were clear about the policys excesses and said that Miss 
C had been told about the additional excess when she called up to claim. He also found that 
Soteria charged the additional excess to encourage claims to go through their approved 
repairers, as it meant they got preferential rates on the cost of repairs, could ensure the 
quality of repairs and provide a courtesy car to Miss C. Because of this our investigator 
thought it was fair and reasonable for Soteria to charge the additional excess. 
Miss C didnt agree. In summary, she said the additional excess term was unfair and put a 
barrier in the way to claiming which meant the policy didnt properly indemnify her, as insurer 
approved repairers arent as good as non-approved repairers. 
As Miss C didnt agree the complaint has come to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss C has made a number of detailed points. Were an informal dispute resolution service, 
set up as a free alternative to the courts. In deciding this complaint Ive focused on what I 
consider to be the heart of the matter rather than commenting on every issue in turn. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Miss C. Rather it reflects the informal nature of our service, 
its remit and my role in it. 
When Miss C renewed her policy, it was done through a postal renewal, on a non-advised 
basis. Soteria had to provide appropriate information about the policy in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way for Miss C to make an informed decision. Ive therefore looked at the 
documents she was sent at the time to see if Soteria made the additional excess for using a 
non-approved repairer clear. 
The renewal documents sent to Miss C have a section titled excesses. Under this heading 
there is a section for non-approved repairers which says: An excess of £200 will apply in 
addition to any other applicable excesses.  As the additional excess has been listed clearly 
in the renewal documents, Im satisfied Soteria did enough to bring it to Miss Cs attention 
before the sale. Soteria also highlighted this excess to Miss C when she called up to claim, 
so Im satisfied Soteria did enough to make Miss C aware of it before she chose to use a 
non-approved repairer. 
In the event of a claim for loss or damage the policy terms say:
We will settle a claim for loss of or damage to the Insured Vehicle. At Our option, We will 
either pay the reasonable cost of repair, arrange for the Insured Vehicle to be repaired or will 
make a payment in settlement of not more than the market value. If We settle a claim by 
paying You the market value, the Insured Vehicle will then become Our property.
Miss C has said the excess is an unfair contract term and cited different pieces of legislation, 
including the Consumer Rights Act 2015, Enterprise Act 2002, Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000, the Financial Conduct Authorities (FCA) Insurance Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (ICOBS), and section six of the FCAs principles for businesses. 
Ive considered Miss Cs points and the reasons for Soteria charging the additional excess 
for using a non-approved repairer when deciding whether its fair and reasonable to charge 
it. From doing so Im satisfied it is, I say this because the policy terms give Soteria the right 
to arrange for Miss Cs car to be repaired. And Soteria chose this option as opposed to 
choosing to pay the reasonable cost of repair. But Miss C refused to let Soteria do this and 
instead insisted on using her own chosen repairer. 
This means if Soteria based its settlement on the full repair cost by Miss Cs chosen repairer, 
less the standard excess, Miss Cs decision would mean its likely Soteria paid more on her 
claim than it intended. This is because it gets preferential rates from its approved repairers, 
making the cost of the repair by this route cheaper. Therefore, rather than limiting what it 
pays, to what it would have cost to have the repairs carried out by one of its approved 
repairers, it has imposed a higher excess on the policyholder, in this case Miss C, as shed 
refused to allow Soteria to repair her car. And I think this means its fair for Soteria to impose 
the excess and that the term allowing them to do does not cause a significant imbalance in 
the rights of the parties. It follows that Im not persuaded its an unfair term or contrary to any 
other rules, legislation of good practice intended to protect consumers generally.   
I understand Miss C has said shes doesnt think approved repairers are as good as non-
approved ones, partly due to the preferential rates. And that this means she hasnt been 
properly indemnified under the policy, but I dont agree. This is because while Soteria may have agreed preferential rates, its also responsible for carrying out a lasting and effective 
repair when it repairs Miss Cs car. And by using an approved repairer its able to guarantee 
a lasting and effective repair, while also managing its claim costs. Im also not satisfied just 
because an insurer has preferential rates with a repairer it means the repairs arent of as 
good a standard. For these reasons and what Ive said above, Im satisfied its fair and 
reasonable for Soteria to charge the additional excess. It follows that Im therefore not going 
to direct Soteria to do anything else. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 June 2021.
 
Alex Newman
Ombudsman