DRN-4053124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain that Sainsbury's Bank Plc unfairly recorded a late mortgage payment 
on their credit files. They say they missed out on a lower interest rate when they took out a 
loan. They ask that the adverse data is removed and for compensation.
What happened
Mr and Mrs S had a mortgage with Sainsburys Bank. They re-mortgaged with another 
lender in early 2021. Mrs S says Sainsburys Bank recorded a late payment for January 
2021 on their credit files. She didnt know why this was, and didnt get a clear explanation 
from Sainsburys Bank.
Sainsburys Bank said while it was correct to report the late payment it agreed to remove it 
as a gesture of goodwill and offered £50 compensation for poor service when speaking to 
Mrs S. Mr and Mrs S say this doesnt take into account the effect of the adverse data on their 
credit files for about 19 months and the inconvenience this caused them.
Our investigator said Sainsburys Bank should pay further compensation of £100. This was 
for the upset and inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs S by its poor communication, 
misinformation and the time taken to explain what had happened.
Sainsburys Bank didnt agree. It said the late payment was correctly recorded, and Mr and 
Mrs S spent time contacting it because they didnt accept this. It said while it had given Mr 
and Mrs S incorrect information about removing the late payment it had then agreed to do 
this as a gesture of goodwill and didnt consider anything more was required.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S intended to re-mortgage in January 2021. Sainsburys Bank provided its notes 
which say that Mrs S cancelled the direct debit for their mortgage payments in December 
2020. 
The re-mortgage was delayed. Sainsburys Bank says it received the redemption funds to 
repay Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage on 1 February 2021. This included the payment due in 
January 2021. However, as the payment wasnt received in January 2021 it was late. 
Sainsburys Bank says it was correct to record this on Mr and Mrs Ss credit files as a 
missed or late payment. 
Mrs S says they made their first payment to the new lender in January 2021 and she was 
assured the redemption statement included all amounts due to Sainsburys Bank. She says 
the date of transfer was possibly a day or two after their usual payment day, but this was out 
of her control as it was Sainsburys Bank that agreed the redemption amount and date. 
Mrs S called Sainsburys Bank on 29 January 2021 (this was a Friday and the last working 
day of the month). Sainsburys Bank told Mrs S the payment for January had been missed 
and was included in the redemption amount. It didnt tell her on the call that this would mean 
a late payment would be reported to the credit reference agencies. 
Sainsburys Bank says Mrs S knew a payment was due in January 2021 and had been 
missed. It said it didnt have to remind customers to pay, and while it didnt tell Mrs S on the 
call that the late payment would be reported this was set out in the terms and conditions. 
It was Mr and Mrs Ss responsibility to make their mortgage payments each month. As theyd 
cancelled the direct debit, they needed to arrange to make the payment in January 2021. 
Mrs Ss call with Sainsburys Bank happened in the morning of 29 January 2021. Mrs S 
would have had time to make the payment before the end of the day to protect her credit 
score, if shed known this was necessary.
While Mrs S was told the January payment was missed she was also told it was included in 
the redemption amount, which Sainsburys Bank received the next working day. Mr and 
Mrs S say they were assured the redemption amount covered everything they owed. They 
didnt realise they needed to make an additional payment on 29 January 2021 to avoid 
adverse data on their credit files. And Sainsburys Bank didnt tell Mrs S this during the call. 
Mrs S called Sainsburys Bank in mid-February 2021 as shed received an arrears letter. 
Sainsburys Bank told her she could ignore the letter as the account was redeemed. Mrs S 
called again in August 2022. Shed discovered the late payment marker when she applied 
for a loan.
The payment due in January 2021 was late, and I dont think it was wrong for Sainsburys 
Bank to record this. But I think when Mrs S contacted it in August 2022, it should have 
considered the circumstances in which this happened and whether the late payment marker 
was a fair reflection of the way Mr and Mrs S managed their account. As Sainsburys Bank 
has removed the late payment marker this isnt something I need to explore further here. 
Mrs S didnt understand how the late payment came about and Sainsburys Bank ought to 
have explained this. 
Sainsburys Bank didnt immediately do either of these things. It gave Mrs S incorrect 
information about the missed payment. Mr and Mrs S were led to believe in August 2022 that 
the error was made by Sainsburys Bank and their credit files would be amended. In early 
October 2022 Sainsburys Bank said it wouldnt remove the late payment marker, and 
offered £50 to Mrs S for poor service. It then it said it would remove the late payment as a 
good will gesture. This was because of incorrect information given to Mrs S when she called 
in August 2022. And because it didnt tell Mrs S during the call on 29 January 2021 that the 
late payment would be recorded on her credit file. 
I dont think its fair and reasonable to require Sainsburys Bank to pay compensation for any 
effect of the late payment marker on Mr and Mrs Ss credit score or their cost of borrowing. 
As I said, I dont think Sainsburys Bank made an error when it recorded the late payment. 
And I dont think it would have had reason to review this until August 2022. But Sainsburys 
Bank could have responded better when Mrs S contacted it in August 2022. 
I appreciate that Sainsburys Bank removed the adverse data from Mr and Mrs Ss credit 
files. But I think it needs to do more than this. 
Sainsburys Bank said Mr and Mrs S only continued to contact it because they didnt accept 
the late payment marker was recorded correctly. I think thats unfair. Mr and Mrs S wanted to 
understand how the late payment marker had come about and I think they were entitled to an explanation. 
I think Mr and Mrs S were caused unnecessary upset and inconvenience when Sainsburys 
Bank gave them incorrect information, followed by the delay in providing an explanation of 
what had happened. Sainsburys Bank told Mr and Mrs S in August 2022 that their credit 
files would be amended, told them in early October 2022 this wasnt the case before telling 
them a few days later it would remove the late payment marker after all. Mrs S had intended 
to take out a loan and says this was affected by the adverse data. The delay in sorting out 
the matter would have caused Mr and Mrs S worry. 
Taking all of this into account, I think its fair and reasonable to require Sainsburys Bank to 
pay £150 compensation (in total) to Mr and Mrs S. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint and order Sainsburys Bank Plc to pay £150 to Mr 
and Mrs S. If it has already paid the £50 it offered, it can deduct this. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 31 August 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman