DRN-4340674
The complaint
Mrs R complains about esure Insurance Limited (EIL) and the service theyve provided to 
her following a claim she made on her motor insurance policy to repair damage to her 
electric car.
What happened
The circumstances of the claim are well known to both parties, so I dont intend to list them 
in detail. But to summarise, Mrs R held a motor insurance policy, underwritten by EIL, when 
she was involved in a road traffic accident. So, she contacted EIL to make a claim on her 
policy.
EIL arranged for her car to be inspected and repaired. And Mrs R was provided with a 
courtesy car while the repairs were completed by EILs nominated repairer, who Ill refer to 
as G. But Mrs R was unhappy that the courtesy car wasnt electric, and the fuel costs she 
incurred because of this. And she was unhappy with additional damage she felt was present 
on her car when it was returned to her. So, she raised a complaint about the above, and the 
fact she felt shed been returned her car in a state that meant she was unable to drive it.
EIL failed to provide a complaint response, and instead they tried to engage with Mrs R to 
understand what additional damage was the fault of G. Mrs R was unhappy with the length 
of time this was taking, so she referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it in part. They were satisfied the 
courtesy car given to Mrs R was in line with the policy terms and conditions she held. But 
they accepted an independent engineer, who Ill refer to as H, agreed some of the damage 
present on Mrs Rs was most likely the responsibility of G. And they felt there had been 
some avoidable delays during the claim process, as well as times where EIL hadnt 
responded to communication from Mrs R. So, they recommended EIL pay Mrs R £200 
compensation to recognise this, provide clarity on the additional repair work they should 
undertake on the guidance of H, and contact Mrs R to arrange these repairs.
EIL paid Mrs R the £200 recommended. And they confirmed the repair work H stated they 
should cover. But as Mrs R didnt want G to undertake this work, they asked Mrs R to find a 
garage near here to provide a quote for the repairs, which they would then authorise. To 
date, this action hasnt been taken. And Mrs R responded to our service explaining why she 
didnt think the £200 compensation was enough, while also stating she had other information 
to supply which weve yet to receive. As Mrs R didnt accept the entirety of our investigators 
recommendation, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I think it would be useful for me to set out exactly what Ive been able to consider, in 
line with our services approach and the rules we work within. I note EIL didnt respond to 
Mrs Rs complaint within the eight-week time frame they are afforded and so, we continued 
with our investigation, which Id expect us to do. But I must also make it clear it isnt out role 
to handle Mrs Rs claim on her behalf. And the rules we work within explain a business must 
be given a chance to handle a complaint within their own complaint process, before it is 
referred to our service. So, because of this, my decision will focus solely on the complaint 
Mrs R raised to EIL in March and April 2023, and the events that transpired up to our 
investigators initial recommendation in July of this year. And when doing so, I will only be 
considering the evidence thats been made available to both parties. So, any concerns Mrs 
R has about events after this date, or any new information she wants to be considered, 
should be forward to EIL first for them to consider. And Id expect EIL to respond within the 
time-period they are afforded, whether or not the claim remains on going.  
I note our investigators view set out their belief that the courtesy car Mrs R had been 
provided fell within the terms and conditions of the policy she held. While I cant see that Mrs 
R has specifically disputed this view, for completeness Ive thought about it myself. And Im 
satisfied the terms and conditions set out clearly that the courtesy car Mrs R would be 
provided for the duration of the repairs would be a Group A car such as a Nissan Micra or a 
Toyota Aygo. I cant see anywhere within the policy that Mrs R was entitled to a like for like 
car and so, an electric car as she wanted. The terms go onto explain that You will be 
responsible for the courtesy car, including paying for fuel. So, based on the above, Im 
satisfied Mrs R was provided with a courtesy car in line with the policy terms she held, and 
that she would always be expected to cover the costs of the fuel. So, I dont think EIL need 
to do anything more for this aspect of the complaint.
Ive then turned to the crux of Mrs Rs complaint, which centres around the additional repairs 
she feels are required to her car, and the service EIL provided surrounding this.
From what Ive seen, including Hs report from June 2023, I think its clear there has been 
additional damage to Mrs Rs car that G were responsible for. So, I would expect EIL to 
cover the costs of the repairs H attributed to the actions of G. And from what Ive seen, this 
is what theyve offered.
While I accept it may have taken longer than Mrs R wouldve liked for EIL to reach this 
conclusion, I think its reasonable for EIL to validate Mrs Rs concerns about the additional 
damage. And, as this required instructing H for them to complete another inspection, I think 
this wouldve taken some time. So, I dont think I can say all the delays Mrs R encountered 
up to July 2023 were avoidable. 
But that being said, I think its clear there were some avoidable delays through the claim 
process. And from the contact notes Ive seen, alongside emails Mrs R has sent, I do think 
EIL couldve acted more proactively. And as G were acting on behalf of EIL, I think EIL are 
responsible for the inconvenience caused to Mrs R in needing to have further repair work 
arranged. So, as I do think EIL have acted unfairly, Ive then thought about what I think EIL 
should reasonably do to put things right.
Putting things right
When thinking about what I think EIL should do to put things right, any award or direction I 
make is intended to place Mrs R back in the position she wouldve been in, had EIL acted 
fairly in the first place.In this situation, had EIL acted fairly, G who were acting on their behalf wouldve completed 
the accident repairs without causing additional damage. So, I think EIL should arrange to 
have this damage repaired. From what I can see, EIL have offered this, but Mrs R has 
refused to allow G to complete the additional work. While I appreciate why Mrs R would take 
this decision, I do think this was a decision of her own choosing. So, as Mrs R doesnt want 
EILs approved repairer to complete the work, I think EIL were fair to allow Mrs R the chance 
to source her own repairer, close to her home address. But Id still expect EIL to engage with 
Mrs R proactively to ensure this is done, and to support her through this process if 
necessary. So, Id expect EIL to contact Mrs R to agree a way forward as soon as 
reasonably possible.
And I would also expect EIL to compensate Mrs R for the inconvenience shes been caused, 
up to the point of our investigators initial outcome. Our investigator recommended EIL pay 
Mrs R £200 to recognise this, and I think this recommendation is a fair one, that falls in line 
with our services approach and what I wouldve directed, had it not already been put 
forward.
I think it fairly reflects the avoidable delays Mrs R has encountered during this process, and 
the time shes had to spend chasing EIL when they havent been proactive themselves. But I 
do think it also reflects the fact that not all of the delays were avoidable. There have been 
periods of time where EIL have needed to arrange new inspections and await reports, and I 
think they were fair when doing so. It also reflects the fact that some of the communication 
between Mrs R and EIL have related to Mrs Rs complaint, and EILs handling of it. And 
complaints handling is an unregulated activity that falls outside of our services jurisdiction. 
So, when Mrs R is unhappy with EILs complaint handling, I cant consider this within any 
award or direction I make.
I also dont think Im able to say that EIL should compensate Mrs R for being without a car 
during this period of time, as the two reports compiled by H shown that Mrs Rs car has 
increased its mileage significantly. So, considering the size of this mileage increase, I think 
it's reasonable for me to assume Mrs R has continued to use her car, even though she 
states it wasnt driveable. I also must note that in neither report does it list Mrs Rs car as 
unroadworthy and so, I dont think Im able to say that Mrs R was without access to a 
driveable car during the claim process. When it was being repaired, Mrs R did have a 
courtesy car and so, remained mobile.
I appreciate in recent communication with our service, Mrs R feels she has evidence that 
shows her car increased its mileage while it was with G. But this hasnt been made available 
to our service to date, and specifically before our investigators view in July 2023. So, this 
evidence would need to be supplied to EIL for their consideration alongside a new complaint 
if Mrs R wanted this to be considered. Even so, I want to make it clear the mileage increase 
between February and June 2023 was significant and so, at this point in time based on the 
information I have, I find it implausible that G wouldve been able to increase the mileage to 
such an extent in the time they had the car in their possession.
I also note Mrs Rs belief that the £200 compensation fails to cover the costs she paid for the 
insurance policy since she made the claim. And she feels this should be refunded, as she 
hasnt had use of her car. Again, I want to refer Mrs R back to my finding above regarding 
her use of the car, considering the mileage. But even if I did think Mrs R was unable to use 
her car, any award I make wouldnt factor in the premiums she paid for the policy. This is 
because whether or not Mrs R was driving her car, it was on risk for EIL and so, the car was 
covered by the insurance policy she held. And even more crucially, when a claim is made on 
a policy, the full premium would then be applicable and payable in line with standard industry 
approach. So, this hasnt factored into my thinking when making my decision.So, because of all the above, I am directing EIL to pay Mrs R £200 compensation. It is my 
understanding this has already been paid but if it hasnt, Id expect EIL to process this 
payment, dependant on Mrs Rs acceptance of this decision.
I also think EIL should proactively contact Mrs R to organise and arrange a suitable repairer 
to complete the additional repair work. But I must make it clear Mrs R herself will need to 
engage with this process.
Again, I want to make it clear this decision focuses on the complaints raised, and events that 
occurred, from February to July 2023. Should Mrs R have further complaints she wishes to 
be considered, these should be directed to EIL in the first instance before our service can 
consider further. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I uphold Mrs Rs complaint about esure Insurance Limited, 
and I direct them to take the following action:
Pay Mrs R £200 compensation, if it hasnt been paid already; and
Proactively engage with Mrs R to arrange for the repairs of the damage identified by 
H as being the responsibility of G to be completed.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 January 2024.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman