DRN-3282392
The complaint
Mr V complains that Calpe Insurance Company Limited should pay his claim on a motor 
insurance policy.
Where I refer to Calpe, I include claims-handlers and others insofar as I hold Calpe 
responsible for their acts or omissions. 
What happened
The subject matter of the claim and the complaint is a sports coupe car first registered in 
2015. Mr V later acquired the car. 
Through a broker, Mr V applied for a policy for the car for the year from 9 November 2018. 
Calpe agreed to cover the car. The premium for the year was about £2,400.00.
In February 2019, Mr V reported that someone had stolen the car from near a workplace. 
Calpe declined his claim, saying that the policy didnt cover commuting. Mr V complained to 
Calpe about that. 
He brought his complaint to us. Our investigators recommended that the complaint should 
be upheld. An ombudsman made a final decision in August 2020. She thought that cover for 
commuting wouldve increased the premium by about £35.00. She directed Calpe to deal 
with the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy and, if they paid 
out on the claim, they should do so proportionately by paying 98.54% of the claim and add 
8% simple interest per year.
In early December 2020, Calpe again declined the claim. It said  that - when he had taken 
out the policy  Mr V had made a  reckless misrepresentation that his occupation was a 
company director.
Mr V complained to Calpe about that. By a final response dated June 2021, Calpe turned 
down his complaint. 
Mr V brought his complaint to us in June 2021.
Two of our investigators didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld. They didnt 
think that Calpe acted unreasonably or treated Mr V unfairly.
Mr V disagreed with the investigators opinion. He asked for an ombudsman to review the 
complaint. He says, in summary, that:
The last period of employment at the care home that he currently has wage slips for, 
is until October 2018.
He continued to work in the family business for a number of months until after this 
period however, without taking any sort of wage.
This claim should have been settled a while ago.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From a screenshot, I find that  when he went online to get cover - Mr V was asked the 
following question:
 what do you do for a living?
From the policy documents, I find that Mr V answered that he was a company director.
His P45 shows that he had been an employee of the family company, but that employment 
had finished in late August 2018. He hasnt shown us payslips up to October 2018, but that 
wouldnt show that he was employed when he took out the policy in November 2018.
In any event, he had said that he was a company director. And if Mr V had been a company 
director, then there would be a record of that at Companies House. I would also expect his 
name to appear in at least some company documents such as board minutes or company 
accounts. 
In the absence of such evidence, I find that  when he took out the policy from November 
2018 -  Mr V was not a company director. The statement from his mother says that she 
intended to add him as a director. But that doesnt change the fact that he wasnt a director. 
And I take the view that he mustve known that he wasnt a company director.
So I find that Mr V not only answered the question incorrectly, but he made a 
misrepresentation that was reckless as to the truth.
The number of penalty points on his driving licence is a separate issue. It was also recorded 
on a database that insurers can check. So I dont find that Mr Vs disclosure of his points 
shows that his misrepresentation of his occupation was an honest mistake.
Calpes final response included the following:
 If we had been aware at inception, we would have offered you a policy at a higher 
premium.
I accept that it is very likely that Calpe wouldve charged a higher premium if Mr V hadnt 
said he was a company director. So I consider that Mr Vs misrepresentation was a 
qualifying misrepresentation under Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act (CIDRA).
As it was a reckless, that entitled Calpe to treat the policy as void from the start, to decline 
the claim and not to return the premium. So I dont find that Calpe treated Mr V unfairly by 
taking those steps. I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct Calpe to pay the claim or to do 
any more in response to this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited to do any more in response to this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 March 2022.  
Christopher Gilbert
Ombudsman