DRN-4207143
The complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc (Santander) wont reimburse the money he lost in a 
scam.
What happened
What Mr M says:
Mr M had arranged a safari holiday which was due to take place in September 2020. A 
deposit was paid, but the holiday was then postponed due to the pandemic. It was 
rearranged to take place in September 2022. Mr M had remained in touch with the holiday 
company (based in Africa) throughout. Mr M was then contacted by email by someone 
purporting to be the safari company, asking for the balance of the holiday to be paid.
In July 2022 he visited a branch and made a payment of USD3,339  his account was 
debited £2,892.78. He said this was declined and returned. He contacted the safari 
company again and was told that due to a fraud on the original account, he needed to pay 
into a different account. He returned to the same branch and the same member of staff 
served him. The payment of USD3,339 (£2,861.88) (plus a £25 international payment fee) 
was again made and it went through. He said no questions were asked by the staff member 
about the payment.
He became suspicious and contacted the recipient bank in New York, who referred him back 
to Santander. He said he spoke to Santander who tried to contact the recipient bank. Two 
weeks later, on 16 August 2022, he realised he had been scammed and contacted 
Santander again, and it was only then that they acted to try to get the money back.
Later it transpired that the real safari companys email had been hacked and fraudsters had 
asked him to make the payment to an alternative bank account. He had been speaking to 
the fraudster and not the safari company.
Mr M said Santander were slow to investigate what had happened, and he only heard on 3 
October 2022 that they were declining his claim for a refund. He then complained. He said 
that as Santander are signatories to the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, he 
should be reimbursed.
What Santander say:
On 10 November 2022, Santander said Mr M requested and authorised two payments 
totalling £5,754.66 which debited his account on 13 July 2022 and 25 July 2022. They said 
the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code didnt apply in this case as the payments 
were made to an international account. Santander said they couldnt be held responsible for 
Mr Ms loss, but a thorough investigation had taken place. Mr M contacted Santander again 
and they then wrote to him again on 30 November 2022. They said again that the payments 
werent covered by the CRM Code and they couldnt be held liable for the payments. They 
also confirmed that £2,892.78 had been returned, but the beneficiary bank had told them 
that no funds remained to send back the further payment of £2,861.88. 
Santander later looked into the service Mr M received and agreed it could have done better. 
In January 2023, they sent a final response. This apologised for some delays and errors in 
dealing with Mr Ms complaint. They  credited Mr Ms account with £250 to compensate him.
Our investigation so far:
Mr M brought his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold it. He said Santander acted 
fairly when declining to refund the payment. He didnt think the payment was unusual when 
considering Mr Ms normal account activity. Mr M regularly made similar payments from his 
account. For example, on 31 March 2022, he made a payment of £5,000 and on 8 February 
2022, he made a payment of £8,000. Therefore, he didnt think Santander shouldve 
intervened. 
Our investigator said once Santander were notified about the scam on 16 August 2022, they 
contacted the beneficiary bank but found there were no funds left to return. He didnt think 
that Mr Ms letter dated 7 October 2022 was responded to in a timely manner.
Mr M didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint. So, it has come to 
me to make a final decision. He said:
- Whether the payment was out of character was irrelevant. This was because when 
he went into branch to make the second payment the advisor should have been 
aware that the first payment had been rejected and queried how he received the 
payment details. 
- Santander should have called the recipient bank and acted more swiftly to recover 
his funds.
The investigators view didnt fully address the poor customer service he received and 
Santanders lack of humanity in their handling of his claim.
I reached a provisional decision which said:
Im sorry to hear that Mr M has lost money in a cruel scam. Its not in question that Mr M 
authorised and consented to the payments in this case. So although Mr M didnt intend for 
the money to go to the scammer, he is presumed to be liable for the loss in the first instance.
So, in broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank is expected to process 
payments and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the 
Payment Services Regulations and the terms and conditions of the customers account. And 
I have taken that into account when deciding what is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story. Taking into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Santander should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made or received to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.  
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment, or in some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.
I need to decide whether Santander acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr M 
when he made the payment, or whether they should have done more than they did. I have 
considered the position carefully.
Mr M has said that the Contingent Reimbursement Model Code means he should be 
reimbursed  as Santander are signatories to it. But Im afraid to say that it doesnt apply 
here. That is because it applies to payments made to a UK beneficiary and in this case, the 
payment was made to an overseas account. 
Mr M made two payments, the first one was for £2,892.78 on 13 July 2022. I can see that 
this was returned by the beneficiary bank  as the account name and number didnt agree. 
Mr Ms account was re-credited on 19 July 2022. Mr M then sent another payment of 
£2,861.88 on 25 July 2022  to the bank and account number given to him by the scammer.  
I can see it as sent to a named person, and not the name of the safari company. It was 
made to an account in New York. Both payments were made in the same branch and for the 
same amount  USD3,339  and were then converted at the relevant exchange rate and 
debited to Mr Ms account.
The important matter here is whether this was a payment that Santander might reasonably 
have considered unusual, and therefore whether they shouldve done more at the time it was 
made.
Mr M has argued strongly that the branch staff who took Mr Ms payment instruction 
shouldve been alerted that something wasnt right  as a similar payment had been returned 
a few days earlier. He says that the same member of staff served him and they had a 
conversation about the payments being for his safari holiday. In those circumstances, Mr M 
says Santanders staff shouldve asked more questions and alerted him to the possibility of a 
scam, but didnt.
We asked Santander more questions about what happened in the branch. They said:
- The two payments were dealt with by different members of staff.
- They took testimonies from both staff members. The one who dealt with the first 
payment didnt recall anything. The one who dealt with the second payment could 
only recall a conversation about Mr Ms holiday and thought the payment was to a 
UK account.
- They showed us their records that said a scam warning had been read out each time.
- They showed us the scam warning text which shouldve been read out.
Ive considered these points  and there are conflicting versions of what happened in the 
branch. Where this happens, I must base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is 
 whats more likely than not to have happened in all of the circumstances here, based on 
the available evidence.
Mr M has argued his case strongly and in detail; and on balance I am more persuaded the 
conversations that took place were as he has described, I say that because Santanders 
staff testimonies lack details, and admit that, with the passage of time, their recollection may 
not be accurate. This is of course understandable. And the testimony about the second 
payment said it was to a UK account  when the payment was to an account in the USA. So 
 I question the accuracy of the branch testimonies. Furthermore, the branch scam warning text doesnt include instances of where emails might be compromised  so that couldnt have 
been covered in this instance. 
Although the payment wasnt for a significant sum, there were some characteristics about 
the second payment which shouldve reasonably caused Santanders staff to ask more 
questions while Mr M was in branch:
- The payment was for the same amount as that that had been returned on 19 July 
2022  USD3,339. It wouldve been reasonable for Santanders staff to ask why 
anther payment was being made for the same amount.
- The payment was being made to a named personal account. This seemed odd when 
it was for a safari holiday. It wouldve been reasonable for Santanders staff to ask 
questions about why that was  particularly as the returned payment was recorded 
as being to a safari company.
- The payment was being made to an account in the USA  which again is not 
consistent with payment for a safari holiday in Africa.
I think that its reasonable to say that if Santanders staff did ask questions, then those would 
likely have led to a question about how Mr M got the payment details and whether he had 
checked them. I see no reason why Mr M wouldnt have completed some checks and  had 
he done so, the scam wouldve then been identified and stopped.
Contributory Negligence:
I considered whether we couldve reasonably expected Mr M to protect himself better in this 
case. But here, I can see that  the emails that were intercepted were persuasive and 
appeared genuine. It did seem odd that a payment was to be made to someone based in 
New York  for an African safari holiday. But the story that the scammer told Mr M about the 
alleged fraud on the old bank account seemed persuasive enough, and I can understand 
why Mr M was taken in. In summary, I dont think there was contributory negligence here on 
the part of Mr M.
Recovery:
I then considered what Santander did to recover the money. Mr M told us he contacted 
Santander soon after he realised this was a scam, and he then - later - made a formal claim 
for reimbursement on 16 August 2022.
We asked Santander about this. And they confirmed the first notification about the scam they 
got from Mr M was at 20.48 on 16 August 2022. I asked for the call that Mr M made and 
listened to it  and he said that he was advising Santander for the first time that he 
suspected it was a scam. So  we couldnt have expected Santander to do anything before 
then.
Santander then contacted the recipient bank at 11.11 on 17 August 2022. We would expect 
a firm such as Santander should make contact promptly   and Santander didnt do that.
So  I need to consider whether its likely that if Santander had contacted the recipient bank 
sooner  would it have made a difference? And here, I dont think it would have. I say this 
because  by this time, the payment had been made three weeks previously. It is the nature 
of such scams that funds are removed almost immediately. So  I think the chances of any 
money remaining in the scammers account were very remote in any case. Santander then contacted the recipient bank again on 28 August 2022; and on 1 September 
2022. On 8 September 2022, the recipient bank confirmed no funds were available to return. 
It is also reasonable for me to say here that international banks arent under the same 
obligations to help in recovery of funds as UK banks are. So  it was always unlikely that any 
funds would be returned in this case.
Therefore, Santander did what they could to get the money back, but it wasnt recoverable.
Service
Mr M has made some points about the way in which Santander investigated his case. And 
made a further complaint to Santander on 21 November 2022. He says they took too long; 
and their final responses contained errors. In other words, he didnt think Santander had 
investigated his case thoroughly. I went on to consider these points.
- I can see that Santanders first response dated 10 November 2022 said two 
payments had been made totaling £5,754.66. It didnt say that one had been returned 
 which it should have. It didnt go into any detail of the investigations they had 
carried out  it wouldve been reasonable to expect it to have done so.
- Santanders second response dated 30 November 2022  also didnt give any details 
about the investigation. And it said theyd contacted the recipient bank and obtained 
a refund of the first payment of £2,892.78  but in fact, this amount had been 
automatically returned on 19 July 2022  as account name and number disagree- 
and had nothing to do with any actions of Santander.
- There were occasions when Mr M had to call Santander for updates when the line 
disconnected, and Mr M was put on hold.
- Mr M was given incorrect information about an appeal. 
Santander considered these points and issued a final response on 4 January 2023  we 
asked for a copy of that. It apologised for the way in which Mr Ms complaint had been 
handled. They said there had been some errors and delays. But  they didnt investigate the 
scam case any further. They paid compensation of £250. Ive considered whether this was a 
reasonable response from Santander  and on balance, Im persuaded that it was. 
Mr M has lost a lot of money. And in summary, Im persuaded that there is evidence here to 
say it was reasonable to expect Santander to have asked more questions about the second 
payment. And if they had, the scam wouldve been discovered and the payment wouldnt 
have been made. Therefore, Santander should refund the amount of the second payment - 
£2,861.88, plus the payment fee of £25. And pay interest at 8% per annum simple from 25 
July 2022 to the date of settlement. Ive considered whether it would be reasonable to ask 
Santander to pay an amount for distress and inconvenience  but here, Im persuaded that 
the compensation already paid (£250) is sufficient.
Responses to the provisional decision:
Both Santander and Mr M agreed with the provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.As both Santander and Mr M agreed with the provisional decision, I wont be departing from 
it in my final decision.
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to:
- Refund £2,861.88, plus £25.
- Pay interest at 8% per year simple on the refund from 25 July 2022 to the date of 
settlement.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman