DRN-2324054
The complaint
Miss D complains that Vanquis Bank Limited irresponsibly lent to her and unlawfully applied 
a default to her credit file.
What happened
Vanquis records first show Miss D having an outstanding balance on her credit card in April 
2013. Her credit limit at this time was £250. In July 2014, this limit was increased to £1,000, 
in December 2014 it was then increased to £2,000 and then to £3,000 in May 2015. In mid-
2016 Miss D fell behind on her payments, so Vanquis reduced her limit to £2,300 and she 
entered into a three-month payment plan, which she completed. In October 2017 the limit 
was returned to £3,000.
Miss D fell behind on her payments again in 2018. She made a payment in February 2018 to 
meet her January 2018 minimum payment, but she didnt make any payments towards the 
card after this. In May 2018 Vanquis defaulted the account and it later sold the debt. 
Miss D complains that Vanquis didnt do adequate assessments when she applied for this 
card. She says the money was irresponsibly lent to her. And she says that the default was 
unlawfully applied, as she didnt receive a Default Notice. She also complained that the 
credit increases contributed to her indebtedness and financial distress.
Vanquis didnt uphold Miss Ds complaint. It said that had very limited information from when 
the card was taken out, as it was more than six years ago, so it wasnt able to investigate her 
complaint about when the card was opened. However it was satisfied the credit increases 
were appropriate and that the relevant checks were carried out. It had a copy of the Default 
Notice it sent to Miss D and also said that credit limit increases were offered, so she couldve 
declined them.
Miss D asked out service to look into the matter. She said she was in financial difficulty from 
2017 to date. She said she missed monthly payments on many other accounts and had 
multiple defaults registered in her credit file. She considered Vanquis shouldve seen these 
and not lent her further money. 
Our investigator didnt think we could look into what happened when Miss D applied for the 
card, due to the time passed. But she did look into the credit increases and the default. She 
didnt think Vanquis had lent irresponsibly based on Miss Ds credit history at the time of the 
increases. And she said she could see Vanquis had asked Miss D to engage with it over the 
outstanding debt in 2018 and had given her a warning about applying the default when she 
didnt respond to it. So she didnt uphold the complaint.
Miss D asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint. She said that while she did 
maintain her payments, she struggled through cycled patterns of borrowing  which Vanquis 
ignored. She argued that she became aware of her complaint within the time-limit after 
discovering her rights and having difficulties maintaining payments. And that Vanquis didnt 
do adequate checks before letting her take out the card and then increasing her limit.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator explained to Miss D why she didnt think we could look into what checks 
were carried out when Miss D took out this card. Im in agreement with our investigator that 
this part of the complaint is time-barred.
The rules under which we operate provide that I cannot consider a complaint which is not 
made within six years of the event complained of, or if later, within three years after the 
complainant was aware, or ought reasonably to have been aware, of cause for complaint. 
Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R can be found in the regulators handbook of rules and 
guidance.
Miss D says she took out the card in September 2008. Vanquis doesnt have records of this 
card prior to April 2013. But in any event, as Miss D hasnt provided any evidence she 
complained before November 2019, regardless of whether the account started in September 
2008 or April 2013, she would be out of time under the six-year rule. As the credit limit 
increases and the default being applied all happened within six years of Miss D complaining, 
its accepted these are in time.
The three-year rule only comes into effect if it extends the time for complaining beyond the 
primary six-year period. So Ive thought about when Miss D ought to have first been aware of 
her complaint about the card itself being irresponsibly given to her. Miss D has told us that 
when she took the card out, she was unemployed and on benefits. And that while she was 
able to maintain her payments, she struggled to do this. So I think it is likely she was aware 
of cause for this complaint shortly after she started using the card, as shes suggested it 
wasnt affordable for her right from the start.
But in any event, Miss D has also told us that she was aware of her complaint within the time 
limit that our investigator applied. I assume by this she means within the six-year time limit, 
so by April 2019, as this gives her the most time to complain. So on the basis of her own 
testimony, Miss D has told us she was aware of her complaint within the time-limit. And I 
consider that she wouldve also been aware during the six-years, due to the fact her 
complaint is around her struggling to maintain payments over the duration of the card. So the 
three-year rule wouldnt apply here, as it doesnt give more time.
While Miss D has told us she was aware of the complaint in time, she hasnt provided us 
with any evidence she actually complained inside the time-limits. And shes not provided any 
form of acknowledgement from Vanquis of her complaint in time, which is what shed need to 
do to stop the clock. So this means I cant agree she is in time. 
We can however consider complaints which are brought late if this was due to exceptional 
circumstances. When our investigator asked Miss D if there were any reasons why she 
brought the complaint late, she said she didnt know about her rights until 2019. However a 
complaint is simply an expression of dissatisfaction  so I dont consider Miss D needed to 
know of her legal consumer rights to know she had a reason to complain. This is especially 
because shes told us she was in financial difficulty for a number of years prior to the 
complaint. So I dont consider exceptional circumstances apply in this case and so this part 
of the complaint is out of time under the rules I must apply. 
Ive considered the credit limit increases and then the default that Vanquis applied to 
Miss Ds account. As our investigator set out, between 2013 and 2015 she made all her 
payments on time and Vanquis has confirmed Miss D met its criteria for these increases. So I cant see that the increases during this time were irresponsible. I appreciate shes told us 
she was struggling with payments, but neither her credit file or her payment history to 
Vanquis suggests this. Ive then looked at whether it was appropriate for Vanquis to reinstate 
Miss Ds limit in 2017, after it decreased it due to her falling behind on payments in 2016. 
Miss D has argued that this increase/reinstatement wasnt appropriate. And shes said our 
investigator didnt take into account the missed and late payments to her accounts in 2017, 
which led to her getting defaults in 2018. She provided us with her credit report, which was 
generated in November 2019, but this doesnt show any late or missed payments for any of 
her accounts in 2017. So based on the credit report, these type of markers only started 
showing from 2018.
However Ive also reviewed Miss Ds statements with Vanquis and I can see that while she 
didnt miss any payments, she did make two payments late in 2017. In June 2017, she paid 
the majority of the balance on time, but was one day late on the remaining amount. And in 
August 2017 she paid the full balance one day late. Vanquis hasnt reported these as late 
payments on Miss Ds credit file. And as Miss D was able to make the full minimum payment 
within 24 hours of it being due, I expect this is why. But Ive considered whether it was 
appropriate to increase Miss Ds limit in October 2017, considering this information.
Miss Ds credit report doesnt show any late or missed payments for 2017. So on reviewing 
this, I can see why Vanquis felt she was managing her other financial commitments well. 
Vanquis has told us it reviewed her total borrowing and this, alongside the other information 
it held for Miss D meant it could return her limit to £3,000. Vanquis has said, as with the 
other limit increases, that Miss D was offered this and couldve declined it, but she didnt. 
And as shed been able to complete the payment plan and make the minimum payments 
required of her since 2016, it considered she could afford this limit again. This was also 
because it had recorded that the issues in 2016 were due to a short-term change in her 
employment, so the cause of her difficulties was seemingly resolved.
I understand Miss D says that while she made the repayments, she was struggling 
financially. And that her borrowing showed a cycle that Vanquis ignored. But I dont think her 
credit report reflects this. And her statements dont support this either, as I cant see she was 
acquiring this credit to pay other monthly repayments or that she only used the card for 
everyday needs or non-discretionary bills  as shes suggested. I dont consider the two late 
payments were enough for Vanquis not to reinstate the limit  particularly as they were only 
late by a day. So while I appreciate what Miss D says was going on behind the scenes, I 
dont think the way she managed her account made this clear to Vanquis. This means I cant 
say the credit limit reinstatement in October 2017 was an unfair increase or that Vanquis did 
something wrong here. I also have to factor in that Miss D, knowing her situation, could have 
done more to mitigate it. For example by declining the increase (or in fact any of the 
increases) or not utilising the additional limit on the card, but she didnt do either of these.
In relation to the default, Vanquis has been able to provide the letters it sent to Miss D about 
her arrears  which are correctly addressed. And in the letters shes warned that the account 
will be defaulted if she doesnt engage with Vanquis  which she didnt do. Considering this 
and that Vanquis has evidenced it sent the required letter when it did then default the 
account, I cant agree this action was unfair or unlawful. 
While I dont doubt the situation Miss D has described to us, I have to consider whether 
Vanquis did the right checks and used the information available to it correctly before 
increasing Miss Ds limit. And I think it did, so I dont think it did act unreasonably by 
increasing Miss Ds credit limit, or by defaulting her account in 2018.
My final decisionFor the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ds complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 January 2021.
 
Amy Osborne
Ombudsman