DRN-2263289
The complaint
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont carry out a remedial repair 
to their threshold bar under one of their doors.
What happened
AXA had dealt with a claim for escape of water for Mr and Mrs S. As part of that claim 
their flooring was replaced. There was a problem with the threshold bar in a doorway on 
the first floor. AXA paid Mr and Mrs S £162 so they could get this repaired but later its 
contractors replaced it sometime in 2018, as a gesture of goodwill. In February 2019 Mr S 
advised that the threshold bar had shifted leaving an unsightly gap between it and the 
door frame. He believed the threshold bar had been fitted without expansion bars. He 
further said there was a gap between the door frame and the flooring which allowed the 
threshold bar to travel under it leaving a gap.
AXA sent out its contractor to look at it. They said that part of the grip insert on the right 
side was missing and the left side broken. There was also a slight gap under the Right 
hand side door frame that allowed the threshold bar to move under this due to the missing 
part of the grip insert. It declined to take any further action though said it had offered for an 
independent surveyor to come out which Mr and Mrs S declined. It said the issue wasnt 
one of workmanship and that the warranty for the threshold bar had lasted a year after 
completion in June 2017.
Mr and Mrs S werent happy with this and referred their complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt uphold the complaint as he pointed out the warranty had expired, 
and there was no new claim that could be made under Mr and Mrs Ss policy.
Mr and Mrs S provided a report from a design engineer who suggested the flooring 
hadnt been fitted correctly because of the gap under the door frame.
AXA rejected the report. It believed the threshold bar and flooring had been fitted in 
accordance with the manufacturers instructions. It suggested the threshold bar had broken 
by being trod on heavily. In any event it had paid Mr and Mrs S £162 for this and then carried 
out the further repair through its contractors.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I didnt think that UKI had carried out an 
effective and lasting repair, and that it should proceed to do so. I said that the £162 it had 
paid to Mr and Mrs S could be retained as compensation.
UKI didnt agree. In summary it said:
No work was ever undertaken to the door or door frame. Any work undertaken to it to fill 
in the gap would be classed as betterment.
Part of the grip insert was missing and the left hand side was broken which is why the 
threshold bar was moving about. This has only happened through use, being trodden on 
heavily or deliberately being kicked hard.
It also said its not sure what works Im asking it to undertake. If it fits a threshold bar 
again, it fears that Mr S will have the same issue with it. It cant fit a longer bar to fill the 
gap under the doorframe as they only come in certain lengths. The only resolution would 
be to fill in the gap under the doorframe with mastic, but this would potentially be 
unsightly and not something Mr S would want.
Its contractors have commented that I stated that threshold bars are designed to be 
trodden on. From their professional view, threshold bars are not weight rated at all and 
are simply designed to break the flooring at a threshold. They are not designed to be 
trodden on.
Mr and Mrs S accepted my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The following are my provisional findings:
I think this is a matter of whether AXA carried out a lasting and effective repair to the 
threshold bar. Although the work finished in June 2017 I dont know when the threshold 
bar was later replaced. But I dont think that a repair lasting less than eighteen months 
is lasting and effective no matter what the warranty for workmanship may say.
That said I dont think I can take account of the report Mr and Mrs S obtained. Its signed 
by someone describing themselves as a design engineer. Its not on headed notepaper 
and the signatory doesnt have any sort of internet presence. Further although I 
understand his reasons for not being able to visit the property, his conclusions are mostly 
based on what
Mr S told him. So although he says the floor isnt fitted correctly under the door frame I 
dont think it was fitted against the manufacturers instructions. His conclusions about 
expansion bars rate were based on what Mr S told him rather than any of his own 
observations.
However I do think that I can take account of the photos and videos Mr S has provided. 
They show a clear gap under the door frame through which the threshold bar could have 
moved. AXA has referred to a missing grip insert and I would think the threshold bar 
needed to be fixed firmly so it didnt move. Whilst AXA has suggested the threshold bar 
has been trodden on heavily I think thats what theyre designed for. It appears to me that 
the threshold bar should have been firmly fixed in place. I understand there are no 
problems with other threshold bars.
I think AXA should arrange to have the repair to the threshold bar carried out, or at Mr 
and Mrs Ss option, pay them a reasonable sum for fixing the threshold bar. This is in 
respect of the threshold bar repair only.
I think also that AXA should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them. I note however that it has already paid them £162 towards 
the repair of the threshold bar. I think that would amount to adequate compensation so AXA 
wont have to pay any more.
I note what AXA says, but that is based on its opinion of why the threshold bar needs 
repairing. It refers to it being trodden on heavily or deliberately being kicked hard. The latter point isnt something that was previously put to Mr and Mrs S and I think it unfair to suggest 
they would deliberately damage it. The facts of the case indicate that the threshold bar is a 
problem, and had to be put right before. No other threshold bars in the house seem to have 
this problem so, on balance, it must most likely relate to the fact that theres a gap under the 
door frame.
Its a matter for AXA as to how it puts this right. If filling under ther doorfrarne is the only way 
to carry out an effective repair it will have to do this, even if technically that can be classed 
as betterment. It will have to ensure the repair is satisfactory  so it shouldnt complete an 
unsightly repair.
I think AXA is splitting hairs over whether threshold bars are designed to be trodden on. 
Given where they are its perfectly reasonable to suppose that they must be able to bear 
weight. I would agree that theyre not designed to be kicked hard.
My provisional findings are now final and form part of this final decision.
 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
carry out repairs to Mr and Mrs Ss threshold bar or, at Mr and Mrs Ss option to pay 
them a reasonable cash settlement to enable them to arrange the repairs to the 
threshold bar themselves.
pay Mr and Mrs S £162 compensation. This amount having already been paid, AXA 
doesnt need to make any further payment in this respect.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 November 2020.
 
Ray Lawley
Ombudsman