DRN-4081034
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P have complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as first direct and referred 
to here as HSBC) has refused to honour a five-year 2.14% mortgage interest rate product 
(with a booking fee of £495) which Mr P says he was told was locked in. 
Mr and Mrs P went to another lender and secured a five-year fixed rate at 2.27% with a 
booking fee of £995. Mr P, who dealt with HSBC and who has handled the complaint 
throughout, wants HSBC to reimburse the difference in the additional interest and fees he 
and Mrs P are having to pay.
What happened
I will summarise the complaint in less detail than its been presented. There are several 
reasons for this. First of all, the history of the matter is set out in detail in correspondence, so 
there is no need for me to repeat the details here. I will instead concentrate on giving the 
reasons for my decision. In addition, our decisions are published, so its important I dont 
include any information that might lead to Mr P being identified. So for these reasons, I will 
keep my summary of what happened quite brief.
On 24 April 2022 Mr P contacted HSBC to discuss moving his and Mrs Ps mortgage to the 
bank. He wanted a five-year fixed rate product at 2.14%, which had a booking fee of £495. 
Mr P was told that if he applied online, hed be able to secure the rate then and there. If he 
chose instead to discuss the application with the bank, the rate would be chosen at that 
point.
When trying to apply online, Mr P wasnt able to proceed and was asked to speak to HSBC. 
On 25 April 2022 Mr P spoke to another staff member who confirmed that the rate would be 
secured after a discussion with a mortgage adviser. 
It transpired that Mr and Mrs Ps application couldnt go ahead online because Mr P had 
chosen a 20-year term, which took him beyond HSBCs maximum age limit. It therefore 
wasnt possible for Mr P to proceed on an execution only basis. The application needed to 
proceed on a fully-advised basis in order to meet regulatory requirements relating to HSBCs 
responsibilities around assessing affordability of mortgages that ran past normal retirement 
age.
The banks final response to Mr Ps complaint sets out the timeline of events in more detail, 
so I wont repeat them here, except to note that thered been an error in processing Mr Ps 
details after hed submitted his application on 26 April 2022. The important point  and the 
one on which Mr Ps complaint hinges  is that on 27 April 2022 HSBCs interest rates 
changed, and so the product he wanted was no longer available. 
Mr P complained to the bank. Mr P says that he had been assured unconditionally on 
24 April 2022 that the interest rate of 2.14% was locked in once he applied online. HSBC 
didnt uphold the complaint, so Mr P brought it to our service. An investigator looked at what 
had happened but didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Whilst the investigator noted that there had been a delay in the bank sending the application 
to the underwriters, she wasnt persuaded that HSBC had guaranteed that the rate would be 
locked in at the time Mr P first spoke to the bank on 24 April 2022. The investigator provided 
Mr P with all the call recordings the investigator had relied on.
Mr P disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint. Mr P said that he 
believes one call had been edited, as he recalls part of a conversation which doesnt appear 
to be on the recording. Hes reiterated all the points he previously made about being assured 
that hed locked in the interest rate with an online application.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm Ive listened to all the call recordings, copies of which Mr P also has. Mr P claims 
the call recordings may have been edited, but I am satisfied that they appear to be the actual 
recordings of Mr Ps conversations with HSBC. 
When an interest rate product is offered to the market, it is only available for a short time. 
Thats because HSBC would have borrowed a fixed amount in the outside markets at a 
particular rate, which in turn would allow it to lend the funds to customers at a specific rate. 
Customers would need to reserve a tranche of funds by paying a booking fee, and once all 
the funds are used up, the product is withdrawn.
Front-line staff who handle calls and HSBCs mortgage advisers arent told when a rate is 
about to be withdrawn; they would only know what rates are available at the time they speak 
to the customer.
The crux of this complaint is that Mr P says he was given an unconditional assurance when 
he first spoke to HSBC on 24 April 2022 that the interest rate of 2.14% would be locked in on 
the date he applied online. Im satisfied that HSBC told Mr P that the rate would be locked in 
when the booking fee was paid and that if Mr P could do this on an execution-only basis 
online, the rate could be reserved at that point. Mr P tried to do this online, but wasnt able 
to, due to the length of term hed wanted.
Mr P says that the reason why his application couldnt go ahead online  because the term 
hed selected took him beyond HSBCs maximum lending age of 75  had never been 
mentioned by the bank during the initial calls. As a result, Mr P doesnt think its fair that he 
and Mrs P lost out because he had never been told about this.
Its correct that HSBC didnt ask Mr P about the maximum term he wanted or mention its age 
limits during the initial calls. I wouldnt have expected a call handler on an initial enquiry for 
an Agreement in Principle to have gone into such detail, as this is usually something a 
mortgage adviser would discuss during a fact-find interview. 
But even if HSBC had discussed this, I dont think it would have made any difference. This is 
because, if HSBC had been told by Mr P on 24 or 25 April 2022 that he wanted a mortgage 
term ending after he was 75, HSBC would have needed to have booked him and Mrs P in for 
a full review with a mortgage adviser at that stage in any event. HSBC has explained that 
this could not have happened before the rate had been withdrawn on 27 April 2022.
I appreciate HSBC has accepted it made an error on 30 April 2022 when processing the 
application, but that was after the rate had been withdrawn and so doesnt affect the 
outcome of this complaint.In the circumstances, whilst I understand Mr Ps disappointment that he and Mrs P lost out 
on the rate they wanted, Im not persuaded that HSBC is at fault here.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision before 22 August 2023.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman