DRN-2931367
The complaint
Mrs K says Oakbrook Finance Limited (trading as Likely Loans) lent to her irresponsibly.
What happened
Mrs K took out a 24-month instalment loan from Likely Loans on 9 April 2018. It was for
£2000 and the monthly repayments were £151.92. The total repayable was £3646.08. A
year later Mrs K took out a 12-month top up loan for £1953.52, £1453.92 of which was used
to settle the first loan. Mrs K complained to Likely Loans saying it didnt complete proper
checks for either loan.
Likely Loans upheld Mrs Ks complaint but only about the second loan. Unhappy with its
decision about her first loan, Mrs K brought a complaint to this service.
She said Likely Loans didnt check the affordability of the loan for her: at the time she
was struggling to pay her mortgage, had overdue catalogue accounts, payday loans,
CCJs against her and defaulted accounts.
Our investigator did not uphold the complaint. He said Likely Loans had carried out
proportionate checks and made a fair lending decision based on the information it
gathered.
Mrs K disagreed so the complaint was passed to me. I issued a provisional decision as 
whilst I reached the same conclusion as the investigator, some of my findings differed so I 
wanted to give everyone a chance to comment. An extract from my provisional decision 
follows and forms part of this final decision.
I can see Likely Loans asked for some information from Mrs K before it approved the loan. It
asked for details of her annual income (£29,380), residential status (homeowner) and the
purpose of her loan (holiday/travel). It says it also checked Mrs Ks credit file. It has shared
what it says is a high-level overview of the customers credit status upon application but
adds that this represents just a small proportion of the data it gathered. From what it has
shared I can see it looked at the number of accounts Mrs K had, her credit balance, credit
score and calculated a debt to income ratio. From these checks combined Likely Loans
concluded Mrs K had enough monthly disposable income to afford to repay the loan.
It has also provided a more detailed credit file with a search date of February 2020. It has
explained that it would have extracted detailed data like this from Mrs Ks credit file at the
time of the application, but it does not store this - so I cant know what it reviewed. It says
this report shows the status and level of Mrs Ks credit commitments that it would have seen
at the time of the lending.
Unlike the investigator, I dont think Likely Loans checks were proportionate. Mrs K was
applying for a loan over a term of 24 months and although the monthly repayment was
relatively low as a percentage of her income, Likely Loans hasnt shown it made any kind of
investigation into what her monthly living costs were or took any steps to verify the income
she had declared. Given it was deciding if Mrs K could sustainably afford to repay a loan
over a two-year period, I think it needed to do this. CONC 5.3.1(G) 4 b) is clear that it is
not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the customer's income
and expenditure, on a statement of those matters made by the customer.
So, Ive looked at what I think proportionate checks would likely have shown. As I cant be
sure what the credit information that Likely Loans saw in April 2018 showed, Ive reviewed its
retrospective analysis. The February 2020 credit file its provided shows, in summary, Mrs K
had nine active accounts and just under £4000 of unsecured debt at the time of her loan
application. All her accounts were up-to-date and her monthly credit commitments were
around £220. I accept this may not reflect all of the borrowing Mrs K had at the time. Or it
might not match what she would have seen on her full credit file as not all lenders report to
all the credit refence agencies, and timing can be an issue. But Im satisfied it would have
been fair for Likely Loans to rely on this information.
In response to the investigators view Mrs K argued that she had defaulted accounts and
CCJs. But as the investigator said the default was in 2014, satisfied in 2015, and two CCJs
were from 2015 (I note there was a third judgment for £183 in July 2016). So I dont think this
historical adverse data meant it was unfair that Likely Loans should decide to loan to Mrs K
in April 2018. Overall, I cant see such a level of indebtedness or recent adverse information
on Mrs Ks credit file that I think Likely Loans should have been concerned the loan wouldnt
sustainably affordable for Mrs K.
The investigator asked Mrs K for copies of her bank statements in the months prior to the
loan to try to understand her typical monthly income and outgoings at around the time of her
application. Plus a full copy of her credit report and, as she was self-employed, copies of her
tax returns. I am not saying that Likely Loans ought to have requested these same
documents, but they provide a way for us to understand what the lender would most likely
have seen had it completed better checks. However, Mrs K has been unable to provide any
of these documents so I am unable to know what Likely Loans might have found had it
completed better checks. Shes told us her mortgage was in arrears and sent some
supporting evidence but its incomplete as it doesnt show the name on the account  a copy
of her full credit report would have resolved this.
It follows based on the evidence currently available I am unable to fairly conclude Likely
Loans would most likely have made a different lending decision had it completed
proportionate checks. I know Mrs K will be disappointed, and Im sorry that she is now
struggling financially. I will review carefully any new evidence both parties submit in
response to this provisional decision.
Finally, I have considered whether Likely Loans acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other
way in relation to loan one but I cant see that it has acted incorrectly in its dealings with
Mrs K.
Both parties responded to the provisional decision. Mrs K sent further evidence of her 
mortgage arrears. Likely Loans had no comments and accepted the provisional decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.In response to the provisional decision Mrs K sent in an extract from her credit file which 
shows she was behind on her mortgage payments when she applied for this loan.  However 
this does not change my conclusion. Ill explain why.
The lender carried out a credit check at the time of the loan application, and a second check 
in February 2020. Neither of these checks showed Mrs Ks mortgage account. The address 
on the extract Mrs K sent in is different to one she provided at the time of the loan 
application and the one on the lenders credit check, and also the one she provided to this 
service. So I think its unlikely a credit check based on the address information Mrs K 
supplied could have identified this mortgage account.  This means the status of her 
mortgage is not something I can reasonably conclude the lender should have known  
unless Mrs K had declared it. So I cant fairly expect it to have considered this information as 
part of its lending decision.
So my finding remains that there wasnt such a level of indebtedness or recent adverse 
information in Mrs Ks credit check that I think Likely Loans should have been concerned the 
loan wouldnt be sustainably affordable for Mrs K.
As I explained in the provisional decision, without copies of Mrs Ks bank statements I am 
unable to know what Likely Loans might have found had it completed better checks on her 
declared income and expenditure. And I cant know if any sign of financial difficulties that 
may have been causing the mortgage arrears would have been evident to Likely Loans. 
It follows my decision remains that based on the available evidence I am unable to fairly 
conclude Likely Loans would most likely have made a different lending decision had it 
completed proportionate checks. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Ks complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 August 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman