DRN-3945842
The complaint
Mr M complains Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) hasnt helped put matters 
right after a balance transfer went wrong.
What happened
Mr M has an M&S credit card.
Mr M phoned M&S on 12 April 2022 to arrange a balance transfer, amongst other things. He 
wanted to take advantage of a 0% interest balance transfer M&S had sent him. He asked 
M&S to transfer £2,200 from one of his credit cards  with a business who Ill refer to as B 
in the rest of this decision  onto his M&S credit card. M&S agreed to the balance transfer 
and initially it went through. The payment M&S made to B was, however, then reversed and 
went missing for some reason. Because the payment went missing both businesses ended 
up including the £2,200 in the balance that they said Mr M owed them.
Mr M complained to both businesses as he didnt know who was responsible for his £2,200 
going missing. He said he wanted them to put matters right. The businesses blamed each 
other saying that the mistake wasnt at their end. So, Mr M complained to us.
One of our investigators looked into Mr Ms complaints and said that he hadnt received his 
£2,200 back because of a mistake at M&Ss end. So, they recommended that M&S put Mr M 
into the position he would have been had the transfer been successful. In other words, they 
recommended that M&S pay Mr M £2,200 plus the additional interest hed been charged by 
B as a result of his balance being £2,200 higher than it should have been. In addition, they 
recommended that M&S pay £100 in compensation on top of the £100 it had already paid for 
not trying to recall Mr Ms payment earlier. B agreed to pay some compensation too.
M&S didnt agree with our investigators recommendations. M&S said that it wasnt the one 
whod made a mistake and that Mr M should get his money back from B. Mr M wanted 
compensation to reflect the stress and time hed wasted trying to sort this issue out. He 
didnt think £200 fairly reflected the impact M&S mistakes had on him. In other words, both 
sides asked for an ombudsman to look into this complaint. So, thats what Ive done.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M asked us to get involved in August 2022 saying that hed complained to both business 
and got nowhere. So, we wrote to both businesses to let them know that we were going to 
investigate. M&S said that it had no record of Mr M getting in contact and said that it wanted 
us to wait for eight weeks whilst it investigated. Before agreeing to that, we asked Mr M 
whether or not he had any evidence showing hed complained to M&S. He said he did, and 
sent us copies of the online chat hed had with M&S. In other words, he was able to show 
that he had complained to M&S, and had contacted them, despite M&Ss suggestion to the 
contrary. So, we wrote to M&S again to say we were going to investigate as it had already 
had eight weeks to resolve Mr Ms complaint and hadnt done so. M&S subsequently told us 
that it hadnt tried to recall Mr Ms payment until September 2022, for which it apologised and 
offered £100. But B sent us evidence showing that M&S had recalled Mr Ms payment in 
May 2022  using the reference for Mr Ms payment  but had given another customers 
details when saying where the funds should be credited. M&S then said that it had no record 
of this other customer, only to confirm later that it had in fact been able to locate them.
In this case, both businesses have said that theyve done nothing wrong, and B has sent us 
evidence that it says shows M&S recalled Mr Ms payment in May 2022  using the 
reference for Mr Ms payment  but gave another customers details when saying where the 
funds should be credited. Im satisfied, given my comments above, that M&Ss records of 
what happened are less reliable than Bs. More importantly, based on everything Ive seen, I 
think its more likely than not that B sent the £2,200 back to M&S and that the money has 
been credited elsewhere as B suggests. So, I agree that M&S needs to put things right.
Putting things right
Mr M has had an outstanding balance on his credit card with B that has been £2,200 higher 
than it should have been, meaning hes been paying more interest to B than he should have 
done. In the circumstances, I agree with our investigator that its fair to tell M&S to pay 
£2,200 to Mr M along with the additional interest hes paid on the balance he owes B 
because his balance has been £2,200 higher than it should have been. M&S should do so 
for the additional interest hes paid from 12 April 2022 to the date of settlement. I also agree 
that £200 in compensation is fair for the distress and inconvenience Mr M has been caused.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint and requiring Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc to pay Mr M £2,200 along with the additional interest hes paid to B 
because his balance has been £2,200 higher than it should have been. Marks & Spencer 
Financial Services Plc should do so for the additional interest hes paid from 12 April 2022 to 
the date of settlement. In addition, Im requiring Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc to 
pay Mr M an additional £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hes been 
caused on top of the £100 it has already paid.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Nicolas Atkinson
Ombudsman