DRN-4518759
The complaint
Mr H complains Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) has sent him 
marketing material after it was agreed several years ago it would stop doing this. Mr H says 
receiving the mailing has caused him upset.   
What happened
In 2015, Mr H contacted L&G after receiving product marketing information. He said this had 
caused him distress because he was in dispute with L&G at the time about a decision to 
decline a claim under a life insurance policy (for which he was acting as a representative for 
the beneficiary). L&G apologised and agreed that no further marketing information would be 
sent to him.
But in October 2019, L&G sent marketing information to Mr H again, so he raised a 
complaint. L&G acknowledged his concerns and said it would respond. As he didnt receive 
an effective response, he referred his complaint to this service.  
I issued a provisional decision in November 2023. This is what I said: 
The crux of the issues relate to upset caused to Mr H from receiving marketing material in 
2019, after previously raising concerns about this and being reassured he would be removed 
from marketing by L&G.
It is clear from the 2015 final response letter that L&G agreed to stop sending Mr H 
marketing material. There is evidence that it failed to keep to this reassurance. So, I 
understand why Mr H has raised concerns. He has explained that receiving this information 
caused him upset due to an unrelated dispute his family has with L&G about a declined 
claim. L&G has failed to provide an explanation as to why it sent him marketing material in 
2019. This has led to Mr H having to raise concerns and seek a response. While I 
understand L&G did give Mr H information on how to remove himself from marketing lists in 
2015, I dont think this means it is absolved from fault here. 
It is disappointing that L&G hasnt responded to Mr Hs concerns. It also hasnt provided this 
service with an explanation as to why Mr H was sent marketing material having been told he 
wouldnt. So, I think this has compounded the matter and meant it has continued to be a 
concern for longer than it should have. So, my finding it that there is a failing by L&G as it 
has sent marketing material after saying it wouldnt send it to Mr H. 
Ive considered the evidence provided about the impact of L&Gs failing. The matter has 
caused Mr H distress and frustration. He also suffered inconvenience as he has had to 
spend timing trying to get a response to why he was sent marketing material. 
I havent found that Mr H has suffered a financial loss as a result of L&Gs failing, but I do 
think it should provide an explanation and pay him compensation for the impact of what has 
happened. I intend to require L&G to pay Mr H compensation of £100. I think this is a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
Mr H responded and provided some further comments. In summary he said:
The sending of marketing wasnt an isolated incident, Legal and General sent further 
marketing information by email in 2019.
He referenced another complaint he has with this service about Legal & General and 
provided comments about how the marketing material linked to arguments he had 
put forward on the other complaint. 
L&G responded and provided further submissions. In summary it said:
Mr Hs details were provided to Legal & General by a marketing data and insight 
company. It did not use data it holds for Mr H in relation to his other complaints or his 
previous complaint about receiving marketing material in 2015.
While a vast proportion of its marketing is based on consent, the legal basis for this 
particular direct marketing activity is legitimate interest. To undertake marketing 
based on legitimate interest organisations are required to conduct an internal 
balancing test called a Legitimate Interest Assessment.
Mr H would have been served a privacy notice from the company at the original point 
of data capture. The notice would have confirmed data would be shared with the 
Marketing Services Providers listed for a variety of direct marketing purposes.
It sent Mr H marketing material in 2019 because his data was supplied to it by a 
marketing company and its checks did not flag a need to remove him from the 
campaign. 
After his 2015 complaint, it added Mr Hs data to its stop files with the intention to 
prevent it unintentionally using his data again for marketing campaigns. At this time, it 
also gave Mr H the contact details of the data supplier, so he could arrange with 
them for his data to be removed from their lists. It also informed Mr H that he could 
register with the Mail Preference Service to prevent receipt of all marketing material 
in future.
In 2019 when the relevant data checks against its stop files were completed, it didnt 
flag that Mr Hs data was to be removed from the marketing campaign. Unfortunately, 
it is unable to confirm why his data was not located on the stop files and it is sorry 
this occurred.
It believes Mr H has been clear in his position that he has no desire, potential or 
otherwise, to be a customer of Legal & General Assurance Society. As such, his 
personal complaint about receiving marketing material was managed as ineligible. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the further submissions made by both parties. Having done so I havent found 
reason to change the outcome I set out in my provisional decision. Ill explain why. 
Mr H has provided further information relating to the link he sees with marketing material 
being sent in 2019 and another separate complaint that he is representative for about Legal 
& General. I dont think this has a direct link to the other complaint, so my findings here carry 
no relevance to the other complaint. I acknowledged that receiving the marketing caused Mr 
H to raise further points and strengthen his opinion on why the other complaint should 
succeed. I have taken this into account when considering the impact of receiving an 
application to take out a life policy when Mr H had asked Legal & General not to send him 
marketing. But this is as far as I find there is relevance between the circumstances of the two 
complaints when deciding this complaint.   Legal & General has now provided a detailed explanation as to why Mr H received marketing 
material in 2019, having previously been informed that he wouldnt. Im satisfied that this 
does meet the requirements I set out in my provisional decision when I asked it to give Mr H 
an explanation. It has set out its use of marketing data companies and how this led to a 
further marketing offer to commence a policy being sent to Mr H (details set out in the 
responses above). While the response may not answer every query Mr H has, it does give 
an explanation of why he received an application for a policy when he had asked not to be 
sent marketing material. 
I note the reasons provided by Legal and General about how it uses marketing, including the 
points it makes about legitimate interests. But Legal & General has acknowledged that it 
cant provide a reason why its internal markers didnt stop the policy application being sent to 
Mr H in 2019. The fact this didnt happen is important as it had previously provided 
reassurances in 2015 that it would not send this type of correspondence to Mr H. As set out 
in my provisional findings, I still find there has been a failing in that Legal & General didnt 
keep to the reassurances it made in 2015 - and Mr H has suffered distress and 
inconvenience as a result of the failing. 
In respect of Legal & Generals comments about Mr Hs eligibility as a complainant to this 
service. I acknowledge that Mr H did not take up the offer to purchase a policy and become 
a customer in respect of this direct offer he received. He reviewed this correspondence and 
raised queries about the terms of the policy being offered with Legal & General. The rules 
only require him to be a potential customer to be eligible. For the reasons previously 
explained, I think he meets the definition required to be an eligible complainant.
For the reasons described above and those set out in my provisional decision, I still think 
Legal & General should pay Mr H compensation for the impact of what has happened. 
Having assessed this, I remain of the view that a compensation payment of £100 is a fair 
and reasonable resolution to the complaint.
  
My final decision
I uphold Mr Hs complaint and direct Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to pay 
him £100 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience he has suffered. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2024.
 
Daniel Little
Ombudsman