DRN-4201069
The complaint
Mr A complains that Amtrust Europe Limited caused delays in processing a claim under his 
legal expenses insurance policy by asking for unrealistic information, and subsequently 
declined cover.
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes the actions of its agents and claims handlers for which 
it takes responsibility. 
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so I only intend to 
provide a summary of the key events here. 
Mr A was suspended from his place of work, which he believes was unfair and 
discriminatory. He made a claim under his insurance policy to pursue legal action against 
them.
Amtrust asked Mr A to provide further information to enable an assessment of the claim, 
including a chronology of the events which led to his suspension. Mr A complained that it 
wasnt realistic for him to provide details of phone conversations spanning the last ten years. 
On receipt of further information, Amtrust determined that the series of events giving rise to 
the claim occurred in 2020. But it only had proof of Mr As policy being in place from 2022  
so it declined the claim.
Mr A provided proof of an earlier policy and Amtrust established that it had been in place 
since 2014, so it instructed solicitors to assess the merits of the case. 
The solicitors advised that there was insufficient information to confirm Mr As employment 
status or whether hed been discriminated against. But on the information available, they 
werent satisfied the claim enjoyed reasonable prospects of success as required by the 
policy. Based on this advice, Amtrust declined the claim. 
Mr A brought his complaint to our service, but our Investigator didnt uphold it. He was 
satisfied Amtrust had acted in line with the policy terms and hadnt treated Mr A unfairly. As 
Mr A didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Mr As strength of feeling regarding his complaint. Id like to reassure him that 
whilst Im aware I may have condensed some of the complaint points in far less detail and in 
my own words, Ive read and considered everything hes told us. Im satisfied Ive captured 
the essence of the complaint and I dont need to comment on every point individually, or 
possibly in the level of detail he would like, in order to reach what I think is a fair outcome. 
This isnt meant as a discourtesy, but it simply reflects the informal nature of our service.
Requests for information
Mr A is required by the terms and conditions of his policy to provide Amtrust with all 
information it requires in order to assess the claim. 
Having considered the information requests made by Amtrust, Im satisfied they were 
reasonable. Mr A is alleging that his place of work discriminated against him and that his 
suspension was unfair, so for Amtrust to assess cover under the policy and the merits of the 
legal action, it will need to know what acts of discrimination took place and when. And it 
asked for this in the form of a chronology. 
I appreciate Mr A says these acts took place over ten years and he cant reasonably list the 
date of every call and what was said after all the time thats passed. But if he wasnt able to 
provide exact dates of when things had happened, he couldve provided a rough timeline of 
the key events. After all, if the matter goes to court, Mr A would need to provide details of the 
specific incidents that he believes amount to discrimination  so its not unreasonable for 
Amtrust to require this information. 
Mr A says these requests resulted in delays, but I dont agree. Amtrust were entitled to ask 
for the information. Had Mr A complied with the requests when they were made, these 
wouldnt have impacted the progression of his claim. 
Policy validation 
As Amtrust doesnt sell the policies, it doesnt hold policy information on its system until a 
claim is made. At that time, it reaches out to the relevant provider to check a policy is in force 
and when it was incepted.
In Mr As case, Amtrust only had evidence of Mr As policy starting in 2022. So when Mr A 
confirmed that the series of events started in 2020, Amtrust concluded that the claim started 
prior to the policy so cover was unavailable. 
This was incorrect as Mr As policy started in 2014. Im satisfied that once Amtrust were 
aware of the correct policy start date, it proceeded with the claim and the matter was 
resolved within a week. So I cant see an impact here which would warrant a payment of 
compensation.  
Prospects of success 
The terms and conditions of Mr As legal expenses insurance policy say that in order for a 
claim to be covered, it must have a 51% or greater chance of winning.
This is a requirement of virtually all legal expenses policies, and we dont think its unfair. 
Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer wouldnt generally want to bear 
the cost if advised its unlikely to succeed. And we wouldnt expect a legal expenses insurer 
to either.
Where an insurer has declined or withdrawn funding in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate 
the merits of the underlying claim. Instead, we look at whether the insurer has acted fairly. 
As long as theyve obtained advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont generally 
question their reliance on that advice, unless we think it was obviously wrong or based on 
factual mistakes.In this case, Amtrust has obtained a legal assessment from one of its panel firms of solicitors 
who concluded that the claim doesnt enjoy prospects of 51% or greater. As insufficient 
information was provided, the solicitors put prospects for discrimination at only 10-15%. 
Whilst I appreciate Mr A disagrees with the advice, Im satisfied it is well-reasoned, not 
obviously wrong, and provided by a suitably qualified lawyer. And it was based on all the 
information available at that time. As such, I havent seen anything to persuade me that 
Amtrust cant fairly rely on it.
Rather, its up to Mr A to obtain a contrary legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own 
cost, if he wants to challenge this further. If such an opinion is supportive then Id expect 
Amtrust to reconsider the claim.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 August 2023.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman