DRN-4214897
The complaint
Mr C complain that Arrow Global Limited (Arrow) are chasing him for repayment of a debt he 
says it cant prove is his. He also says Arrow are reporting a default to the credit reference 
agencies.
What happened
Mr C complained to Arrow after he noted that it was reporting a default on his credit file. The 
account was purchased by Arrow in September 2019, from the original lender who Ill refer to 
as V. 
After Arrow purchased the account, repayments continued to be made to V until November 
2019. However, because no repayments had been received after this date, the account 
defaulted, and Arrow started to report this to the credit reference agencies. 
Mr C says that Arrow shouldnt be reporting the default. And because it initially couldnt 
provide him with a credit agreement or statements, it couldnt prove that the account 
belonged to him.
Initially an Investigator decided that Arrow hadnt provided enough information to show that 
the account was Mr Cs  and so they upheld the complaint. They asked that Arrow remove 
the adverse information from Mr Cs credit file and cease collection activity on the account. 
Arrow asked for more time to obtain evidence from V. It was then able to provide this service 
with a copy of the credit agreement. And evidence of trace searches that had been 
completed by the credit reference agencies. This showed name, address and date of birth 
matches with Mr C, which Arrow felt was enough to evidence that account was his. 
Another Investigator looked into the matter and didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
They felt that Arrow had now provided sufficient evidence to support that it was pursuing the 
correct individual for repayment of the debt. And so, the Investigator  didnt think Arrow 
needed to do anything more. The Investigator also provided Mr C with a copy of the credit 
agreement.
Mr C didnt agree with the Investigators view. He didnt think the credit agreement could be 
deemed as genuine as V had previously said it didnt have a copy. He also said the credit 
agreement didnt include any of his other personal details and so while it was in his name, he 
said that Arrow were chasing the wrong Mr C.
Because an agreement couldnt be reached the complaint has been passed to me to decide 
on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all of the available evidence, it is my decision not to uphold Mr Cs 
complaint. I appreciate this decision will come as a disappointment to Mr C, however I will 
explain my reasoning below. 
V provided Arrow with the address it held for a Mr C on file. I have seen evidence of a trace 
search that has been carried out by the credit reference agencies using Mr Cs details. I can 
see the address V provided Arrow with, is linked to the address Mr C provided to this 
service. The trace search also linked these addresses to Mr Cs date of birth, which is also 
the date of birth Mr C provided this service with. In addition to this, the trace search shows 
that a number of the accounts held in Mr Cs name had the address information updated 
from the address V provided to Arrow, to the address this service holds for Mr C. In 2020, 
both addresses had been provided on two different credit applications  one address as a 
current address and one as a previous address. On balance, I think this is enough for Arrow 
to have determined that it was pursuing the correct person for repayment of the debt.
I have also seen a copy of the credit agreement provided to Arrow by V. While I agree this 
should have been provided at an earlier date, I dont agree that by Arrow previously not 
being able to provide this means that the agreement isnt genuine. The agreement appears 
to be electronically signed, which is normal for agreements taken out online. The agreement 
has Mr Cs name on it, alongside the date and time the agreement was signed, which also 
links up with the details V provided to Arrow when it sold the debt. While I accept that the 
credit agreement doesnt have any other of Mr Cs personal information on it, based on all of 
the other persuasive evidence that I have seen, I cant fairly conclude that this credit 
agreement doesnt relate to an account Mr C held with V.
Based on all the evidence Ive seen; I dont think Arrow has acted unfairly or unreasonably 
by pursuing Mr C for the debt. 
In relation to the default, the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) provides guidance as 
to when an account should be defaulted  this is usually when the account is between three 
to six months in arrears. I cant see that any repayments were made to the account after the 
final one that was made to V back in November 2019. Because of this Arrow defaulted the 
account in February 2021. Arrow noted that the default had been applied later than the ICOs 
guidelines, and so it backdated the default to March 2020, which was six months after it 
bought the debt from V. I think this is fair. And so, I wont be asking Arrow to remove the 
default. 
I note that Mr C has more recently provided this service with a letter stating that Arrow has 
sold the debt. Just to make Mr C aware, the new owner of the debt will likely continue to 
report the default, which is what this service would expect it to do in this situation.
While going through this file, I noticed that there was a discrepancy in the amount Arrow 
have told Mr C is outstanding. The statements provided by V show that the balance 
outstanding after the last payment made by Mr C in November 2019 was £2,944.88. 
However, I can see that Arrow have told Mr C that the amount outstanding is £3,039.24. 
Arrow should update Mr C and let him know what the correct outstanding balance is. And if 
Mr C is unhappy with Arrows explanation on this point, he can make another complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2023.
 
Sophie Wilkinson
Ombudsman