DRN-3457433
The complaint
Mr R complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) didnt refund a debit card payment.
What happened
On 3 October 2021, Mr R placed an order for a bespoke sofa with a retailer. He paid a 
deposit of £600 (30% of the price) with his Barclays visa debit card. On 4 November 2021, 
he raised a dispute with Barclays. A temporary credit of £600 was applied to his account on 
5 November 2021. Barclays wrote to Mr R on 6 December 2021 and the letter asked him to 
review the documents and respond if he had anything further to add.
On 4 January 2022, Barclays advised Mr R that the chargeback claim had failed. Barclay 
spoke to Mr R on 7 January 2022, 11 January 2022, 12 January 2022 and then on 18 
January 2022. The temporary credit was debited from his account on 18 January 2022. 
Separately, the balance payment of £1,400 was made through another payments firm (which 
I shall call A), and they refunded it to Mr R.
Mr R complained. He said the letter dated 6 December 2021 didnt have any evidence 
attached to it  and therefore Barclays were at fault. He said that had he been able to see 
the evidence, he couldve put his side of the story and that wouldve led to the refund of the 
£600. He said the retailer was a scam company and had no intention of supplying the sofa. 
He said that if the payments firm (A) could refund £1,400, then Barclays should also refund 
the deposit of £600.
Barclays said the chargeback was not upheld. Theyd written to Mr R on 6 December 2021 
and hadnt had a reply. Then, Barclays asked him again for information on 10 January 2022, 
but this wasnt received either. They couldnt comment on how the other payment firm (A) 
operated their refunds policy  that was a matter for them, and it was likely to be different to 
Barclays. Barclays had looked at the information then provided by Mr R and concluded that 
the retailer had offered to refund the amount, provided Mr R closed his chargeback claim. 
Barclays apologised for not attaching the merchants evidence in their letter dated 6 
December 2021, and paid compensation of £75.
Mr R brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said the chargeback scheme was 
operated by Visa  the card scheme. And it was a voluntary scheme  there wasnt a right 
that Mr R should get the money back. And Visas chargeback rules are different to those of 
the other payment firm (A) (who refunded £1,400). After the claim to Visa failed, Barclays 
agreed to look at the evidence to see if they could support Mr Rs claim, but ultimately 
declined it  as they felt the evidence showed that the merchant had made offers to Mr R 
which he had declined. The merchant advised him the sofa was ready for delivery  and it 
would be delivered if he dropped his chargeback claim.  Barclays paid compensation of £75 
for the attachments not being sent with the letter dated 6 December 2021. And our 
investigator considered that was sufficient to settle Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R didnt agree and asked that an ombudsman look at his complaint  and so it has come 
to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important here to explain about the chargeback processes:
- In this case, it is operated by the card scheme: Visa  not Barclays.
- Barclays role initially in this case was to act as middle person  they recorded Mr 
Rs claim details on 4 November 2021  and passed it to Visa. Visa then dealt with 
the merchant and assessed the evidence about what happened. And  Visa then 
made their decision.
- Visas chargeback is a voluntary scheme  there isnt a right to get money back and 
is based on the evidence in each case.
- Visas chargeback rules say that a case must be concluded within 60 days.
- Visas chargeback rules are different to that of the payment firm (A)  who had 
refunded £1,400.
So  my role here is to consider whether Barclays (not Visa) acted reasonably in dealing 
with Mr Rs claim under the Visas rules  noting that Barclays didnt make the initial decision 
to decline the claim.
I can see that Barclays logged Mr Rs claim on 4 November 2021  and it was sent to Visa to 
consider. As part of that, Barclays (acting as middle man) wrote to Mr R on 6 December 
2021. This letter shouldve attached the merchants evidence  for him to comment upon. 
But Barclays admit the letter didnt enclose anything. I reviewed the letter  as this is 
important. 
It said Weve received the enclosed documents about the payment you queried from the 
company. Hopefully they help explain the payment for you and youre happy that the issue is 
now resolved. However, if this isnt the case, please write to us outlining your concerns 
within the next ten days so we can look at your case again. What this means for you: If we 
dont hear from you within this time, well assume that youre happy with the explanation 
provided in the documents and you dont want us to do anything else.
Mr R doesnt dispute that he received the letter  and on the call with Barclays on 18 
January 2022, he said he received it on the Barclays app/online also. He didnt reply to the 
letter  Ive seen Barclays notes which confirm that. And I think that even though the 
documents werent enclosed, the letter was clear  that the onus was on Mr R to get back to 
Barclays if he wasnt happy with what it said. And the letter stated the claim would be 
declined if he didnt respond. And he didnt get back to Barclays  so Barclays closed the 
case on 4 January 2022  i.e. after the expiry of the 60-day period. There is a note in 
Barclays records that Visa made their decision to close the case on that day. Even though 
the letter didnt enclose the documents, I think its reasonable for me to say that Mr R 
shouldve got in touch with Barclays after receiving it.
So on the first part of what happened  Barclays acted reasonably in dealing with Mr Rs 
claim to Visa.
After that, Barclays decided to look at Mr Rs claim themselves  after Visa had declined it. 
They did so because of the error they made in not attaching the evidence with the letter dated 6 December 2022. I listened to the calls with Mr R on 7 January 2022, 11 January 
2022, 12 January 2022 and then on 18 January 2022. Its clear that the evidence that 
Barclays looked at was the merchants evidence  which were an exchange of texts and 
emails with Mr R. And that is the same evidence that Mr R sent to us. So  the actual 
evidence used isnt in dispute. 
And as Barclays made the further decision (in addition to Visas) to decline Mr Rs claim, I 
need to consider whether Barclays decision was a reasonable one. In the correspondence 
between Mr R and the retailer, its clear that Mr R was getting concerned about whether he 
was going to get the bespoke sofa delivered. The delivery time was over the four-week 
period he had been quoted. So he lodged a chargeback claim with both Barclays and the 
payment company A. The retailer said they would send the sofa if he dropped the claims. At 
one point, Mr R said to go ahead and deliver it, and in another exchange, he said to cancel 
the order and that the chargeback would go ahead. 
The retailer then relisted the sofa for sale  it looks like they made a decision that Mr Rs 
order wouldnt go ahead. Barclays said that because the retailer said theyd deliver the sofa 
if Mr R dropped the chargeback claim  Mr Rs claim failed. And I think that was a 
reasonable decision to make in the circumstances. I say that because the retailer had made 
the offer to Mr R and he declined it.
I then looked at the retailers website. And their terms and conditions are that deposits of 
30% (as it the case here) would not be refunded. It says,  When a 30% deposit option has 
been used to purchase an item on our website, this is non refundable in the event you wish 
to cancel your order, the deposit amount is non refundable . So that is clear  and 
because of that, I think it was very likely that Mr Rs chargeback claim was always likely to 
fail  both with Visa and Barclays. This, I think, is the key point here  the merchant was 
acting within its terms and conditions to retain the deposit. 
Mr R has said that Barclays shouldve refunded the deposit as the payment firm A refunded 
£1,400  but I agree with our investigator and Barclays here  the rules which A operate are 
different to Visas chargeback scheme. 
I was sorry to see that Mr R has lost £600. But in this case, my decision is that Barclays 
acted reasonably  firstly, in dealing with Mr Rs chargeback claim as regards Visa; and then 
in making its own decision not to meet Mr Rs claim after Visa had declined.
Therefore, I am not asking Barclays to do anymore here. (continued)
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 March 2023.
 Martin Lord
Ombudsman