DRN-3648223
The complaint
Mrs F complains about Amtrust Europe Limiteds handling of her claim for legal expenses 
insurance (LEI).
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes their agents and claims handlers.
What happened
The detailed background to this complaint is well known to both parties. So, Ill only provide 
a very brief overview of some of the key events. 
Mrs F had the benefit of insurance for certain legal expenses which was provided by 
Amtrust. She made a claim on her policy in relation to a dispute between her and a business 
that had completed work on her home. The company was demanding payment from her and 
she felt the work was of a poor standard.
Amtrust asked one of their panel solicitors J to assess the claim. The claim was initially 
accepted before Mrs F was required to provide a further expert report. J had advised that 
without that report, the claim didnt have the required prospects of success. Mrs F obtained 
the report and the claim progressed. 
J then asked Mrs F to obtain quotes for the costs involved in the remedial work to put things 
right at her home. Once this information had been provided, J had concerns that whilst the 
legal claim may be strong, they werent sure the third party would be able to pay any award 
a court might make. Ultimately due to these concerns they concluded that the claim no 
longer had reasonable prospects of success. 
Amtrust withdrew any further funding based on the advice from J. Mrs F complained. She 
was unhappy with a wide range of issues surrounding the handling of her claim. Amtrust 
responded. Overall, they felt theyd handled the claim correctly. But they did acknowledge 
that some information Mrs F had provided to them wasnt passed on to J as it should have 
been. They didnt feel this impacted the outcome J had reached, but they did offer £250 
compensation for this. 
By this stage Mrs F had referred her complaint to our service. One of our Investigators 
considered the complaint but didnt recommend it should be upheld. In a broad summary she 
felt Amtrust had fairly declined the claim. She said much of Mrs Fs dissatisfaction was with J 
which wasnt something she could comment on and that the compensation already offered 
was fair. 
Mrs F disagreed and asked for an Ombudsman to review her complaint. 
In July 2022 I issued a provisional decision in which I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so Ive reached a slightly 
different outcome to that of our Investigator. So Im issuing this provisional decision to give 
everyone a further opportunity to comment before finalising my decision. 
Mrs F has made detailed submissions in support of her complaint. These include a 200 page 
document detailing the timeline of events and communication along with 39 individual points 
and issues she has with Amtrusts complaint response. Our Investigator has already 
provided a detailed and lengthy response. 
Ive read and considered everything Mrs F has sent in, but I wont be responding in similar 
detail. So if I dont mention a particular point or piece of evidence, it isnt because I havent 
seen it or thought about it. Its just that I dont feel I need to reference it to explain my 
decision. This isnt intended as a discourtesy and is a reflection of the informal nature of our 
service. 
Mrs Fs legal cover isnt all encompassing. Like any policy there will always be terms, 
conditions and exclusions to be considered. And in the case of LEI, its very common that 
there is a requirement that any underlying legal action has a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding. I think this is fair. Litigation can be expensive and a privately paying client 
wouldnt generally continue with legal action they were advised wouldnt achieve a positive 
outcome. So, I dont think an insurer should have to either. 
Mrs Fs policy says:
At any time we may form the view that you do not have a more than 50% chance of winning 
the case and achieving a positive outcome. If so, we may decline support or any further 
support. Examples of positive outcomes are:
a. Being able to recover the amount of money at stake
Amtrust themselves arent legal experts. So, I think its fair that they rely on suitably qualified 
legal advice when making decisions about a claim. Unless that advice is so obviously wrong 
that a layperson could be expected to notice. 
Mrs F has raised that J arent experts in accountancy and thinks its unfair that Amtrust have 
followed their advice in relation to the ability of the third party involved to pay any potential 
redress. Ive considered this, but I think as legal professionals J would have an 
understanding of the chances of recovering a loss as it will form part of their consideration 
when providing advice in any legal case. So this doesnt change my mind as to whether or 
not it was reasonable for Amtrust to follow the advice from J. 
The advice from J came from a suitably qualified person and I dont consider it to be 
obviously wrong. If Mrs F were to provide Amtrust with a conflicting legal opinion as to the 
prospects of continuing her case, Id expect Amtrust to consider this. But as things stand, I 
think the decision they reached (when declining to agree to further funding based on the 
prospects of recovery) was both in line with the policy terms and fair. 
Mrs F is concerned that she wasnt offered a choice of which solicitor to use and she thinks 
she should have been. The policy says:
If you make a valid claim under this insurance, we will appoint our panel solicitors to 
handle your case. You are not covered for any other legal representatives fees unless court 
proceedings are issued or a conflict of interest arises
Mrs Fs legal claim wasnt at the stage where proceedings were imminent and there is no 
evidence of a conflict of interest (something J would have been obliged to declare had there been one). So I dont agree that Amtrust were unreasonable when not offering Mrs F a 
choice of solicitors. 
Mrs F doesnt believe she should be responsible for the £700 cost of an expert report that 
she provided. This is the area where I dont agree with our Investigators findings. As Ive set 
out above the policy terms are clear that claims require reasonable prospects of success. 
But this doesnt mean that an insurer is entitled to decline every claim that requires expert 
evidence to support the merits of it unless this is funded by a policyholder. 
Our longstanding approach has been that its for a policyholder to show that they have a 
valid claim. Mrs F did that. She provided photographs and information about the defects of 
the work that she was complaining about. She also provided a report from the manufacturer 
of the materials used by the builder. This highlighted that there were issues with the 
application of the product. It also made suggestions for the remedial work required. As such, 
Im satisfied that Mrs F evidenced she had a valid claim that Amtrust should respond to. I 
think this is supported by the fact that J initially reported that the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success (in January 2020). 
If a further expert report was required to comment on the workmanship and quantum of the 
claim, then that is something I think it was for Amtrust to fund. I appreciate that prospects 
can change as a claim moves on. And had the expert report not supported Mrs Fs claim and 
caused J to amend their position on prospects, that would be a different matter. But in the 
circumstances here, I think the further report ought to have been a part of the evidence 
gathering process that panel firms are instructed to prepare when a policyholder has 
demonstrated they have a valid claim. I dont think Mrs F should have been responsible for 
obtaining or paying for that report. 
I appreciate that Amtrust are likely to seek to rely on the advice from J, specifically that 
without the further expert report, the claim didnt have the required prospects. Ive 
considered this but I dont think that is a reasonable approach in the circumstances of this 
complaint. It would be possible to point at any further reasonable and necessary 
disbursement and say that without it, the prospects are negatively impacted. But Mrs F had 
evidenced she had a valid claim and prospects had initially been supportive. It seems it was 
the absence of the further report that impacted the prospects, rather than any new or 
conflicting evidence coming to light. 
 
As such, Im intending to direct Amtrust to reimburse Mrs F the cost of the report, along with 
8% simple interest (yearly) from the date she paid the expert, until the date of settlement.
Ive also considered the overall service Mrs F received from Amtrust. They arent responsible 
for the legal advice or service provided by J. And I think they generally appropriately 
responded to Mrs Fs queries, referring matters to J as required. Excluding the issue of the 
expert report, Amtrust promptly authorised further funds for J to continue their work when it 
was appropriate to do so. It does seem that a great deal of Mrs Fs dissatisfaction is with J. 
This includes their insistence on certain reports and quotes, advice as to who to use as an 
expert and their interpretation of the evidence provided. As above, this isnt something 
Amtrust are responsible for and Mrs F may be able to take her concerns about J to their 
regulator if she remains unhappy. 
That being said, Amtrust accept that some documents werent passed on as they should 
have been to J. This was in the earlier stages of Mrs Fs claim and Im satisfied it didnt 
impact on the ultimate outcome reached. But I agree that this fell below the standards Mrs F 
reasonably expected and would have caused some avoidable distress and inconvenience. 
Amtrust have already offered £250 compensation for the impact of this, and I think that is 
fair.But I think failing to agree to fund and thereby requiring Mrs F to go and obtain a further 
expert report herself caused further distress and inconvenience. I intend to direct that 
Amtrust pays a further £250 compensation in that regard, bringing the total to £500. 
Mrs F may feel that this still doesnt represent the impact events have had on her. But any 
legal claim (particularly one involving a home and which takes place during a pandemic) is 
always going to be a difficult and stressful time. Its clear Mrs F feels aggrieved by the 
actions of J and with her claim being declined. 
But it wouldnt be fair for me to hold Amtrust responsible for all the distress and 
inconvenience she has experienced in the wider circumstances. Aside from the information 
sharing and the expert report, I dont think they provided poor service. They arent 
responsible for the actions of the third party that caused this whole situation, nor for the 
actions of J. And in that context, Im satisfied the £500 compensation Im intending to award 
is fair for the impact of the avoidable distress and inconvenience that Amtrust are 
responsible for.
Both Amtrust and Mrs F responded with further comments that Ill address below. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Amtrust dont believe they should meet the cost of the expert report. They have highlighted 
that for a claim to be valid, it must meet the policy terms, primarily in relation to having 
reasonable prospects of success. They also highlighted the difference between a non-court 
compliant report (like what Mrs F provided) and expert evidence in a format suitable for 
court. 
I accept that the policy is clear that a claim must have reasonable prospects of success. But 
I dont agree that this means an insurer is entitled to decline every claim that requires expert 
evidence to support the merits or the quantum of the claim. The issue here is whether the 
information Mrs F had provided was sufficient to support her claim. I dont believe it is 
reasonable to require Mrs F to provide that information in a court compliant format. In my 
opinion the photographs and the report from the manufacturer highlighting issues with the 
application of their product was sufficient. So it is for Amtrust to fund and instruct suitable 
experts to assess the quantum of the claim. That is part of the evidence gathering process 
that panel firms are instructed to prepare when a policyholder has demonstrated they have a 
valid claim. It isnt something Mrs F should be responsible for obtaining or funding. 
Amtrust have also argued that J had in effect changed their mind as to the prospects based 
on the absence of an expert report. I dont think this is a fair approach to take. As I pointed 
out in my provisional decision, it would be possible to point at any reasonable and necessary 
disbursement needed in the course of progressing a legal claim and say that without it, 
prospects are negatively impacted. So I dont believe Amtrust should be applying this 
approach. 
Amtrust also suggested that the information from the manufacturer wasnt a report at all but 
a detail of the specification. The evidence Mrs F has shared (which Ive no reason to doubt 
was passed on at the time of the claim) includes details of a site visit by the manufacturer. 
This includes their opinion on the application of their product and their suggestions for what 
needed to be done to put things right, so I dont agree this was solely a product specification. Ive considered the further policy terms Amtrust have highlighted. Such as the insurer only 
being responsible for costs theyve authorised and the insured being responsible for 
providing (at their own expense) information required to decide if a claim may be accepted. 
Neither of these terms change my mind as to the outcome of this decision. Mrs F had, in my 
opinion, provided sufficient information for her claim to have been accepted. 
In her response to my provisional decision, Mrs F expressed disappointment with the 
outcome. She also highlighted that J said at one point that their advice to a private client 
would be to raise court action and await the terms of defence entered. This was in an email 
from J to Amtrust dated 9 August 2021. Ive considered this, but the same email also said 
This approach would not be without risk. In effect as soon as court action is raised there is 
potential exposure in respect of an adverse award of expenses in favour of the third party. It 
appears that J were suggesting potential routes forward. But ultimately, Im not persuaded 
that theyd changed their mind as to the prospects of recovery (based on the ability of the 
third party to pay any potential award). Indeed, the same email also comments on their 
conclusion that prospects of recovery were below 51%. And for further costs to be 
authorised it required that the claim met the requirements of the policy. In these 
circumstances, I dont think Amtrust declining to authorise further costs was unreasonable, 
particularly when doing so would have potentially opened them up to adverse costs (which J 
said could be in the region of £4,500 to £5,000). 
Mrs F also expressed general dissatisfaction with the setup between the her (as the 
insured), panel solicitors and Amtrust. Mrs F says she needed to go through Amtrust each 
time she needed to query something with M and that not having a choice of solicitor was 
unfair. She feels this unnecessarily adds to the time taken to deal with a claim. I can 
understand why Mrs F is frustrated and disappointed her claim didnt progress. But the 
arrangement between Amtrust and M (as a panel solicitor) is in line with industry practice for 
this type of insurance and isnt something I think is unfair. Im also not persuaded that only 
allowing for a panel solicitor in the initial stages of a claim is unfair.  
Overall, having considered everything both Mrs F and Amtrust have said in response to my 
provisional decision, Im not persuaded to deviate from the outcome previously explained. 
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
Amtrust Europe Limited must:
Pay Mrs F £500 compensation (if the £250 Amtrust originally offered has already 
been paid, this need not be paid again and only a further £250 is payable). 
Reimburse Mrs F with the £700 cost of the expert report. They should also add to the 
£700 8% simple interest (yearly) to be calculated between the date Mrs F paid the 
expert and the date Amtrust reimburses her. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Richard Annandale
Ombudsman