DRN-4124442
The complaint
Mr F, Mrs F and Mr F are unhappy with how TICORP Limited (TICORP) has handled their 
complaint regarding their travel insurance policy being mis-sold. 
Mr F is the lead complainant on this complaint. I will therefore refer to Mr F only in this 
decision although Mrs F and Mr F (their son) are part of this complaint. 
What happened
Mr F contacted TICORP on 19 August 2022 to request a travel insurance quote. The 
advisor went through the medical screening process. Mr F informed the advisor that 
he was waiting to be referred to a heart clinic. Mr F couldnt however continue with 
the call, so the advisor noted the medical conditions. 
Later the same day, Mr F called back and spoke to a different advisor. They followed 
on from the previous call. The medical screening was done, which included a 
screening for the heart condition. Mr F confirmed he was waiting an investigation. An 
annual travel insurance policy was issued with cover to start from 5 September 2022 
and end on 4 September 2023. Mr F paid a premium of £734.41. 
On 22 August 2022, Mr F contacted TICORP as he wanted his son removed from the 
policy. Following further questions, Mr Fs medical screening was declined, and the 
advisor confirmed that because of pre-existing medical conditions and because he 
was waiting an investigation for his heart, cover should have been excluded for this. 
On the same day, Mr F called TICORP again to go through the medical questions 
and establish what was covered. The advisor said it had referred this to its 
underwriter and the heart condition was excluded from the policy. TICORP refunded 
Mr F with £311.08 from the original amount hes paid. 
On 9 September 2022, Mr F called TICORP to inform it he was waiting for heart 
surgery. He said hed booked a trip which will now need to be refunded. The advisor 
declined to refund the amount as he said the issue with the heart was known from 
the point of sale. He said Mr F would not receive a refund for the cancelled trip. 
Mr F made a complaint to TICORP. It said errors were made by TICORP during the 
calls Mr F had with the advisors. The medical condition should have been excluded 
from the outset. It said it had refunded the amounts Mr F had paid for the three trips 
he had to cancel and refunded the premium hed paid for the policy. 
Unhappy with Mr Fs response, he brought the complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into it and said TICORP had made errors when Mr F was 
taking the policy out. He said it had however refunded him for the three trips hed 
booked and also refunded him the premium hed paid for the policy in recognition of 
those errors. He didnt think TICORP needed to do anything further. 
Mr F disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint for these reasons:
From the information thats been made available, theres no dispute that TICORP 
made errors when Mr F was in the process of taking out his annual travel insurance 
policy. Both parties are in agreement of this. 
In addition, Mr F agrees that TICORP has reimbursed him financially as he would 
have expected. So, theres no dispute in this regard either. 
There is a dispute in regard to the how Mr F has been treated by TICORP and the 
service and delays he experienced. 
Ive looked at the impact thats been caused to Mr F and also whether this means 
that TICORP ought to do more. 
I understand that TICORP has refunded Mr F for the cancelled trips hed made 
because of the policy that was taken out initially. TICORP has also refunded Mr F 
with the policy premium hed paid when he took the policy out.
Ive thought about what Mr F has said. He doesnt think he was treated fairly, and the 
issue had caused him and his family stress, anxiety and emotional upset. Theyve 
also suffered inconvenience and delays and caused his health to suffer. Ive 
considered this in light of what TICORP has done to put things right on this 
complaint. 
I appreciate dealing with this complaint has been very difficult for Mr F and his family. 
I agree that TICRP made errors and it could have done things better. But I can also 
see that it ensured Mr F was put back in the position as if the errors hadnt 
happened. Usually, a business would provide a refund of the premium a policyholder 
paid for errors such as these. I agree that Mr F would probably not have booked his 
trips but equally TICORP wasnt responsible for refunding him for all of the cancelled 
trips. It did this as a gesture of goodwill and I think this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. This takes into account the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
Overall, taking everything into account, TICORP did make errors, but it did put things 
rights as Ive said above. Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable. It follows that I dont 
require TICORP to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about TICORP Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F, Mrs F and 
Mr F to accept or reject my decision before 19 June 2023.
 
Nimisha RadiaOmbudsman