DRN-4359669
The complaint
Mrs J is unhappy that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited cancelled her life 
insurance policy. 
What happened
Mrs J took out a life insurance policy. Legal and General carried out a random check of 
the poli cy and identifie d that information in her medical records didnt correspond with the 
information she disclose d when she applied for the policy. They cancelled the policy 
because they said they wouldnt have offered her cover had this information been disclosed. 
Mrs J complained to Legal and General, but they maintained their decision was fair. 
Unhappy, Mrs J complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our investigator looked into what had happened. He didnt think Legal and General had 
acted unreasonably on the basis of the medical evidence. So, he didnt uphold Mrs J's 
complaint. Legal and General made an offer to settle the complaint. They offered Mrs J £200 
compensation for delays in refunding the premiums and 8% simple interest on the refund. 
Mrs J didnt accept that offer and asked an ombudsman to review the complaint. In 
summary, she says that Legal and General have misinterpreted the medical evidence and 
she had correctly disclosed her medical history. Mrs J feels that Legal and General have 
discriminated agai nst h er due to her mental health. She obtained further information fro m her 
GP in support of her positio n. So, I need to make a decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The releva nt law in this case is The Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when taking out a consumer insurance contract (a policy). The standard 
of care is that of a reasonable consumer. 
And if a consume r fails to d o this, the insurer has certain remedies provide d the 
misrepresentation is - what CIDRA describes as - a qualifying misrepresentatio n. For it to be 
a qualifying misrepresentation the insure r has to show it would have offered the policy on 
different terms or not at all if the consumer hadnt made the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of considerations for deciding whether the consumer failed to take 
reasonable care. And the remedy available to the insurer under CIDRA depends on whether 
the qualifying misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless, or careless.
Legal and General thinks Mrs J failed to take reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation when she was asked questions about her mental health during the sales 
process. 
Mrs J was asked: 
Have you e ver tried to harm yourself or planned to harm yourself in any way? 
The answe r recorded was tried to harm yourself. 
How man y time s have you tried to harm yourself? 
The answer recorded was 1. 
When Legal and General obtained Mrs J's medical records as part of random checks they 
noted that more than one incident of self-harm was referred to on Mrs J's records.
Mrs J says there was one relevant medical episode, not multiple episodes. She says that her 
medical information ha s been misinterpreted. 
Howe ver, Legal and General relied on the medical reco rds which indicated it was most likely 
releva nt medical information hadnt been disclosed. I think it was reasonable for them to 
work on the basis of the information that was available in the medical records. 
More recently, during the time that the Financial Ombudsman Service was investigating the 
complaint, Mrs J provided more information as shes sought to get her GP records amended. 
She provided a letter from her GP in September 2023 which provided more clarification on 
the notes. But I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to rely on what was 
documented when they made their random checks. In any event, the additional note from 
the GP says: 
Mrs J was seen by Dr [redacted] on 27 February 2002 following an episode where 
she had cut her wrists. Dr [redacted] sutured her wrists. Mrs J disclosed that she had 
taken an overdose of paracetamol on 27 February 2002. From the records Mrs J also 
disclosed that over the previous two weeks she had taken several overdoses of 
paracetamol and that on the 27 February she had taken all her dothiepin and a 
paracetamol overdose. She agreed to hospital admission for assessment of her 
paracetamol levels and medical monitoring. She was discharge home on 7 March 
2002. 
The corresponding original note says: 
Cut wrists yesterday, and took overdose of paracetamol, also over the past 2 weeks 
has taken paracetamol, took all of the dothiepin tablets a few days ago.  
Legal and General has provided the underwriting criteria for the policy Mrs J was offered. It 
shows that they wouldnt have offered a policy to anyone with that number of incidents of 
self-harm recorded on their medical records. Even taking into account the recent further 
information I dont think Legal and General would have offered a policy based on the 
underwriting criteria Ive been provided with. 
Overall, I dont think it was unreasonable for Legal and General to conclude that Mrs J had 
made a qualifying representation based on the evidence that was available. Legal and 
General treated Mrs J's misrepresentation as careless rather than deliberate. I think that was 
reasonable as I dont think theres any evidence Mrs J's actions were deliberate or reckless. 
As Im satisfied Mrs J's misrepresentation should be treated as careless Ive looked at the 
actions General Insurance can take in accordance with CIDRA. In such circumstances they 
are entitled to avoid the policy but should return the premiums. Thats what Legal and General have done and theyve offered to pay simple interest on tha t amount which I think is 
reasonable. 
Ive considered what Mrs J has said about discrimination. Its not our role to say whether a 
business has acted unlawfully or not  thats a matter fo r the C ourts. Our rol e is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstan ces. In orde r to decide that, however, we 
have to take a number of things into account including relevant law and what we co nsider to 
have been good in dustry practice at the ti me. So, although its for the Courts to say whether 
or not Legal and General h as breached the Equality Act 2010, were required to take the 
Equal ity Act 2010 into account, if its relevant, amongst other thing s when deciding what is 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. That includes thinking about what 
a Court would likely decide if Mrs J were to make a claim under the Equality Act 2010  the 
relevant provisions of which Ive set out below. 
Legal and General cant discriminate against Mrs J because of a protected characteristic, 
including a disability related to her mental health. Even if Mrs J does meet the definition of 
being disabled as defined by the Equality Act 2010  and so is protected against 
discrimination under the Act  Schedule 3 of the Equality Act 2010 sets out some exceptions 
if certain conditions are met. Legal and General doesnt contravene the provisions of the Act 
relating to disability discrimination by doing anything in connection with insurance business 
where the thing is done by reference to information that is both relevant to the assessment of 
the risk to be insured and from a source on which its reasonable to rely, and its reasonable 
to do that thing.   
This is known a s the insurance exception. Insurance Business means business which 
consists of effecting or carrying o ut co ntracts of insurance. 
As Ive outlined above, I think Legal and General fairly and reasonably relied on the available 
information. And, I think theyve adequately demonstrated that Mrs J's medical history 
relating to her mental health was relevant to the risk it was prepared to accept on the policy. 
I dont think theyve treated her unfairly or differently to other customers in the same 
situation. 
Mrs J has pointed to information on Legal and Generals website about how they approach 
mental health conditions. Mrs J says that shes not had a recent decline in her mental health. 
But, I think this is general guidance and just gives some examples of the types of issues that 
can impact on the policies it can offer. So, this hasnt changed my thoughts about the overall 
outcome of this complaint.
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited  has already made an offer to refund the 
premiums, pay £200 and pay 8% simple interest per annum on the refund of premiums 
to settle the complaint. I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
My final decision
My decision is that Legal and General Assurance Society Limited should pay £200 
compensation, refund the premiums and pay 8% simple interest per annum if it hasnt done 
so already.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 November 2023.
Anna Wilshaw
Ombudsman