DRN-3217344
The complaint
Mr D complains about advice he was given to transfer the benefits from his defined-benefit 
(DB) occupational pension scheme (OPS) to a self-invested personal pension (SIPP). He 
says the advice was unsuitable for him and believes this has caused him a financial loss.
Portal Financial Services LLP is responsible for answering this complaint. So, to keep things 
simple, Ill refer to Portal.
What happened
Portal has refused to provide its view on the merits of this complaint because it says the 
claims management company representing Mr D isnt properly authorised to carry out this 
type of work. Accordingly, Portal has not responded to our requests for information and has 
since ceased to communicate with our Service at all about the complaint. 
However, our Service has recently given a great deal of consideration to the issues Portal 
has raised. Weve seen a number of similar complaints and our approach is that the 
company representing Mr D is legally able to do so. I have carefully checked everything we 
have in this particular case too, and Im certain the company representing Mr D is able to 
represent him. Weve explained this to Portal and also made it very clear what we expect 
from it in response.
Because Portal has continued not to supply the information weve asked for several times in 
this case, I am proceeding on the basis of the information I do have.
The information I have shows that Mr D asked Portal for regulated financial advice about his 
pension and retirement needs. My experience is that Portal most likely completed a fact-
find to gather information about Mr Ds circumstances and objectives, although as Ive said, 
this hasnt been sent to us. I also think it would have gone on to produce a suitability report 
 again this hasnt been supplied.  A summary of his circumstances at the time would have 
been broadly as follows:
Mr D was 55 years old, divorced with one dependent child and another at university. 
He said he had acquired some debt of around £30,000 which he wanted to pay off if 
possible.
After being a member of his OPS for around 13 years, Mr D had been classed as a 
deferred member since around 1995. The Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) of 
Mr Ds OPS was £115,754 in 2017. Mr D said his OPS had a normal retirement age 
of 65.
 
At the point of when the advice was provided to him, Mr D had an aspiration to 
gradually reduce his working days each week in the years ahead. He also planned to 
take some tax-free cash from this pension if possible and place the rest into a fund 
for later use.
Mr D implied he had limited investment experience and a low attitude to risk (ATR).
Mr D had another pension he was still contributing to with his then employer, as of 
2017, and Ive assumed his state retirement age to be 67.
Mr D complained to Portal that the advice was unsuitable and had caused him losses and he 
referred his complaint to our Service in 2020. One of our investigators looked into the 
complaint and said we should uphold it. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, its 
come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint. 
The regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), states in its Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that the starting assumption for a transfer from a DB scheme is that it 
is unsuitable. Portal should therefore have only considered a transfer if it could clearly 
demonstrate that the transfer was in Mr Ds best interests (COBS 19.1.6). 
Ive seen evidence of Mr D having paid £7,280 to Portal for regulated financial advice in April 
2017. For further verification, I can see he provided his authority for his OPS funds to be 
transferred out to the SIPP - and I note theres an audit trail of his £115,754 being 
transferred from the OPS to the SIPP, all at around this same time. Ive seen evidence of Mr 
D subsequently accessing tax-free cash and placing the remainder in a drawdown fund with 
a third-party provider.
So, although our access to information about this pension transfer has been hampered by 
Portals refusal to respond to information requests, I think theres substantial and verifiable 
evidence here showing Mr D acted on advice to him from Portal to transfer out of his OPS. 
Financial comparisons and viability 
Ive considered the starting point cited by the regulator, which is that DB transfers are 
unlikely to be suitable. This is based on an understanding that DB schemes are more often 
than not, at their most valuable in the form they were set up. In the case of most consumers, 
transferring rarely affords the opportunity of investment returns on a CETV that will provide 
better benefits. Portal havent provided any information on the investment returns that were 
needed to match or improve on the existing benefits. And to be clear, Portal has had the 
opportunity to make this argument, but it has not, as Ive explained above. So Im unable to 
determine that transferring on the grounds of improved benefits in retirement made this 
transfer suitable.
Flexibility and income needs
As Portal hasnt supplied important documents from the point of sale, I looked at what I know 
about Mr Ds likely needs and his retirement aspirations. 
Mr D says he told Portal hed like to access his pension savings partially to reduce some 
debt. He also planned to reduce his working days moderately in the years ahead which may 
have reduced his ongoing income. However, I think its fair to say Mr Ds plans about retiring 
werent fixed; he was only 55 years old and still had some family responsibilities and 
expenses in the short-term. I cant see there was any aspiration to stop working completely 
for some time yet in his case. In addition to this, I havent seen anything showing that Mr D needed money to such an 
urgent extent as to make all other considerations, such as his longer-term retirement 
security, much less important. Theres no suggestion, for instance, that his housing situation 
was at risk at that time. Nor was he incapable of managing his debts in a way that didnt 
involve transferring out of his OPS and thus losing all the benefits he would have had in the 
years ahead. Ive seen nothing showing his life expectancy was considered so short as to 
make transferring out urgent for Mr D. 
I can certainly see how the prospect of a lump sum from his pension at the age of 55, and a 
subsequent income or drawdown, might have seemed useful to Mr D. But Portals job wasnt 
to simply transact what Mr D might have thought he wanted at the time, it was to look 
carefully at his overall situation and provide advice accordingly  advice that was in his best 
interests. By being recommended to transfer out, Mr D was being exposed to the risk of 
having less income later in life. Because Mr D was only 55 at the time of the advice, and 
looking at his overall circumstances, I think this just added to the fact that it was simply too 
soon to make any kind of decision about transferring out of the DB scheme. 
Accordingly, I dont think it was a suitable recommendation for Mr D to give up all the 
guaranteed benefits the OPS came with when he most likely didnt know what his needs in 
later life would be. Typically, these schemes come with long-term guarantees and benefits 
and are index linked. If Mr D later had reason to transfer out of his OPS he could have done 
so closer to retirement age. 
So, I cant see evidence that Mr D had a strong need for cash and a variable income at this 
point, when considering what hed also have to forgo to get these.
Death benefits
This issue is often cited by advisors as of importance to consumers like Mr D who I note was 
divorced. I dont know if the advice focussed on death benefits but I have considered 
whether this area could have made a difference to what Mr D wanted to do. Its obviously 
possible that death benefits and the ability to pass on wealth could have been an attractive 
feature to Mr D. However, a pension is primarily designed to provide income in retirement 
and Portal ought to have made that clear. 
Whether the death benefits here were improved following a transfer depended on how much 
remained in the pension fund at the point of Mr Ds passing. Given average life expectancy, 
and the size of his fund, I think it was always likely that this fund would be largely depleted 
prior to Mr Ds death, thus providing little or no death benefits at all. I find it unlikely that 
Portal made this clear.
Control or concerns over financial stability of the DB scheme
Other considerations I thought about were the possibility that Mr D wanted to consolidate his 
pensions or manage them himself. However, theres no evidence of this. Everything Ive 
been told points to Mr D not having the desire or experience to do this. Ive also been told he 
had another pension which wasnt consolidated with others. So, even if this issue was 
raised, I dont think that this was a genuine objective for Mr D  it was more likely to be a 
consequence of Portal having him transferred out of the DB scheme.
Ive been given no information that the financial security of the OPS was in danger but even 
if it was I would have expected Portal to have explained about the Pension Protection Fund. 
SummaryIve explained our approach to these issues, particularly the explanations our Service has 
given to Portal and what we expect to see in return. Ive noted, too, our investigators 
comprehensive attempts to engage with Portal, to provide information and to offer an 
opportunity to respond to our emerging views.
Portals role here was to really understand what Mr D needed and recommend what was in 
his best interests. Ultimately, I dont think the advice given to Mr D was likely to have been 
suitable. He was giving up a guaranteed, risk-free and increasing income. By transferring 
out, he was taking on investment risk, and facing the potential of reduced pension benefits 
as a result.  In my view, there were no other particular reasons which would justify a transfer 
and outweigh this.  
As I explained at the beginning of this decision, the regulator issued a clear presumption of 
unsuitability for pension transfers like this. This means Portal ought to have started from the 
position of advising Mr D against the transfer. It should only have recommended a transfer if 
his position clearly made it suitable. I have explained why it was most likely not suitable and 
Portal has failed to evidence anything to the contrary. 
So, having considered all the circumstances, Ive concluded that its unlikely that Mr Ds 
situation would have made it in his interests to transfer out. Portal refused to send us the 
recommendation it gave to Mr D, but it ought to have explained in very clear terms why such 
a transfer was not in his interests. If Portal had carried out its responsibilities properly, I think 
its more likely that Mr D wouldnt have transferred his deferred OPS benefits.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for Portal to put Mr D, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for Portals unsuitable advice. I consider Mr D would have 
most likely remained in his DB scheme if suitable advice had been given.
Portal must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the regulators pension 
review guidance as updated by the Financial Conduct Authority in its Finalised Guidance 
17/9: Guidance for firms on how to calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers.
This calculation should be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mr Ds acceptance of the decision.
Portal may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These 
details should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will 
take into account the impact of leaving the occupational scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief. The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If a payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mr D as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for 
income tax that would otherwise have been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to his likely income tax rate in retirement - presumed to be 20%. So making a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately reflects this.
The payment resulting from all the steps above is the compensation amount. This amount 
must where possible be paid to Mr D within 90 days of the date Portal receives notification of 
an acceptance of my final decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation 
amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement for any time, in excess of 90 days, that it takes Portal to pay Mr D.
Its possible that data gathering for a SERPS adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes beyond the 90 day period allowed for settlement above - and so any 
period of time where the only outstanding item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £160,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £160,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
Ive explained how Portal has substantially delayed this complaint process by refusing to 
respond to our requests for information and evidence. In my view, this is likely to have 
caused additional and unnecessary anxiety, upset and stress to Mr D. In light of this, it 
should pay him £300 for the distress and inconvenience this has caused. 
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require Portal Financial 
Services LLP to pay Mr D the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to a 
maximum of £160,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £160,000, I would additionally require
Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mr D any interest on that amount in full, as set out 
above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds £160,000, I would only require Portal 
Financial Services LLP to pay Mr D any interest as set out above on the sum of £160,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £160,000, I also recommend that
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mr D the balance. I would additionally recommend any 
interest calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mr D.
If Mr D accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on Portal Financial 
Services LLP.
My recommendation would not be binding if he doesnt accept my decision. Further, its 
unlikely that Mr D can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr D may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any 
final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2022.
 
Michael Campbell
Ombudsman