DRN-4188651
The complaint
Miss T complains about a declined buyer dispute claim with PayPal (Europe) Sarl et Cie 
SCA trading as PayPal. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute so I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
PayPal have declined this goods not received claim as it says it has seen evidence 
taken from the couriers website that the item was delivered successfully. 
Ive seen that information and I dont agree. The tracking information has no address 
and only lists the street and town. The street in question has several other properties 
on it where it couldve been delivered to. 
Miss T has also supplied evidence from the courier company that says the courier 
delivered it firstly to a lady at the gate of the property as the buzzer wasnt working. It 
then said the driver went back the following day after Miss T made contact and said 
she hadnt received the package and the driver found the address it delivered the 
package to, but the lady said she had passed it on to Miss T. 
As the couriers story has changed drastically over the course of the two days it was 
due to be delivered, Im satisfied that there is a clear discrepancy as to what 
happened to Miss Ts package. The lack of detail on the tracking note also satisfies 
me that this information cant be relied on to evidence the parcel was delivered 
successfully to Miss T. 
I understand PayPal have said a signature was provided for the package. Having 
seen the signature, I think its unlikely to be that of Miss Ts. The box where Miss T 
was required to sign has been crossed out and just a digital printed name provided. 
Given everything Ive said above, I find it was most likely the printed digital signature 
was completed by either the courier or the lady the parcel was incorrectly handed to.  
In summary, based on everything Ive seen from both parties, Im not satisfied the 
evidence used by PayPal when assessing Miss Ts claim does prove Miss T received 
her package successfully. In these circumstances, PayPal should settle the claim in-
line with their Buyer Protection Policy as Im satisfied Miss T has provided enough 
evidence to PayPal to show she didnt receive the package. 
Putting things right
PayPal should settle the claim in-line with the Buyer Protection Policy by refunding Miss H 
the total cost of the item that was lost. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ts complaint and instruct PayPal to settle Miss Ts claim in full. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 July 2023.
 
Tom Wagstaff
Ombudsman