DRN-1432775
 
The complaint
Mr W complains about the charges and fees on his Santander UK Plc account.
What happened
Mr W says Santander's fees and charges have caused him financial hardship over the last 
six years. He says they are excessive and have taken a large amount of his monthly salary. 
Mr W says he has spoken regularly with Santander about his financial difficulties but it hasn't 
given him any help. He would like the charges and fees refunded and interest applied to that 
payment.
Santander says it's not made a mistake and that the fees and charges have been applied in 
line with the account terms and conditions. It says it tried to speak to Mr W in 2018 and that 
he entered into a debt management plan so no further charges were made.
Mr W brought his complaint to us but our investigator didn't uphold it. The investigator 
thought the charges were applied in line with account terms and conditions and that charges 
couldn't be challenged on the grounds they were too high and so unfair. The investigator 
thought Santander had tried to help Mr W when he approached it and that it had tried to 
speak to Mr W about his position.
Mr W doesn't accept that view and has asked that it be reviewed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.
I have looked at the account terms and conditions which I think Mr W would have agreed to 
when the account was opened. And having done so, I have not seen any evidence that 
Santander made a mistake here by making the charges. So I don't think Santander has 
made a mistake or acted unfairly and that the charges were made in line with account terms 
and conditions.
The investigator has explained that following a Supreme Court case in 2009 it has been held 
that charges can't be challenged on the grounds they are too high and so unfair. So I can't 
look at the size of the charges or if they are excessive But banks and building societies must 
treat customers in financial difficulties positively and sympathetically.
I appreciate that Mr W says he asked Santander for help but it didn't do so. I have looked at 
Santander's records and I can't see that was the case until 2018. I also think Santander tried 
to make contact with Mr S but without success. In any event I can see that the charges 
stopped in 2018 and Mr S entered into a debt management plan. So I'm satisfied Santander 
tried to help Mr W and acted positively and sympathetically. I also think that Mr W had a 
regular salary paid into his account and it is more likely that it was the type of spending that led to the account being overdrawn and the financial difficulties. I also don't think Mr W has 
told me about any other contact he made or when.
Overall as I don't think Santander has made a mistake or acted unfairly then I can't order it to 
refund any charges or fees as Mr W would like.
My final decision
My final decision is that I don't uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman