DRN-3308729
The complaint
Mr O complains that HFC Bank Limited did not fairly compensate him after it mis-sold 
payment protection insurance (PPI) to him alongside a credit card. 
What happened
HFC agreed that PPI had been mis-sold to Mr O and it offered to pay £8,238.94 in 
compensation for that mis-sale. But instead of paying Mr O directly, HFC said it was going to 
use the compensation to reduce the outstanding balance on his credit card. This is called 
offsetting. 
Mr O didnt think that was fair.  He said he thought the debt had been sold on to a third party, 
and that HFC had treated him badly for many years. 
Our adjudicator looked at all of this. He thought the amount Mr O owed to HFC was more 
than the PPI offer. So he thought it was fair for HFC to offset the compensation from the 
outstanding balance. He also said HFC hadnt sold Mr Os debt to another company, 
although it had instructed solicitors to collect it on its behalf. 
Mr O didnt agree with our adjudicators view. He said HFC had not proved he owed what it 
said he did, and he did not agree he owed HFC anything. 
As Mr O did not agree with what our adjudicator said, the matter has been passed to me to 
make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HFC accepts that the PPI policy was mis-sold and it offered to put Mr O in the position he 
would be in now if PPI had never been sold in the first place. That means I dont need to look 
at how PPI came to be sold to Mr O. I am concerned with whether HFCs compensation offer 
is fair. 
Was compensation fairly calculated? 
The first thing Ive considered is whether HFC fairly calculated the compensation in this 
case. To fairly compensate Mr O, HFC needs to calculate the PPI premiums and any interest 
charged on those premiums. It also needs to add 8% simple interest per year for any period 
Mr O was out of pocket. 
Looking at HFCs calculation, I think it has undertaken those steps. I can see that it has also 
deducted the value of a successful claim Mr O made, which is in line with what I would 
expect. Mr O hasnt raised an issue about the amount HFC calculated. Overall, I am satisfied 
that HFCs calculation of £8,238.94 is fair. 
Offsetting 
Ive next looked at whether it was fair for HFC to keep that compensation back and use it to 
reduce what it says Mr O owed on his credit card. 
For HFC to be able to keep that compensation back (or offset), I have to be satisfied there is 
a close connection between the PPI compensation and the outstanding debt. In this case, all 
of the PPI costs were charged to the credit card, and the PPI policy only applied to this card. 
So Im satisfied there is a clear, direct connection between the PPI HFC owes Mr O and the 
outstanding balance on the credit card that Mr O owes HFC. 
I also have to be satisfied that HFC still owns the debt. I appreciate Mr O says it was sold to 
a third party some time ago. I can see that HFCs solicitors are collecting the outstanding 
balance on behalf of HFC. From what Ive seen, I cant say HFC sold the debt to its 
solicitors. That means Im satisfied HFC can offset what Mr O owes against the outstanding 
balance on his credit card. 
Mr O disputes that he owes HFC anything and says he doesnt have a statement of account. 
I havent been provided with a statement of account either. But I have seen a list of the 
transactions on Mr Os account, which shows what he spent on his credit card, along with 
the repayments he made. 
Looking at those transactions, it seems most likely to me that Mr O did owe HFC something 
on his credit card, and that the outstanding balance is most likely greater than HFCs offer of 
£8,238.94. I understand Mr O is currently paying £30 a month to reduce that balance as part 
of a payment plan. 
It might help if I explain that the cost of the PPI, including the premiums and associated 
interest, was added to Mr Os credit card balance. That means these PPI costs increased 
what Mr O owed on his credit card. As the outstanding balance on that credit card is more 
than the compensation (or what Mr O was charged in total for the PPI), that means he didnt 
actually pay anything for the PPI. 
Putting all of this together then, HFC owes Mr O some money in the form of PPI 
compensation. But Mr O owes HFC more money because of the outstanding balance on his 
credit card account. Ive explained that Mr O didnt actually pay anything for PPI. So I dont 
think it would be fair for me to tell HFC to pay the compensation directly to Mr O if he hadnt 
actually paid anything for the PPI. 
I am sorry to disappoint Mr O, but for the reasons set out above, I havent upheld his 
complaint. 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint about HFC Bank Limited. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 March 2022.
 
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman