DRN-3351183
The complaint
Ms R has complained about the quality of work and level of service she received from British 
Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) under her HomeCare and emergency policy.
What happened
Ms R had a HomeCare policy with British Gas. This policy included cover in the event of 
breakdown or damage to her home electrics. In April 2021, Ms R reported to British Gas an 
electrical fault with her shower. The shower had been fitted some years previously. 
British Gas sent an engineer to Ms Rs property and he changed some burnt wiring in the 
shower pull cord and replaced a fuse and advised Ms R to leave the cord turned on. Ms Rs 
electrician didnt consider the work to be of a satisfactory standard, so a second British Gas 
engineer visited Ms Rs property to carry out further tests. However, he found no fault.
Ms R also complained about the time British Gas took to issue its final response letter. She 
said that British Gas had also chased her for the excess amount under the policy and she 
wasnt willing to pay it, as she didnt think the work had been carried out properly.
 
British Gas considered that the work it had carried out was up to standard. It therefore didnt 
change its position regarding Miss Rs complaint. It provided a quote to carry out further 
work. Ms R was unhappy with this response and made a complaint to our service. 
Our investigator didnt uphold Ms Rs complaint. He considered that the British Gas engineer 
carried out work in line with the policy terms, that he repaired what he could and that there 
was an appropriate follow-up visit. He thought that this was a fair and reasonable response. 
As to the view of Ms Rs representative that the cabling should have been upgraded to 
10mm, he said that the policy didnt allow for improvements and only provided for repairs or 
replacements.
As to the time taken by British Gas to issue its final response letter to Ms R, our investigator 
said that he didnt think that this placed Ms R at a particular disadvantage as she had 
notified this service of her complaint prior to the expiry of the eight week period.
Ms R remains unhappy with the outcome of her complaint and the matter has been referred 
to me to make a final decision in my role as Ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The question for me to consider is whether British Gas has acted fairly and reasonably in 
carrying out the work in the way it did, in the context of the terms and conditions of Ms Rs 
policy. I consider that it has done so in all the circumstances. Ill explain why.
My starting point is to look at the terms and conditions of Ms Rs policy. In principle, damage 
to home electrics is covered by the British Gas HomeCare policy. It covers; - 
All repairs to the mains electrical system and wiring on your property, for example: the 
fuse box, light fittings, switches, sockets, isolation switches and your immersion heater
The policy also provides for A replacement of parts that we cant repair.
The policy booklet clarifies the events which are not covered by the policy, under the 
heading Making any improvements. This includes the following:-
Your product only includes repairing or replacing yourappliance or system when it stops
working properly  it doesnt include any improvements or upgrades, for example: replacing
smoke alarms that are past their recommended replacement date or expiry date, replacing
working radiators, swapping standard radiator valves for thermostatic ones or replacing
electrical cables and fuseboards that still work.
Where weve told you that an improvement is necessary, we may not continue to make 
repairs on that part of your boiler, appliance or system unless the work has been carried out.
Under the policy definitions, replacement is referenced as follows; - Well provide 
replacements with similar functionality but not necessarily an identical make and model or 
type of fitting. Upgrade is defined as improvements that make your boiler, appliance or 
system safer, or more efficient.
The British Gas engineer who first visited Ms Rs property noted that the shower cabling had 
melted away in some places. He replaced the shower pull switch, removed all burnt ends of 
the cables and replaced a miniature circuit-breaker (mcb). British Gas confirmed that tests 
were carried out and that the cable design for the circuit complied with the relevant 
regulations. It maintained that if the cable was replaced, then it would have to update the 
fuse box which didnt comply with the relevant regulations, but these were chargeable jobs 
as they werent covered by the policy. It said that it could repair but not replace existing 
cabling under the terms and conditions of this policy.
Turning to what Ms R says about the matter. She complained about the standard of work 
and said that the British Gas engineer inserted a fuse of the incorrect size, covered up a hole 
in the fuse-box with tape and then told Ms R not to turn the shower pull cord off and to leave 
it turned on at all times. Ms R questioned this as she thought this would burn out the wiring 
quicker. 
Ms R was assisted by a family friend who was an electrician. In an e-mail to British Gas in 
May 2021, he referred to Dangerous electrical work done by British gas engineer. He 
clarified the underlying problem as follows; - Because the shower is too large for the cable it 
has melted the cable everywhere the cable was connected ie at the fuse and at both in and 
out on the double pole switch. The shower switch broke and I got called out to fix it seeing 
the damage to the cable I isolated the shower circuit so it couldn't be used.[Ms R] called 
me back out to look at the work your guys had done to see if it was ok I was shocked to 
learn the engineer who had attended site had cut the burnt bits of cable out and then 
upgraded the circuit breaker to a 40 amp type b mcb.
I isolated the circuit again and I got the engineer to come back out and check the circuit he
reconnected the 40 amp mcb and left the property. What I don't understand is why you 
would put a 6mm that is grouped and run under thermal insulation on a 40 amp mcb.Also no minor works certificate has been left at [Ms Rs] house only some worthless british 
gas certificste whish dose [sic] not show the readings recorded and hasn't got the test 
equipments serial number so the calibration can be checked.
The electrician produced a detailed electrical installation condition report (TIS 1903). He 
considered that the shower preferably needed a bigger 10mm cable, or the shower needed 
replacing with a smaller shower as the current cable was too small. He said that if a 32amp 
mcb couldnt stop the cable melting, neither could a 40amp mcb. He thought that British Gas 
had introduced the 40amp mcb probably to stop tripping when there was an overload. He 
said; - this is what happens to a 6mm cable when run at over its maximum permissible 
current. Cutting the bad bits out and increasing the mcb size will not prevent this from 
happening again. In summary, he considered the British Gas work to be unsatisfactory and 
that it didnt comply with the relevant BS7671 wiring regulations standards. If left, he said 
that the cable would melt again and this time it could cause a fire. 
In the circumstances, Ive very careful considered all the available evidence and both the 
submissions by and on behalf of Ms R and of British Gas. Ive considered all of this 
information in the light of the terms and conditions of Ms Rs HomeCare policy. As stated 
above, the policy terms and conditions are the starting point for my final decision. 
In this case, the terms and conditions of the policy clearly exclude provision of upgrades and 
improvements. The definition of Upgrade includes improvements that make a system safer, 
or more efficient. Unfortunately, this means that there is no obligation upon British Gas to 
replace an electrical system which may not be as safe or efficient as the optimum solution.
I agree with our investigator, that whilst I cant deem the report of Ms Rs family friend to be a 
wholly independent report, Ive still given it a great deal of weight as its been carried out by 
an electrician who presumably holds professional qualifications, and will have a duty to 
provide his professional opinion.
Im therefore satisfied that the suggested upgrade to 10mm cabling would provide the 
optimum on-going solution to the problem. There appears to be a degree of agreement on 
this point, as British Gas have also identified preferred improvements to both the cabling and 
fuse-box and have quoted for such additional work. There is a difference of opinion however 
as to whether this improvement work is covered by the terms and conditions of the policy. 
On the balance of probabilities, Ive come to the conclusion that British Gas has no 
obligation to provide this optimum solution under the policy. The policy terms and conditions 
do not cover improvements. Instead, they cover repairs or replacements of the existing 
product with a product of similar functionality only and not provision of the optimum or 
preferred solution. In the circumstances I cant say that British Gas has acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in applying the terms and conditions of the policy.
There is also a difference of opinion as to whether the repair work ultimately carried out by 
the British Gas engineer was satisfactory or not. Im persuaded by Mr Rs evidence that 
theres an on-going risk that the same fault and damage could occur as the underlying issue 
hadnt been addressed. I also note the electricians view that British Gas carried out 
dangerous electrical work and that it was unsatisfactory. Having carefully read his e-mails 
and report however, I consider that these observations have been made in the context of 
what he considered to be an unsatisfactory shower installation prior to the British Gas work 
and which remained unsatisfactory after this work, due to what he considered to be 
necessary improvements not being carried out.
Again, on the balance of probabilities, Ive concluded that although the work didnt produce 
the optimum, most efficient or even the safest solution, the provisions of the policy unfortunately dont require this to happen. Im also persuaded that, within the limitations of 
what was possible within the scope of repairs, as opposed to improvement work, British Gas 
acted in a fair and reasonable manner in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It 
repaired the electrics so that the shower continued to operate. It also carried out tests on two 
separate occasions which disclosed no fault. 
As to the quality of service and the time that it took British Gas to issue a final response 
letter. Ms R said that shed phoned British Gas many times during the eight-week period, 
theyd cancelled the complaint several times and Ms R had to reopen it on each occasion.
British Gas said that it had apologised that the response time didnt meet Mrs Es 
expectations and accepted that it didnt usually take this long. It agreed to cancel the invoice 
regarding the policy excess in the circumstances. 
On the service quality issue, I note that Ms R didnt receive the final letter until nine weeks 
after her initial complaint. I also note that Ms R chased British Gas about it on numerous 
occasions. We do encourage businesses to respond promptly, however the rules allow 
businesses eight weeks to issue a final response to a complaint. British Gas have taken nine 
weeks and whilst I dont condone this delay, I dont think that this in itself merits a 
compensatory award. Ms E had complained to this service within the eight-week period in 
any event, and had therefore not been disadvantaged by this delay.
In conclusion, I appreciate that the problems with Ms Rs shower electrics and the sequence 
of events in relation to its repair and non-upgrade will have been frustrating and will have 
caused additional anxiety for Mr R. I cant however say that this has been caused by an 
unreasonable or unfair approach adopted by British Gas. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont intend to uphold Ms Rs complaint and I dont require 
British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to his complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 April 2022.
 
Claire Jones
Ombudsman