DRN-4090161
The complaint
P, a limited company, complains that Clearbank Limited (trading as Tide) hasnt refunded the 
money it lost when its director fell victim to a scam in 2022. 
Mr T, director of P, authorised the relevant payments and brings this complaint on Ps behalf. 
Tide branded accounts are provided by Clearbank Limited, but for convenience and clarity in 
what follows I will refer to Tide.
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will 
summarise the relevant facts.  
P holds an account with Tide, with Mr T as the authorised signatory. In early June 2022, 
Mr T sent seven payments to an emoney wallet held by his brother. His brother then 
transferred the funds to a cryptocurrency exchange, purchased cryptocurrency, and then 
sent this on to a wallet he believed was linked to freelance job opportunity, but which in 
reality was controlled by scammers.
When the scam came to light Mr T reported the matter to Tide. Tide didnt consider it was 
liable for these payments. It had followed the instructions of Mr T, who had correctly 
authorised the payments on behalf of P. Mr Ts brother had sent the money on to a 
cryptocurrency exchange and then converted the money into cryptocurrency, so nothing 
could be recovered.
Mr T didnt accept this outcome and asked for the matter to be reviewed by this service.
Before reaching any findings, our Investigator asked why P had been paying the funds to 
Mr Ts brother  rather than for example Mr T paying from his own funds. Mr T explains hed 
intended: to invest for business purposes to gain further income for the business. The 
Investigator also asked if either Mr T or his brother had received any returns. Mr T said No, 
not back into the bank accounts. 
Our Investigator didnt think Tide needed to refund these payments. He didnt think there had 
sufficient reason for Tide not to have carried out Mr Ts instructions. The relevant payments 
wouldnt have stood out from the usual account activity on this business account. The 
account had a history of payments of similar value. 
Mr T didnt accept the Investigators findings. I have therefore been asked to make a final 
decision on the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
The starting position in law is that P is responsible for properly authorised payment 
transactions. Tides primary duty here was to carry out those instructions without delay.
Based on the evidence provided, I am satisfied that Mr T correctly authorised these 
payments from Ps account to an emoney account held by his brother. In the first instance 
therefore, P is liable for those transfers from Tide.
However, that being said, I consider that as a matter of good industry practice Tide should 
have been looking out for payments or payment patterns that were significantly out of 
character or unusual and that might therefore be indicative of the potential for financial 
detriment to its customer through fraud or a scam. So Ive thought carefully about whether 
the available evidence demonstrates that Tide did enough given the specific circumstances 
here.
I find it relevant that this account was held by a limited company. All else being equal, the 
type of transactions that might be expected for such an account differ from those of a 
consumer account. And having considered the prior years account history, I consider that 
payments of a similar size and frequency were not unusual for Ps account with Tide.
Mr T argues that the destination ought to have been a cause for concern. But I dont agree. 
Here the payment was being sent to a wallet held by his brother with legitimate emoney 
provider. Ps account shows other payments that appear to be destined for accounts in his 
brothers name. This wasnt unusual in itself. And while the money was subsequently 
transferred out of that emoney wallet to a cryptocurrency exchange, that was a distinct 
payment - separate to that made from Ps account with Tide. I cant reasonably expect Tide 
to have anticipated this. So I cant fairly say Tide should have had concerns these payments 
were likely connected to a cryptocurrency based scam. 
Taking everything into consideration, I find that the payments Mr T made from Ps Tide 
account do not look significantly different to Ps prior account usage. And I dont think Tide 
was at fault in not identifying these payments were other than legitimate transfers.
In short, while Ive carefully considered all of the points Mr T has made, I do not find there 
was enough here for me to say that Tide needed to intervene rather than fulfil its primary 
obligation to carry out Ps authorised payment instructions. I cant fairly hold it liable here, I 
do not find it at fault in making the payments in line with those requests at the time.
Lastly, I am satisfied that Tide could not have recovered the money Mr T had transferred. 
Those funds had been moved to a crypto-exchange before being used to purchase 
cryptocurrency. By the time Tide had been alerted to the scam I am satisfied there was no 
reasonable prospect of recovering Ps funds. 
All considered I dont find Tide is liable to P for these payments.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I do not uphold Ps complaint about Clearbank Limited (trading 
as Tide).Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2023.
 
Stephen Dickie
Ombudsman