DRN-3362025
Complaint
V, a limited company represented by Mr S, complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt do 
more to protect it when it was targeted by a scam.
Background
The facts of this case are well known to both parties, so Ill only set them out briefly.
V has an account with Barclays. That account can be accessed by a small number of 
individuals, including an employee in Vs finance team. In December 2020, that employee 
received emails that purported to be from Mr S asking for payments to be made in 
connection with Vs business activities. The V employee made those payments as 
requested. Unfortunately, the emails hadnt been sent by Mr S, but by a scammer. In total, V 
made four payments to the scammer. The total value of those payments was just over 
£42,000.
When the V employee was authorising the first payment, she was asked to specify the 
payment purpose. She selected buying goods and so the following warning was displayed:
Could this be a scam?
Are you sure the company/seller is genuine and the website is secure? You should 
take the time to check this, and whether the goods you want to buy are genuine as 
well. If a deal sounds too good to be true, it often is. Remember that paying by debit 
or credit card will provide you with more protection than paying by bank transfer.
With the other payments, she selected the option of paying an invoice which meant a 
different warning was displayed. Barclays says she wouldve seen the following the warning:
Could this be a scam?
Was this invoice unexpected? Does it have new account details? Fraudsters have 
been known to intercept genuine correspondence, including text messages, and 
change the account details to their own.
Thats why we recommend checking the details of where youre sending the money 
to in person. If you were contacted by phone to pay this invoice, use a different 
phone to call the company so the call cant be diverted.
When it came to light that these emails werent legitimate, V notified Barclays promptly. The 
bank investigated but said it wouldnt pay a refund. It noted that:
- The emails that were sent by the scammer werent sent from the directors actual 
email address and they didnt have an email signature at the bottom. If Vs employee 
had checked more carefully, shed have noticed this. The scam would therefore have 
been prevented.
- It had displayed effective warnings when Vs employee had been making the 
payments. Vs employee shouldve followed the advice in those warnings. If shed 
done so, the scam wouldve been stopped.
V was unhappy with the response it received from Barclays and so it referred a complaint to 
this service. It was looked at by an Investigator who upheld it. The Investigator noted that, 
under the terms of the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) 
code, Barclays should reimburse V unless one the codes exceptions applied. She didnt 
think any of the exceptions were applicable. 
Firstly, she didnt think the warnings were sufficiently closely related to the circumstances of 
the payment and so couldnt have been impactful. Secondly, she was satisfied that the V 
employee who had been responsible for authorising the payments online had a reasonable 
basis for belief that she was making genuine payments on the instruction of the company 
director. This was a frequent task for this employee, and she followed the normal process 
the company would use for making outbound payments. She didnt think Barclays was 
reasonable in claiming that she should only have authorised the payments after verbally 
confirming payment details with the director. 
The Investigator also said that the payments were out of character and indicative of a 
significant fraud risk. Barclays shouldnt have processed those payments without first 
clarifying with V whether there was any meaningful fraud risk.
Barclays disagreed with the Investigators opinion for broadly the same reasons it had 
already set out. It did add that it thought the scam might have been a consequence of 
inadequate security measures at V and wanted to know what steps it had taken to address 
these. Because Barclays disagreed with the Investigators opinion, the complaint has been 
passed to me to consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point in law is that V is presumed liable for any transaction it authorises. It did 
authorise the payments that are the subject of this complaint, albeit only because one of its 
employees had been tricked into doing so. 
Thats not the end of the story. Barclays is a signatory to the CRM code. This code says that 
firms should refund its customers where they fall victim to a scam like this one, except in a 
small number of circumstances.
The relevant exceptions to reimbursement are:
- where a customer ignored an effective warning given by the bank
- where the customer made payments without having a reasonable basis for belief that 
the person they were paying was legitimate.
Warnings
V has told us that warnings were displayed when its employee authorised these payments. 
The specific content of those warnings is described above. The CRM code says that for a 
warning to be an Effective Warning it must be (at a minimum) understandable, clear, 
impactful, timely and specific.The warning given in connection with the first payment is plainly not relevant to the 
circumstances of the scam and so its understandable that this didnt have any impact on the 
subsequent actions taken by Vs employee. The second warning is more relevant, but Im 
still not persuaded its specific enough to meet the requirements of an Effective Warning. It 
begins by asking whether the customer was expecting an invoice. The implication is that the 
customer has been sent an invoice and asked to pay it.
But that isnt what happened to V. Vs employee received an email purporting to be from Mr 
S asking her to make payments on the companys behalf. The scammer does make a 
reference to an invoice that will be sent later. But these payments were not made in 
response to an invoice, so I think it was reasonable for Vs employee to not think it relevant 
to the circumstances of the payments.
Overall, Im not persuaded that this was an Effective Warning as defined in the CRM code 
and so Im not persuaded that this exception to reimbursement applies.
Reasonable basis for belief
On the face of it, these emails were sent to Vs employee and looked broadly the same as a 
genuine email from the company director. Although the email address was different to the 
directors genuine one, it wouldve appeared in the employees email client as if the email 
had been sent by the director. If shed been exceptionally careful, she might have spotted 
the discrepancy in the email. However, the fact that she missed this discrepancy does not 
mean that she was careless. 
Vs internal process didnt depend on its employee verbally confirming the payment request 
with the director. It wasnt uncommon for the director to make ad-hoc requests for payments 
relevant to Vs commercial activities and it was part of that employees role to be responsible 
for payments to and from the company account. Its not unreasonable or uncommon for this 
role to be delegate to an employee and for the most senior director at the company to not be 
closely involved in each individual payment. 
With two of the payments, Vs employee was told that the account name shed input didnt 
match that on the receiving account. But in respect of the first payment, this was simply that 
the account holders full name hadnt been entered and, in respect of the second payment, 
the surname hadnt been spelled correctly. V's employee clarified this discrepancy before 
proceeding and so Im satisfied that she acted reasonably.
Overall, I find that Vs employee was reasonable in her belief that these emails had 
genuinely been sent by the company director. It therefore follows that her belief that the 
person she was paying was legitimate was also a reasonable one and so I dont think 
Barclays can rely on this exception to reimbursement either.
Final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Barclays Bank UK Plc should:
Pay V a refund of the money that was lost as part of the scam, less any money it was 
able to recover from the receiving accounts and any money it has already paid in 
redress. 
It should add 8% simple interest per annum to this sum calculated to run from the 
date it declined the claim under the CRM until the date any settlement is paid.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask V to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 June 2022.
 
James Kimmitt
Ombudsman