DRN-3299872
The complaint
Ms K has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc debited her mortgage account with service 
charges of just over £20,000 which it paid to her freeholder. Ms K says she is in dispute with 
the freeholder and that HSBC knew this. 
To settle the complaint Ms K wants HSBC to recall the amount paid to the freeholder and to 
credit her account. Ms K also wants HSBC to allow her to manage her service charges 
directly with the management company.
What happened
Ms K has a mortgage with HSBC taken out in October 2005. She borrowed £320,000 over a 
term of 22 years on a capital repayment basis. The mortgage terms and conditions state 
(amongst other things) that Ms K must pay all rent and service charges, and must also pay 
HSBC the full amount of all fees, expenses, liabilities, legal and other costs incurred or 
charged by HSBC in protecting its security. The terms also say that any such charges paid 
by HSBC will be debited to the mortgage account.
Over a long period of time, from November 2005 onwards, HSBC has been told by the 
freeholder or its managing agents that Ms K is in arrears with ground rent and service 
charges. HSBC contacted Ms K about this over the years, and was repeatedly told by Ms K 
that there was a dispute with the freeholders about service charges.
In September 2015 Ms K told HSBC shed paid the outstanding ground rent, but the service 
charges were still in dispute. HSBC noted in its records that, without a county court 
judgement (CCJ) or a determination from a tribunal, it would not pay the disputed charges.
In August 2016 HSBC wrote to the freeholders solicitors confirming the bank was aware of a 
dispute over service charges and so HSBC wasnt in a position to pay them until the dispute 
was resolved.
On 19 August 2020 a CCJ was entered against Ms K in proceedings brought against her by 
the managing agents, ordering her to pay almost £24,000 plus costs. In the absence of 
payment by Ms K, a notice of forfeiture of lease (known as a s.146 notice) was issued 
against Ms K. HSBC, as mortgagee, was sent a copy of the notice, along with the CCJ in 
favour of the managing agents, and another court order dismissing Ms Ks challenge to the 
CCJ.
HSBC contacted Ms K, who maintained the service charges were still in dispute. HSBC 
asked Ms K to provide evidence of the dispute, and if this wasnt provided, HSBC said it 
would pay the amount demanded.
The managing agents solicitors confirmed Ms K had made a part-payment of about £3,600, 
but had not paid the balance due under the court order. In order to prevent forfeiture of the 
lease, on 21 June 2021 HSBC paid the remaining balance of just over £20,000, and debited 
this to Ms Ks mortgage account.
Ms K complained to HSBC. She said shed been putting money aside to make the service 
charge repayments, and had reconciled her service charge accounts to the penny and so 
knew exactly what was disputed and what needed to be paid. Ms K said that the addition of 
over £20,000 to her mortgage increased the balance by 33%, and that she did not, and 
would not, agree to this. 
Ms K said that there was over £500,000 equity in her property and so she couldnt see how 
HSBCs security was at risk. Ms K said the amount debited wasnt authorised by her and, in 
any event, she totally had the matter in hand and was dealing directly with the managing 
agents.
Ms K said that she was going to change her monthly direct debit to £30 per month to cover 
only the interest on her mortgage (not including the additional £20,000). Ms K said she 
intended to put the balance of the monthly payment aside until the dispute was resolved. 
Ms K also wanted an assurance from HSBC that, by doing this, her credit file would not be 
affected.
In its final response letter, the bank set out the history of the matter, including all the contact 
it had had with Ms K about payment of arrears of service charges. HSBC explained to Ms K 
that if the lease was forfeited, it would cease to exist and there would be no security for the 
loan. The bank said that, because of this, it was justified in paying the amount outstanding in 
order to protect its security.
The bank also explained that if the full monthly repayment wasnt made each month, the 
mortgage would fall into arrears, which may affect Ms Ks credit file.
Unhappy with HSBCs response, Ms K brought her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint but didnt think HSBC had done anything 
wrong. He was satisfied HSBC had taken steps to verify the amount outstanding and that 
this was subject to a CCJ, also checking the position with Ms K, before debiting the account.
Ms K disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for the complaint to be reviewed 
by an ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied the terms and conditions of Ms Ks mortgage with HSBC allow the bank to pay 
sums legitimately demanded in order to protect its security. Here I note that there was a CCJ 
against Ms K for unpaid service charges. I see that Ms Ks challenge to the CCJ was 
dismissed by the court.
Although I note Ms K maintains there is still a dispute over the amount she owes, the court 
has already made a determination on the managing agents claim and found in their favour. 
So the question of what Ms K does or does not owe is no longer in dispute  because the 
court decided that Ms K owed almost £24,000 to the managing agents and issued a CCJ 
against her.
Under the Law of Property Act 1925, freeholders are able to forfeit a lease where there is a 
breach of the lease. A s.146 notice is served by the freeholder on the leaseholder and on 
any mortgagee (in this case, HSBC). It specifies the breach complained of (here it was unpaid sums due to the freeholder and its agents). The notice explains what must be done to 
remedy the breach in order to avoid forfeiture. 
I see that in the past HSBC  correctly  didnt pay outstanding service charges because 
there was no CCJ against Ms K. But once the CCJ had been issued, if HSBC didnt pay the 
sums due and demanded by the s.146 notice, there was a very real risk that the lease would 
be forfeited. This would leave HSBC with no security. 
In this regard, I think Ms K might have misunderstood the position. Her argument is that 
there is plenty of equity in the property, so no risk to HSBC. But forfeiture means 
cancellation of the lease as if it never existed, with the property reverting back to the 
freeholder. The freeholder would be entitled to take possession of the property and would 
then be free to grant a new lease to a new buyer. 
So the implications for both Ms K and HSBC is that there would be no equity, no property for 
her to live in and no security for the debt she would continue to owe to HSBC.
Im satisfied that HSBC was diligent in verifying there was a CCJ, and that, even after it had 
been provided with the court orders, the bank checked the position with Ms K and with the 
freeholders solicitors. It was only as a last resort that HSBC had to make the payment.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied HSBC acted reasonably in making the payment, after it 
was left with no other option to protect its security. 
With regard to the mortgage, the amount added to the account will have an effect on the 
overall balance and the monthly repayments. The mortgage term is due to end in 2027 and 
HSBC is entitled to increase the payments to ensure the total debt (including the amount that 
is the subject of this complaint) is repaid by the end of the term. Ms K has explained that, 
until the dispute is resolved, she has been paying only the interest on the mortgage, putting 
aside the capital part of the repayment pending resolution of the dispute.
This final decision is the end of the dispute, and although the resolution isnt in Ms Ks 
favour, the matter is now at an end. If Ms K hasnt been paying the full amount of the 
mortgage, I would urge her to bring the account up-to-date as soon as possible. I can see 
Ms K is concerned about the implications of arrears on her credit file. HSBC is entitled to 
report missed payments to credit reference agencies and is under an obligation to provide 
accurate information about this. 
If Ms K isnt able to bring her mortgage up-to-date by making a lump sum payment for any 
missed monthly payments, I would suggest she speaks to HSBC to discuss a payment plan.
I know this isnt the outcome Ms K was hoping for, but after careful review of everything she 
and HSBC have said, Im satisfied the bank has done nothing wrong.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2022.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman