DRN-3391723
The complaint
Mr W complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ), has rejected the claim he made under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act) in relation to a solar panel system he says was 
misrepresented to him by the supplier.
Mr W is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
In April 2015, Mr W purchased a solar panel system (the system) to be installed at his 
home. Mr W financed the purchase through an interest-free three-year fixed sum loan 
agreement with Ikano. 
In April 2020, the CMC made a claim on Mr Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act to Ikano. 
The CMC said that the supplier had made a number of representations about the system 
that had turned out not to be true, and it was these misrepresentations that had induced 
Mr W to enter into the contract. The CMC said the following misrepresentations had been 
made:
The financial benefits from the system would make it a self-funding system which 
would pay for itself through the income and savings it would generate.
Ikano issued a final response and explained that it didnt agree the system had been 
misrepresented to Mr W or that there were any other reasons for the claim to be upheld. The 
CMC then referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
One of our adjudicators looked into what had happened and, based on limited information as 
Ikano had not sent us its file, upheld the complaint. Ikano then made an offer of settlement 
which Mr W was not happy with. Having reviewed the complaint again, Ikano withdrew its 
offer  it said the sales contract clearly stated the cost and the first-year benefit of the solar 
panel system. And from this it was clear that the system would not be self-funding within the 
loan term. 
Having considered the new information provided (the sales contract) our adjudicator didnt 
think the complaint should be upheld. 
The CMC didnt agree with this for the following reasons:
Mr W was repeatedly assured verbally by the sales representative that he would get 
back the money paid for the system through the income and savings which he would 
receive. It is these verbal representations on which he relied upon when agreeing to 
purchase the system. 
It is regular practice for sales representatives to provide verbal representations to 
potential customers about the solar panels and the loan agreement they would be 
entering into which deviated away from the standard documents and graphs used by 
the particular companies. 
Mr W should not be punished financially due to the fact he referred the claim back to 
ensure he received the correct refund he was due.
As an agreement couldnt be reached, the case has been passed to me for review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant 
time.
In this case the relevant law includes section 56 and section 75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services bought using credit. 
As Mr W paid for the system with a fixed sum loan agreement, Ikano agrees that section 75 
applies to this transaction. This means that Mr W could claim against Ikano, the creditor, for 
any misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier in the same way he could have 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into account when deciding what is 
fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations between Mr W and 
the supplier are deemed to have been conducted by P as an agent of Ikano.
For the purpose of this decision Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made by one party (or his agent) to a second party which induces 
that second party to enter the contract, thereby causing them loss.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both The CMC and Ikano. These 
include the credit agreement and sales contract.
The sales contract is a one-page document which sets out key information about the system, 
the expected performance, financial benefits, and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales process and is therefore relevant, alongside Mr Ws 
recollection of the sale, when considering if there have been any untrue statements of fact.
The credit agreement sets out the amount being borrowed, the interest to be charged (none 
in this case), the total amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual monthly 
repayments.
Sales contract
The sales contract set out the cost of the system alongside the expected first-year benefits 
of the system as follows:I think the sales contract is clear that the system would cost £6,575.00, of which £4,000 was 
to be funded by a 36-month loan. It refers to this as IFL  which stands for interest-free 
loan. I think Mr W wouldve understood this given he agreed to part-fund the purchase using 
the three-year interest free loan from Ikano. 
I think it is also clear that the first-year benefit of the system was expected to total £497.20  
including FIT payments and electricity bill savings. 
I think it is clear from this that the system would not be self-funding in the first year nor 
during the term of the loan. And I think it is unlikely that the salesperson wouldve 
misrepresented the solar panel system in the way Mr W has alleged, given that I think this 
one-page document was an integral part of the sale. 
Self-funding
Mr W may have been told the system would be self-funding over some period of time  such 
as its expected 25-year expected lifespan. A simple calculation would suggest that the 
system may be self-funding over about 13 years if the benefit remained the same each year. 
However, the FIT payments are linked to inflation, and electricity costs could reasonably be 
assumed to increase over time as well. So, Mr W couldve been told that the system was 
self-funding over its lifetime (or over a shorter time depending what assumptions were made) 
without it being a misrepresentation.
Performance
Ive considered whether the performance of the system is in line with estimate in the sales 
contract. The sales contract sets out that the system is expected to produce 2,135 kWh per 
year. I have looked at Mr Ws FIT statements and can see that his system is performing as 
expected.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided by all parties in this complaint, Im
satisfied that there were no untrue statements of fact made by the supplier that induced 
Mr W to enter into the contract for the system, and I have found no other reason to uphold 
this complaint. 
I understand that Mr W is frustrated that Ikano made an offer of settlement and later 
withdrew this. However, given he had not accepted the offer, Ikano was free to withdraw it at 
any time. So, this does not change my decision, which is that I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman