DRN-4094198
The complaint
Mr J complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money is now taking mortgage 
payments of over £1,000.00 per month rather than £381.40 he had been paying although he 
applied for a new mortgage with the bank which would have considerably reduced his 
payments.
What happened
Mr J has property which he has let out and has a mortgage on it with Virgin Money. The two-
year fixed mortgage product he had with Virgin Money was to expire on 1 November 2022. 
Mr J wanted to continue the mortgage with the bank and release some equity in the region of 
£10,000-£12,000. Mr J says he had various discussions with a buy to let adviser over 
several months and understood that everything was proceeding smoothly and awaiting a 
valuation because of the request for further borrowing. Mr J had difficulties getting through to 
Virgin Money in September/October. Late in October Mr B found out that his payments 
would go up in November to £913 and that the valuation which was done in early September 
had been stored and not yet considered. Although Mr B was assured that the extra 
payments would be refunded he was then told that the mortgage had been refused because 
of the valuation. 
Virgin Money said that it refused the application because the property was a house in 
multiple occupation (HMO) which are properties outside its lending policy. It agreed it 
should have informed Mr J about this much earlier and offered compensation of £250. Our 
investigator agreed that this represented fair compensation and didnt require Virgin Money 
to do anything further. Mr J disagreed and asked for a review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J clearly sets out in the complaint form the issues he has had with Virgin Money. Mr J 
says that he had cordial discussions with a mortgage adviser until September/October when 
he had difficulties getting through to the bank. Then he realised that the application hadnt 
been considered because the valuation was mislaid and when it was considered the 
application was refused and Mr Js monthly payments suddenly increased.
If I look at the application objectively, the valuation indicated that this was a property 
described as a HMO and Virgin Moneys current policy isnt to loan on a HMO. I see nothing 
wrong with Virgin Moneys refusal of the application as its not in line with its policy. I do see 
that there was something wrong with the process both with Mr Js inability to make contact 
and the failure to deal with the valuation and therefore the application promptly. I have to 
look at whether Mr J suffered financially as a result. Mr Js payments went up from 
November onwards as a result of going onto Virgin Moneys variable rate. I could look at Mr 
Js financial loss if he had been able to get a deal elsewhere and this deal was delayed 
because he hadnt received a timely decision from Virgin Money. But Mr J has been unable 
to get an alternative deal and has told us he intends selling the property. 
So, in my view, the delay by itself did not hurt Mr J financially. Mr J says that mortgage 
stress tests hardened in the autumn of 2022. But Ive nothing concrete to suggest that if say 
Virgin Money told him about the refusal in early September that he would have got an 
alternative mortgage then given he has been unable to source an alternative mortgage after 
Virgin Money told him of its refusal some weeks later. It was Virgin Moneys refusal to grant 
a new mortgage that led to Mr Js increased payments. But, as I say above, I can find 
nothing wrong with that decision. So, I cant fairly say that Mr J suffered financially from the 
problems he had with Virgin Moneys service. I agree with him that the delay by Virgin 
Money and the problems he had communicating with them must have been very frustrating. I 
agree with Virgin Money and our investigator that a sum of £250 represents fair 
compensation for those service issues but I dont require Virgin Money to make any further 
payment. 
My final decision
Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money already made an offer to pay Mr J £250 to 
settle his complaint and I think the offer is fair in the circumstances. I understand that this 
money has been paid but if it has not Virgin Money should pay Mr J £250.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Gerard McManus
Ombudsman