DRN-1199810
 
The complaint
Mrs H complains about how Barclays Bank UK PLC dealt with a security block on her 
account.
What happened
Mrs H says she tried to make a payment to a company I will call "A" in May 2019. She says 
she received an e-mail from A telling her the card  had been declined. Mrs H says she spoke 
to Barclays and it told her that she would need to go into a branch for the block to be 
removed. But the next day she received an e-mail from A telling her the transaction was 
successful so she assumed Barclays had removed the block. Mrs H says she tried to pay for 
her shopping but her card was again declined and by the time the problem was sorted out 
she had missed the delivery slots. She says she was caused stress and would like Barclays 
to pay compensation.
Barclays says Mrs H tried to make a payment to A on 22 May 2019, but she used an old 
account card that had been cancelled in January 2019. It says Mrs H then used the correct 
account card and the transaction was processed successfully. Barclays says Mrs H 
contacted it on 24 May 2019 and a block was placed on her account, and she was told to 
attend a branch. It says the transaction to A took place before the account block, and it was 
able to remove the block without Mrs H attending a branch. Barclays has apologised for not 
explaining that when Mrs H complained and accepts it concentrated on another area of her 
complaint that has been dealt with separately. It's paid £50 compensation for its mistake.
Mrs H brought her complaint to us and our investigator looked at Barclays records and 
explained to Mrs H what she thought had taken place. The investigator thought Mrs H had 
made two attempts to pay A on 22 May 2019 using an old account card but that same day a 
transaction was successfully made using the correct card and Mrs H made the payment to A 
on 24 May 2019. The investigator thought the block was placed on the account on 24 May 
2019 following Mrs H's call to Barclays and so didn't think Barclays had authorised any 
transactions to A after the block had been applied. The investigator thought Barclays ought 
to have explained that when Mrs H complained and ought to have considered alternative 
ways of helping Mrs H. She recommended Barclays increase its compensation offer to £150 
which it agreed to do.
Mrs H doesn't accept that view and says she made more payments to A and that the 
investigator is wrong.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I have  come to a similar 
overall view as the investigator and for similar reasons. I realise Mrs H will be disappointed 
by my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about what's taken place.I have looked at Barclays records and I can see that Mrs H made two attempts to pay A on 
22 May 2019 but both transactions were declined as I can see that Mrs H was using an 
account card that had been cancelled. I'm satisfied that Barclays records show that Mrs H 
was able to make the payment to A using her correct account card and was able to use the 
account card on 23 and 24 May 2019. I'm also satisfied that Mrs H then spoke to Barclays 
on 24 May 2019 and a security block was placed on the account. I'm satisfied the payment 
was made to A on 24 May 2019 but before that call to Barclays. I will not comment on the 
decision to place a security block on the account as I know that is subject to a separate 
complaint. But I'm satisfied Mrs H was told there was a block and that she would need to 
attend a branch. And I'm also satisfied that there is no record of a transaction of any kind to 
A after the block had been put in place and before it had been removed.
So whilst I'm sorry to disagree with Mrs H, I have not seen any evidence that shows a 
successful transaction was made to A whilst a block was in place. So I can't fairly conclude 
Barclays made a mistake or acted unfairly or did anything that would lead Mrs H to conclude 
the block had been removed.
There is no dispute that Barclays didn't address that point in its final response letter to Mrs H 
and could have considered alternative ways of helping her. I can see that Barclays has fairly 
apologised for that mistake and has fairly agreed to increase its compensation offer to £150. 
I'm satisfied that offer is fair and reasonable and takes into account that Mrs H didn't suffer 
any financial loss.
I appreciate Mrs H is unlikely to accept my decision and that she says there were other 
transactions to A. I make clear that having looked at Barclays records that I don't think that 
was the case and think the cause of the confusion may have been Mrs H's use of a 
cancelled account card and A's email about the transaction arriving after the phone call. I 
make clear I can't fairly hold Barclays responsible for when A chooses to e-mail its 
customers.
Putting things right
Barclays has agreed to increase its compensation to £150 which I think is fair and 
reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and order Barclays Bank UK PLC to 
pay Mrs H a further £100 compensation. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 July 2020.
David Singh
Ombudsman