DRN-1998900
The complaint
Miss L complains UK Credit Limited acted irresponsibly by accepting her as a guarantor for a 
loan taken out by a third party (the borrower). Miss L says the potential loan repayments 
were unaffordable to her, and she felt pressured into agreeing to be the guarantor.
What happened
The borrower applied for a loan with UK Credit. Miss L was approved as a guarantor for the 
loan. The loan details are as follows:
Date Amount Term Monthly repayment 
April 2019 £5,000 60 months £206.87
Miss L says at the time of agreeing to be the guarantor for this loan, she was already a 
guarantor for a different loan from the same borrower. She says further checks wouldve 
shown the potential loan repayments wouldve been unaffordable to her.
In its final response, UK Credit disagreed with Miss Ls complaint. UK Credit says it 
completed reasonable and proportionate checks before approving Miss L as a guarantor. It 
says these checks showed the potential repayments were affordable to Miss L. UK Credit 
says it completed an income and expenditure assessment and verified Miss Ls income via a 
payslip. UK Credit also says it asked Miss L if she had any other credit commitments (such 
as being an existing guarantor) and she confirmed that she wasnt. UK Credit also says the 
borrower intended to use the loan to consolidate some existing debts. It says based on all of 
this information, its decision to approve Miss L as a guarantor was fair.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. She felt further checks shouldve 
been completed. And had UK Credit done this, it wouldve realised the loan repayments 
were unsustainable to Miss L should she be required to make them. This was because Miss 
Ls outgoings were higher than she had declared, and as such our investigator felt there 
wasnt sufficient disposable income to meet any potential repayments sustainably. As our 
investigator felt the loan was unaffordable to Miss L, she made no finding in regard to Miss 
Ls complaint that she was pressured into being a guarantor.
UK Credit disagreed with our investigators assessments. It felt Miss L had disposable 
income to meet any potential repayments. As no agreement could be reached the matter 
has been passed to me to issue a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to complaints about irresponsible and unaffordable lending on 
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Miss Ls complaint. In relation to 
the rules, regulations, guidance and good industry practice, which applied at the time, there 
are four overarching questions which form our approach. These are:
1. Did UK Credit obtain Miss Ls properly informed consent before binding her to the 
guarantee and indemnity agreement? 
2. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks on Miss L to satisfy 
itself that she was in a position repay the loan in the event the borrower did not? 
o If so, did it make a fair decision? 
o If not, would those checks have shown that Miss L would have been able to do so?
3. Did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that the 
borrower would be able to repay this loan in a sustainable way? 
o If so, did it make a fair lending decision? 
o If not, would those checks have shown that the borrower would have been able to 
do so? 
 
4. Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way? 
For reasons that will become apparent further on I have not addressed all the questions Ive 
set out. Instead, Ive started by considering whether UK Credit completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks on Miss L to satisfy itself that she was in a position to make the 
payments to this loan in the event she had to.
UK Credit needed to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to be able to understand 
if Miss L would be able to make the loan payments in the event she had to. Essentially this 
meant that it needed to conduct similar affordability checks on Miss L to those reasonably 
expected for the borrower. The relevant rules dont set out which specific checks it has to 
complete for them to be reasonable and proportionate. But relevant checks could include 
things such as a customers income (over the full term of the loan), and their outgoing 
expenses. These checks should also be reasonable and proportionate to the amount of 
credit being provided including the total amount of credit, amount of repayments and total 
length of the term. 
UK Credit was required to ensure that Miss L could sustainably meet the repayments without 
adversely affecting her financial position, should she be required to do so, given that she 
was equally liable with the borrower for this debt.
UK Credit says it completed reasonable and proportionate checks. It says it completed an 
income and expenditure assessment, as well as verifying Miss Ls income via payslips. It 
says it had an assessment call with Miss L where she confirmed she understood the details 
of the loan she was guaranteeing, as well as the purpose of the loans. It says these checks 
showed the loan was affordable to Miss L and as such its decision to approve her as a 
guarantor was fair. 
Ive carefully considered UK Credits arguments over proportionality but ultimately, I disagree 
with it in this instance. 
I say this because the amount of credit and the term of the agreement that Miss L was 
guaranteeing was sizeable - £5,000 over 60 monthly repayments. For a loan this size and 
term Im satisfied proportionate checks wouldve included a thorough review of Miss Ls 
financial circumstances. In particular I note that UK Credit verified Miss Ls income but didnt 
make similar efforts to confirm her existing outgoings which may not have shown on her 
credit report. I think considering the size and term of the loan, further checks wouldve been 
proportionate. This couldve been achieved by reviewing Miss Ls bank statements. 
Miss L has provided our service with her bank statements, and Ive reviewed them when 
making my decision. I appreciate UK Credit also reviewed Miss Ls statements when addressing her complaint, and it felt they showed she had disposable income should she be 
required to meet any repayments.
Both our investigator and UK Credit completed a review of Miss Ls statements and 
compared her income and outgoings. Both parties agreed that Miss L had some disposable 
income at the end of each month. Ive completed the same review and agree that Miss L has 
some disposable income left, but I disagree this would have been sustainable for Miss L 
going forward. Looking at Miss Ls income after taking away the potential repayment for this 
loan Miss L wouldve been left with approximately £40-£50 per month. 
Considering that the term of the loan was significant  60 months  Im satisfied this 
disposable amount is not sufficient for her to meet any repayments in a sustainable way. In 
particular this remaining amount does not provide a sufficient enough income to meet any 
unexpected changes in Miss Ls circumstances. 
Looking through the statements it seems that Miss Ls outgoings are higher than those 
calculated during the assessment call she had with UK Credit. The statements show Miss L 
was managing her account generally well (some small entries into her overdraft), but to very 
small margins with there often being less than £100 in her account at the end of each month. 
As UK Credit is aware, it needs to be satisfied the guarantor can make any potential 
repayments in a sustainable way. This means meeting payments without undue difficulty or 
without having to borrow further money. I think the information from Miss Ls bank 
statements show she was unlikely to meet any potential repayments sustainably.
So, taking all of this into consideration Im not persuaded Miss L wouldve been able to meet 
the monthly payments in a sustainable way should they have become due. And Im satisfied 
UK Credit ought to have realised this too had it conducted further checks at the time it 
approved her as a guarantor. And on this basis, Im satisfied UK Credits decision to approve 
Miss L as a guarantor was unreasonable. 
Similar to our investigator, as Ive already found Miss L shouldnt have been accepted as a 
guarantor for this loan as I think proportionate checks would more likely than not have shown 
that shed be unable to sustainably make the payments in the event she had to, I dont think 
that any findings that I may make in relation to the remaining questions, will materially affect 
her position. As such I make no finding on whether UK Credit obtained Miss L's properly 
informed consent to the agreement or on whether it acted fairly and reasonably towards the 
borrower when deciding to provide this loan.
Putting things right
In order to put things right I require UK Credit Limited:
To release Miss L from any obligations she has under the Guaranty and indemnity 
agreement, and then terminate it;
To refund any repayments Miss L has made towards the loan with 8% simple interest 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement; 
To remove any information recorded on Miss Ls credit file as a result of the loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit Limited to take off tax from this interest. UK 
Credit Limited must give Miss L a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 October 2020.
 
Tom Whittington
Ombudsman