DRN-3031093
The rules about complaining to the ombudsman set out when we can  and cant  look into 
complaints. In my decision, Ive explained what this means for Mr Ks complaint.
      
summary and background to complaint
Mr K has said MBNA Limited mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI) with a credit 
card in 2009.
MBNA has said Mr K made a successful claim on the PPI policy and received benefit 
payments of more than £800 as a result.
Also MBNA didnt agree we could look at a complaint about how the PPI was sold - because 
it said Mr K had referred the complaint to us too late. 
But MBNA did pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of 
Mr Ks PPI premium. It did this because it didnt tell Mr K about the high level of commission 
and profit share hed pay  which was unfair. The payment was made in 2017, according to 
a letter MBNA has sent us addressed to Mr Ks representatives.
Our adjudicator looked at all of this  but didnt think we could help with Mr Ks complaint 
about how this policy was sold. And they thought MBNAs payment was a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.
Mr Ks representatives disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise any new or 
additional points but repeated complaint points and arguments theyd previously made.
The complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
I cant look at all the complaints referred to me. The rules applying to this service say that  
where a business doesnt agree  I cant look into a complaint if its been referred to us more 
than six months after the business sends the consumer its final response letter, telling them 
they can refer their complaint to us. This is Dispute Resolution rule 2.8.2R(1)  and it can be 
found online in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
MBNA sent a final response to Mr K in July 2013 in response to a complaint he had raised 
about the policy. The response says Mr K had complained the policy wasnt suitable for his 
needs  so the complaint was a complaint about the sale of the policy. The six months Mr K 
had to refer that complaint to us ran out in 2014.
Mr K didnt refer his complaint to us within that timeframe. But he complained again to MBNA 
about the policy in December 2016, using representatives to do so. This complaint was also 
about the sale and he referred the complaint to us in March 2018. All this was after the time 
to refer his complaint to us ran out in 2014.
Mr Ks representatives have said they cant verify that all the matters they are now raising 
were addressed in Mr Ks previous complaint  such as concerns relating to certain policy 
exclusions. In my view concerns about the impact policy exclusions may have on a policys 
usefulness are concerns Id generally consider to be suitability concerns. But, be that as it 
may, in any event the substance of Mr Ks previous complaint and of the complaint he 
referred to us in 2018, is in my view the same  the sale of the PPI. So in my view it is a 
complaint he had six months from MBNAs July 2013 letter to bring to us  and so the 
complaint was referred to us out of time under the rules I have to apply.
I can look into complaints referred outside the usual time limits where Im satisfied the failure 
to comply with the time limits was because of exceptional circumstances. Having considered 
all that has been said by and for Mr K, Ive nothing to suggest exceptional circumstances 
apply here. Ive seen nothing to suggest he couldnt have referred his complaint to us before 
the six months to do so ran out in 2014.
So Im sorry that were unable to help Mr K with his complaint about how this policy was sold 
 I appreciate this may be disappointing for Mr K.
non-disclosure of commission
But I have considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission, including whether the non-
disclosure resulted in an unfair relationship under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act  
and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy that unfairness.
Having done so, Ive decided MBNA should have disclosed the commission it received and 
that MBNAs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused 
is fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there an unfair relationship?
MBNA didnt tell Mr K about the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case. 
So, taking into account: 
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion in that case that the 
non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship;
- the FCAs rules and guidance for handling complaints about the non-disclosure of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin - which requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission 
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
- the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
MBNA and Mr K was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act because 
MBNA didnt tell him about the high levels of commission and profit share in this case; 
I dont think MBNA acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr K because it failed to 
disclose the high commission and profit share.
redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy 
the unfairness I have identified.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finance Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationshipMr Ks representative has made a number of representations about this part of the complaint 
including the impact of the Plevin judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer 
Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary they have said Mr K should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: MBNA failed to tell Mr K about the high commission and profit-share rates paid, the 
low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. Because they say that meant 
the policy was poor value, they say I should find that Mr K wouldnt have taken the policy 
had he known about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of all the 
premiums he paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
- The Supreme Court judgment in Plevin made no specific finding about whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy had the 
commission been disclosed; 
- a court would have a range of powers available under section 140 B to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure of commission  it does not follow that a court 
would automatically order a return of all the premiums paid or conclude that a consumer 
would not have purchased the policy had the commission been disclosed; and
- the FCA considered the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge the 
considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules and guidance about 
mis-selling (hence the two-step approach for firms handling PPI complaints) and that the 
impact of any undisclosed commission and any remedy caused by it should be 
considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance, my role as an 
ombudsman in this case is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair 
compensation for Mr K in order to remedy the unfairness caused by MBNA not disclosing the 
high level of commission to him before he purchased the policy.
So, taking into account: 
- The FCAs guidance usually requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit share above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
- refunding some of the money paid for the PPI policy in this way is an order which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
- I am not, as Mr Ks representative suggests, driven to conclude that he wouldnt have 
purchased the policy but for MBNAs failure to disclose the level of commission for the 
reasons Ive given above;
I think it was fair for MBNA to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some of the money Mr K paid for his PPI policy - I consider this fairly removes the 
source of the unfairness. 
So I consider that MBNAs payment of an amount equivalent to the commission and profit 
share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated interest where applicable) in 
line with the FCAs guidance to firms, is fair in all the circumstances.As MBNA has already paid Mr K compensation on this basis, I dont consider it should do 
anything further.
my final decision
Im unable to consider Mr Ks complaint about how his policy was sold, because it was 
referred to us too late  and Im not persuaded the failure to comply with the time limits was 
because of exceptional circumstances.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission and profit share, Ive decided that 
MBNA Limited should pay Mr K an amount equivalent to the commission and profit share 
paid in excess of 50% of the policy cost (plus associated interest where applicable). As 
MBNA Limited has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not consider that 
MBNA Limited should do anything more. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 November 2021. 
Richard Sheridan
Ombudsman