DRN-2359312
The complaint
 Mr K complains that TSB Bank Plc wrongly declined a payment. Hed like a full explanation 
and compensation for the inconvenience and upset hes had as a result of this mistake. 
What happened
Mr K had a hotel booking for himself and his 5 children for 22 December 2019. When he 
arrived and tried to pay he received a message saying TSB wanted to send a One Time 
Passcode (OTP) to verify the payment. It asked Mr K to choose one of two numbers but Mr 
K says neither of the numbers offered was correct: one was an old number and the other he 
didnt recognise. As he couldnt choose either number, his payment was declined. 
Mr Ks unhappy that TSB had the wrong numbers. He says as a result of its mistake, he and 
his family were forced to wait outside in the cold for a considerable time while he arranged 
alternative accommodation. This spoilt their holiday and caused a lot of upset and 
inconvenience, in particular as one of his children has specific health needs. 
In addition, Mr Ks unhappy that TSB didnt accept it had made a mistake until it was 
contacted by this service. He doesnt accept that it had carried out a detailed investigation as 
it had claimed and he feels it didnt believe him, which was upsetting. In the circumstances 
he feels hes entitled to significant compensation to reflect what happened.
TSB said that its use of an OTP is part of its security measures that are designed to protect 
both customers and the bank. Initially it said that the numbers in the message were the ones 
on its system and it didnt accept it had made a mistake. However later, after it saw a screen 
shot of the message sent to Mr K, it agreed that the numbers it had sent Mr K were incorrect 
although it couldnt explain how that could have happened. At that point it agreed that this 
was a mistake and accepted that this would have impacted on Mr K because his payment 
was declined and he had to call in to get it approved.
It said it had investigated but the numbers on its system were correct so it hadnt realised 
that the wrong numbers had been used until it saw the screen shot. When it did it accepted 
the mistake.
Our investigator upheld the complaint and said while it was reasonable for TSB to use the 
OTP as part of its security, in this case it was clear it had used incorrect numbers. As a 
result, Mr Ks payment was declined.  This had meant that he and his children had had to 
wait outside in the cold while Mr K tried to resolve the problem. She could understand how 
stressful this had been and why Mr K was so upset at what happened. In the circumstances 
she recommended TSB pay Mr K £250 for the impact of its mistake.
TSB agreed. Mr K however disagreed and said in summary:
Hed been upset and embarrassed at having his payment declined and hed then had 
to contact friends and relative to find alternative accommodation. He and his children 
had had to wait outside in the cold. He said the trip had been spoilt. 
TSB had told him that it had thoroughly investigated the complaint when this wasnt 
the case. He felt Hed had to call and chase several times to get a response and 
when he did, TSB had told him it was his responsibility to keep his numbers updated. 
He felt the bank had questioned his honesty and his integrity.
He didnt feel £250 was sufficient to reflect the impact on him and his family. He felt £750 
would be more appropriate
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed the information in this case Ive decided to uphold Mr Ks complaint and to 
direct TSB to pay him £250 compensation. I realise Mr K may be disappointed by my 
decision so Ive set out my reasons in more detail below.
TSB like many banks uses a One Time Passcode as part of its security measures. In short, 
this requires the consumer to pick a telephone number held by the bank and the bank then 
sends a code to that number which can be used to verify an individual payment. Thats not 
unusual but in this case the number options offered to Mr K were incorrect so he wasnt able 
to choose and one and as a result his payment was declined.
I can understand how upsetting this was for Mr K.  It meant that he and his children werent 
able to get into their accommodation and instead how to wait outside for some time while Mr 
K called the bank to get the payment approved. 
Ive seen TSB says it cant explain how this happened as the numbers currently listed on Mr 
Ks account are the correct ones. It seems as if the mistake in this case was a technical 
glitch, which unfortunately its not been possible to explain. I know that doesnt help Mr K 
with the problem he had at the time but hopefully it does offer some reassurance that his 
account details are correct.
However, when Mr K complained, TSB didnt accept it had done anything wrong. It checked 
the numbers it held on its system and was satisfied they were correct and assumed that the 
numbers in the text must also have been correct as well. I appreciate that at this point TSB 
hadnt seen the screenshot of the text that was later provided to us but if it had asked Mr K 
for details of the numbers hed been sent on the day, it would have seen that, whatever the 
number on its system, the numbers used in the text were wrong.
I can see how frustrating Mr K has found TSBs approach, in particular that it didnt accept 
what hed said about the text and suggested it was his fault for not keeping his numbers up 
to date. Mr K explained very clearly why he feels so strongly about this feels about this and I 
can understand his concern. However, I dont think TSB was being dishonest about its 
investigation but rather that it hadnt fully understood the nature of the complaint until it saw 
the screenshot. 
Putting things right
TSB has accepted it made a mistake so the issue here is what it needs to do to put matters 
right. In this case its not possible to put Mr K back in the position he would have been in if 
the mistake hadnt happened so Ive looked instead at the impact of this mistake on Mr K.Mr Ks provided detailed submissions about how the mistake affected him and his family and 
Ive given very careful consideration to what Mr K has said. I can understand how stressful it 
must have been to find that a payment had been declined in those circumstances. However, 
the information Ive seen shows that, although the original payment attempt was declined, 
the block was lifted some 30 minutes later when Mr K called TSB and the payment then 
went through. I accept that Mr K may not have realised this at the time but its only fair that I 
take this into account as well.
Having done so I consider that an award of £250 is reasonable for the upset and 
inconvenience caused by what happened that evening. I know this is less than Mr K was 
hoping for but, for the reasons set out above, I consider that its fair and I wont, therefore, be 
asking TSB to do anything more to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint and direct TSB Bank Plc to pay Mr K £250 
compensation for the upset and inconvenience caused by its mistake. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 January 2021.
 
Cerys Jones
Ombudsman