DRN-2919000
The complaint
Mr M has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited has incorrectly recorded an incident on 
a claims database following a claim he made under his car insurance policy. 
What happened
Mr Ms wife, a named driver under the policy, was involved in an incident with another 
vehicle in August 2020. Mr M said although they felt the other driver was to blame, the 
incident was settled by Ageas as a split fault claim; 50%/50%.
Mr M said Ageas didnt properly explain how the incident would be recorded and he said he 
had a policy cancelled by another insurer as a result. Mr M says Ageas didnt record the 
incident correctly on a central database which many insurers use to check the claims history 
of a customer. 
Mr M says its unfair that he has to pay a higher premium for insurance due to the way the 
incident has been recorded. He wants £350 compensation for Ageas incorrectly recording 
the claim and misinforming him. And he wants Ageas to cover the difference in premium he 
has to pay. 
Ageas explained that the recording of the incident on the database can only be presented in 
two ways: either as a fault or non-fault incident. As the incident was settled on a partial fault 
basis, Ageas said it had recorded the incident correctly. So it didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Our investigator found that Ageas had acted reasonably when dealing with the claim in line 
with the policy terms. It had initially looked to hold the third party at fault. But the third party 
insurer (TPI) suggested a 50%/50% shared liability settlement of the claim. Ageas had put 
the suggestion to Mr M and Mr M had agreed. The investigator explained that Ageas had 
correctly recorded the incident  that although the words used are either fault or non-fault 
this is the terminology used to record a claim where the costs have either been recovered in 
full or not. 
So the investigator didnt recommend Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
Mr M didnt agree. In summary he says Ageas should have explained what the impact would 
have been when he agreed to settle the claim on a joint liability basis. He said he only 
accepted the decision because Ageas took too long when dealing with the claim.  Mr M 
believes he has had to pay more for insurance because other insurers charge less for a 
partial fault claim  and Ageas has recorded it as a full fault claim.
As Mr M didnt agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ageas handling of the claim
In August 2020 Ageas contacted the other drivers insurer and said it intended to hold them 
responsible for the incident. But the other drivers insurer didnt agree and said Mrs M was at 
fault for the incident. There were no independent witnesses or other evidence to support 
either account.
As there was a dispute about liability, Ageas contacted Mr M in October 2020 and explained 
the next steps. It said Mr M could either accept liability on a shared basis and the claim 
would be settled that way. Or if he disagreed, Ageas would look to pursue the matter and 
pass the case to solicitors with the possibility of going to court. 
Mr M told Ageas he agreed the claim could be settled on a shared liability basis. 
I can see from Ageas claim notes that there was regular contact between it and Mr M from 
the outset of the claim. I havent seen anything to show that Ageas caused undue delay or 
failed to deal with the claim in a reasonable way. 
Ageas recording of the incident and questions other insurers ask about liability
Mr M said when applying for a policy elsewhere, some insurers asked if an incident was fully 
or partially a fault incident. He said because Ageas recorded it as a full fault claim, he had to 
record it as the same when applying for a policy. So Mr M believes he has paid a higher 
premium due to Ageas incorrect recording of the claim.
Mr M believes Ageas should have explained to him that by agreeing to settle the claim on a 
shared liability basis, he may face problems in the future with the price hed pay for 
insurance. 
I understand that Mr M has found that other insurers ask for details of past incidents and 
whether they were fully or partially fault claims. I cant specifically comment on Mr Ms 
experience with other insurers in my decision - or whether they price a policy differently 
depending on a portion of liability for past incidents. What I can say is that generally an 
insurer is entitled to ask questions from a customer to help them decide whether they are 
satisfied to accept the risk presented to them. Many insurers are signed up to the database 
in question. This database will show a record of the costs of a claim - and whether a 
customers No Claims Bonus (NCB) has been allowed or not, which indicates to other 
insurers whether the costs of the claim were recovered or not. 
The impact of settling the claim as either a partial or full fault claim  along with other factors 
in a customers claims history  affects the price offered by insurers. This depends on the 
individual insurers appetite for the risk presented to them. This is why we see a wide range 
of prices on comparison websites for insurance when providing the same details . 
The onus is on the customer to answer the questions an insurer asks about their claims 
history. I think Ageas made Mr M aware of how the incident was settled and this was 
reasonable. 
I think its important for me to explain  as Ageas did to Mr M - that Ageas cannot decide to 
record the claim on the database  which is a third party company  in the way Mr M wants it 
to. The database does not give the option for Ageas  or any other insurer  to record a 
claim as a partial liability or partial fault incident. I cant hold Ageas at fault for this.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think Ageas has incorrectly recorded the claim  as it has 
recorded it as any other insurer would have in the same circumstances. I understand Mr M will be very disappointed with my decision. But this means Im not asking Ageas to do any 
more. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 October 2021.
 
Geraldine Newbold
Ombudsman