DRN-3665852
The complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Advantage Insurance Company Limited (Advantage) hasnt repaired all
the damage to his car after he made a theft claim. Hes also unhappy with the overall service
received, and that Advantage hasnt covered all the items taken from his car when it was
stolen.
What happened
Mr As car was stolen in January 2021, so he made a claim to Advantage, his car insurance
provider. His car was recovered two days later, and he asked Advantage to carry out an
inspection to determine if there was any damage.
Ultimately, Advantage covered some repairs, but there were three areas which were in
dispute. These were, damage to the alloy wheels, a wing mirror and the parking sensor,
which Mr A says worked prior to the theft.
Advantage says the wing mirror and alloy damage wasnt connected to theft and was pre-
existing, and the parking sensor issue was due to poor previous repairs, prior to the theft.
Mr A also made a claim for several items taken from his car during the theft. Hes had part of
the claim settled, but not all items have been accepted. Mr A raised a complaint with
Advantage and they maintained their decision in relation to the repairs and claim settlement,
but they offered £50 compensation for delays in the claim.
Mr A was unhappy with this and approached this service.
Our investigator looked into things. During her investigation, Advantage offered a further £50
compensation for the delay in them paying for some of the stolen items. She thought this,
along with the £50 already offered for delays, was fair for the service Mr A had received.
She said some of the items Mr A had claimed for werent covered by the policy. And other
items Mr A hadnt actually submitted a claim for  but she said shed expect Advantage to
consider them if he did. She also said Advantages position wasnt unreasonable in relation
to the parking sensors, wing mirror and alloy wheels.
Overall Mr A didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
I issued a provisional decision. I reached the same outcome on some of the complaint points 
as our investigator, but different outcomes on others. So, I issued a provisional decision to 
give both parties an opportunity to respond, prior to reaching my final decision.
What I provisionally decided  and why
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im issuing a provisional decision. Whilst Ive reached the same outcome on some of 
the points as our investigator, Ive provisionally reached a different outcome on 
others. So, I wanted to give both parties an opportunity to respond to my provisional 
findings before I reach my final decision. Ill address each of the points in turn.
The alloy wheels
Advantage said damage to the alloy wheels was pre-existing on the basis they 
appeared aged due to road grime and oxidisation being present.
Mr A accepted there was some corrosion, albeit in a different place. And he also said 
the remedy would be replacing all four wheels, so he didnt continue with this.
Based on what Ive seen, overall, I dont think Advantage acted unreasonably here, 
as I havent seen anything which demonstrates all the damage was caused solely 
and only during the theft.
The wing mirror
Mr As vehicle was returned after repair by Advantage. He says at this point he 
noticed his wing mirror glass and casing was cracked. He says this was damaged 
during the theft.
Advantages engineer says this damage pre-dated the theft of Mr As car. Theyve 
said this on the basis that there was green mould growing out of the crack, which in 
their view showed it was historic.
Mr A has said he has qualifications in microbiology, and has worked in that field for a
number of years. Hes said that Algae can grow in short periods. He says the theft 
and inspection were around four weeks apart, and this is ample time for it to have 
grown in the right conditions.
Mr A says the engineer isnt qualified in this area, and he is, so knows more about it. 
And the engineer hasnt taken into account the time period in which Algae could 
grow. He feels the evidence shows this has grown post theft, and consequently this 
supports his position the mirror damage was caused as part of the theft. So, in Mr As 
view, Advantage should repair/replace it.
I acknowledge Mr As qualifications, experience, views and information provided 
about algae growth. And I recognise that algae can grow in short periods, as outlined 
in the information Mr A has provided. Whilst it can grow in short periods, in the right 
conditions, equally, it could have been there for longer. Either way, it cant be known 
with certainty exactly when it did grow.In cases like this, where there isnt enough evidence to conclusively show either way, 
Ill reach my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what do I consider is 
more likely based on the evidence which is available. And to conclude that 
Advantage need to repair the mirror, Id need to be persuaded on balance, the 
evidence supports it is most likely what happened. However, whilst I appreciate 
Mr As strength of feelings on matters, on balance, Im not persuaded there is enough 
to demonstrate the damage was most likely caused during the theft. As I say, the 
algae could have grown post theft, but it could just have likely been there pre-theft 
and therefore pre-existing damage too. So, based on what Ive seen, Im not minded 
to conclude it would be fair or reasonable to direct Advantage to repair the wing
mirror as part of the theft claim.
The parking sensor
Mr A says his parking sensor worked prior to the theft and repairs, but didnt after. 
The agent who carried out repairs carried out a second assessment on the parking 
sensor after Mr A reported the issue. They said there was a poor historic repair and 
the rear parking sensors were glued in place, so they said it wasnt related to the 
claim.
However, the rear bumper was part of the repair accepted by Advantage and carried 
out as part of the theft claim.
I accept the evidence supplied by the engineer shows there was a repair carried out 
to the bumper previously, and whilst in their view it was poor, this doesnt show with 
certainty that the parking sensor wasnt previously working  despite the quality of 
the previous repair. On balance, if it wasnt working when Mr As car was repaired 
previously, its likely he would have raised this with whoever repaired it at the time.
So whilst I cant know with certainty, unless anything changes as a result of the 
responses to my provisional decision, as the rear bumper was damaged and repairs 
carried out to it as part of the theft claim, on balance and taking everything into 
account, I think it would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances to include 
repairing the parking sensor as part of Mr As claim.
The contents claimed for
Mr A claimed for items stolen from his car. Advantage settled the claim for several of 
the items.
However, they declined the claim for an air compressor and a socket set as they said 
tools and electrical items were excluded under the terms of Mr As policy. Our 
investigator agreed that this was reasonable and also referred to the same policy 
summary which said:
Doesnt include money, jewellery, tools, mobile phones, laptops and certain 
other personal belongings.
However, Im not minded to agree with Advantage or our investigator here. Ill explain 
why.
The above part of the policy is just a broad summary of that part of the cover. It also 
doesnt exclude electrical items more generally. And Ive also had a look at the full 
policy terms for this part of the policy - personal belongings (section seven of the 
policy). These say:Whats not covered under section 7:
Money, stamps, jewellery, watches, tickets, credit or debit cards, 
vouchers, documents or securities (such as share and premium bond 
certificates)
Laptops, mobile phones, tablet computers or electronic navigational 
equipment
Goods, samples or tools carried in connection with any trade or 
business
Property insured under any other insurance policy
Theft or attempted theft or personal belongings not kept out of sight in 
the glove compartment or locked boot
Theft or attempted theft if the Car was unlocked while unoccupied or 
unattended
Anything excluded by the general exceptions listed later in this 
document.
The compressor was rejected on the basis it was an electrical item, but I dont think it 
falls into any of these listed excluded items. The policy does exclude some electrical 
items, but these are technology based  which a compressor isnt.
The policy also excludes tools, and this is why Advantage said the socket set 
wouldnt be covered. But this says tools carried in connection with any trade or 
business.
So, whilst sockets might be tools more generally, and arguably a compressor may be 
a tool too depending on the type and use, based on what Ive seen, these would only 
potentially be excluded if they were being used for trade or business. But I dont think 
Advantage has shown they were in Mr As case.
Therefore unless anything changes as a result of the responses to my provisional 
decision, Im minded to conclude Advantage also needs to consider the claim for the 
sockets and compressor in line with the remaining policy terms, such as providing 
proof and any applicable policy limits.
The contents not claimed for
Mr A says hes unhappy he hasnt been reimbursed for some lower value items 
including childrens cycling helmets.
Our investigator asked Advantage the reason why these items werent covered. They
explained they werent sent proof of purchase by Mr A in order to claim for them. Our
investigator said that Advantage should consider these items, if Mr A makes a claim 
and sends the required proof.
Mr A responded and said he accepts that he didnt make a claim or send proof for 
them. But he says this is because the claim form only has a few lines, which forced 
him to pick and claim for only the more expensive items.Whilst I note Mr As comments, he could still have sent in proof for these items and 
let Advantage know he intended to claim for them if he wanted to. As Mr A didnt, I 
dont think Advantage have acted unfairly. But if Mr A does now wish to claim for 
these items, he should approach Advantage in the first instance so they can consider 
them under the remaining terms of his policy.
The overall service, time taken and other issues
Mr A says that after repairs were completed, there was an issue with the key fob 
unlocking all the doors of his car. Advantage says this was resolved as a gesture of 
goodwill by reprogramming the key system and wasnt part of the theft claim. Mr A 
disputes it was a gesture of goodwill as he says the key was a replacement and was 
incorrectly programmed.
Regardless whether it was done as a gesture of goodwill, or was due to being 
incorrectly programmed when replaced, its important to note that Advantage 
resolved the issue either way when they were made aware of it. And thats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr A has also said as a result of the claim, hes had to pay his insurance policy 
excess, and because his keys were stolen from his home, hes also had to change 
his house locks.
Whilst I recognise Mr A is unhappy with this, he has an excess under his car 
insurance policy, so as he has claimed, its not unfair that hes had to pay this. And 
Advantage werent responsible for the keys being taken in the first place, so whilst I 
understand Mr A is unhappy he has had to pay for his house locks to be changed, 
thats not the responsibility or fault of Advantage.
It isnt disputed that parts of Mr As claim took longer than expected. The 
investigation took longer than predicted and a second inspection of the repairs was 
required which added to the time taken. And the contents settlement took 
considerably longer than it shouldve. Advantage doesnt dispute this, and this is why 
they offered £50 compensation initially, and later increased this to £100.
Having considered everything, Im minded to conclude that amount is reasonable in 
the circumstances to compensate Mr A. So, unless anything changes as a result of 
the responses to my provisional decision, Im not going to direct Advantage to 
increase this.
So I was minded to uphold the complaint in part and to direct Advantage to repair the rear 
parking sensor, consider the claim for the socket set and compressor in line with the 
remaining terms and pay the £100 compensation already offered.
The responses to my provisional decision
Mr A responded to the provisional decision and said there was nothing further he wanted to 
add.
Advantage responded and said they accepted the provisional decision. They also said theyd 
already reimbursed Mr A for the socket set and compressor.What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive thought carefully about the provisional decision I reached. Having done so, my 
decision remains the same.
Mr A said he had nothing further to add, but he didnt say, like Advantage did, that hed 
already received settlement for the sockets or compressor. So, Im still going to direct 
Advantage to consider the claim for these in my final decision direction - if they havent 
already done so.
As neither party provided any further comments which have changed my findings (aside 
from the point above about the socket set and compressor), my final decision remains the 
same as my provisional decision, and for the same reasons outlined in it.
My final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint in part and direct Advantage Insurance 
Company Limited to:
Repair the rear parking sensor as part of Mr As claim
Consider the claim for the socket set and compressor in line with the remaining policy
terms  if they havent already done so
As already offered, pay a total of £100 compensation to Mr A
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 September 2022.
 
Callum Milne
Ombudsman