DRN-3884871
The complaint
Mr J complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc increased the renewal price of his insurance 
policy excessively.
What happened
Mr J had home insurance with AXA. He said his premiums increased from £243.03 in 2021 
to £402.90 in 2022. He says thats discriminatory and a result of unfair customer profiling. He 
is of the opinion that it isnt justified.
AXA explained to Mr J that they will assess risk at each renewal, and they may consider the 
level of risk to have changed, i.e. the chance they think claims may be made and the relative 
cost of those claims. Nevertheless, they offered Mr J a £30 discount on his renewal.
Mr J still didnt think that was fair so brought the matter to our service.
An investigator here looked into the matter and said that AXA had treated Mr J fairly. They 
said we cant dictate how much an insurer should charge their customers and that theyd 
shown that Mr J had been treated the same as any customer with the same circumstances.
Agreement couldnt be reached, so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but Im not upholding his complaint. Ill explain why in the hope 
that it helps him to understand a bit more about how insurance pricing works.
When a consumer applies for insurance, the insurer will assess the likelihood (or risk) of 
claims being made and the potential cost of those claims. Insurers want to make sure they 
have enough money from their pool of customers to be able to afford to settle claims and, as 
theyre businesses, to be able to make a profit (which may take into account an increase in 
overheads).
The same applies to insurance renewals, and there is nothing wrong with that in principle.
I appreciate Mr J believes there is some discrimination afoot here, but Ive not seen anything 
to make me believe thats the case. Hes also mentioned that he has other policies with AXA 
which havent gone up as much, which reinforces that theyre not discriminating against him, 
because if they were then surely theyd have increased his other policies in a similar fashion.
It's often the case that consumers will think that insurers are putting premiums up unfairly, it 
could be  for example  that the insurers perception of a water leak occurring, or the 
property being burglarised has increased.
But insurers are allowed to change their perception of risk, and in turn their premiums. It 
doesnt necessarily mean as a matter of fact that a property is more likely to suffer a water 
leak after renewal  just that the insurer thinks it might be, and therefore they need to ensure 
they have enough money to be able to deal with possible claims. Or it could be that they had 
to pay more claims than expected a previous year and need to recoup.
Nor does it mean their previous perception of risk was wrong or that their new one is any 
more accurate. Its simply that they have to assess for themselves what they think is right in 
any given year. And, provided they dont do so unfairly  such as targeting someone in 
relation to a protected characteristic or treating a loyal customer worse than a new customer 
 then thats generally ok.
Its also the case that theres no obligation on a consumer to renew a policy. Each year 
represents a new contract between the parties. So, insurers can generally decide whether 
they want to offer renewal (at all, as well as for how much) and customers can decide 
whether theyre happy with the terms offered. If they arent then they can shop around.
I recognise Mr Js concerns that a previous subsidence claim may mean he would have 
difficulty in finding competitive cover elsewhere, but that alone doesnt mean AXA treated 
him unfairly.
I also note that Mr J believes he can infer that everyone within a square mile of his property 
would have had a similar increase to him. But that isnt quite how it works, there are a whole 
host of factors which affect the cost of insurance. Some of those will be individual to the 
customer (potentially their job, marital status, number of people living in a property, size and 
value of their property  plus many many more).
So, while there may be commonality between the perceived risk in certain villages, towns or 
cities that is by no means the only factor at play. Overall, Ive not seen anything to make me 
think that Mr J has been singled out in any unfair way for a price increase.
My final decision
It is my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Will Weston
Ombudsman