DRN-4251508
The complaint
Mr D has complained Santander UK plc didnt refund him when he realised hed had direct 
debits made from his account which hed not authorised.
What happened
After visiting his Santander branch, Mr D found out about a series of monthly direct debits 
which had been made from his account over a period of nearly two years. These were direct 
debits collected by an insurance company (who Ill call A). He asked Santander to sort this 
out as hed not authorised the payments.
Santander told him that theyd make an indemnity claim, which operates as part of the direct 
debiting scheme. Santander reported to Mr D they held a valid mandate in his name. Mr D 
continued to dispute this but Santander said there was nothing further they could do.
Mr D brought his complaint to the ombudsman service. In the meantime Mr D had pursued a 
civil claim against A and had been awarded the money A had debited from his account over 
two years.
Our investigator agreed Santander hadnt dealt with Mr Ds complaint properly. He felt a 
payment of £400 was appropriate for the inconvenience caused to Mr D.
Santander accepted this outcome. Mr D didnt. He felt a message needed to be sent to 
Santander to demonstrate they couldnt treat customers the way hed been treated. Hes 
asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The first point to make is that there is no dispute Mr D was a victim of a fraud. Ive seen a 
letter from A confirming that a policy was taken out fraudulently and Mr Ds bank details were 
provided to enable payments to be taken. In these circumstances Id have expected A to 
have matched Mr Ds bank details and address. Mr D should then have received 
confirmation of the fraudulent direct debit when it was taken out which would have allowed 
him to take action back in 2021.
However once Mr D believed there were payments taken from his account without 
authorisation, Id have expected Santander to have done more. 
Santander has told us they initiated an indemnity claim but A confirmed that a valid direct 
debit mandate was in place. Actually I believe from the records theyve shown to us that 
Santanders back-office operations decided not to initiate an indemnity claim as their records 
showed a valid mandate, in accordance with the direct debiting scheme rules, was in place.
Mr D believes Santander has lied to him about this and Im not convinced theyve not been 
elusive about what actually happened. 
But I do have some sympathy with Santander. There has been a spate of claims by genuine 
customers who have asked for long-standing direct debit arrangements to be refunded in 
full. These have ended up needing to be repaid and have caused alarm and concern to 
customers. So banks are right to be slightly cautious.
I note here Mr D received a letter from A dated 10 March 2023. This confirmed the 
fraudulent nature of the policy. If hed shown this to Santander, Id certainly have expected 
Santander to refund Mr D in full as the payments came from his bank account without his 
authority.
As it is Mr D has received the money in full from A. He is now seeking compensation from 
Santander for the inconvenience hes been caused. Our investigator believed that £400 was 
fair.
Putting things right
I have reviewed what Mr D has told us. Early on he was clear that he felt hed wasted the 
easy part of 8 hours of my life being left to pursue this himself. Hes more recently told us he 
feels the ombudsman service needs to punish Santanders dishonest behaviour.
Unfortunately for Mr D that is not our services role. We are not a regulator and specifically 
our proposed resolutions are not to punish action  or even inaction  by financial 
institutions. Nor do we provide compensation in tandem with an hourly rate.
I dont doubt that Mr D was inconvenienced and had to pursue his money through a civil 
claim. He is also right that a court may well take a different view of appropriate 
compensation, but our service is an informal alternative to the courts.
Mr D will be able to see from our website that we often award smaller amounts for cases of 
this nature so, taking this all into account, I believe that £400 is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is to instruct Santander UK plc to pay £400 to Mr D 
for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2023.
 
Sandra Quinn
Ombudsman