DRN-1925866
 
Complaint
Mr R complains Wirecard Card Solutions Limited unfairly returned a payment to source 
which hed received into his account. He wants the payment refunded and sent to an 
external account he holds, and compensation for the distress and inconvenience Wirecard 
caused.
Background
Mr R opened an account for which Wirecard are responsible. £147 was paid into the account 
by a third-party in September 2019. Mr R attempted to pay this sum to another account he 
holds with a third-party provider.
Wirecard refused the payment and reviewed Mr Rs account. It asked him several questions 
via its webchat service, including what the payment was for. Mr R told it the payment was 
from a friend for concert tickets. After completing its review, Wirecard decided to close the 
account and return the £147 payment to source.
Mr R complained to Wirecard. He says it had no right to return the payment and to refuse his 
payment instruction. He says a bank can only act on a payment instruction if it's authorised, 
but he didn't authorise the return of the payment.
Wirecard rejected Mr Rs complaint. It says it was able to take the actions it did in order to 
comply with its regulatory and legal obligations. It wouldn't be refunding the payment.
Unhappy with Wirecards response Mr R brought his complaint to us. When he brought the 
complaint, he said the payment was from the sale of clothes. An investigator at our service 
considered the complaint and decided not to uphold it. In summary the found:
Wirecard could review Mr Rs account, as it has important legal and regulatory 
obligations it must meet. While it undertook its review, it was able to refuse Mr Rs 
payment request and restrict his access to the account.
 
In the individual circumstances of the complaint Wirecard were able to return the 
payment to source. It was also evident Mr R had given Wirecard different information 
about the payment to what he had told us.
 
Mr R could contact the payee of the funds if he wanted them to send the payment 
again.
 
Mr R disagreed with the investigators findings. He explained the payment was actually for 
the sale of Bitcoin, and he cant contact the payer. He says he was hesitant to tell Wirecard because he believes banks dont like customers who trade in cryptocurrency, and he 
didn't want the payment retained unnecessarily. 
The investigator reviewed what Mr R said but found it didn't change their original opinion. 
Mr R has asked for a final decision from an ombudsman, so the complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as the investigator did, and for broadly the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Account Review
Our investigator was correct to say Wirecard has a variety of important regulatory and legal 
obligations it must fulfil when providing accounts to its customers. These obligations do not 
only pertain to when an account is opened, but theyre ongoing. 
In order to comply with its obligations Wirecard may review accounts and the activity taking 
place on them. And it may need to ask questions regarding the source of funds and take 
steps to prevent payments out of an account contrary to the instructions of its customers. If 
Wirecard didn't sometimes act it could risk serious sanction.
I understand Wirecard asked Mr R questions about the source of the payment via its 
webchat service. Mr R now acknowledges he provided incorrect information and has given 
his reasons on why he didn't say the payment resulted from trading Bitcoin. But frankly, I 
dont find this is a valid or proper reason to not provide an accurate answer to Wirecard. 
I see too, that Mr R didn't provide the real source of the payment when referring his 
complaint to our service, and only did so after receiving the opinion of the investigator. So, 
Im left to conclude that Mr R has been far from consistent about the source of the payment. 
After considering all the information available to me, I understand why Wirecard wanted to 
undertake a review on the account. Its concerns were understandable, and I find them 
warranted, especially considering the inconsistency in what Mr R has said. As a result, Im 
satisfied Wirecards decision not to process Mr Rs payment instruction was reasonable, and 
it was in line with the terms of Mr Rs account.
Returning the payment to source
Wirecard says in order to meet its obligations it had to return the payment to source. Ive 
listened carefully to what its said, and I agree that in some situations returning funds to 
source may be the most appropriate action to take. And having considered the 
circumstances of this complaint and that of Mr R, Im satisfied that on this occasion its 
decision to return the payment was reasonable and proportionate. I also find the terms of    
Mr Rs account permitted it to take this action.
 
 
Mr R says Wirecard cannot process a payment without his authorisation, so it wasn't legally 
allowed to return the payment to source. Hes referred to a webpage on the Financial Conduct Authoritys website to support his assertion. That webpage refers to account 
providers liabilities under the Payment Services Regulations in relation to unauthorised 
payments out of an account. 
But Wirecard must consider more than the just the Payment Services Regulations when 
making decisions regarding funds in an account. It has a wide variety of regulations and laws 
it must balance. And importantly, Im satisfied there is a regulatory basis to support the 
return of payments to source in order to ensure it meets those obligations.
I understand of course that Mr R would like to know the exact reasons why Wirecard 
restricted his account and returned the payment. But I find Wirecard are under no legal 
obligation to reveal its reasons - so I wont be directing it to reveal them now.
Mr R says he has now traded Bitcoin and not benefited from the payment he initially 
received. I appreciate why this is frustrating, and it does represent a financial loss. Ive also 
no reason to doubt the intended purpose of the funds was to make important payments, and 
this may have caused Mr R additional worry and inconvenience.
But I dont find Wirecard did anything wrong by returning the payment to its source. So, I 
wont be directing it to stand in the place of the Bitcoin purchaser and make payment to Mr 
R. I appreciate Mr R says he cannot contact the Bitcoin purchaser, but Wirecard did provide 
him with the account number and sort code of the payer, so he can still contact the payers 
bank for it to contact its customer and request they resend the payment.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 July 2020.
Liam King
Ombudsman