DRN-3774797
The complaint
Mr H is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC (Zurich) declined his travel insurance claim. 
What happened
Mr H took out an annual travel insurance policy which started on 21 February 2022 
and ended on 20 February 2023.
Mr H travelled to his destination but just before he was due to travel back to the UK, 
he broke his knee. He was advised not to travel and received a voucher to the cost of 
that return flight by the airline of £696.
He returned to the UK but had to pay an additional £1100 for the flight. Hed called 
Zurich to ask if he could claim for the additional cost hed incurred and was told he 
could as long as he had the right documents. 
Mr H made a claim which was then declined by Zurich on the basis that the airline 
had reimbursed him for the cost of the cancelled flight and there were no unused 
travel costs on the claim. Zurich said Mr H hadnt incurred a financial loss and there 
was no cover available under his policy. 
Unhappy with Zurichs response, Mr H brought the complaint to our service. Our 
investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. She said there was nothing 
in the evidence provided to suggest the claim would definitely be covered. And there 
was no cover under the cancellation or cutting short your holiday section of Mr Hs 
policy or under any other sections of his policy.
Mr H disagreed and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman. So, its 
been passed to me.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The insurance industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA), has set out rules 
and guidance for insurers in the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook (ICOBS).
ICOBS says that insurers should act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with 
the best interests of their customers, and that they should handle claims promptly and fairly 
and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim.
Mr H wasnt able to return to the UK as planned and in effect therefore his return journey had 
to be cancelled due to injury on his knee. 
Ive started by looking at the terms and conditions of his policy as this forms the basis of his 
travel insurance contract with Zurich. 
The policy terms and conditions
Page 20 of the policy booklet, Section A  Cancelling or cutting short your trip states: 
What you are covered for:
If you have to cancel or cut short your trip because of one of the reasons listed below 
we will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits on page 5 for:
Unused travel and accommodation expenses that you have paid or have 
agreed to pay under a contract and which you cannot get back, including any 
local prepaid excursions, tours or activities, if it is necessary and you cannot 
avoid cancelling or cutting short your trip.
Based on the above, there is cover available under the policy. But that cover is only 
available in the event that there are unused travel expenses. I understand the airline 
provided a voucher equal to that which Mr H had paid for the return flight. So, essentially, 
Mr H received the cost of that flight back from the airline to the exact amount. And, in other 
words, he was reimbursed for the flight hed paid for in the form of a voucher and therefore 
hadnt incurred a financial loss. 
Based on the available evidence, I cant see there are any other unused pre-paid costs or 
expenses forming part of Mr Hs claim. The extra cost he incurred for the flight wasnt an 
expense that hed already paid for, it was a cost in addition to the original flight hed paid for 
and therefore isnt covered under his travel policy. I realise this was a cost he wasnt 
anticipating but due to the circumstances he faced in having to cancel the flight, he had no 
choice but to pay for a flight that cost him more in order to return home. 
I appreciate this is unfortunate for Mr H as he had to pay an additional £1100 to return to the 
UK, at his own cost. And while I understand this is difficult to bear, it doesnt necessarily 
mean that Zurich is responsible for covering that cost - he simply doesnt have cover under 
his travel policy for the circumstances he found himself in. 
Ive also carefully considered whether there are any other sections under his policy that 
might apply, and I dont think there is. Im satisfied therefore that Mr Hs claim hasnt been 
declined unfairly or unreasonably by Zurich and there is no cover available for what 
happened. 
The telephone calls
Ive listened to the telephone calls Mr H had with Zurich in March 2022. There are two call 
which I will specifically refer to. 
Call 1:
Mr H said that the return flight would cost more, and Zurich said, in summary that Mr H 
would be able to submit a claim for the cancelled flight and its claims handlers would be able 
to look at it based on the situation.
Call 2:
Mr H called again and explained that after doing further searches the cost of the flight would 
be more than when he called earlier on. Zurich said its claims team can normally consider 
the claim for the difference in the costs of the two flights (that is, the difference in the cost of 
the original and the new flight). Having listened to the calls, I cant say Zurich said the additional cost of the flight would 
definitely be paid for under the policy. Both advisors said the claim would be considered 
based on the situation and no certainty was given in terms of the claim being successful or 
the cost being reimbursed  only that the documents would be looked at once they were 
received by their claims handlers.
I wouldnt generally expect an insurer to be in a position to give a definite claims decision 
over the phone until it has seen all the relevant documentation. Even if I accept that Zurich 
gave Mr H incorrect information, Mr H would still have had to pay to return to the UK anyway 
 regardless of whether the claim was successful or not. I dont agree that Zurich said there 
was a definite chance of the claim being successful and Im not persuaded that incorrect 
information was provided in the telephone calls between the two parties. 
Conclusion
Overall, taking all the available evidence into account, Im satisfied that Zurich hasnt 
declined the claim unfairly or unreasonably. I dont think there are any reasonable grounds 
upon which I could fairly ask Zurich to settle the claim. It follows that I dont require Zurich to 
do anything further.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint against Zurich Insurance 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2022.
 
Nimisha Radia
Ombudsman