DRN-1925514
The complaint
Mr C complains about the quality of a car he has been financing through an agreement with 
Close Brothers Limited, trading as Close Brothers Motor finance (Close Brothers). Hes 
also unhappy with a settlement offer hes received.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Close Brothers, but I agree with the investigators opinion. Please let 
me explain why.
Where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about it but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr C acquired his car under a conditional sale agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The relevant law says, amongst other things, that the car should have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied. If it wasnt then Close Brothers, who are also the supplier of the car, 
are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they meet 
the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price and all the other relevant circumstances.
Theres no longer a dispute that the car Mr C has been financing wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. The outstanding issue is the redress that Close Brothers need to apply. Close 
Brothers have agreed to refund the deposit, insurance and storage costs and theyve taken 
the car back and cancelled the finance agreement. Ill therefore review the outstanding 
issues.
brake pads and tyres and diagnostic
These items were replaced by Mr C soon after he took receipt of the car. At that point he 
didnt expect to experience the issues he did, that led him to reject the car. I think its fair to 
suggest Close Brothers have benefitted from those new components being fitted as its 
reasonable to suggest that as a result the car would have sold for more than it would have 
without them. So Close Brothers should refund the £283.30 Mr C spent on new brakes and 
the £644.76 spent on tyres and the related diagnostic.
Mr C also had to arrange a diagnostic of the car in November 2019. That cost of £120 
should be refunded to him as I think its fair to say the diagnostic would not have been 
necessary had the car been of satisfactory quality.
fair use
The relevant legislation allows Close Brothers to retain a proportion, or all, of the finance 
instalments paid to compensate them for the use the consumer has had from the car. Here 
they have chosen to retain all three finance instalments Mr C paid them.
Mr C admittedly covered a little more than average use before the car failed. When he 
reported the issue in November 2019 the car had covered 3,232 miles. But I also note that 
there was no mileage restriction on Mr Cs finance agreement.
There were reasons this mileage was so high. 1,000 miles were required to cover a road test 
and Mr C also has also provided evidence that he travelled 600 miles taking the car to 
garages for work. I dont think those trips would have been necessary had the car not have 
been faulty. 
Mr C has explained that a courtesy car wasnt provided although a hire car was funded for 
four days. He paid three monthly instalments but only had use of the car for two of those 
months.
On balance, I think the investigators suggestion that Close Brothers refund one monthly 
instalment in respect of lack of use is reasonable as I dont think Mr C has had fair use of the 
vehicle for the limited time it was available to him.
distress and inconvenience
Close Brothers have already offered £150 compensation, but I think that doesnt adequately 
compensate Mr C for the delays in offering rejection of the car. I think this matter could have 
been resolved earlier and I would agree with the investigator that it would be reasonable for 
Close Brothers to pay Mr C a total of £250 compensation in respect of the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Putting things right
Close Brothers should therefore refund the costs Mr C incurred replacing brakes and tyres 
and refund the diagnostic costs he incurred. They should provide a rebate as Mr C hasnt 
had full use of the car and they should increase the amount of compensation they have 
offered.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint and tell Close Brothers Limited to:
provide a refund of £283.30 for brake pads;
provide a refund of £644.76 for tyres and the related diagnostic;
refund the £120 diagnostic cost;
refund one monthly finance instalment in respect of loss of use;
provide an additional £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr C 
experienced.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 December 2020.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman