DRN-3727111
The complaint
Mr D complains that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) told him his mothers car was a total 
loss after an accident he was involved in, but it then allowed someone else to use it incurring 
congestion charge fines in his mothers name.   
Mr D is represented by his mother, Ms D, in this complaint. 
What happened
Around the beginning of November 2020 Mr D was involved in an accident whilst driving Ms 
Ds car. He made a claim to Aviva as the policyholder. The claim was accepted, and it 
emailed Mr D a few weeks later to confirm the car was a total loss and it would pay £6,300, 
minus the £500 policy excess, for the vehicle. 
Ms D completed a Statutory Off-Road Notification (SORN) for her car. She says she did this 
as she had no idea the car would be used again. Some months later in 2021 she received 
parking fines and demands for payment relating to a congestion charge. Ms D says she was 
unaware she still legally owned the car and that it was being driven around without her 
knowledge. 
Aviva says its agent arranged for the salvage of Ms Ds car to be sold. It says a letter has 
been provided to Ms D to pass on to any relevant parties to show that the car was sold. 
However, it says Ms D didnt notify the DVLA that she was no longer the owner of the 
vehicle. This is why the fines and charges were directed to her. 
Aviva says it has refunded Mr Ds insurance premiums from 11 November 2020 until the 
policy lapsed. Although it says he didnt actually cancel the policy, which is why premiums 
continued to be collected.
Mr D referred his complaint to our service. He thought Aviva was responsible for the fines 
and charges his mother had received. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He says 
Aviva acted according to its policy terms when selling the salvage of the vehicle. And that its 
the registered keepers responsibility to update the DVLA if this changes. He thought 
refunding the premiums from November 2020 onwards was fair. 
Mr D disagreed with this outcome. He says Aviva didnt make it clear that the car would 
continue to be used. Because of this he says the DVLA were told the car was written-off, not 
about a change of ownership. Mr D says the letter from Avivas agent hasnt helped resolve 
the issue with the fines and charges. 
As he wasnt satisfied with our investigators findings, Mr D asked for an ombudsman to 
review his complaint. 
It has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint. I understand this will come as a 
disappointment, but I will explain why I think my decision is fair. 
Ive read Mr Ds policy terms to understand what is expected to happen in these 
circumstances. The terms under section one relating to, Loss of or damage to your car say:
If your car is lost, stolen or damaged, we will:
pay you a cash amount equal to the loss or damage.
Mr D doesnt dispute that the car was considered a total loss after his accident in 2020. He 
hasnt disputed the settlement payment he was offered either. So, I wont consider these 
points further here. 
I cant see that the policy terms mention what happens to the car once it has been 
considered a total-loss. However, it is generally accepted that this becomes the property of 
the insurer once a settlement payment has been agreed. I can see from Avivas email to Mr 
D in November 2020 that it says the vehicle is a total loss. It goes on to say once a payment 
is raised the salvage of his vehicle becomes Avivas property to dispose of. 
From here Aviva instructed its agent, who arranged for the salvage to be sold. I can see from 
the records provided that the car was deemed to be a Category S write off. This means that 
there is some structural damage, which can be repaired  but the insurer has decided not to. 
This is usually because the cost of the repairs exceeds a certain percentage of the cars 
market value.  
I acknowledge Mr Ds comments that he understood a total loss meant the car would be 
scrapped. However, total loss means that the insurer decides the vehicle is not repairable. 
Either because it cant be repaired, or it isnt considered economically viable to do so. In 
these circumstances the insurer generally pays the market value for the vehicle, which is 
what Aviva did here.
Ms D says she completed a SORN for her vehicle after Aviva confirmed it was considered a 
total loss. Ive looked at the information provided on the government website for when a 
SORN should be declared. It says this is necessary when you take the vehicle off the road 
and you want to stop taxing and insuring it. However, Ms D didnt have possession of her car 
and Aviva had confirmed the salvage was its property. Ms D also says her understanding 
was that her vehicle was being scrapped. So, in these circumstances a SORN wasnt the 
correct thing to do.    
Ive also looked at the government website that explains what to do when your vehicle is 
scrapped or considered an insurance write-off. It says you must tell the DVLA in these 
circumstances  and that, writing-off and scrapping your vehicle is the same as selling it to 
your insurance company. The website also says, you can be fined £1,000 if you do not tell 
the DVLA. The website provides instructions on the information from the V5 logbook that is 
needed to complete this. 
I note Mr D says he and his mother told the DVLA that the car was written-off. But I havent 
seen evidence of this. As above they needed to complete the online service, using the, sell, 
transfer or part-exchange your vehicle to the motor trade section of the V5 logbook or send 
this section of the logbook to the DVLA by post. I cant see that this was done. 
I acknowledge Mr Ds comments that Aviva didnt tell him to inform the DVLA of a change of ownership. But this is the responsibility of the registered keeper. So, although Im sorry that 
Ms D has incurred fines and charges due to the activity of someone else - I dont think this is 
Avivas fault.  
In summary, I dont think Aviva treated Mr D unfairly in settling his claim on a total loss basis 
and selling the salvage. I dont think it was responsible for Ms D not updating the DVLA 
correctly, so I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore to resolve this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 November 2022.
 
Mike Waldron
Ombudsman