DRN-3988175
The complaint
Ms E is unhappy that Aviva Insurance Limited (AIL) charged her an excess fee for a job 
which wasnt covered under her home emergency policy. She says it shouldve been 
mentioned to her during her annual boiler service check.
What happened
In summary, Ms E told AIL that she didnt have any hot water. AIL arranged to complete her 
annual boiler service and look into the matter at the same time. It said if there was a fault, 
shed need to raise a claim directly with AIL. 
The engineer found a fault, so Ms E contacted AIL to raise a claim. It charged her £50 
excess up front.
AILs engineer attended and diagnosed a fault with the blending valve in the thermal store 
cylinder. But AIL told Ms E the fault wasnt covered under her policy. Ms E asked for a 
refund of the excess fee but AIL refused. It said because the engineer carried out an 
investigation, the excess fee was payable.
Ms E complained because she was unhappy at having to pay the excess fee for an engineer 
to confirm she wasn't covered. She said the engineer who carried out the annual boiler 
service shouldve told her about the excess fee. 
AIL looked into her complaint and sent its final response letter. It said that the excess fee 
was due under the terms of the policy so it wouldnt be offering a refund. 
Ms E brought her complaint to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said AIL had charged Ms E in line with the 
policy.
Although Ms E didnt provide any further information, she said she didnt agree with the 
outcome and asked for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So the complaint 
was passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Es complaint for the following reasons:
The annual boiler service is separate to any fault claims and the engineer cant raise 
a claim on behalf of Ms E.
The policy clearly states that if a claim is made, Ms E would need to pay the excess 
before an engineer is sent.
The claims engineer found the fault to be with a part of the thermal store cylinder.
Ms Es policy does not provide cover for thermal storage units.
The policy states that the excess will not be refunded if an engineer investigates the 
fault. 
The engineer investigated the fault so its reasonable that AIL didnt refund the 
excess fee.
While my decision is brief, Id like to reassure both Ms E and AIL that Ive considered all the 
evidence. Some of the issues Ms E complained about are outside my remit so I havent 
addressed them in my decision. I understand Ms E is aware of which issues they are.
Overall, Im satisfied that the evidence indicates AIL handled Ms Es claim fairly and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions. I see no reason for AIL to refund Ms Es excess fee.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms E to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 April 2023.
 
Debra Vaughan
Ombudsman