DRN-3826876
The complaint
Mrs and Mr H complain that Citibank UK Limited (Citibank) failed to refund money they lost
as a result of a scam.
What happened
Mr H was the account holder involved with the scammers, so Ill mainly refer to him
throughout the complaint.
Mr H received a call on his phone from a person purporting to be from his credit card
provider (not Citibank). Mr H was asked about suspicious payments made using his credit
card that Mr H didnt recognise. The phone call between the caller and Mr H took about 45
minutes. During the call, Mr H was asked whether hed recently replied to a NHS text and
provided any details on it.
Mr H remembers replying to the text and giving some basic information, including credit card
details. The caller told him this was a scam and his phone was now likely infected with
malware. During the call, Mr H was told that attempts to use his credit card had been
stopped and hed suffered no loss.
Towards the end of the call, Mr H was asked if he had other banking apps on his phone as
they may now be infected by the malware mentioned earlier. Mr H confirmed he had a
couple of apps including one for his Citibank accounts.
Mr H was advised to call his bank about the possible security breach on his account. When
Mr H agreed that he would call them, he was told that they (the scammers) could transfer the
call to Citibanks fraud dept because they worked together to combat fraud. Mr H thought
this was plausible and asked to be transferred. He later said that he was very concerned
about his funds in the Citibank account and was keen to protect them as soon as possible.
Mr H was transferred to another person who pretended to be from Citibank and Mr H
described both callers as very calm and well-spoken with a great deal of knowledge about
banking and fraud.
The second part of the call also took about 45 minutes and Mr H was told that he would
need to move his funds to another account. Mr H was concerned about any change in his
account because he had a number of direct debits linked to it. The scammers told him they
would also be taken care of during the process. Mr H described how he was slightly
concerned about this, but the caller persuaded him that the transfer to the new account was
normal. They went on to explain that he would need to move his funds to a different bank
because his Citibank accounts were compromised and if another (Citibank) account was
opened the same thing would happen again.
Mr H was provided with new account details and entered them himself using the Citibank
app, including putting his own name on the transfer details. When Mr H received a One Time
Passcode from Citibank (as part of the security process)  he completed the transfer of
£11,000 to an account at another bank. Mr H asked for the callers name so he could check
the details through an employment website but couldnt find the callers name.
Mr H was then asked about other accounts at Citibank and the scammers asked for these to
be moved. It was at that point that Mr H became concerned that hed been scammed and
ended the call. Mr H then called Citibank who confirmed the money had been paid to
another UK bank. Once Mr H explained what had happened  Citibank notified the receiving
bank about the scam payment and later returned just over £3,000 to Mr H. The remainder of
the funds had already been taken from the account by the scammers.
Mr H asked Citibank for a full refund of his losses, believing that Citibank had failed to
protect his account. Citibank declined to make any refund and believed that because Mr H
had authorised the payment himself, they werent responsible. After complaining to Citibank
 who again declined any refund, Mr H brought his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman
Service for an independent review.
Mr Hs complaint was investigated and detailed information about the complaint was sought
from both parties. Mr H was able to recount the phone call and in summary said:
The callers were very persuasive and well spoken.
The first call he received didnt involve the scammers asking him for anything, only to
appear to help in preventing fraud.
They took a long time to gain his trust and it wasnt until the second part of the call
that moves to transfer his funds were made.
Their reasoning was very plausible, and they never used the safe account term with
Mr H.
Any questions asked by Mr H during the call were answered smoothly  including
why they protected their number (no caller ID) and how they could transfer from one
business to the next.
Mr H was very concerned by the call and the conversations were designed to
increase his sense of urgency.
Mr H didnt think the way the calls were handled was suspicious.

Citibank argued that the transaction wasnt particularly suspicious because Mr H used his
account to make similar sized payments.
After reviewing the information, the investigator thought that the transaction stood out when
compared to Mr Hs use of the account as it virtually emptied it and went to a new payee. He
thought that Citibank should have intervened and recommended they make a refund. But,
he thought that Mr H should bear some of the loss. That was because there were some
unusual aspects to the call that he thought Mr H could have checked at the time before
sending his payment. Specifically:
The scammers didnt carry out any form of verification on either call.
They had little detailed knowledge about Mr H.
Mr H didnt check that he was talking to a legitimate employee of the credit card
company.He didnt check the suspicious transactions (on his credit card) the caller mentioned,
in order to verify them.
The investigator recommended that Citibank repay 50% of the outstanding losses and Mr H
bear the other 50% himself. Citibank agreed with the investigators recommendation, but Mr
H didnt. He asked for a further review of his account and submitted additional information for
consideration:
Mr H didnt think hed failed to conduct additional checks during the call, and it was
unreasonable to expect him to do so when taking into account the sense of urgency
and panic that had been created by the scammers.
Mr H did question why the number didnt appear and was given a credible
explanation that the fraud team dont give it out. Mr H was unaware what the usual
procedure would be as hed no prior experience of this type of situation.
Mr H didnt think the lack of verification was unusual as he believed the caller was
trying to prevent fraud and knew enough about him to sound legitimate. Also, he
never asked for sensitive information which went towards allaying Mr Hs suspicions.
The scammers spent a long time gaining his confidence. Mr H said it was about 1
hour 35 minutes into the call before the transfer of his funds was mentioned. He
believes this was social engineering to gain his trust.
Mr H didnt believe that checking his credit card transactions would have assisted the
situation as he believed that the scammer would have had a plausible explanation for
whatever he did or didnt find regarding the unauthorised payments they mentioned.
The scammers knew hed clicked on a spoof NHS link (likely because it was them
that sent it) and this helped to persuade Mr H they were genuine.
They had a ready explanation for the transfer of the call to another bank  and
explained that they worked together to prevent fraud.
Mr H believed that Citibanks systems were inadequate and didnt conduct any
checks on the new account. He also believed their warnings were ineffective.
Mr H says he wasnt aware of this type of scam and had no reason to be suspicious.
I issued my provisional findings on the merits of Mrs H and Mr Hs complaint on 27 January 
2023. In my provisional findings, I explained why I intended to uphold their complaint and 
offered both sides the opportunity to submit further evidence or arguments in response. An 
extract of that decision is set out below and forms part of this final decision:
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties accept that Mr H authorised the transaction himself, so here, the responsibility,
in the first instance, lies with Mr H because Citibank are required to follow his instructions
and are expected to process payments and withdrawals that its customer authorises, in
accordance with the Payment Services Regulations (2017) and the terms and conditions ofthe customers account.
But, Citibank also has an obligation to be on the lookout for, and to protect its customers
from, potentially falling victim to fraud or scams. This includes monitoring accounts and
identifying suspicious activity that appears unusual and out of character. In situations when
potential fraud is identified, I would expect Citibank to intervene and attempt to prevent the
loss.
Citibank originally argued they hadnt made an error because the payment authorised by Mr
H wasnt unusual when compared to the normal operation of his account. The investigator
argued that it was, because of the new payee that was set up and the amount transferred
virtually emptied the account. Citibank accepted the investigators view about this and
agreed to refund 50% of the loss.
Having looked at the statements, I agree with the investigators assessment of the way the
disputed payment appeared against the usual operation of the account. The new payee
together with an immediate payment that virtually empties the account are signs of
suspicious activity that I would expect, particularly with the size of this payment, that Citibank
should have identified and gone on to carry out further enquiries with Mr H.
If they had contacted Mr H about the payment, I think it would have been quickly established
that he was being scammed and the full loss prevented. Thats because Mr H would have
explained what was happening and told them about the call and the subsequent transfer
from one company to the next. Theyd have realised this wasnt how they operate their
business and likely concluded a scam was in progress.
These types of scams rely on small pieces of information  probably gleaned from the NHS
scam text to spin a story to the victim of the scam, here Mr H. A common feature of this type
of scam is to create a sense of urgency and fear in the victim, preventing them from thinking
clearly in the moment.
Im sure in the cold light of day, Mr H wouldnt have made decisions he did during the call
when he was on the phone for a considerable time with the scammers. It sounds like they
were very patient and worked to gain his trust whilst increasing his sense of urgency to
ensure he accepted their instructions.
Mr H did question some of the circumstances such as the No caller ID on his phone and it
appears the scammers were well prepared. Their explanation wasnt unreasonable as to
why it never showed on his phone and even if it did, its difficult to ascertain its genuine
when these numbers are often spoofed by scammers to make it appear theyre from the
fraud department of the bank.
I dont think Mr Hs lack of verification of either his account or the transactions they were
telling him about was unusual, given that the scammers had already gained Mr Hs trust by
appearing to only want to prevent fraud. I wouldnt expect Mr H to understand the fraud
process carried out by his credit card provider or Citibank. Hes also said that he assumed
they had his details which is why they called him and were already satisfied about Mr Hs
credentials.
I think that if Mr H had questioned the particular transactions the scammers were telling him
about they would have had a suitable story to explain why he couldnt see them on his
banking app, as they had done with other queries made by Mr H.
But, I do think the offer to transfer to another company was a bit unusual, but again the
scammers seemed to have been prepared for this with an explanation concerning joint
industry working to stem fraud. Whats relevant to the complaint  and whether Mr H can beheld responsible for some of his losses  is what was happening at the time and did he
contribute to them. Contributory negligence is assessed as  a lack of care on the
consumers part that goes beyond what we would expect from a reasonable person.
So here its not about whether a fraud expert or an industry insider would have followed the
instructions given to him by the scammers  its whether a reasonable person in the same
situation would have done the same thing. But, as Ive already mentioned  the scammers
work on various levels to gain peoples trust and to instil a sense of urgency and panic to
override their more logical assessment of whats happening and what theyre being told.
Scams of this nature work across a short time frame, so its not a situation where Mr H had
time to think about what he was being told or asked to do. Ive no doubt that had he had that
time, he would have thought some of the explanations given to him bore further scrutiny and
other checks. But that wasnt the situation he found himself in and I dont think it was
unreasonable, given the specific circumstances of this complaint, that he followed the
instructions of the scammers. I think it particularly relevant that Mr H wasnt immediately
asked to give the scammers anything  they appear to have laid the groundwork during the
first call and by not seeking sensitive information from Mr H, they avoided triggering further
suspicion, so by the time they did ask him to move the money  hed accepted they were
helping prevent fraud, rather than steal from him.
The scammers seem to have avoided using the term safe account, which is often used to
describe these types of scams, and Ive no doubt this was deliberate to avoid associating the
call with a type of scam well known to the financial sector. In fact, Citibank provide a warning
about such scams on the banking app prior to making transfers to new payees. Mr H said
that he was aware of this warning, but it often appeared on the banking app and he
eventually became blas about it. Considering the situation he was in and the trust that had
been built up, I dont think its surprising that the warning didnt resonate with Mr H.
Overall, I dont think that the actions taken by Mr H during the call were particularly
unreasonable and I dont think he should be held responsible any of the loss. Citibank failed
to intervene when they should have, which would have prevented the full loss and Mr Hs
part in this was, after all, as the victim. I do accept that the scammers were responsible for
stealing these funds, but as Citibank didnt prevent them being transferred when I think they
should have, my current thinking is that Citibank should refund the outstanding loss (£11,000
- £3,054.35 = £7,945.65) to Mrs H & Mr H including interest at the account rate from the date
of the loss to the date of the settlement.
My provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I currently intend to uphold this complaint as outlined above.
Mrs H and Mr H accepted my provisional decision, but Citibank did not, adding that:
 They now disagree that the disputed transaction was suspicious, highlighting various 
account movements over the previous 12 months that they believe make the 
disputed transaction one that shouldnt have been flagged by Citibank.
 They didnt believe that a reasonable person would undertake a transfer of funds to 
another account they had no affiliation with or trust that banks worked together. 
 They believed that because Mr H was on the phone for an hour and a half  this was 
time for him to think rationally about the situation. They didnt think that it was reasonable for Mr H to dismiss the fraud warnings 
because hed become blas about them.
 They thought that Mr H should have been suspicious about the funds that were left 
in the account (£466.30) if it was genuinely at risk of fraud.
 That Mr H had some concerns about the transfer because hed wanted to check the 
name of the person he was dealing with and had questioned the No Caller ID on 
his phone. 
 Citibank believe that Mr H was negligent when based on the actions of a reasonable 
person. 
Citibank believe that my decision should follow similar cases that havent been 
upheld.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank both parties for their correspondence following my provisional decision and the points 
raised by Citibank. Ive considered those points, but I havent seen anything new that would 
change my mind. Where Ive already considered the issues raised by them in my provisional 
decision, I dont intend to duplicate what Ive already written.
Citibank have highlighted various account movements they think makes the disputed 
transaction appear as though it was a normal transaction (and therefore shouldnt have been 
identified as unusual or suspicious). Im afraid I disagree with their assessment. As 
mentioned already, the new payee combined with the virtual emptying of the account should 
have registered with Citibank as an unusual transaction. The other payments from the 
account of a similar size (or larger) were to well known investment businesses or other 
commercial accounts which didnt, on their own, leave the account in the same way as the 
disputed transaction did. 
There arent a similar set of activities on the account in the previous 12 months that Ive 
looked at, despite Citibanks interpretation of some of the account transactions. I havent 
considered those transactions referred to by Citibank that occurred after the disputed 
transaction because those payments didnt form part of the history of account usage that 
Citibank could reasonably rely on at the time.
I understand Citibank will have their own view of the events that happened here, but the 
scammers built trust in Mr H over a period of time and it wasnt until he was asked to move 
other funds from his accounts that he stopped his interaction with them. By then hed already 
lost the bulk of his funds in the account. I think the trust that was built up with Mr H is of 
particular relevance with this complaint together with the pressure built by the scammers to 
generate an emotional reaction (fear of losing funds) rather than a logic-based assessment 
which Citibank believe Mr H should have had.
Citibank also believe that my decision here should follow other similar cases, which is, not to 
uphold the complaint. But, each complaint is assessed on its individual merits, so I can only 
make my decision based on the evidence of what happened to Mr H and not what other 
complaints have concluded. 
Overall, I remain of the opinion that Citibank should have intervened which would likely have prevented the loss of his funds. I dont think that Mr H can be held responsible for any of the 
loss himself as the evidence doesnt show that he acted unreasonably in these specific 
circumstances. 
Putting things right
Citibank should now repay (£11,000 - £3,054.35 = £7,945.65) to Mrs H and Mr H including 
interest at the account rate from the date of the loss to the date of the settlement.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and Citibank UK Limited are required to settle 
the complaint as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H and Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2023.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman