DRN-4470891
The complaint
Miss B says Santander UK Plc treated her unfairly when it took possession of her property. 
Shes since repaid the mortgage. Miss B says shes out of pocket, having had to pay for 
accommodation for a month, and her health and ability to work was affected. She asks that 
Santander removes its charge from her property title and restores her credit rating to 
good/excellent. 
What happened
Miss B took out a mortgage jointly with her (now ex) partner. The mortgage fell into arrears 
in mid-2020, and the arrears increased over time. A court issued a possession order in mid-
2022 and Santander took possession in September 2022.
Miss B says shes not to blame for the arrears, which she says resulted from her ex-partner 
and a charity that was assisting her failing to make payments. 
Miss B says before being evicted she offered to make a lump sum payment towards the 
arrears and had received an offer for the property. Despite this, she was evicted. Miss B 
says she had to pay for accommodation and take time off work due to the effect on her 
mental health. She says Santanders actions affected her credit rating.
A family member repaid the mortgage on Miss Bs behalf on 18 October 2022. Miss B says 
the payment was made at 9.15am and she had to wait until after 4pm for the keys to be 
returned to her. And the family member was asked questions to check he wasnt being 
forced to make the payment while he was standing at the branch counter.
Our investigator said it wasnt unfair for Santander to take possession given the level of 
arrears on the account, and the lack of contact or payments from Miss B. And he said it was 
correct for Santander to record the conduct of the mortgage account on Miss Bs credit 
report. Our investigator said it was reasonable for Santander to wait for the redemption 
payment to clear before returning the keys to the property. Santander paid £150 by way of 
an apology and our investigator said this was fair. 
Miss B didnt agree. She said that Santander had still not removed its charge from her 
property title. Santander looked into this and agreed. It removed its charge and agreed to 
pay further compensation of £200  which Miss B agreed with.
Miss B said she remained unhappy about the eviction, which she says could have been 
avoided if shed been able to speak to someone at Santander. And Miss B is also unhappy 
about the time it took to get back into the property, and the cost of providing housing in the 
meantime. She said this came about because the charity that was assisting her failed to 
pass on her payments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking possession of the security property
Miss Bs mortgage was in arrears, and the arrears were increasing. Only part of the 
contractual monthly payments were made into the mortgage account in 2021 and early 2022 
and no monthly payments after May 2022. There was no arrangement in place to repay the 
arrears. There was no meaningful contact between Miss B and Santander about how the 
arrears would be addressed. 
Miss B says shed given authority to a charity to assist her, and she didnt know that it didnt 
forward her payments or keep Santander informed. The complaint Miss B brought to us is 
about Santander: Santander wasnt responsible for the third party appointed by Miss B. 
A court issued a possession order and an eviction date was set for 27 September 2022.
Santander took possession on 27 September 2022, at which point the arrears were over 
£16,500. The bailiffs had already arrived when Miss B spoke to the solicitors and said she 
could offer to pay £10,000, which shed borrowed from friends. She said shed received an 
offer for the property. The solicitor said the eviction time had passed and it couldnt now 
raise her proposal with Santander in time to stop the eviction. 
Miss B says shed tried to contact Santander and the solicitors before this. Santander says 
Miss B tried to contact it and/or the solicitors the previous day (26 September 2022). It says 
its unlikely it would have changed the outcome if she had made contact. Miss B had no 
proposal at that time to address the remaining arrears or as to how shed maintain monthly 
payments. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for Santander to take action for possession or 
to continue with the eviction on 27 September 2022.
Repayment of the mortgage and return of the keys
In early October 2022 Miss B contacted Santander to say she could repay the mortgage. It 
asked for proof of funds. While I appreciate Miss Bs frustration (especially as the relative 
providing the funds had accounts with Santander), I dont think it was unfair for Santander to 
ask her for information about where the funds would come from to repay the mortgage. 
Miss B asked for a redemption statement on 13 October 2022. Miss B was concerned about 
delays due to a postal strike and that the redemption statement would be sent to the security 
property  which was presumably the address Santander had for Miss B. Santander sent the 
redemption statement to Miss B by email on 17 October 2022 and the mortgage was 
redeemed the next day. Im sorry Miss B found the redemption statement difficult to read, but 
pleased to hear this didnt stop the mortgage being repaid.
The payment to repay the mortgage was made on 18 October 2022. Miss B made the 
payment in the morning and the keys to the property were returned to her late that afternoon. 
I think its reasonable and fair for Santander to wait for the payment to arrive in the mortgage 
account before returning the keys to Miss B. 
Santander offered £150 for the inconvenience, and I think this was fair.
Miss B says the family member that repaid the mortgage had to go to a branch to make the 
payment and this was done over the counter, rather than privately. This complaint relates to 
Miss Bs mortgage, and Miss B is the complainant here. Under our rules we cant usually consider any inconvenience or upset caused to a third party. If Miss Bs relative is upset 
about how Santander dealt with the payment theyd need to contact Santander themselves. 
Credit report
Santander has to report accurate and up to date information to the credit rating agencies. 
Miss B hasnt said what information Santander recorded that she considers to be incorrect. 
However, Miss Bs mortgage was in arrears and if Santander recorded this on her credit file I 
dont think that was wrong or unfair. If Santander recorded a default on Miss Bs credit file 
when it took possession, I wouldnt consider that unfair or incorrect. 
Id expect Santander to record the account as settled once the mortgage was repaid. But, to 
avoid any confusion, this doesnt mean Id expect it to remove the information previously 
recorded about the conduct of the account. 
Removing the charge
In her original complaint, Miss B said shed asked for her deeds to be sent to her. While the 
complaint was with us, Miss B said shed asked Santander to remove its charge from the 
property title and it had failed to do so. 
We asked Santander about this. Santander said it didnt have a record of Miss B raising a 
complaint about the charge. It agreed that this could be dealt with it as part of this complaint. 
Santander said it hadnt removed its charge until late October 2023 and couldnt explain why 
it hadnt been done sooner. 
Santander sent evidence that its charge has now been removed from the property title at the 
Land Registry. Theres no suggestion this has caused Miss B financial loss  she hasnt said 
for instance that shes been trying to re-mortgage the property. But I think it did cause Miss B 
unnecessary inconvenience and worry. For this, I think Santander should pay another £200. 
My final decision
My decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Santander UK Plc to pay £200 to Miss B 
(this is in addition to the £150 compensation it has already paid).  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman