DRN-3554720
The complaint
Mr C is unhappy with several aspects of the service he received from Santander UK Plc 
surrounding requests to withdraw cash from his account.
What happened
Mr C visited a Santander branch and asked to withdraw £1,500 in £50 notes. However, he 
was advised by branch staff that they only had three £50 notes available. Mr C also tried to 
make similar withdrawals on two other occasions, but on both occasions Mr C was told there 
werent enough £50 notes available to allow him to complete the withdrawals. 
Mr C wasnt happy about this and feels that Santander have unfairly restricted his access to 
his money. Mr C also wasnt happy about being made to wait outside for over 40 minutes on 
one branch visit, which as an elderly gentleman with a history of medical issues wasnt 
comfortable for him. Additionally, Mr C wasnt happy that hed received a telephone call from 
Santander staff telling him that they were keeping track of his withdrawals, which he felt 
suggested that he was doing something untoward. So, he raised a complaint.
Santander looked at Mr Cs complaint. They explained it should never have been the case 
that Mr C should have been denied a cash withdrawal of the amounts that Mr C had wanted. 
Santander apologised to Mr C if he had been denied a withdrawal and made a payment of 
£100 to him by way of compensation. Santander also confirmed that they had no record of 
making the telephone call that Mr C had complained about, but that it was their policy to ask 
about the purpose of large cash withdrawals as part of their efforts to ensure customers 
didnt fall victim to potential scams.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with Santanders response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint. But they felt that the response that 
Santander had issued to the complaint, including the £100 payment of compensation, 
already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to what had happened. Mr C remained 
dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to note immediately here that this service is impartial. As such, when the positions of 
a customer and a business differ, as is the case here, this service doesnt accept either 
partys position on face value at the expense of the other. 
This means that in this instance, where the positions of Mr C and Santander dont agree with 
each other, I have to decide  if I feel its possible to do so  which of the two conflicting 
positions I feel is more likely to have happened, on balance, and in consideration of all the 
information and evidence available to me.
Mr C has complained that on several occasions, he attempted to withdraw cash amounts in 
branch in £50 notes, and that on each occasion Santander didnt have enough £50 notes to 
allow him to complete his intended withdrawal. Mr C therefore feels that Santander denied 
him access to the money in his account.
Santander dont believe that Mr C was ever denied access to the money in his account, and 
confirm that if it were the case that £50 notes werent available, Mr C would have been 
offered the withdrawal amount in lower denomination notes.
Santander have also provided the recollections of their staff who dealt with Mr Cs requests. 
And these include that on one occasion, Mr C was informed by the counter staff who served 
him that their werent enough £50 notes in the counter till to enable the completion of the 
withdrawal request in £50 notes, but that they could get some more £50 notes to enable the 
request to be filled, although this would entail a wait of approximately 15 minutes. The staff 
member then recollects that Mr Cs daughter, who was with him at that time, was unhappy at 
having to wait, and the she and Mr C then left the branch.
Obviously, I wasnt present during any of the times that Mr C asked to withdraw money in 
£50 notes from his account. But Santander have confirmed that the branch in question has 
no record of being cash-poor such that it would be unable to fulfil Mr Cs requests. And it 
does seem reasonable to me that the branch might not hold a significant amount of £50 
notes in the counter tills, such that they might need to be brought forwards upon request.
I also dont feel its likely that Mr C would have been denied the withdrawal of his money. 
This is because I feel that its highly likely that if sufficient £50 notes werent available, that 
Mr C would have been offered the requested withdrawal in lower denomination notes. And 
while I can appreciate that Mr C might have wanted the withdrawal in £50 notes, I dont feel 
the act of offering Mr C a withdrawal in notes of a lower denomination does constitute an act 
of Mr C being denied access to the money in his account.
Mr C has explained that before visiting Santanders branch he telephoned them in advance 
and advised them of the amounts he wanted to withdraw and that he wanted the withdrawal 
to be in £50 notes. As such, Mr C feels that sufficient £50 notes should have been available 
at the counter for him when he visited.
I can appreciate Mr Cs position here, but I feel that the possibility exists that £50 notes may 
potentially have been available but werent present in the till and needed to brought 
forwards, as described above. 
I also note that Santander have apologised to Mr C in their complaint response for not being 
able to meet his withdrawal requests and have made a payment of £100 compensation to 
him because of this. This seems like a fair amount of compensation here, and I feel that if it 
were the case that Santander didnt have enough £50 notes in branch to meet Mr Cs 
withdrawal requests, that the £100 compensation that Santander have already issued to    
Mr C already represents a fair resolution to this aspect of his complaint.
Mr C is also unhappy that on one occasion when he visited branch, he was asked to wait 
outside for forty minutes before being allowed to enter branch. Mr C notes that hes an 
elderly gentleman and has had significant medical issues in his recent past, which made 
waiting outside for such a lengthy period both uncomfortable and potentially unsafe for him.
I can appreciate Mr Cs position here. However, Santander have confirmed that the only 
occasion where customers would be asked to wait outside was during the period where 
social distancing restrictions were in effect because of Covid-19. Santander have also 
confirmed that during these periods, elderly customers such as Mr C were prioritised and 
given the opportunity to wait inside  if social distancing measures allowed.Again, Santanders position here seems reasonable to me. And if it were the case that Mr C 
did have to wait outside for a lengthy period, I feel that its likely that this was because Covid-
19 restrictions were in place, and because it wouldnt have been possible to safely ask Mr C 
into branch because of the presence of other prioritised customers who were already 
waiting. Accordingly, while I dont dispute Mr Cs version of events here, I dont feel I can 
fairly or reasonably hold Santander accountable for Mr Cs discomfort, given the social 
distancing restrictions that Santander were having to work within at that time.
Santander have also confirmed that they currently have no record of Mr C being a vulnerable 
customer, but that they can, with Mr Cs permission, add wording to Mr Cs profile which 
notifies staff members of Mr Cs vulnerabilities, such as health issues, so that they can be 
taken into account moving forwards. If Mr C would like such wording to be added to his 
profile, he should contact Santander directly to arrange it.
Mr C may contend that his daughter called Santanders branch on his behalf on several 
occasions and advised of Mr Cs elderly status and health issues, and that therefore 
Santander should have recorded this information. But I feel that Santanders policy in this 
regard  to only record instances of vulnerability on a customers profile at the specific 
request of that customer (or an appointed legal representative)  is reasonable. And, given 
Santanders explanation of their Covid-19 social distancing policy detailed above, I also dont 
feel that Santander not having a note of Mr Cs vulnerabilities on his profile has led to any 
detriment to Mr C in regard to the events under consideration in this complaint.
Mr C has also expressed his unhappiness at having received a telephone call from 
Santander which advised that they were monitoring Mr Cs withdrawals and which Mr C felt 
insinuated that he was doing something untoward by requesting them. But I feel that it would 
be highly unlikely that a telephone call of this nature would be made by Santanders staff, 
and I also note that Santander have no record of any such call being made.
Santander have confirmed that when a customer is requesting a large withdrawal that they 
do question that customer as to why theyre making the withdrawal. This isnt unusual, and 
all banks have an obligation to ask such questions of their customers to assess whether that 
customer might be withdrawing cash for a potentially damaging reason, such as being the 
unknowing victim of a scam. As such, while I can appreciate how Mr C might have felt 
uncomfortable at being asked those questions, if they were asked of him, I dont feel that 
Santander can reasonably be considered as acting unfairly towards Mr C by asking them.
Finally, Mr C has explained that he feels that his age and the fact that English is his second 
language are factors as to why he has been treated poorly by Santander, and that in effect 
he has been discriminated against by Santander for those reasons.
I can understand why Mr C feels this way. But having looked at all the evidence I dont think 
Santander has singled him out here, including in regard to his age and that English isnt his 
first language. Nor do I think that Santander has acted unfairly or unreasonably. I hope that it 
helps Mr C to know that someone impartial and independent has looked into his concerns in 
this regard.
I realise this wont be the outcome that Mr C was wanting, but it follows from all the above 
that I feel that the response that Santander have previously issued to Mr Cs complaint, 
including the payment of £100 compensation, already represents a fair and reasonable 
outcome to whats happened here. Consequently, I wont be upholding this complaint or 
instructing Santander to take any further action. I hope that Mr C will understand, given all 
that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 November 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman