DRN-4469818
The complaint
Mr S complains that Skerritt Consultants Limited (SCL) gave him unsuitable advice to bring 
four personal pensions under a single self-invested personal pension (SIPP) wrapper. He 
complained that he paid SCL to manage his investments and it failed to deliver the expected 
growth.
What happened
In 2017 Mr S approached SCL regarding pension advice. He had four separate personal 
pensions with combined fund values around £65,000.
SCL determined the following regarding Mr S circumstances: 
He was employed with earnings around £23,000 a year; 
He owned his main residence, valued around £250,000, with no outstanding 
mortgage; 
He had money held in savings and ISAs and had no debts; 
In addition to the pensions that SCL were considering Mr S had a final salary pension 
scheme.
SCL recorded Mr S objectives in its financial planning report of 24 October 2017 as:
Review the funds invested within his four money purchase pensions; 
Consider consolidating those pensions in readiness for retirement at age 65;
Ensure that the pension funds were invested in a manner that matched his attitude to 
risk and could be managed for future growth.
SCL recommended that Mr S switch his existing money purchase pensions to a SIPP. And 
that he allow his pension funds to be managed by Skerritts Discretionary Fund Managers 
(DFMs).
Mr S followed SCLs advise and opened a SIPP and his pension funds were transferred into 
that. Around this time SCL explain that it launched a range of managed investment funds  
its VT funds. It says that Mr S was switched, from the DFM service that hed agreed to 
receive, to the VT Tactical Growth Fund. It says his annual adviser charge was reduced from 
1.25% a year of the fund value to 0.25%.
Mr S complained that his pension fund had failed to perform as hed expected. He said that 
he paid SCL to manage his investments with a diverse portfolio of investments and didnt 
accept that it couldnt have performed better. He wanted to know whether hed have had 
better investment returns if he hadnt switched his pensions to the SIPP.
SCL didnt uphold Mr S complaint. It said:
Mr S was advised to transfer four separate personal pensions to consolidate his 
money purchase pension arrangements.
The existing pension arrangements were invested in differing ways and consolidating 
would enable all funds to be invested in line with his current attitude to risk.
A SIPP was recommended and an investment into the VT Esprit Tactical Growth 
Portfolio which matched his 8/10 attitude to risk rating.
The SIPP was subsequently invested in the VT Esprit Tactical Growth Fund instead. 
SCL say that the advantages of being invested in a fund were: ease of 
administration; single unit pricing and transparency of communication.
There is no evidence that the investment fund performed poorly but that the returns 
instead reflected wider market conditions.
Our investigator considered Mr S complaint but was unable to resolve it. So the complaint 
was referred for an ombudsmans decision. I then considered all of the circumstances in the 
case and issued a provisional decision to both parties to explain why I thought Mr S 
complaint should be upheld and what I thought SCL should do to put things right.
Both SCL and Mr S responded to acknowledge my provisional decision and offered no 
further evidence or arguments for me to consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the responses to my provisional decision, as well as all of the available 
evidence my final decision is that Im upholding Mr S complaint for the same reasons that I 
have already shared with both parties. For completeness I will set my reasoning out again in 
what follows.
Having read all of Mr S correspondence I think that his complaint was initially brought about 
because of his disappointment with the investment returns on the funds held within his SIPP. 
And whilst I accept that investment returns can fluctuate for any number of reasons outside 
of SCLs control, I think its really the thing that has caused Mr S to question the suitability of 
the advice he was given to switch his pensions. So it is this issue that I will address.
At the time of receiving advice Mr S had four different personal pensions with small fund 
sizes invested in different ways. These were summarised in our investigators view and are 
recorded in the suitability report that SCL provided Mr S. So I wont repeat the details here.
SCL identified objectives of consolidating the pensions. Which was a reasonable objective to 
try to achieve for Mr S. He was approaching retirement age and having all of his money 
purchase pensions in one newer pension plan would afford him flexibility when it came to 
taking benefits. As well as added simplicity. SCL additionally listed an objective of ensuring 
that Mr S pension funds were invested in a suitable way for him. Again, consolidating the 
existing pensions would have made this objective easier to achieve. Overall I think that 
recommending that all of Mr S existing pensions were brought into one plan was likely to be 
suitable for him.
SCL documented its recommendation for Mr S in a financial planning report dated 
24 October 2017. It summarised that Mr S had a medium-high attitude to investment risk, 
having a score of 8 out of 10 on the risk assessment questionnaire that it had separately 
obtained. And it recommended that Mr S had the capacity for loss to enable him to invest in 
line with that attitude to risk because he had other pension provisions in addition to this and 
had no outstanding mortgage on his home. Overall, I think that these assessments were fair 
and reflected the information that Mr S had provided SCL. So I think it was appropriate for SCL to look for a way to invest Mr S total money purchase pension pot  around £65,000  
in a single pension arrangement in a way that matched this attitude to risk.
Having determined that consolidating was in Mr S best interests, there were still a number of 
options that SCL had to consider for Mr S. The SIPP that it recommended wasnt the only 
way that Mr S could achieve his objective of consolidation. Nor was it the only type of 
pension that would offer investment choices that matched his attitude to risk.
SCLs analysis demonstrated that the overall charges for its recommended solution were 
clearly higher than his existing pensions. Which were personal pensions from four different 
pension providers. So I think that consolidating the four plans into a similar type of personal 
pension plan would similarly have been cheaper as well. The impact of higher charges on 
investment performance was significant. So I would expect there to be a good reason for 
SCL to consider a more expensive pension to be in Mr S best interests.
SCLs recommendation also disregarded a stakeholder pension as being suitable for Mr S 
because it would limit his fund choice. And that Discretionary Investment Management 
services would not be available through a Stakeholder pension. So again, the focus of SCLs 
recommendation seemed to start from the point that Discretionary Investment Management 
was suitable for Mr S.
Based on its recommendation, I think that the main reason that SCL recommended a SIPP 
for Mr S was that it enabled SCL to recommend that Mr S invest via SCLs DFM service. Ive 
considered whether this was the most suitable means of investment for Mr S. If it was, then 
the recommendation of the SIPP was, most likely, appropriate. If it wasnt then a more cost 
effective pension arrangement would more likely have been in Mr S best interests.
Mr S fund size was relatively modest for a pension fund, at £65,000. Which meant that, 
even if the investment performance was sufficiently high to offset the additional charges for 
the SIPP and DFM service, the potential gains were likely to end up being modest. It meant 
that the additional risk, with no specific guarantee of higher performance, would be unlikely 
to significantly improve the retirement benefits in the five to ten years to Mr S planned 
retirement. It meant that the potential benefit was modest. Yet the risk that Mr S funds might 
be eroded by the higher charges was unnecessarily high.
So, overall, Im not convinced that a Discretionary Fund managed service was suitable for 
Mr S. And there is no evidence that he had previously taken an active interest in investment 
choices that might otherwise have made a SIPP something hed be interested in. I cant see 
any reason that a more basic pension arrangement with access to a range of different mixed 
asset investment funds would not have been in Mr S best interests. And would, most likely 
have been a more cost effective way for Mr S to achieve his objectives.
I think that, had SCL recommended a stakeholder or personal pension with an investment 
option in line with the medium-high attitude to risk, Mr S would have followed that 
recommendation. I say that because Ive seen no evidence that Mr S objective prior to being 
advised by SCL was to seek Discretionary Fund Management. But he was prepared to trust 
and accept the recommendation he received from SCL. It means that, but for SCLs 
unsuitable advice, Mr S wouldnt have his funds in the SIPP platform requiring more regular 
supervision. But he would most likely be invested in a way that still reflected the attitude to 
risk that SCL identified.
I am aware that SCL changed the service that it provided Mr S shortly after he accepted its 
advice. It explains that it ceased to provide him with a DFM service. And instead invested his 
fund wholly in one of its own managed funds. It meant that Mr S was no longer receiving 
Discretionary Investment Management of his pension fund. But I can see that the annual advisor charge that SCL took from his pension fund also reduced. This may not seem 
entirely unfair. And made his pension more cost effective. But Ive seen no evidence that 
Mr S was aware of this change or that he agreed to it. Which wasnt a fair way to treat Mr S. 
And also removed the reason that SCL relied upon in justifying Mr S need for a SIPP.
The fund factsheet appears to make it suitable for the attitude to risk that Mr S agreed to. So 
the change that SCL introduced may have gone some way to addressing the elevated costs 
associated with the recommendation that led to Mr S pension switch. But it still left his 
pension in a SIPP platform with potentially higher fees and an ongoing advice charge. And, 
had suitable advice been provided at the outset, I dont think Mr S would have been in the 
SIPP.
Putting things right
For the reasons Ive given above, I think that Mr S would still have consolidated his 
pensions. But would have been in a different pension product and therefore invested in a 
different way.
My aim is that Mr S should be put as closely as possible into the position he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I think Mr S would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would 
have done, but Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S' 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must SCL do?
To compensate Mr S fairly, SCL must:
Compare the performance of Mr S' investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
If the fair value is greater than the actual value there is a loss and compensation is 
payable.
SCL should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
SCL should pay into Mr S' pension plan to increase its value by the total amount of 
the compensation and any interest. The amount paid should allow for the effect of 
charges and any available tax relief. Compensation should not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If SCL is unable to pay the total amount into Mr S' pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the total amount should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an 
adjustment to ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to 
HMRC, so Mr S wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is 
paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr S' actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax  
20%. However, if Mr S would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation, resulting in an overall 
reduction of 15%
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If SCL deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Mr S how much has been taken off. SCL should give Mr S a tax 
deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr S asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax on 
interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
Aegon SIPP Still exists 
and liquidFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Growth Total 
Return IndexDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final 
decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainant's 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a return 
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal from the Aegon SIPP should be deducted from the fair value calculation at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill 
accept if SCL totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the 
fair value instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr S wanted Capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Growth Total Return index (prior to 1 March 2017, 
the FTSE WMA Stock Market Growth total return index) is made up of a range of 
indices with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a 
higher return.My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Skerritt Consultants Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Skerritt Consultants Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr S in a clear, 
simple format. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2023.
 
Gary Lane
Ombudsman