DRN-2861048
The complaint
Mr C complains that he shouldnt have been given a credit card by Clydesdale Bank Plc
trading as Virgin Money (Virgin).  
What happened
 Mr C applied online for a credit card from Virgin in June 2017. It was approved with a limit of
£7,100. In December 2020, the debt of £1,169 was sold to a debt collection agency.
Mr C complained he shouldnt have been given the credit card. Virgin didnt do sufficient 
checks. His annual income was £26,000  Virgin said it was £42,000, but that included his 
partners income. His net salary was £1,500 per month, with outgoings of more than that. He 
had other debts of £15,000 at the time and was in financial difficulty. He could never afford to 
repay the borrowing. He had to borrow from other lenders to pay Virgin. Eventually, in 2019, 
he had to sell his house to pay off his debts.
Virgin said the online application was approved. Mr Cs application showed there was a 
household income of £42,000. Theyd looked at a combination of factors when approving the 
credit card, including looking at other debts, household income and information from credit 
reference agencies.
Mr C brought his complaint to us. Our investigator said she thought the issue of the card was 
OK. Virgin had carried out automated checks of Mr Cs online application  and Mr C passed 
these. But things went wrong subsequently  when Mr C got into financial difficulty with 
Virgin. That should then have caused Virgin to look at his circumstances closer. She upheld 
Mr Cs complaint and said that late payment fees and over limit charges should be refunded, 
and the debt bought back from the debt collection agency.
Virgin disagreed and asked that Mr Cs complaint be looked at by an ombudsman.
I reached a provisional decision where I said:
I take a different view to our investigator  she thought the issue of the card was OK, but 
upheld Mr Cs complaint because of what happened after that. But  Mr Cs complaint isnt 
about how Virgin treated him after the issue of the card  his complaint is that he shouldnt 
have been given the card  with a limit of £7,100 - in the first place. So, my provisional 
decision deals with that. And I dont think Virgin should have given Mr C the card. I will 
explain why.
All lenders have an obligation to lend money responsibly. We have to check whether Virgin 
acted in line within the Financial Conducts (FCA) rules on creditworthiness assessment as 
set out in its handbook, (CONC) section 5.2. These say that a firm must undertake a 
reasonable assessment of creditworthiness, considering both the risk to it of the customer
not making the repayments, as well as the risk to the customer of not being able to make 
repayments. We look at:
Whether the lender completed reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself 
that the borrower would be able to repay any credit in a sustainable way?
If reasonable and proportionate checks were completed, did the lender make a fair 
lending decision made bearing in mind the information gathered and what the lender 
knew about the borrowers circumstances?
He was given a limit of £7,100 in June 2017 on a balance transfer arrangement. There were 
balance transfers made of £5,863 in June 2017, and £1,123 in February 2018. This took his 
borrowing up to the limit of £7,100 where  essentially  the debt stayed until April 2019 
when it was repaid  and the limit was then reduced to £1,000 by Virgin. In January 2020, it 
was paid off again, but the debt then increased back to the limit of £1,000. The debt went 
into arrears and was sold to a debt collection agency in December 2020.
Ive looked at what Virgin told us. They said Mr Cs application was auto-approved, and 
household income was £42,000. We asked Virgin for their credit analysis carried out when 
the card and limit was approved. This showed the Mr C stated his annual income was 
£28,000 and monthly rent/mortgage was £600. Household income is shown as £42,000  
but the card was in Mr Cs name, with no secondary cardholder (Mr C told us his partners 
income was included). Other criteria used were employment status, time at address, and 
similar. Virgin havent told us if there were any other checks done.
It appears that Mr C was a new customer to Virgin, previously unknown to them. But they 
were giving him a substantial limit of £7,100. I can see there was no checks made on his 
income and expenditure, or other cards held, or other debts. For such a large initial limit  I 
would have thought it was reasonable to ask those questions of Mr C. Or ensure that 
suitable credit searches were done to check those facts.
The application was for balance transfers  two are listed on the application form totalling 
£5,863. These were transferred by Mr C. But a higher limit of £7,100 was given which 
enabled a further balance transfer of £1,123 in February 2018. Its not clear why a higher 
limit was given beyond the amount of the first balance transfers applied for. Virgin said to us 
that it was reasonable to assume that the balance transfers would enable Mr C to reduce his 
overall debts  but theres no evidence to say they knew what those other debts were  or, 
more importantly, whether Virgin followed through to ensure they were indeed repaid.
So  I dont think Virgin carried out reasonable or proportionate checks in giving Mr C a limit 
of £7,100. So, they should put Mr C back in the position he was in before the lending was 
approved. Its not fair to ask Virgin to write off the debt, as Mr C has had the use of the 
money. But  my provisional decision is to uphold Mr Cs complaint  subject to any 
comments that either Mr C or Virgin may have. And - I think Virgin should:
Refund all interest and charges made on the account since the card was issued, to 
date. To the extent that Mr C has paid these amounts though his repayments, 8% 
per annum simple interest should also be added.
If there is any residual borrowing, the debt should be taken back from the debt 
collection agency and a mutually agreeable repayment plan agreed with Mr C.
Remove any adverse entries at credit reference agencies.
Responses to the provisional decision: 
Mr M didnt have any comments, but we looked at his credit file.This showed that he had several other credit agreements in place at the time of his 
application to Virgin  June 2017. Most were paid up to date with no late payments. It 
showed two agreements had defaulted, but the dates of default arent clear. There is another 
for £6700  which we assume is the amount transferred to the Virgin credit card. Its paid up 
to date.
 Virgin said (in summary):
Mr M passed their credit checks.
The credit searches they carried out showed other debts of £6,250  and this 
reduced to £600 in July 2017  this showed the transfer of debt to Virgin. These are 
less that the debts of £15,000 that Mr M says he had at the time.
A mortgage of £130,000 is shown in the credit searches.
They allowed a higher limit than the amount of balance transfers to allow some 
flexibility for further spending.
Other debts stayed at around £6,400 until June 2018  and after that, Mr Ms credit 
score went down. 
So  I now need to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Virgin have shown that on the face of it, some of Mr Ms problems seemed to appear after 
they issued their card. I must consider that with the basic question  did Virgin act 
responsibly in giving Mr M the credit card with a limit of £7,100. And  on balance, I remain 
of the view that they shouldve made further inquiries before doing so.
Mr M was a new customer to Virgin, with no track record with them at all. And  a limit of 
£7,100 in those circumstances was high. And  he was transferring debts from another card. 
The application to Virgin showed a mortgage of £131,000  and when looked at against his 
income (£28,000)  this was high. Virgin were also relying on other household income (total 
£42,000 per annum). So - I think they shouldve asked more questions about his 
circumstances, such as seeing an income and expenditure analysis (including the effect of 
mortgage payments and other debts); and more information about the second source of 
income, and whether it was sustainable or committed to other debt repayments. 
So  I am upholding this complaint and Im asking Virgin to do what I set out in my 
provisional decision.
Putting things right
Because Virgin shouldnt have issued the credit card in the first place, Mr M has had to pay 
interest and fees that he wouldnt otherwise have paid. And his credit file has been marked 
as a result of the sale of the debt to a debt collection agency. So  what Im asking Virgin to 
do will put him back in the position he wouldve been if Virgin hadnt issued the card.
My final decisionI uphold this complaint. Clydesdale Bank Plc trading as Virgin Money must:
 Refund all interest and charges made on the account since the card was issued, to 
date. If a credit balance arises after these refunds, 8% per annum simple interest 
should also be added from the time it arose to date.
If a credit balance arises, Virgin must pay this to Mr M to an account he should 
nominate.
If there is any residual borrowing, the debt should be taken back from the debt 
collection agency and a mutually agreeable repayment plan agreed with Mr C.
Remove any adverse entries at credit reference agencies.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 August 2021.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman