DRN-3950075
The complaint
Mr J has complained that Great Lakes Insurance SE (Great Lakes) unfairly declined his 
claim. 
All references to Great Lakes include any agents acting on its behalf.
What happened
Mr J had a travel insurance policy with gadget cover, underwritten by Great Lakes. He made 
a claim after his laptop was stolen from the aeroplane he was travelling on. 
Great Lakes declined the claim as it said his laptop was left unattended and so there was no 
cover.
Mr J complained to Great Lakes and unhappy with its response, referred his complaint to 
this Service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt think Great Lakes had unfairly applied 
the exclusion. 
Mr J disagreed and in summary, made the following comments:
He had no choice but to stow his laptop away out of sight. He couldnt put the laptop 
under the seat in front of him as he had other bags there.
Even if he had put the laptop in the locker above him, it still would have been out of 
sight and so he thinks the term is unfair.
So the case has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld, and largely for the same 
reasons as already explained by our investigator. 
The relevant rules and industry guidelines say an insurer should handle claims promptly and 
fairly. And shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
The policy terms 
The policy terms and conditions make up the contract of insurance between Mr J and Great 
Lakes. Ive set out the relevant parts of section 8 below, which is gadget cover. 
Definitions from the policy:
Theft - Means the taking of the gadget by a third party with the intention of 
permanently depriving you of it, using force, threat of violence or by pickpocket.
Unattended - Means that the gadget(s) are neither on your person or within your 
sight and/or reach.
Theft of a gadget is covered as below:
If you suffer theft of your gadget, we will replace it (in respect of a valid theft claim).
But the following exclusions apply:
What we will not cover
General Exclusions
We will not pay for:
any claim where you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere unattended and it is at 
risk of being lost, stolen or damaged. For example - where your gadget is left at the 
side of a sports pitch whilst you are participating in the sport.
Mr J says he was asked to stow his laptop away in the overhead bins by cabin crew, three 
rows behind where he was sitting. He says he didnt have a choice as there wasnt any 
space in the overhead bins directly above him and he had other bags (including a snack 
bag) under the seat in front of him. He was travelling with two children and had a number of 
bags. 
Great Lakes said this meant his claim wasnt covered as the laptop was left unattended and 
so it was at risk of being lost, stolen or damaged 
Mr J says he didnt have a choice to keep the laptop near him and even if the laptop had 
been put in the locker above him, it still would have been out of sight. So Mr J thinks the 
exclusion is unfair.
But the definition says unattended means the gadget is neither on your person or within sight 
and or reach. So if the laptop was kept in the lockers above, it was still within reach. 
Ive thought about Mr Js circumstances and that he had a number of other bags which were 
stored under the seat in front of him. Mr J chose to stow the laptop bag away and keep the 
food bag in front of him. As Mr J did have the option of keeping the laptop bag instead of 
another bag under the seat in front of him, I think the exclusion applies as he knowingly left 
the laptop unattended. 
Ive considered whether the exclusion is clear. And I think that it is. An insurer is entitled to 
exclude any risks it doesnt want to cover. This means Mr Js circumstances arent covered 
as the terms clearly explain what isnt covered. Even if the crew asked Mr J to put his laptop 
away and he didnt have a choice, there is no cover as the laptop was unattended. And as 
the laptop was three rows behind and out of sight, it was at risk of being lost, stolen or 
damaged due to being on an aeroplane with a number of other passengers. So I dont think 
Great Lakes has unfairly applied the exclusion or incorrectly declined the claim.
Im sorry to disappoint Mr J but I cant fairly ask Great Lakes to pay his claim as I think the 
exclusion it has applied is clear.My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 May 2023.
 
Shamaila Hussain
Ombudsman