DRN-2331241
The complaint
Mr R complains that Vitality Corporate Services Limited didnt pay him the £125 annual 
cashback award. He said Vitality didnt make the criteria for the payment clear. And has paid 
some customers but not others. Mr R wants Vitality to pay him the £125. 
What happened
Mr R and his wife hold individual life policies with Vitality. Mr R complained to Vitality about 
not receiving his £125 cashback when his wife had received hers. Vitality didnt uphold the 
complaint. It said it had made it clear that Mr R needed to have a health check or health 
screening to qualify for the award. 
Mr R was unhappy with this response, so brought his complaint to our service. He said 
Vitality accepted the addition of a health check or health screen to receive the £125 
cashback hadnt been made clear to its members. Which was why it paid his wife the £125. 
So, he couldnt understand why Vitality wasnt paying him. He said vitality wasnt treating him 
fairly or in line with other customers.  
Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt uphold it. He said Vitality had acted in line 
with the terms and conditions of Mr Rs policy and told him about changes to what he 
needed to do to get the £125 annual cashback award. Our investigator said he couldnt 
comment on any action Vitality took in respect of other customers.  
Mr R disagreed and has asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint.  He said his 
complaint wasnt only about not being told about the changes  rather it was that Vitality 
hadnt been clear about when the changes were coming in. He also said it was always a 
requirement to have an annual health review, but now Vitality was asking for a separate 
health check, which it didnt make clear was different to the health review. 
Mr R also provided reviews from another Vitality customer and a Vitality employee which he 
says supports his complaint. And Mr R maintains that Vitality treated him unfairly and 
breached Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) regulations by paying the £125 to his wife and 
other customers, but not to him. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mr R feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to him, so Ill explain why. 
Ive read and considered the whole file. But Ill concentrate my comments on what I think is 
relevant. If I dont mention any specific point, its not because Ive failed to take it on board 
and think about it, but because I dont think I need to comment on it to reach what I think is 
the right outcome.
Mr R has also raised several concerns around the fairness of his case compared to other 
Vitality customers. I should explain that we look at each case on its own individual merits. It 
wouldnt be possible, or indeed practical, to compare how Vitality treated other customers  
and then use that as a basis to decide if Mr R has been treated fairly. Other customers could 
have different policy terms and conditions to Mr R. And other individual circumstances might 
apply which Vitality would use to exercise its discretion as to whether to pay the £125 
cashback. My focus is only on whether Vitality has treated Mr R fairly. 
I should also add that as an informal dispute resolution service, its not our role to consider 
breaches of FCA regulations. If Mr R wants to pursue this, then he may wish to contact the 
FCA. 
I can see from the information Vitality provided to Mr R when he first took the policy out that 
he was told changes could be made. I can also see a letter Vitality sent him on 17 October 
2016 talked in general terms about changes to the annual cashback reward system. 
Including the need to have completed a health check or health screening before the plan 
anniversary to be eligible for the payment. 
So, whilst I appreciate these letters are somewhat generic in nature, I do think they alerted 
Mr R to the fact changes could be made to his plan. And that going forward, he would need 
to complete a health check or health screening to be eligible for the cashback. 
Mr R says whilst Vitality mightve alerted him to the change, it didnt make it clear when the 
change was effective from. He said he was led to believe the change would not come into 
effect until the plan year starting February 2019. I can understand there mightve been some 
confusion here.  I can see there were several changes to the cashback reward scheme from 
2016 to 2019  in terms of the eligibility criteria and that rewards would be paid every three 
years rather than annually. 
But I can also see from the annual anniversary statement Vitality sent Mr R on 2 December 
2018 that it clearly explains what Mr R needed to do to be eligible for the £125  that being 
he needed to have the health check or health screening before his plan anniversary on 
3 February 2019. Because he didnt do this, the cashback wasnt paid. 
So, on balance, whilst I accept that several changes to the cashback reward scheme 
mightve made the specific impact on Mr R unclear  I think the correspondence he received 
from 2016, coupled with the 2 December 2018 anniversary statement, made it clear that in 
order to be eligible for the cashback, he had to have a health check or health screening 
within the February 2018 to February 2019 plan period.
Mr R has also said Vitality didnt make it clear that the health check or health screening was 
different to the health review, which hes required to complete every year. Vitality has 
explained to us that a health review is an online questionnaire which members complete at 
the beginning of each plan year. Whereas the health check or health screening is a physical 
assessment by a health professional. I can see from the 2 December 2018 anniversary letter 
that Mr R was told he needed to book the health check or health screening with a health 
professional. I think this makes it sufficiently clear this is different to the online health review. 
Taking everything into account, I think Vitality did enough to let Mr R know about the 
changes to the cashback reward scheme, and what he needed to do and by when. So, I 
dont think Vitality treated Mr R unfairly and wont be asking it to pay him the £125. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 February 2021.
 
Anna Jackson
Ombudsman