DRN-4449656
The complaint
Mr Y complains esure Insurance Limited cancelled his motor insurance policy by mistake
and this caused him significant problems.
What happened
Mr Y had a motor insurance policy with esure. The policy was cancelled. The following day
Mr Y was stopped by the Police and charged with driving without insurance. Mr Y
complained to esure saying he didnt cancel his policy.
esure said Mr Y had called to cancel the policy. It said he had gone through automated
identification and referred to the correct start date of the policy. It said Mr Y went on to
cancel the policy because a change he wanted couldnt be implemented.
Mr Y says it wasnt him who called esure. He said it must have been a mistake and if hed
been emailed to say the policy had been cancelled, he would have acted. He asked our
service for an independent review.
The Investigator asked esure for evidence to satisfy her Mr Y had cancelled the policy, but
she didnt receive it despite several chasers. Ultimately, based on the evidence available to
her, she recommended the complaint should be upheld.
Mr Y accepted the Investigators recommendation. esure didnt respond, despite follow up
contact from the Investigator. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was passed
to me to make a formal determination. I issued a provision decision. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Y says he didnt call esure to cancel the policy. That may be the case. But what I 
must decide is whether it was fair and reasonable for esure to cancel the policy, 
based on the information available to it at the time. I must also decide whether I 
consider esure should have sent a cancellation confirmation as Mr Y suggests.
I have listened to a recording of the call in which the policy was cancelled. No policy 
details were asked for. Nor were there any security questions. So I find it more likely 
than not the caller had gone through esures automated identification, as esure has 
said. esure hasnt provided details of the automated identification journey. I have, 
however, called esures general number and been through the journey myself. I see 
no compelling reason to think the journey has materially changed since the caller 
went through it.
The journey requires the input of the policy number, and the policy holders date of 
birth, postcode, phone number and car registration number. The person who called 
esure therefore must have known specific information about the policy, and about 
Mr Y, to have made it through to esures agent. This is further supported by the caller 
saying at the start of the call, the date the policy started, to the day. Im not 
persuaded esure cancelled the wrong policy by mistake.
The caller asked esure to increase the policy cover. There would be no motive for an
unknown third party to make this sort of request. The cover sought wasnt something 
esure could provide so it was agreed the policy would be cancelled that day, with no 
cancellation fee and a pro-rata premium refund (to the account the premium came 
from). The caller was grateful. Im not persuaded anything was said or done which 
ought reasonably to have caused esures agent concern the caller wasnt the policy 
holder.
Mr Y says esure should have emailed him confirmation the policy had been 
cancelled. Given esure thought the policy holder had cancelled the policy himself, I 
find it was reasonable for it not to send a cancellation confirmation, given it wouldnt 
add to what was already known. In any case, had esure sent a cancellation 
confirmation, it may not have arrived in time to avoid what happened with the Police. 
Nor is there any certainty Mr Y would have picked it up in time if it had, or whether he 
would have acted upon it.
In summary, while I sympathise with Mr Y if someone did call esure without his 
knowledge or consent, I find it was fair and reasonable for esure to cancel the policy 
based on the information available to it at the time. And I find it was fair and 
reasonable for esure not to send Mr Y a cancellation confirmation. It follows this isnt 
a complaint I intend to uphold.
My provisional decision
I dont intend to uphold this complaint.
esure didnt respond to my provisional decision. Mr Y responded to say, broadly, that he 
didnt call to cancel the policy, its not right that someone with his information can cancel his 
policy, and esure should have notified him of the cancellation. He also explained the impact 
this matter has had on him/his business. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I still sympathise with Mr Y and the difficult time hes had, I havent been presented 
with any materially new evidence or arguments. I therefore see no compelling reason to 
depart from my provisional decision.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2023.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman