DRN-3015351
The complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain that Society of Lloyds has turned down a curtailment claim they 
made on their travel insurance policy.  
What happened
In December 2019, Mr and Mrs L booked a sailing trip abroad. They were due to depart the 
UK on 9 March 2020 and sail around the Caribbean islands between 10 and 24 March 2020. 
They were then due to spend three nights on an island Ill call M before flying back to the UK 
on 27 March 2020. They took out a single trip Topsail travel insurance policy on 31 
December 2019 to cover their holiday.
Mr and Mrs L travelled as planned and began their sailing trip on 10 March 2020. However, 
on 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared Covid-19 to be a pandemic. On 
17 March 2020, the Foreign, Commonwealth & Development Office (FCDO  formerly the 
Foreign & Commonwealth Office) advised against all but essential travel abroad. On the 
same day, Ms government also announced that it would be closing its borders to 
international travellers.
So on 21 March 2020, Mr and Mrs L decided to disembark from their boat and cut their 
sailing trip short. Instead, they stayed in a hotel on another island for three nights. 
Subsequently, on 23 March 2020, the FCDO advised all UK nationals abroad to return to the 
UK. The UK government also imposed wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly 
referred to as lockdown. 
Mr and Mrs L curtailed their trip and returned to the UK on 24 March 2020. They made a 
claim on their travel insurance policy for the costs associated with the cutting short of their 
trip.
Lloyds turned down Mr and Mrs Ls claim. It said the policy terms didnt cover the 
circumstances of their claim.
Mr and Mrs L were unhappy with Lloyds decision and they asked us to look into their 
complaint. They felt their claim should be treated in line with the quarantine cover provided 
by the curtailment section of the policy.
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld. He acknowledged that 
the policy didnt cover Mr and Mrs Ls situation. But he noted that the policy specifically 
excluded claims if a policyholder travelled against FCDO advice. So he concluded that Mr 
and Mrs L wouldnt have been covered if theyd continued with their trip and they wouldnt 
have been covered for curtailing it either. He didnt think this was a fair and reasonable 
position for Mr and Mrs L to have been left in. So he recommended that Lloyds should 
reassess Mr and Mrs Ls claim.
Lloyds disagreed. In summary, it said that no-one couldve foreseen that Covid-19 would 
occur and therefore, it couldnt have been implemented into the policy. It said that ultimately, 
Mr and Mrs L had chosen to curtail their trip and so it wasnt covered. It referred to the fact 
that our investigator had found that it hadnt highlighted the relevant FCDO exclusion in the 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID). It said that not all exclusions can be 
included in an IPID and usually, the more onerous and significant terms are included. It 
argued that most travel insurance policies contain a similar FCDO exclusion, so it didnt 
consider it to be significant or onerous. It also referred to a previous complaint wed 
assessed.
The complaints been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think Lloyds has treated Mr and Mrs L fairly. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that our investigator identified, and set out, the relevant industry rules and 
guidance which apply to the specific circumstances of this case. The investigator also 
highlighted, and referred to, the key documents which are relevant to this complaint.
 
The policy documentation  
The IPID doesnt refer to any exclusions for travel against FCDO advice.
The Cancellation and disruption section of the policy sets out, on page 8, the listed, insured 
events Lloyds covers. These are:
a) Your death, or sustaining an Injury or serious illness.
b) The death, Injury or serious illness of Your Relative, Partner, fianc(e), business 
colleague, any person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct business 
with.
c)  You or any person with whom You had arranged to travel, reside or conduct business 
being:
(i)  quarantined;
(ii) called for witness or jury service;
(iii) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for payment under the United 
Kingdom's Redundancy Payments Acts;
(iv) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, government, police, fire, 
rescue or medical services or a public utility company; or
(v) required to be present at Your Home or place of business in the United Kingdom 
following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire.
d) The cancellation or delayed departure, for 24-hours or more, of a Publicly Licensed 
Transport vehicle in which You had previously booked to travel resulting from any of the 
following events: strike, industrial action, fire, flood, earthquake, landslide, avalanche, 
volcanic eruption, adverse weather conditions or an accident or mechanical breakdown, 
provided that such event had not occurred, commenced or been announced before the 
booking was made in respect of the affected departure.
e) Damage caused by a storm, flood or fire which results in the accommodation in which You 
had previously booked to reside during the Trip being uninhabitable, including any 
waterborne vessel or craft.
f) Where the vessel that You are sailing in is stolen, incurs actual or constructive total loss, 
or requires repairs that are likely to exceed 7 days and render the vessel uninhabitable.
The contract also includes a list of General Exclusions which apply to the whole of the 
insurance policy. These include claims related to:Travelling to a country where the Foreign and Commonwealth Office have advised against 
all but essential travel.
Was it unreasonable for Lloyds to decline the claim? 
I think its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to treat the claim as covered under the curtailment 
section of the policy for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs L cut short their trip because the FCDO advised against all but essential travel to 
all destinations  which included M. At that point, they hadnt arrived in M and it seems their 
boat was diverted to another island. I accept these circumstances arent something which 
the terms and conditions of the policy cover as theyre not down to a specific or listed 
insured event. However, taking into account the relevant law and industry guidelines, I dont 
think that leads to a fair and reasonable outcome in the circumstances of this case for the 
reasons Ill go on to explain. 
The exclusion that Ive outlined above means that if Mr and Mrs L had remained abroad, 
theyd have not followed FCDO advice. So, they wouldnt have been covered by the policy 
terms and conditions. But, under the terms and conditions of the policy, changes in FCDO 
guidance also arent covered by the policy. I dont think that was made sufficiently clear to Mr 
and Mrs L. 
Mr and Mrs L wouldve needed to read the full policy terms and conditions in order to 
understand that this set of circumstances wasnt covered. And I dont think that this 
information was brought to their attention in a prominent and transparent way. So, I dont 
think the combined effect of the policy terms was made sufficiently clear 
I think this has created a significant imbalance in the rights and interests of Mr and Mrs L 
and Lloyds. I think its unlikely that Mr and Mrs L would have purchased the policy if theyd 
realised that there was no cover under the policy if the FCDO guidance changed after theyd 
bought it. 
Lloyds says that Covid-19 couldnt have been foreseen and therefore, it hadnt seen a need 
to implement a related term into its policies. I accept this was the case and that the 
circumstances which unfolded around Covid-19 were beyond the control of both insurers 
and consumers. But it remains the case that I think if Mr and Mrs L had been aware their 
policy wouldnt provide them with cover if they had to curtail their trip due to changes in 
FCDO advice, they likely wouldnt have taken it out. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs L feel their claim should be accepted under the quarantine 
provision Ive outlined above. As Ive decided to uphold their complaint for the reasons Ive 
given though, I dont think I need to make a finding on this point.
Lloyds has referred to a past complaint we considered. But each complaint turns on its own 
specific facts and evidence. And overall, on the facts of this case, Im satisfied that the fair 
outcome is for Lloyds to treat Mr and Mrs Ls claim as covered under the curtailment section 
of the policy and to reassess their claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions. My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I direct Society of Lloyds to reassess Mr and Mrs Ls curtailment claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs L and Mr L to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 November 2021.
 
Lisa Barham
Ombudsman