DRN-3832027
The complaint
Mr O complains HDI Global Specialty SE (HDI) unfairly declined his claims under his pet 
insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts arent in dispute. So, Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered everything, I agree with the conclusions reached by our investigator for 
these reasons:
Ive reviewed Mr Os policy and seen that it doesnt cover illnesses or conditions that 
existed before the policy started, or within the first 14 days of the policy. Mr O 
submitted two claims for his dog after a mass was found on her back leg. However, 
his claim form indicated that the mass was first spotted within 14 days of the policy 
starting. Because of this, I dont consider HDI treated Mr O unfairly when they 
declined his first claim.
HDI initially settled Mr Os second claim. However, after investigating a complaint he 
raised about the sale of his policy, HDI realised the second claim also should have 
been declined. Thats because it was a continuation of the first claim. Once HDI 
realised their mistake, they contacted the vet and asked them to repay the 
settlement. Mr O would have understandably been disappointed when this 
happened. But I cant agree HDIs actions were unfair because the condition Mr O 
claimed for wasnt covered by his policy.
Its unfortunate that HDI realised their mistake after dealing with Mr Os complaint. 
But regardless of HDIs initial mistake, I dont consider Mr O is entitled to the 
settlement that was paid out. The evidence Ive seen persuades me Mr O had access 
to the policy terms before he made his claim. This means he ought to have been 
aware it was unlikely his claims would be covered. Its for this reason I dont consider 
hes entitled to any compensation for any disappointment he may have experienced 
when HDI rectified their mistake. Therefore, I wont be asking HDI to change their 
position on either of Mr Os claims.
For these reasons, while I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr O hoped for, Im not 
upholding this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Os complaint about HDI Global Specialty SE.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 February 2023.
 
Sarrah Turay
Ombudsman