DRN-3949870
Complaint
Miss A is unhappy that Monzo Bank Ltd (Monzo) registered a fraud prevention marker 
against her.
Background
In January 2021, Miss As account received a payment of £600. The funds were immediately 
transferred on to a third-party. Monzo was subsequently contacted by another of its 
customers who said that theyd been scammed into transferring funds to Miss A. Monzo 
reviewed Miss As account and as a result of its investigation, it decided to close her account 
and record a fraud prevention marker.
After learning of the fraud prevention marker, Miss A complained that this was applied 
unfairly. Monzo looked at Miss As complaint and didnt uphold it. As Miss A remained 
dissatisfied she referred the matter to our service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss As concerns. She didnt think that Monzo had done 
anything wrong or treated Miss A unfairly and so didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. 
Miss A disagreed and so the complaint was passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The marker that Monzo has filed is intended to record that theres been a misuse of facility 
 relating to using the account to receive fraudulent funds. In order to file such a marker, it 
isnt required to prove beyond reasonable doubt that Miss A is guilty of fraud or a financial 
crime, but it must show that there are grounds for more than mere suspicion or concern. The 
relevant guidance says: 
There must be reasonable grounds to believe that an identified fraud or financial 
crime has been committed or attempted; [and]
The evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the subject to the police.
What this means in practice is that Monzo must first be able to show that fraudulent funds 
entered Miss As account, whether they were retained or merely passed through. Secondly, 
Monzo also needs to have strong evidence to show that Miss A was deliberately dishonest in 
receiving the fraudulent payment and knew it was, or might be, an illegitimate payment. This 
can include Miss A allowing someone else to use her account in order to receive an 
illegitimate payment. But a marker shouldnt be registered against someone who was 
unwitting; there should be enough evidence to show complicity. 
To meet the standard of proof required to register a fraud marker, the bank must carry out 
checks of sufficient depth and retain records of these checks. This should include giving the 
account holder the opportunity to explain the activity on their account in order to understand 
their level of knowledge and intention. 
In order to determine Miss As complaint, I need to decide whether I think Monzo had 
enough evidence to show fraudulent funds entered Miss As account and that her actions 
suggest she was complicit in this. And having considered everything, I find that Monzo did 
have enough to record a fraud prevention marker here. Id like to explain why in a little more 
detail. 
There doesnt appear to be any dispute that the funds in question, which entered Miss As 
account in January 2021, did so as a result of fraudulent activity. So the only matter which 
remains in dispute here is whether Miss A was complicit in allowing her account to receive 
the illegitimate payment. 
Miss A says that she didnt know that the funds were fraudulent. She told our adjudicator that 
her younger sister was owed £10 by a school friend and she asked whether Miss A could 
receive the payment into her account for her. Miss A agreed but then saw she was sent 
£600 rather than £10. Miss As sister then received a call saying that the £600 had been 
transferred in error and could it be returned as it belonged to her brother. As a result Miss A 
sent on the funds as requested. 
Ive thought about what Miss A has said. But Im afraid that Miss As version of events simply 
isnt plausible. The first thing to say is that Miss A has only provided a screenshot showing 
the details of the account she was asked to transfer the funds to. There isnt anything in this 
screenshot to corroborate that the funds were initially sent to her by mistake. 
Secondly, Miss A hasnt been able to provide anything to corroborate whats been said. I 
appreciate that Miss As sister has contacted us to say that she lost her phone which had all 
the text messages and screenshots to support whats been said. But I would have expected 
Miss A to have asked for this when her account was closed.
Most importantly of all, while Miss A is correct in saying the account details of the sender of 
the funds wont have shown on her transaction data, nonetheless the name of the payee 
clearly did. And it is immediately obvious that Miss A was being asked to send on to the 
funds to a completely different person. I would have expected Miss A to have queried this - 
especially as she says that her sisters friend was concerned that she may have lost her 
brothers money and thats why she acted as she did.
Im also concerned that this activity all took place within the space of a few minutes and at 
night. Which calls into question how there would have been sufficient time for the events to 
have played out in the way Miss A says they did. Finally, Im also mindful that Miss A 
transferred all of the funds in question on to the third party. Given Miss A only received the 
funds because her sister was owed money in the first place, I cant understand why she 
wouldnt have kept what her sister was owed if she genuinely believed that the funds had 
been sent in error.
The implausibility of Miss As version of events coupled with her inability to provide 
persuasive supporting evidence to corroborate what shes told us, means that I cant 
reasonably conclude she was an unwitting participant here. Instead, I think that Monzo was 
reasonably entitled to conclude that its more likely than not Miss A was complicit in her 
account receiving fraudulent funds. 
So overall and having considered everything, Im satisfied that Monzo did have sufficient 
evidence to show that fraudulent funds entered Miss As account. And it was also reasonably 
entitled to conclude that it was more likely than not that Miss A was complicit in this. As this is the case, I dont think that it was unfair for Monzo to record a fraud prevention marker in 
the circumstances that it did. And Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
I appreciate this will be very disappointing for Miss A. But even taking into account the 
impact Miss A says the marker is having on her, I cant ignore the fact that the available 
evidence appears to indicate that its more likely than not she was complicit in fraudulent 
activity. So I hope that Miss A will understand the reasons for my decision and that shell at 
least feel her concerns have been listened to. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding Miss As complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 March 2023.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman