DRN-3159438
The complaint
Miss P complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-Op) will not refund a £250 ATM 
withdrawal she says she did not authorise.
What happened
The circumstances of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them 
all again here in detail.  But I will provide an overview of events below.
In short, on 3 November 2020, Miss Ps Co-Op debit card was used to make an ATM 
withdrawal for £250.  She contacted Co-op on the same day to dispute this.  However, after 
investigating this matter, Co-Op held Miss P liable for the withdrawal and did not refund her 
the £250.
Unhappy about this, Miss P raised a complaint which she also referred to our service.
One of our investigators considered the complaint and did not uphold it.  She thought that, 
based on the evidence before her, it was more likely than not that Miss P, or someone she 
authorised, made the ATM withdrawal.  Therefore, she held that Co-Op had acted fairly and 
reasonably in the circumstances of Miss Ps complaint.
Miss P did not accept the investigators findings.  She said she did not make the withdrawal, 
nor authorise anyone to do so on her behalf.
As an agreement could not be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to make a 
decision.
What I have decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for reasons I set 
out below.
The relevant regulations in this case are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the 2017 
Regulations).  In short, they state, amongst other things, that a payment service provider (in 
this case, Co-Op) is generally required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  
However, Co-Op can hold Miss P liable for any disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests, that it is more likely than not, that she made or otherwise authorised them.  Where 
credit is involved, as is the case here, the 2017 Regulations make provision for the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 to apply in place of certain regulations of the 2017 Regulations, 
including those provisions which govern the apportionment of liability in unauthorised 
transactions.
Im satisfied from the technical evidence Co-Op has provided that Miss Ps genuine card was 
used to make the withdrawal concerned.  So, I will now consider whether the withdrawal was 
made by Miss P, or if she provided consent to another to do so.
After the £250 withdrawal occurred, Miss P spoke to Co-Op over the telephone on 3 and 11 
November 2020.  During those calls, Miss P explained to Co-Op, amongst other things, that 
she would have been asleep when the withdrawal was made at 12.52 am.  She explained 
she had her card in her possession, which no one had access to; and that she lived alone 
with young children.  She also told Co-Op that the card concerned was recently sent to her 
as a replacement, and that she received the PIN for it a couple days after the withdrawal.
Miss P told our investigator that the only person who had access to her card at the time was 
her former partner.  She said she did not know how her former partner would have made the 
withdrawal, as the PIN had not yet arrived.  The investigator asked Miss P how her online 
banking app was accessed on her mobile phone shortly after the ATM withdrawal; and a 
£645 transfer made from her account.  Miss P said that her mobile phone and banking app 
could only be accessed via biometric fingerprint.  She suggested that her former partner 
must have accessed her mobile phone using this method somehow, as she was asleep at 
the time. 
Having considered Miss Ps testimony carefully, I am not satisfied that it is credible.  I say 
this because of the inconsistencies in Miss Ps account, which, to my mind, casts serious 
doubt on what she says happened.  Miss P made no mention to Co-Op of the possibility that 
her former partner could be the culprit in this matter.  However, this is an account she told 
our investigator later  something I would have expected her to mention to Co-Op initially, as 
events would have been fresher in her mind at the time.
Further, based on the evidence before me, I cannot see that Miss P disputed  at the time  
the £645 that was transferred from her account to another shortly after the ATM withdrawal.
Lastly, Miss P did not raise any persuasive points to challenge the investigators findings.
So, taking all the above factors together, I am satisfied that it is more likely than not, that 
Miss P made the £250 ATM withdrawal, or provided consent to another to do so.  It follows 
then that I am satisfied the transaction was authorised by her.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Tony Massiah
Ombudsman