DRN-2734590
The complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Clydesdale) mis-sold them a Signature 
Current account in 2011. Mr and Mrs W have explained that they needed to take out this 
account in order to retain their overdraft facility.
What happened
Prior to this complaint being referred to this service, Clydesdale upheld a separate packaged 
bank account that was taken out in 2003. As a full offer was made in line with this services 
approach we have not investigated this sale.
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint already and they didnt think 
Clydesdale had mis-sold the packaged account. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Having carefully 
thought about everything Ive seen, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons for my decision in more detail.
When the parties to a complaint disagree about what happened (such as here) and theres a 
lack of evidence from the time, I have to think about what is likely to have happened having 
weighed up what both Mr and Mrs W and Clydesdale have been able to provide me with.
Ive firstly thought about whether Mr and Mrs W was given a clear choice in taking this 
account. I can see they upgraded to the Signature account from a free account that they had 
held with Clydesdale for many years. So I think they really wouldve known that Clydesdale 
offered free accounts and that they couldve continued to have a free account if they wished 
to do so.
Mr and Mrs W say they thought that had to take out the account to retain their overdraft 
facility. I have carefully considered this but I can see that they had held an overdraft for a 
number of years prior to this point and I cant see why they wouldve believed that it was 
suddenly unavailable to them on a fee free account.
That said, I can see that the account came with preferential rates on overdrafts, so it may 
have been the case that they agreed to the account for preferential rates on their overdraft, 
rather than to retain their overdraft in the first place. I can see from Mr and Mrs Ws overdraft 
usage that this resulted in them paying less interest on their overdraft after the upgrade. 
Given this, I think its most likely that Mr and Mrs W agreed to take the Signature Current 
account knowing they had a choice. 
From my understanding of Clydesdales sales processes, I am satisfied that a personal 
recommendation was not made for Mr and Mrs W to take out the Signature Current account 
based on their insurance needs at the time. Therefore Clydesdale didnt have to check 
whether the account was right for them. But it was required to provide them with all of the 
important information about the account, so Mr and Mrs W could decide this for themselves.
The Signature Current account included preferential overdraft rates, travel insurance, mobile 
phone insurance and breakdown cover. 
I note that Mr and Mrs W have explained that they had a company car so did not need the 
breakdown cover; had a company mobile phone; but they say they did occasionally travel 
abroad. They have also indicated that they did not have their own travel insurance in place 
at the time of the sale.
I think its likely Mr and Mrs W wouldve been told about most, if not all, of the benefits on the 
account, in order to make it appear as attractive as possible. After all, Clydesdale was trying 
to persuade them to take out a fee-paying account, when they most likely knew they didnt 
have to have one. And the best way to do this wouldve been by telling them about what 
theyd get for the monthly fee. Given this, something must have attracted Mr and Mrs W to 
take out the packaged account as I think it is likely that they knew they didnt have to have 
one.
I can also see that Mr and Mrs W did regularly use their overdraft and they did register a 
mobile phone, albeit a few years later. They also declared medical conditions under the 
travel insurance and used the breakdown cover. So it does seem they were using some of 
the benefits that came with the account. Mr and Mrs W may not have been told everything 
about all of the benefits. But I cannot see anything specific that Mr and Mrs W were not told, 
that I believe wouldve changed their decision to take out the account. 
Mr and Mrs W may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe that they havent benefitted 
from the account as much they had hoped and expected when they initially took it out. And 
given what they may have read and heard about packaged accounts, I can understand why 
they might believe their account was mis-sold. 
I also note that given that their complaint about the 2003 packaged bank account was 
upheld, they may think the same circumstances should apply to the 2011 sale. But my 
understanding is that Clydesdale upheld that complaint as they did not have enough 
information from when the account was sold due to the timescales involved, rather than 
because there was specific evidence that it was mis-sold - so they chose to refund the 
account fees. 
Whereas in this instance, Clydesdale say that they could provide enough information about 
the 2011 sale, and so chose not to uphold that aspect of the complaint. I have looked at this 
information and for the reasons above, I think that the Signature account sold in 2011 was 
not mis-sold. I also should explain that we would look at each sale separately so even if 
there were a failing in one sale it would not necessarily be the case that other sales were 
carried out incorrectly. 
 My final decisionIm sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs W, but for the reasons Ive explained, Im not upholding 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W and Mr W 
to accept or reject my decision before 21 October 2021.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman