DRN-2675362
The complaint
Mr T says UK Credit Limited lent to him irresponsibly.  
What happened
Mr T took out a guarantor loan from UK Credit on 15 August 2018. It was for £9000 over 60
months. The monthly repayment was £313.96 and the total repayable was £18837.60. I 
understand there remains an outstanding balance.
Mr T says UK Credit failed to carry out an effective affordability assessment. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint should be upheld. He said UK Credits checks
were not proportionate, and proportionate checks would have shown the loan wasnt
sustainably affordable for Mr T.
UK Credit disagreed and asked for copies of the bank statements the investigator had 
referred to in his view. It said Mr T had never missed a repayment and the more recent credit 
search it completed as part of its complaint review showed a reduction in Mr Ts 
indebtedness. So it wasnt obvious that the loan was unaffordable or unsustainable for Mr T 
 but it accepted that the bank statements may show otherwise. 
Our investigator explained that he didnt feel the lender needed the full statements as he had 
summarised the gambling transactions on the statements that show Mr T was having 
problems managing his money at the time of his loan application. As UK Credit were 
unhappy with this response and asked for an ombudsman to review the case it was passed 
to me to make a final decision.
 What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) was the regulator when UK Credit lent to Mr T. Its
rules and guidance, set out in its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), obliged UK Credit
to lend responsibly. Amongst other things, UK Credit was required to carry out a reasonable
and proportionate assessment of whether Mr T could afford to repay what he owed in a
sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an
affordability check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So UK Credit had to think about whether
repaying the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for
Mr T. In other words, it wasnt enough for UK Credit to simply think about the likelihood of it
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr T.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (eg. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
make any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is 
required to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether UK Credit did what it needed to before agreeing to
lend to Mr T, and have considered the following questions:
did UK Credit complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing 
Mr Ts loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan 
in a sustainable way?
if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
did UK Credit make a fair lending decision?
did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
UK Credit asked for some information from Mr T before it approved the loan. It asked for
details of his income, his employment and his housing costs. It asked for a recent payslip to 
check his declared income. It checked his credit file to understand his credit history and his 
existing credit commitments. Using national statistics it made an assumption about his 
monthly living costs. It also asked about the purpose of the loan which was to
buy a car. From these checks combined UK Credit concluded Mr T had sufficient monthly 
disposable income for the loan to be affordable.
But I dont agree that these checks were proportionate. Mr T was applying to borrow a
significant amount of money from UK Credit. He was entering into a long-term commitment
and would need to make monthly repayments for five years. So I would expect that UK
Credit would want to gather, and independently check, more detailed information about
Mr Ts financial circumstances before it agreed to lend to him. It knew from the credit check it 
completed that he had financial difficulties historically. He had defaulted/delinquent debt of 
over £19,000 and outstanding unsecured debt of over £49,000. I have carefully considered 
UK Credits comments on the steps it took to understand Mr Ts financial history, but in these 
circumstances I disagree that it did enough. And I think it would have been proportionate for 
UK Credit to independently check the actual state of Mr Ts finances before agreeing the 
loan.
This means I need to look at what proportionate checks would most likely have shown UK
Credit and consider if it ought to have realised that there was a risk Mr T couldnt sustainably
afford the repayments.I have looked at Mr Ts bank statements. I am not saying UK Credit had to do this as part of 
its checks but its one way UK Credit could have gathered the information I think it needed 
on Mr Ts financial situation  and a way for me to understand his actual expenditure at the 
time of this loan application. 
I have considered UK Credits request for copies of Mr Ts bank statements. I note he 
declined to provide them to the lender directly. I am satisfied the investigator shared 
sufficient details of the transactions that are relevant in his view. He said The statements 
also show that Mr T was spending considerable amounts towards online gambling. In the 
month prior to taking this loan there were over 100 transactions totalling around £2,000 
towards betting sites and in the month prior to this, the amount was around £5,892.
Where customers provide personal information such as bank statements in the course of 
making a complaint, we dont typically share the information in full. This is in line the 
provision set out in DISP 3.5.9 which states that the Ombudsman may accept information in 
confidence (so that only an edited version, summary or description is disclosed to the other 
party) where he considers it appropriate.
Having reviewed the bank statements, I agree with the investigator that they evidence that 
Mr T was having problems managing his money when he applied for this loan. They show a 
high number of gambling transactions: equivalent to over half Mr Ts income in the month 
before the loan, and substantially in excess of his income in the month before that. So I think 
its clear that Mr T was struggling financially and there was a high risk he wouldnt be able to 
repay this loan sustainably - that is, without borrowing further or suffering other adverse 
financial impacts - and this was what UK Credit was obliged to check. 
UK Credit argues its credit search showed Mr T had previously experienced financial 
difficulties but had turned this round and was broadly managing his credit well. But for the 
reason set out above I think had it completed proportionate checks it would have realised 
this was not the full picture and Mr T remained vulnerable to suffering severe financial 
difficulties. So it was wrong to lend to him.  Its point in response to the investigators view 
that he has not missed or made a late payment and that his overall indebtedness has 
reduced does not change my conclusion. It does not know how Mr T has managed to make 
payments or reduce his debt. And more critically these facts do not change my finding that it 
failed to meet its obligations as a responsible lender at the point it approved the loan.
I have found no evidence that UK Credit acted unfairly or unreasonably in some other way 
towards Mr T. 
Putting things right
 Its reasonable for Mr T to have repaid the capital amount that he borrowed as he had the
benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt have
been given to him. So he has lost out and UK Credit needs to put things right.
It should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the loan and treat all the payments
Mr T made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Ts loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit should refund these
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.If reworking Mr Ts loan account results in an outstanding capital balance, UK Credit 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr T.  
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ts credit file in relation to the
loan once he has repaid the capital.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest. UK Credit should give
Mr T a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one. 
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Ts complaint. UK Credit Limited must put things right as set out above.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2021.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman