DRN-3924683
The complaint
Mrs M and Mr M complain about how QIC Europe Ltd (QIC) dealt with a claim under their 
home insurance policy for damage to their property caused by bad weather. 
QIC use agents to administer the policy and to assess claims. Reference to QIC includes 
these agents.
What happened
In February 2022, around the time of Storm Eunice, bad weather caused damage to Mrs M 
and Mr Ms property, affecting tiles on the roof. They tried to contact QIC to tell them about 
the damage and lodge a claim. But given the number of incidents due to Storm Eunice they 
were played a recorded message advising them to make repairs to avoid further damage 
(and any claim would be processed later). As water was getting into their property, they 
arranged for repairs to be carried out (£960 for scaffolding and £600 for repairs).
Mrs M and Mr M then lodged a claim, along with photographs of the damaged roof and 
invoices for the scaffolding and repairs. QIC appointed a surveyor to visit and assess the 
damage. In their report, the surveyor concluded (from a visual inspection of the roof and the 
photographs provided by Mrs M and Mr M) there was no evidence of any damage from a 
one-off storm event. Rather, the adverse weather had only highlighted pre-existing issues 
with the roof. The report also said the surveyor had discussed the claim with QIC and agreed 
it should be declined due to degrading of the mortar on the verge and ridge of the roof.  
Based on the report, QIC declined the claim, on the grounds of gradual deterioration (an 
exclusion under the policy).
Mrs M and Mr M challenged QICs decision and complained. But QIC didnt uphold the 
complaint, maintaining their decision to decline the claim. While they accepted there were 
storm conditions at the time of the incident, they referred to the surveyors report and the 
conclusion there was no evidence of one-off storm damage and the bad weather only 
highlighted pre-existing issues with the roof. They also referred to their in-house surveyors 
review of the report and the photographs and the policy exclusion for gradual deterioration.  
Mrs M and Mr M then complained to this service. They disagreed with QIC about the 
condition of the roof before the incident, saying it was in good condition and no damage (nor 
letting in any water). Theyd seen tiles blown from the roof during the storm. They also didnt 
see how the surveyor could have assessed the damage as due to wear and tear as the roof 
had been repaired before their visit. They said theyd incurred costs for the repairs (and 
interest charges for taking out an overdraft to pay for the repairs). They were also unhappy 
the decline of the claim was only made in April 2022, two months after the incident. They 
wanted QIC to cover the cost of the repairs as the damage was wholly due to the storm (not 
wear and tear. They also wanted QIC to waive the policy excess (£350) as compensation for 
their time pursuing the claim, as well as the overdraft charges and interest theyd incurred. 
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding QIC had acted fairly and declined 
the claim in accordance with the policy terms. She concluded there were storm conditions at 
the time of the incident and the damage was typical of storm damage. However, she noted 
the surveyors report said the damage was due to degradation of the mortar on the verge 
and ridge, so the storm wasnt the dominant cause of the damage. 
Mrs M and Mr M disagreed with the investigators view and requested an Ombudsman 
review the complaint. They thought the surveyor saw the repaired roof, so questioned the 
basis of the conclusion the damage was due to wear and tear. They thought wear and tear 
wasnt the cause of the damage and the rest of the roof was fine and never leaked. Mr M 
said his professional experience (a member of the Chartered Institute of Builders) meant he 
was qualified to have an opinion on the issue.  
In my findings, I concluded QIC hadnt acted fairly in declining the claim. Where an insurer 
relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC had done) the onus is on them 
to show the exclusion applies. 
From photographs of the roof, particularly those referred to by QIC, I wasnt persuaded they 
showed the mortar was in poor condition. The mortar on the verge didnt appear obviously 
degraded  there wasnt significant cracking or missing mortar. And it remained in place 
when the tiles have detached.  This didnt suggest there was any significant degradation of 
the mortar referred to in the surveyors report. 
Taking these conclusions into account, then I wasnt persuaded QIC had shown the 
exclusion applies. And so, they hadnt acted fairly in declining the claim.
Having reached these conclusions, I thought about what QIC should do to put things right. 
As I concluded they couldnt rely on the exclusion, I thought they should settle the claim in 
line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy (including any excess under the 
policy, as appropriate). 
As Mrs M and Mr M had already carried out repairs on the roof, I thought that was 
reasonable (to avoid further damage). That being the case, it would be reasonable for QIC to 
reimburse them for the costs incurred, less any policy excess. 
Mrs M and Mr M also said theyd incurred overdraft fees and interest from having paid for the 
repairs. Given my conclusions, I thought it would be reasonable for QIC to recognise Mrs M 
and Mr M had to pay for repairs that I think they should reimburse. Our usual approach in 
such circumstances would be to require QIC to pay interest (at a rate of 8% simple) on the 
cost of the repairs incurred by Mrs M and Mr M from the date they paid for the repairs, to the 
date they are reimbursed by QIC. 
I hadnt seen a figure from Mrs M and Mr M for the fees and interest they say theyve 
incurred, but if they believed the fees and interest incurred was more than the sum from 
applying interest at 8% simple (and they could evidence this) then I thought it would be 
reasonable, as an alternative, to use their evidenced costs to put them in the position they 
would have been had QIC settled the claim. In evidencing their costs under this alternative 
approach, Mrs M and Mr M would have to show the fees and interest arose directly from 
paying for the repair costs (and only from the repair costs  not other factors). 
I also considered the inconvenience Mrs M and Mr M described when making their 
complaint. Theyve asked for the policy excess to be waived as compensation. However, I 
didnt think this would be reasonable as theyd have paid the policy excess even had QIC 
accepted their claim. But I think they suffered distress and inconvenience. Taking all the 
circumstances of the case into consideration, I thought £150 would be reasonable.Because I reached different findings and conclusions from those of our investigator, I issued 
a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider matters further. This is 
set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
My role here is to decide whether QIC has acted fairly towards Mrs M and Mr M.
The main element of Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint is that QIC unfairly declined their claim, on 
the grounds that while there were storm conditions at the time of the incident, they werent 
the main cause of the damage. Rather, it was due to pre-existing issues with the roof. Mrs M 
and Mr M say the roof was in good condition before the incident with no damage.
In considering this issue, whether the damage resulted from a storm or from a pre-existing 
issue, there are three key issues we consider:
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is 
said to have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage that a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main (or dominant) cause of the damage?
On the first question, in their final response QIC say there were storm conditions at the time 
of the incident, with a highest wind speed of 69 mph. This accords with the weather report 
theyve provided, describing the wind as Violent storm force gusts around 1400. Ive looked 
at the reports from the weather firm this service uses. For the weather station nearest to Mrs 
M and Mr Ms property, on the date of the incident, the report shows a peak gust of 62 mph 
and describes the conditions as Dry Storm.  Based on this, Ive concluded there were 
storm conditions on the date of the incident. 
On the second question, the photographs Ive seen show missing tiles at the edge of the 
roof. Together with Mrs M and Mr Ms description of tiles coming off in the storm, I think this 
is consistent with damage to be expected in storm conditions, particularly high winds.
 
The third question is therefore key, as QIC declined the claim because the cause of the 
damage was the pre-existing condition of the roof. Ive considered this issue carefully, 
together with the surveyors report and the review by QICs in-house surveyor. Ive also 
looked at the photographs of the damaged roof, specifically referred to by QIC in support of 
their decision to decline the claim. Ive also considered what Mrs M and Mr M have said. 
Taking all these factors into account, Ive concluded QIC havent acted fairly in declining the 
claim. Ill set out why Ive come to this conclusion.
Firstly, as a general principle, where a policyholder makes a claim for damage or loss under 
a policy, the onus is on them to show there was an insured event that caused the damage or 
loss. In this case, given my conclusions there were storm conditions at the time of the 
incident, and the damage is consistent with that wed expect to see in a storm, I think its 
reasonable to conclude there was an insured event (storm) that caused damage. 
However, where an insurer relies on an exclusion in the policy to decline a claim (as QIC 
have done) then the onus is on them to show the exclusion applies. Looking at the available 
information and evidence, I dont think QIC have done so in the specific circumstances of 
this case, so Ill explain why Ive come to this view.
In their final response, QIC refer to the following policy exclusions, firstly in the General 
Exclusion section where theres the following exclusion:12. Any gradual or maintenance-related loss or damage
Loss or damage as a result of gradual causes including:
Gradual deterioration (whether you were aware of it or not)
QIC also refer to a similar exclusion in the Storm section of the policy, where it states: [We 
dont cover] d. anything that happens gradually.
QIC also refer to their surveyors report, which states:
A visual inspection of the roof and of the Customers photos showed no evidence of 
any damage caused by a one-off event of a storm only and in our opinion any 
adverse weather conditions has only highlighted any pre-existing issues with the 
roof.
Our surveyor spoke with x at QIC who agreed that the claim should be declined due 
to the degrading of mortar on the verge and ridge.
However, looking at the photographs of the roof, particularly those referred to by QIC, Im not 
persuaded they show the mortar was in poor condition. The mortar on the verge doesnt 
appear obviously degraded  there isnt significant cracking or missing mortar. And it has 
remained in place when the tiles have detached.  This doesnt suggest to me there has been 
any significant degradation of the mortar referred to in the surveyors report. 
Taking these conclusions into account, then Im not persuaded QIC have shown the 
exclusion applies. And so, they havent acted fairly in declining the claim.
Having reached these conclusions, Ive thought about what QIC should do to put things right. 
As Ive concluded they cant rely on the policy exclusion of gradual deterioration to decline 
the claim, I think they should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions 
of the policy (including any excess under the policy, as appropriate). 
In this case, Mrs M and Mr M have already carried out repairs on the roof (prompted by a 
recorded message when trying to contact QIC). I think that reasonable and understandable 
(to avoid further damage). That being the case, it reasonable for QIC to reimburse them for 
the costs incurred (£960 for scaffolding and £600 for repairs) less any policy excess. 
Mrs M and Mr M say theyve incurred overdraft fees and interest from having paid for the 
repairs. Given my conclusions, I think it would be reasonable for QIC to recognise Mrs M 
and Mr M have had to pay for repairs that I think they should reimburse. Our usual approach 
in such circumstances would be to require QIC to pay interest (at a rate of 8% simple) on the 
cost of the repairs incurred by Mrs M and Mr M from the date they paid for the repairs, to the 
date they are reimbursed for them by QIC. 
Ive not seen a figure from Mrs M and Mr M for the fees and interest they say theyve 
incurred by having to take out an overdraft to pay for the repairs. But if they believe the fees 
and interest theyve incurred is more than the sum from applying interest at 8% simple (and 
they can evidence this) then I think it would be reasonable, as an alternative, to use their 
evidenced costs to put them in the position they would have been had QIC settled the claim 
(by paying the cost of the repairs). In evidencing their costs under this alternative approach, 
Mrs M and Mr M would have to show the fees and interest arose directly from paying for the 
repair costs (and only from the repair costs  not other factors).
 
Ive also considered the inconvenience Mrs M and Mr M have described when making their 
complaint. Theyve asked for the policy excess to be waived as compensation. However, I 
dont think this would be reasonable as theyd have paid the policy excess even had QIC accepted their claim. But I think they have suffered some distress and inconvenience. Taking 
all the circumstances of the case into consideration, I think £150 would be reasonable.
My provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms 
complaint in part. I intend to require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle Mrs M and Mr Ms claim by reimbursing them for the costs theyve incurred 
(£960 for scaffolding and £600 for repairs) less any policy excess.
Reimburse Mrs M and Mr M for the additional costs theyve incurred by paying for the 
repairs. Either by paying interest at a rate of 8% simple on the cost of the repairs, 
from the date they paid for the repairs to the date QIC reimburse them for the cost. 
Or reimbursing the overdraft fees and interest (for the same period), if Mrs M and Mr 
M can provide evidence to support the costs theyve incurred.
Pay Mrs M and Mr M £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. 
Mrs M and Mr M replied to say they had no further comments. They also provided copies of 
bank statements showing the payments for the repairs (in March 2022) and the subsequent 
daily interest charged on the overdraft. The total of these daily charges (to November 2022, 
when the overdraft was cleared) was £514.73. 
QIC didnt respond by the date requested.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role here is to decide whether QIC have acted fairly towards Mrs M and Mr M.
Ive considered Mrs M and Mr Ms response. The bank statements indicate daily interest 
charges on the overdraft totalling £514.73. Applying the alternative of paying interest on the 
cost of the repairs (£1,560 in total) would be significantly less than the actual daily interest 
charges, on any period from the date the repairs were paid (March 2022) to any date QIC 
were to reimburse the cost of the repairs. So (given that QIC have not responded to the 
provisional decision) Ive concluded QIC should reimburse Mrs M and Mr M for the actual 
daily interest charges incurred. Mrs M and Mr M should provide QIC with copies of the bank 
statements, to evidence those charges (and their total).
As neither Mrs M and Mr M or QIC made any comments on the other aspects of what I 
thought QIC should do to put things right (reimburse the cost of the repairs and pay £150 in 
compensation for distress and inconvenience) then I havent changed my view on those 
aspects.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mrs M and Mr Ms complaint in 
part. I require QIC Europe Ltd to:
Settle Mrs M and Mr Ms claim by reimbursing them for the costs theyve incurred 
(£960 for scaffolding and £600 for repairs) less any policy excess.
Reimburse Mrs M and Mr M for the additional costs theyve incurred through daily 
interest fees, totalling £514.73 (as evidenced by copies of bank statements provided 
by Mrs M and Mr M).
Pay Mrs M and Mr M £150 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. QIC Europe Ltd must pay the compensation and reimburse Mrs M and Mr M for the daily 
interest fees within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mrs M and Mr M accept my 
final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on the compensation and 
daily interest fees from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 February 2023.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman