DRN-3416497
The complaint
Mr B has complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account.
What happened
Mr B held a free bank account with Lloyds until August 2006 when his account was 
upgraded to a fee-paying Platinum account. The Platinum account was downgraded to a 
free account in February 2007.
In August 2010 Mr Bs account was again upgraded from a free account to a Silver fee 
paying package bank account.
Prior to this complaint being brought to us, Lloyds upheld Mr Bs complaint about the sale of 
his Platinum account in 2006. So, I have not considered this sale in my decision.
One of our Adjudicators considered Mr Bs complaint about the sale of his Silver account in 
2010 but didnt think it should be upheld. As Mr B disagreed this complaint has been passed 
to me to decide.
This decision will only be considering the complaint Mr B has raised about being mis-sold his 
Silver account.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained our approach to complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website
and Ive used that to help me decide this complaint. Having considered everything that has
been provided, I dont think the Silver account was mis-sold. I will explain why.
I think it may help to explain that where matters are in dispute and evidence is missing, I
have to base my decision on what I think was likely to have happened  based on everything
that is available. 
Mr B has explained that at the time his account was upgraded he had been advised in 
branch that upgrading his account to one of the fee paying package bank accounts would 
help improve his credit rating and give him access to lending at a preferential rate.
I have thought about what Mr B has told us, but the sale of the Silver account took place 
online without a Lloyds representative being present. I understand Mr B often physically 
went into a Lloyds branch where he says he was told this information. But I think its unlikely 
a Lloyds representative would have told him that opening a package bank account would 
increase his credit rating when this was not the case. To uphold Mr Bs complaint on this 
basis I would need to see strong evidence to support Mr Bs accusation, which I havent 
seen.
Mr B has told us that he has carried out online research and has seen that there are many 
other complaints like his suggesting other customers were mis-sold package bank accounts 
in the same way. But as a service we look at complaints on their own individual merit, so the 
decisions made on other cases arent relevant to Mr Bs complaint. As Ive said above, I 
dont have enough evidence to say Mr B was given misleading information when he visited a 
Lloyds branch. 
As Mr B took out his Silver account online a recommendation was not made at the time of 
the sale. This meant Lloyds only had to give Mr B enough information so he could decide if 
the account was right for him.
The benefits that came with Mr Bs Silver account at the time included travel insurance, 
motor breakdown cover, mobile phone insurance and sentinel card protection. 
The information provided by Lloyds shows Mr B registered mobile phones under the mobile 
phone insurance cover and made successful claims against the policy. The Information also 
shows Mr B made claims under the travel insurance policy and used the breakdown cover. 
So, Mr B utilised most of the key benefits that came with the Silver account. 
Lloyds has further explained that the Silver account was its lowest level account that offered 
mobile, travel and breakdown cover. So, without upgrading to the Silver account Mr B would 
not have had access to the benefits he made use of over the years.
Considering Mr B was able to, and did make use of most of the benefits offered by the Silver 
account, even if he didnt receive all of the information he should have, I think the account 
was clearly useful to him and he benefitted from having it. So, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold 
Mr B the Silver account.
 
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 October 2022.
 
Terry Woodham
Ombudsman