DRN-4293177
The complaint
Mr E complains that Aviva Insurance Limited rejected a claim on his buildings insurance 
policy.
What happened
Mr E made a claim on his buildings insurance policy. He told Aviva there were two issues he 
wanted to claim for:
there were cracks in his garage floor that he believed were caused by his neighbours 
pond; and
his neighbours ivy had blocked the guttering of his garage, causing rainwater to flood 
and cause damage.
Aviva visited his home to inspect the damage and then said it wouldnt be covered, because 
no insured event had taken place. Mr E complained about the decision but Aviva didnt 
change its position. 
In its final response to his complaint Aviva said:
photos of the property showed the damage wasnt due to a one-off insurable event;
there was ivy in the neighbours garden which had grown into the guttering causing it 
to become blocked;
there was damage to the garage floor but it wasnt consistent with an insurable peril  
the policy provided cover for 10 specific events and none of these had happened.
When Mr E then referred the complaint to this Service, our investigator didnt think it should 
be upheld. She said he hadnt shown the damage was caused by an insured event. 
Mr E disagrees and has requested an ombudsmans decision. He says the investigator 
ignored his evidence that the damage was caused by his neighbours and, as the policy 
covers him for flood, storm and malicious damage, he should be covered for whats 
happened.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr E has referred to providing further information. Having considered the policy terms and  
the information Aviva relied on to make its decision, together with the evidence Mr E has 
provided, Im satisfied this is enough for me to determine the complaint.  
The relevant industry rules and guidance say insurers must deal with claims promptly and 
fairly; provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate 
information on its progress; and not unreasonably reject a claim. They should settle claims 
promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
Mr Es policy covers him for certain events, including storm or flood, and damage caused by 
malicious people or vandals. But it doesnt cover wear and tear or damage that happens 
gradually. And the policy document explains:
It is your responsibility to look after and regularly maintain your property. Your policy is 
intended to cover you against unforeseen events like fire or theft. It does not cover wear and 
tear or damage which happens gradually over a period of time. Areas commonly prone to 
wear and tear on a building include guttering, flat roofs, fascia boards and boundary walls, 
and these should all be checked on a regular basis.
In the first instance, its for the policyholder to show they have a valid claim. As with most 
insurance, Mr Es policy only provides cover for certain types of events, as set out in the 
policy terms. Looking at the insured perils listed in the policy terms, the only ones that would 
be relevant here are damage caused by a storm or flood, and malicious damage. So to be 
covered Mr E needs to show his property was damaged as a result of a storm or flood; or 
malicious damage by his neighbours. These are the only insured events in the policy that 
might apply to whats happened.
Aviva arranged an inspection. Looking at the report from the visit and photographs of the
damage, these indicate the damage has occurred gradually over a period of time. Theres no 
evidence damage was caused as a result of a storm or a sudden flood. 
Some damage may be due to the gutter becoming blocked as a result of overgrowing ivy in 
the neighbours garden. But again, that isnt something sudden; its something that 
happened gradually with the ivy not being cut back over a period of time. And the evidence 
doesnt show the neighbour deliberately did that to cause damage. So it isnt a case of 
malicious damage. 
I havent seen anything to suggest damage has been caused by a one-off insured
event. I appreciate its very upsetting for Mr E but in these circumstances, it was reasonable 
for Aviva to decline the claim in line with the policy terms and conditions.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 December 2023.
 
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman