DRN-4465697
The complaint
Mrs S has complained about the amount Tesco Underwriting Limited paid in settlement of a 
claim she made under her motor insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again in 
full detail here. But to briefly summarise, Mrs S is unhappy with the valuation placed on her 
vehicle following a total loss claim under her policy.
Mrs S has brought this complaint to our service through a representative. But for ease of 
reference, Ill only refer to Mrs S by name, even when referring to evidence or arguments put 
forward by her representative.
One of our investigators considered Mrs Ss complaint, but she didnt think it should be 
upheld. She said the settlement Tesco had offered was in line with the valuations returned 
by the motor trade guides our service typically relies on when considering complaints of this 
nature. She said the adverts provided by Mrs S were less persuasive than the guides, so 
she didnt think Tesco had acted unfairly.
Mrs S didnt accept our investigators assessment. So, as no agreement has been reached, 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the outcome reached by our investigator. Ill explain why.
Mrs Ss policy covers her for the market value of her vehicle, at the time of loss  which 
is fairly standard within the motor insurance industry.
Market value is defined in the policy as:
The cost of replacing the car with one of similar age, type, specification, mileage and 
condition, immediately before the loss or damage happened.
Tesco initially deemed the market value of Mrs Ss vehicle to be £14,560. But this was later 
increased to £15,197 following a subsequent review of Mrs Ss concerns about the initial 
offer.
Mrs S complains that the valuation placed on her vehicle by Tesco is too low. She says 
she was unable to replace her vehicle with one of a similar make and model for that 
amount. 
Our investigator explained our services normal approach in complaints of this nature is to 
check four recognised motor trade valuation guides to establish what a fair market value for 
a vehicle is likely to be.
Tesco already checked three of the same guides our service uses which returned the 
following valuation figures. Ive checked and Tesco used the correct date of loss and 
mileage when calculating these market value figures: 
Glasss: £14,560
CAP: £14,695
Auto Trader: £15,321
As our service typically checks a fourth guide, our investigator obtained a valuation from this 
guide, using the same mileage and date of loss details:
Percayso: £14,193
Our services normal approach in these types of complaints is to say a valuation within the 
range of valuations returned by the trade guides is typically fair. But this is provided theres 
no other evidence to suggest the lower guide values might not reflect the likely cost of 
buying a similar car. In this case, theres a reasonable amount of variance between the 
valuations returned by the motor trade guides, so Ive looked at the other evidence available. 
This is adverts for cars similar to Mrs Ss for sale. 
While we dont place as much weight on adverts as we do on the guides, they do provide a 
useful check when we are trying to work out what a fair valuation is, in light of a range of 
guide values. I do of course appreciate cars dont always sell at what their advertised for, but 
our research suggests there is now much less room for negotiation and many sell at or close 
to the advertised price. 
Mrs S has provided three sales adverts for similar cars advertised for sale around the time of 
the accident. Shes explained that her car was an automatic, and that it was a special edition 
which had been discontinued, which meant there were not many available for sale. She said 
this would likely increase the market value.
The adverts Mrs S provided were for cars of the same make, model and registration year. 
Two of these also had covered broadly similar mileage to Mrs Ss car (one around 600 more 
miles and the other around 2000 more. However, the third (which I understand is the car 
Mrs S actually bought) had covered around 20,000 less miles. This is likely to have a 
significant impact on the sale price, and so I think its reasonable to discount this advert 
when weighing the advertised prices against the figures returned by the trade guides.
Our service still finds the trade guides to be more persuasive, overall, than sales adverts. 
This is because their valuations are based on nationwide research of likely sales figures all 
of which are updated regularly, and they take into account regional variations. Were 
confident the guides give a good indication of the likely market value of a vehicle. But where 
there are sales adverts for higher amounts, wed consider whether these suggest a value at 
the higher end of the guide values is fairer than a valuation in the middle or lower end of the 
range of figures.In this case, the two adverts I consider to be reasonable comparisons were advertised for 
sale at £16,495 and £17,199 respectively. But Tesco has also provided an advert for a 
comparable car, with roughly 3,000 more miles, which was advertised at only £14,469. And I 
need to consider that the pre-accident condition of Mrs Ss car was considered to be fair, 
rather than excellent, when it was inspected. 
Taking everything into account, especially the variance within the trade guides and 
advertised prices, Im of the opinion that Tescos valuation of Mrs Ss car was fair and 
reasonable. This is because at £15,197, its already at the upper end of the valuations 
returned by the guides. The adverts provided havent persuaded me that Tescos valuation 
was unfair, largely because there was variance within advertised prices for comparable 
vehicles too.
Ive also thought carefully about Mrs Ss argument that the guides are unlikely to provide fair 
valuations for customers who own their cars outright, because dealerships are likely to offer 
greater discounts to customers also taking out finance. I appreciate Mrs Ss argument, but 
the guides we rely on mainly use adverts to work out likely selling prices and I'm satisfied 
they generally they reflect what someone would have to pay for a car in cash.
To summarise, Tescos valuation is at the higher end of valuations returned by the guides 
our service typically relies on. I find the guides more likely to represent the true market value 
of Mrs Ss car than the adverts shes provided. So, taking all the evidence into account, I 
think Tescos valuation was fair and reasonable, and it follows that Ill not be directing it to 
take any further action.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 December 2023.
 
Adam Golding
Ombudsman