DRN-2943853
The complaint
P is unhappy that they have been incurring monthly charges on their HSBC UK Bank Plc 
business account at a higher amount than they believed should have been the case.
What happened
Ps account with HSBC was opened in 2005 and set up for Business Internet Banking (BIB). 
In 2010, P signed up for HSBCnet, ostensibly to make use of the international payment 
facility provided by HSBCnet, which wasnt available to P at that time via BIB.
In 2012, P requested to take up the international payment facility that had been made 
available via BIB, for an additional monthly cost of £6. At this time, P didnt cancel its use of 
HSBCnet, and this facility remained available for P to use.
In August 2020, HSBC sent P a notification that it intended to reduce the monthly charge for 
HSBCnet from £52.50 to £30 per month. P were surprised by this, as they had thought that 
they had been paying £5 per month for this service, and only realised at that time that they 
had been paying a much higher monthly charge than they realised for close to a decade. 
Because of this, P raised a complaint with HSBC.
HSBC looked at Ps complaint, but they were satisfied that P had been made aware of the 
monthly charge for the HSBCnet facility, and so they didnt uphold Ps complaint.
P werent satisfied with HSBCs response, so they referred their complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, and while they werent convinced that 
HSBC had made it clear to P that the monthly charge for the facility in question was £52.50, 
they felt that it was reasonable, given the length of time that P had incurred this charge, that 
P should have understood what the total monthly charge it was incurring from HSBC 
comprised of, and should have questioned HSBC if it wasnt satisfied with that charge. 
Because of this, our investigator didnt uphold Ps complaint.
P remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been disappointing for P to have realised it had been 
paying a monthly charge relating to HSBCnet which was considerably higher than it thought 
it had been paying. 
However, having reviewed all of the information available to me, including monthly invoices 
sent by HSBC to P from 2010 onwards, its clear to me that these invoices do reference the 
monthly fee being charged for the HSBCnet facility.
The monthly invoices I have reviewed confirm the following:
The first instance of the HSBCnet charge being referenced occurs on the July 2010 
invoice, where the charge is £105.00. This relates to 5 x £21.00. The charge is 
specifically listed as being for HSBCnet.
From August 2010 to February 2011, the charge is £21.00 per month, and continues 
to be specifically listed as being for HSBCnet.
In March 2011 the charge increases to £52.50 - but continues to be specifically listed 
as being for HSBC net.
The listing of this charge in this way continues for over four and half years, until 
November 2015.
In December 2015 the charge of £52.50 remains, but the listing changes from 
HSBCnet to E-Channels  which is how it has remained since.
In consideration of these monthly invoices, Im satisfied that HSBC did notify P of the 
charges it was incurring for HSBCnet, and also that it should have been evident to P that the 
monthly charge had increased from £22 to £52.50 from March 2011 onwards. And while the 
description for the charge changed from HSBCnet to E-Channels in December 2015, I feel 
that it ought reasonably to have been evident to P that this charge related to the HSBCnet 
facility, given that it was described as such on previous invoices for several years.
Furthermore, I find it difficult to conclude anything other than that it was incumbent on P to 
have monitored and understood the monthly charges that it was incurring from HSBC and to 
have queried these charges with HSBC  and cancelled unwanted facilities with HSBC  if it 
wished to do so.
P have stated their opinion that theyre HSBC relationship manager should have reviewed 
their account usage and recommended the cancelation of the HSBCnet subscription, but Im 
not convinced that it should reasonably be expected that this would have occurred, and I 
reiterate my position that I feel that it was the responsibility of P to have understood the 
facilities that it signed up for and to have cancelled them with HSBC if they were no longer 
needed.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that P want here, but it follows that I wont be 
upholding this complaint or asking HSBC to take any further action at this time. I trust that P 
will understand, given what Ive explained above, why Ive made the final decision that I 
have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask P to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 September 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman