DRN-4202024
The complaint
Mr R complains about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds handling of a claim made after 
his car was involved in an accident and written off.
What happened
The background to this complaint is well known to both parties, so Ill provide only a brief 
summary here.
In short, Mr R had car insurance underwritten by Haven and made a claim after he was 
involved in an accident.
Haven accepted the claim and decided the car was beyond economical repair and would be 
written off. They initially said the car would be valued at around £7,500 but then reduced that 
and eventually valued the car at around £5,900.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and made a complaint to Haven. And when they maintained 
their position, he brought his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and thought Havens final valuation was too low based on the 
cars actual mileage. He raised this with Haven, who agreed to increase their settlement 
offer to £6,365.67. That new figure was an average of three motor industry trade guide 
valuations.
Our investigator thought that new offer was fair. But Mr R disagreed and asked for a final 
decision from an ombudsman. He wants Haven to pay the amount  around £7,500  theyd 
mentioned right at the outset. He says he cant replace his car with the amount now offered.
Because I disagreed with our investigator about the outcome of the complaint  and whether 
Mr R should be paid interest on the settlement and compensation  I issued a provisional 
decision.
That allowed both Mr R and Haven the chance to provide further information and evidence 
and/or to comment on my thinking before I issue my final decision on this complaint.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision, I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First of all, Im satisfied that the latest valuation of the car offered by Haven is fair and 
reasonable. Its the average of the valuations given by three reliable motor industry 
trade guides.
Mr R is looking at advertisements of similar cars for sale and thinks his car is 
undervalued. We take the view that the recognised trade guides provide a more 
reliable valuation than advertisements. The guides reflect the prices actually paid for 
cars in the current market, rather than the price the seller might hope for when they 
advertise a car for sale.
The latest settlement offer is based on an average of trade guide prices, and we think 
thats a fair and reasonable way for insurers to value cars that have been written off.
However, Haven offered that valuation of Mr Rs car only after Mr R had complained 
to us. Indeed, it was only our investigators re-evaluation of the trade guide prices 
which prompted Haven to agree to increase the valuation of the car.
That being the case, Mr Rs complaint should be upheld, according to the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys rules - the dispute resolution (or DISP) rules  which govern the 
way our service operates. In essence, Haven did not resolve Mr Rs complaint to his 
satisfaction, and he had to bring it to us to get a fair and reasonable outcome.
Because Im upholding the complaint, that opens up the questions whether Mr R 
should be paid interest on the settlement which Haven will eventually pay to him and 
whether he should be compensated for his trouble and upset.
Its my current view, unless any further information or comment from either party 
changes my mind, that the claim should have been settled - with the car valued at the 
valuation Haven have now agreed is accurate  in a timely fashion in response to 
Mr Rs original claim, which he made on 21 July 2022.
There was confusion initially about the mileage of the car, but the claim notes show 
this was resolved  with a report from the engineer who inspected the car  in early 
August 2022.
Its not unreasonable to suggest then that Haven should have paid Mr R a settlement 
based on the correct valuation of the car by the end of August 2022 at the latest. 
Mr R has in effect been deprived of that money from the end of August 2022 
onwards.
It appears  again from the claim notes - that Haven may have made an interim 
payment to Mr R at around that point, but Id be grateful if, in response to his 
provisional decision, Haven can clarify exactly what theyve paid to Mr R and when.
In principle, Im minded to ask Haven to pay interest at 8% simple on any part (or 
parts) of the final settlement (the £6,365.67 which Haven have now agreed to pay) 
which were or are paid over to Mr R after 31 August 2022. That interest being 
calculated from 31 August 2022 to whatever date the payment was or is actually 
paid.
Again, if either Haven or Mr R disagree with what Im proposing in terms of the 
interest, they can tell me why  and give me any information or evidence to support 
their position  in response to this provisional decision.
Im also minded to require Haven to pay Mr R £150 in compensation for the trouble 
and upset hes experienced as a result of their errors in failing to settle his claim fairly 
and reasonably in a timely manner.
Mr R has been inconvenienced by Havens failure to settle his claim appropriately 
and hes had to contact them on several occasions for explanations about the 
settlements hes been offered. The experience of not having the claim settled over a considerable period has also been stressful and worrying for Mr R.
The responses to my provisional decision
Haven responded to my provisional decision simply to say that they had nothing further to 
add.
Mr R responded to say he agreed with my position on the interest and compensation. But he 
asked if Haven should therefore also be required to pay interest on a refund theyd paid to 
him after they overcharged him on his insurance premiums.
He also said he wanted a breakdown from Haven of what theyd paid out on the claim and 
why. He was particularly interested in what excess fees had been subtracted from his 
payment and in what amount had been subtracted for unpaid (as yet) premiums.
Mr R was also concerned about the fact that Haven hadnt offered to provide insurance 
cover for his new car.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Nothing Haven or Mr R has said has caused me to change my mind about the proposed 
outcome in this case. 
I still think the complaint should be upheld and that Mr R should receive interest on the 
settlement when it is eventually completely paid  and compensation for his trouble and 
upset.
Mr R has raised a number of issues in response to my provisional decision which werent 
raised in his original complaint to Haven. 
For that reason, I cant consider them as part of the decision on this complaint. If Mr R has 
any remaining issues with Haven, he will need to raise a new complaint with them. Hed then 
be entitled to bring his complaint to us if he isnt satisfied with Havens response.
To avoid wasting Mr Rs time  as well as Havens and ours, Id ask Mr R to take into 
account the following before he makes any further complaint.
One, if Haven did overcharge Mr R and then refund him at any point  as he says they did  
they may choose to offer him interest on that refund. 
But in most circumstances, we might be unlikely to require them to do so if there were any 
legitimate explanation for the overcharging (like not having complete information at the time, 
for example) and/or if the period between the overcharging and the refund was relatively 
short.
Two, very broadly Haven are entitled to accept or reject applications for insurance cover 
from potential customers based on their own criteria. There are many insurers in the market. 
They all have different criteria for accepting business and for setting premiums. 
If Haven have declined to offer to provide cover for Mr Rs new vehicle, based on their own 
criteria  which might, for example, reject applications from potential customers with a 
certain number of previous claims  then we are very unlikely to interfere with that.I would also ask Mr R to understand that his premiums in future will almost undoubtedly be 
higher than they might otherwise have been because he has this particular fault claim on his 
record.
It might also save time if, when they pay the remaining settlement to Mr R, Haven do provide 
him  as hes requested  with a breakdown of the payment. This should include, at the very 
least: the valuation of the car; any excess fees; any other charges subtracted form the 
overall payment; and any remaining premium payments taken from the overall settlement 
figure.
Putting things right
As Ive said, nothing Mr R or Haven has said in response to my provisional decision has 
changed my mind about the way this complaint should be resolved. 
Im going to uphold the complaint. And Im going to require Haven to pay interest at 8% 
simple on any part (or parts) of the final settlement (the £6,365.67 which Haven have now 
agreed to pay) which were or are paid over to Mr R after 31 August 2022. That interest being 
calculated from 31 August 2022 to whatever date the payment was or is actually paid.
Im also going to require Haven to pay Mr R £150 in compensation for the trouble and upset 
hes experienced as a result of their errors in failing to settle his claim fairly and reasonably 
in a timely manner.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Haven Insurance Company Limited must:
settle Mr Rs claim based on a valuation of the car at £6,365.67;
pay interest at 8% simple on any part(s) of that payment paid to Mr R after 31 August 
2022 (calculated from 31 August 2022 to the date the payment(s) is / are made);
pay Mr R £150 in compensation for his trouble and upset.
If Haven Insurance Company Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mr R a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Neil Marshall
Ombudsman