DRN-4066230
The complaint
Mr P complains that National Westminster Bank Plc didnt fairly process his application for a 
current account.
What happened
In December 2022, Mr P applied to NatWest for a current account.
 
As part of the application process, Mr P was required to provide identification. NatWest uses 
a third-party system to assist with this requirement, verifying identity documents 
electronically, to be more efficient.
 
When Mr P applied, however, his identity couldnt be verified. Mr P didnt believe that was 
fair, he thought hed provided documentation which should be accepted and was unhappy 
that it hadnt been. So, he complained.
 
NatWest sent Mr P its final response letter on 11 January 2023. In it, the bank said that Mr P 
hadnt provided documents which met its criteria. NatWest also confirmed that Mr Ps 
application had been cancelled, but it did acknowledge that Mr P had since decided not to 
pursue the application in any case. 
Mr P remained unhappy, so he contacted our service for an independent review. He said 
that hed provided everything NatWest shouldve needed to verify his identity. Specifically, 
he was unhappy that the bank didnt accept a Share Code. Thats something issued by the 
UK Government as a means of viewing or proving an individuals immigration status.
An investigator here looked at what had happened and, all things considered, he didnt think 
NatWest had done anything wrong. He said, in summary, that NatWest had the right to 
determine its own criteria and processes to help it meet its regulatory obligations. So, while 
he noted Mr Ps disappointment  and that Mr P had ultimately been successful in applying 
for a bank account elsewhere with the same documentation hed given NatWest  the 
investigator didnt find that the bank had acted unreasonably.
 
Mr P disagreed. He said that he found NatWests approach here to be, potentially, 
discriminatory to him and others. Moreover, he also explained that hed visited a branch to 
try and resolve the situation  providing his documents in person  but nothing had 
happened. Mr P asked for an ombudsmans decision.
 
As no agreement has been reached, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know that what I say here will be disappointing for Mr P, I dont think 
that NatWest acted unreasonably or unfairly in its assessment of his current account 
application.
 
First, though, before I explain my reasoning, I think its important to clarify that our Service 
isnt here to police a business. Thats the job of the industry regulator, the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). So, while Im aware of just how unhappy Mr P is with 
NatWests process, I must be clear that we have no power to tell a financial business how to 
operate  or indeed to change its processes and procedures.
I do understand Mr Ps frustration that his identity couldnt be verified, Im also sorry to hear 
that he feels NatWests verification process could be discriminatory. I should let Mr P know 
here, with that final point in mind, that our Service is unable to make findings on whether or 
not something constitutes discrimination as per the Equality Act 2010. Thats because we 
are an informal, free alternative to the Courts. Only a court of law can make a legal finding 
based on the definitions set out within the act.
 
What I can consider is whether a business has acted in a fair and reasonable manner. So, 
thats what Ive looked at here. Ive taken a number of things  including the Equality Act 
2010  into consideration when reviewing what happened.
To begin with, Ive looked at what NatWest has said about identity verification when opening 
accounts. Its explained that it uses a third-party system, which Ill refer to as H, to help 
complete this task more efficiently. Theres nothing inherently wrong with that, NatWest has 
the right to determine its own methods for opening accounts and to ensure that it meets its 
legal and regulatory obligations. So, if NatWest wishes to use H as a method of identity 
verification then thats a legitimate commercial decision its entitled to make.
 
Ive looked at what Mr P says he uploaded to H, that being his passport and a council tax 
invoice, against NatWests apparent requirements to satisfy its account opening process. 
From what hes said, it doesnt look as though Mr P provided a residence permit  or, at 
least, something which H could verify as one  and it appears thats likely where the problem 
was.
 
I certainly understand why Mr P feels he shouldnt have needed to provide a permit given he 
has a Share Code, which is something he tried to pass to the bank. And I recognise his point 
of view, particularly given he was able to open an account elsewhere with exactly the same 
credentials, that hed been unfairly disadvantaged because he submitted a Share Code. But 
while I wont make comment on the workings of Hs system itself  it remains that NatWest is 
entitled to determine for itself how to satisfy its requirements, and obligations, for identity 
verification. That includes setting parameters around what its willing to accept.
 
Most importantly, Ive not seen anything which suggests that NatWest treated Mr P 
differently to any other customer whose identity would need to be verified. And although I 
appreciate how Mr P doesnt agree with the banks approach here, from what Ive seen, 
NatWest reviewed his application in just the same way as any other.
With all of that in mind, while I recognise this will be disappointing for him, I cant fairly say 
that NatWest acted unreasonably when it didnt process Mr Ps current account application, 
given the documentation he provided didnt satisfy its requirements.
Aside from the above, Ive also seen some conflicting information about a branch visit that 
Mr P says he made. On one hand, Mr P says he visited a specific branch of NatWest and 
provided staff there with his documents. He says that his paperwork was then copied and 
sent to the relevant department internally. On the other hand, the branch in question 
provided a statement which says it has no record at all of Mr Ps visit.
 I asked NatWest to check again to see if it had any record of the documents, or Mr Ps visit, 
but it still maintains that it doesnt. Thats quite unusual because, generally, Id expect there 
to be some record  particularly when personal data is involved  which indicates what might 
have happened. Here, though, it seems theres no such evidence.
 
Mr P is, quite understandably, concerned about his personal data in light of the branchs 
statement. NatWests final response, though, doesnt really address the matter at all. 
Instead, it seems that Mr Ps concerns over the whereabouts of his personal information 
have developed following receipt of the final response about his current account application, 
and during his contact with our Service. 
Mr P could raise the matter as a separate issue with NatWest should he wish to do so. Our 
Service can, in certain circumstances, investigate such matters. But I should point out here 
that, in terms of data protection regulation, it isnt for our Service to determine if a breach has 
occurred. Instead, thats a matter for a court or the Information Commissioners Office (ICO) 
to decide.
 
In closing  returning to the crux of the matter  while I am sorry to disappoint Mr P, I cant 
fairly conclude that NatWest treated his current account application differently. So, it follows 
that I dont require the bank to take any further action.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 September 2023.
 
Simon Louth
Ombudsman