DRN-3880280
The complaint
Mr B says that having accepted an annuity quote provided by Phoenix Life Limited 
(Phoenix), it had entered into a legally binding contract with him. But having discovered an 
error in its calculations it informed him of such and issued a substantially reduced quotation. 
Mr B says he based his retirement decision making on the figures contained in the original 
retirement application pack from May 2022. And he wants Phoenix to honour the higher 
annuity figure.
What happened
The broad background to this complaint is not in dispute between the parties. Mr B held 
multiple pension plans with Phoenix. On 4 May 2022, a retirement application pack was 
issued to his independent financial advisor (IFA). The pack assumed a selected retirement 
date of 1 May 2022 and included quotes for several annuity options.
The total value of Mr Bs pension plans with Phoenix was £2,654,100. The quote he 
favoured was for an annuity providing 100% joint life cover, paid monthly in advance, without 
adjustment over time and with a minimum five year guarantee period. On this basis Phoenix 
informed him he would receive about £346,800 per annum. Mr B confirmed he wanted to 
proceed on this basis on 11 July 2022.
Following completion of all the administrative requirements, Phoenix wrote to Mr B on 26 
July 2022, noting that his retirement fund was £2,596,700 and that his first annuity payment 
would be credited to his bank account within 10-15 working days. In addition, it sent a key 
features document which stated his lifetime annuity would be £266,600.
Mr B and his IFA questioned Phoenixs communication of 26 July 2022 immediately because 
on 11 July 2022 hed accepted an annuity quote which said it would provide him with an 
income of £346,800. The latest communication indicated he would receive £80,000 less 
each year than hed been led to believe.
On 27 July 2022, Phoenix explained to Mr Bs IFA that it had identified fundamental errors in 
the calculations it had used in the quotes it had issued on 4 May 2022. For example, it had 
used an age of 75, but he was only 68 at the time. Ultimately, Phoenix confirmed the annuity 
actually on offer to Mr B was approximately £268,100, about £78,700 less than it had 
previously indicated.
Mr B sent a formal letter of complaint to Phoenix on 2 August 2022 setting out what had 
happened and his concerns about this. He summarised his position in the following terms:
had I been informed originally that my annuity would be £78,724.27 less per annum than 
you actually quoted me, I would not have adopted the course I have as after paying British 
tax on the substantially reduced annuity of £268,058.21 my wife and I would have been 
unable to finance my familys lifestyle even taking account of the other assets we have.
So far as I am concerned, Phoenix made me an offer which I accepted and I contend that 
Phoenix is legally bound by the contract we entered into. In the premises, I contend that 
Phoenix should and, indeed, at law must honour and cannot renege on the contract it made 
to pay me an annuity of £346,782.48 per annum on the terms set out in Quote ID:***006 
which, as is plain from what is set out above, I accepted.
Phoenix wrote to Mr B on 11 August 2022. It upheld his complaint. It apologised for the 
things it had got wrong. It said all of the quotes contained in its retirement application pack of 
4 May 2022 had been incorrect. It acknowledged it was responsible for raising his 
expectations about the value of the annuity he could receive and that it wouldve been very 
disappointing to be informed that his annual income would be considerably less than hed 
been led to believe. It also accepted it had caused him unnecessary concern and 
inconvenience. 
Phoenix told Mr B it wouldnt be setting up an annuity for him based on the information it had 
provided him in May 2022. It noted the values contained in the pack were not guaranteed. 
However, it did offer Mr B £1,500 in recognition of its errors, its poor service and for his loss 
of expectation.
Mr B responded to Phoenix on 22 August 2022. He rejected its offer. He thought the clause 
it quoted about values not being guaranteed was being taken out of context, being meant to 
recognise matters such as fluctuating annuity rates and market conditions. It wasnt intended 
to cover the errors which it acknowledged it had made. He restated his claim that it should 
honour the original offer it had made and which hed accepted. And he brought his complaint 
to this Service.
An Investigator reviewed Mr Bs complaint and didnt uphold it. She didnt think he was 
entitled to the higher quote issued by Phoenix in error. And she found the quote didnt 
constitute a guarantee. While she concluded Phoenix was responsible for significant failings, 
she thought its offer of £1,500 for the trouble and upset it had caused was fair. Mr B 
disagreed.
As both parties couldnt agree to the Investigators view, Mr Bs complaint has been passed 
to me to review afresh and to provide a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where theres conflicting information about the events complained about and gaps in what 
we know, my role is to weigh the evidence we do have and to decide, on the balance of 
probabilities, whats most likely to have happened.
Ive not provided a detailed response to all the points raised in this case. Thats deliberate; 
ours is an informal service for resolving disputes between financial businesses and their 
customers. While Ive taken into account all submissions, Ive concentrated my findings on 
what I think is relevant and at the heart of this complaint.
Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is the extensive regulation around transactions like those 
performed by Phoenix for Mr B. The FCA Handbook contains eleven Principles for 
businesses, which it says are fundamental obligations firms must adhere to (PRIN 1.1.2 G in 
the FCA Handbook). These include:
- Principle 2, which requires a firm to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence.- Principle 6, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the interests of its customers.
- Principle 7, which requires a firm to pay due regard to the information needs of its 
clients, and communicate information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not 
misleading.
So, the Principles are relevant and form part of the regulatory framework that existed at the 
relevant time. They must always be complied with by regulated firms. As such, I need to 
have regard to them in deciding Mr Bs complaint.
Firstly, theres no dispute between the parties that Phoenix was responsible for poor 
handling and serious errors in this case. It was in breach of the Principles Ive identified.
It is unacceptable that Phoenix failed to communicate effectively with Mr B at the point of its 
discovery of the error in its calculations. From the available evidence, it seems it simply sent 
him a letter with a substantially different quote and left it to him and his IFA to raise enquiries 
about why things had changed so much. The annuity figures quoted in the first retirement 
application pack Phoenix had sent him had all been wrong. This led to a substantial 
overstatement of the benefits hed be able to take from his pension funds and his 
subsequent major loss on expectation.
The main question for me to address is what Phoenix needs to do to put matters right.
Mr B told this Service:
I have already made it clear in my said Letter of Complaint that the fact that Phoenix in its 
Quote ID: ***006 as contained in its Retirement Application Pack as sent to my Financial 
Adviserin its letter dated 4 May 2022offered me an annuity of £346,782.48 per annum 
was a determinative factor in my decision to retire and take my pension because even after 
paying British tax on my annuity my wife and I calculated that we would still be able to 
finance my familys lifestyle. The substantially lower annuity which Phoenix now wants to pay 
me would not achieve this objective.
Mr B went on to say:
If I had been given the correct information initially by Phoenix, the options that were 
available to me and which I would have given serious consideration to adopting after 
discussing the same with my wife and family included the following:
-Taking my pension in Portugal (where my familyhave a small apartment) in 
accordance with advice received from my financial adviser/accountant in Portugal 
where pensions are treated far more favourably from a tax perspective than in the UK 
(I was advised that until recently they could be taken completely tax-free so that 
retiring expatriates would be able to inject their retirement incomes into the local 
economy).
-I would have waited for longer and worked a bit longer before taking my pension so 
that the annuity figure was higher so that my family and I could have lived on it after 
paying British tax. Given the annuity that Phoenix now wants to pay me, I would not 
be able to afford to stop working at the moment in any event.
-I would have reconsidered my decision to take the tax-free lump-sum from my JLT 
SIPP. I had to do this in advance of taking the annuity due to the impact of the 
regulations governing my Lifetime Allowance protection, for otherwise the option of 
taking any tax-free cash from my SIPP would have been lost. Taking the tax-free 
cash when I did also resulted in less tax-free cash being available to me than would 
have been the case had I deferred taking the annuity and waited for the value of the 
SIPP to increase further, so this is another loss caused by palpable errors of Phoenix.
-Making less provision for my wifein terms of her pension were she to survive me 
which my financial adviser advised me would have resulted in a higher starting 
annuity.
Ill start by considering the outcome Mr B wants from his complaint, for Phoenix to honour 
the quote he selected from the initial retirement pack it sent him on 4 May 2022. I note in a 
prominent position on the second page of that documentation under the heading Important 
information to consider, it clearly stated:
The value of your plan/policy quoted is not guaranteed and will need to be recalculated 
when you take your benefits. The actual value when you take your benefits may be lower or 
higher than shown above because of, for example, falls or rises in investment markets.
I tend to agree with Mr B when he says this clause provides for the fact that annuity rates 
and market conditions fluctuate and it puts customers on notice of such and the potential 
impact on finalised figures. So, I agree this would be the general purpose of the statement. 
But I also note the status of the figures provided to him were a quote. And that the statement 
makes clear this was subject to change. And by inclusion of the words for example, notes 
that there can be other reasons for such changes.
However, I think a stronger argument of why it wouldnt be reasonable to require Phoenix to 
honour the initial quote Mr B accepted is simply because he wasnt entitled to it. Phoenix 
ultimately informed him that all the figures in its retirement application pack from May 2022 
had been incorrect. It had made a mistake. And it provided him with correct information prior 
to giving effect to his annuity contract.
Mr B told this Service that Phoenixs initial annuity offer which he accepted was a 
determinative factor in his decision to retire. But he also indicated that as a result of the 
lower annuity available he wasnt able to stop working. And as I understand it he was still 
working during the course of his complaint journey with this Service.
Mr B says had he been aware the annuity on offer would be around £79,000 lower than 
Phoenixs initial quote, hed have given serious consideration to:
i. Taking his pension benefits in Portugal to benefit from a more advantageous tax 
regime.
ii. Delaying taking his pension benefits to allow his annuity to have built up further.
iii. Changing his decision to take tax-free cash (TFC) from his Self-invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP), allowing this fund to grow until he could maximise the TFC he was 
entitled to under the Lifetime Allowance (LTA) regime, utilising the Enhanced 
Protection (EP) he had put in place.
iv. Making less provision for his wife in terms of the annuity established, thus increasing 
the annual income he couldve secured.
I understand the arguments Mr B makes here. But as the Investigator noted, after being 
informed about the revised quote in July 2022 and the reasons for the reduced offer, on 22 
September 2022 he sent Phoenix a letter saying he wanted to proceed in taking out the 
annuity based on the lower figures. His instruction was as follows:
I have noted the two options which you have proposed in your letter. In the circumstances, 
and without prejudice to my rights at law and the Ombudsmans decision and in order that 
Phoenix does not gain yet further benefits from its own wrongs by delaying the 
commencement of my pension, I would like Phoenix to proceed immediately with your first option i.e. Phoenix sets up the annuity with immediate effect at the lower figure which it 
(incorrectly) contends that I am entitled to and pays the same to me from 1st July 2022 
whilst the Ombudsmans decision is awaited.
I think the telling point here is that after Mr B was aware of the change in what was actually 
available as an annuity from his pension funds, he chose to proceed. I think that 
fundamentally undermines the arguments he makes above at points (i), (ii) and (iv). 
Presumably he considered these options and decided against them.
Mr B has a stronger argument in respect of the point he makes at (iii). I understand his IFA 
applied for the TFC from his SIPP on 27 June 2022 and that it was paid to him on 4 July 
2022. It wasnt until 27 July 2022 he was made aware of Phoenixs errors. In making his 
case here Mr B summarised in the following terms:
Thus, in the current situation and having taken the [tax-free] sum of only £359,117, any 
money I now take out of the SIPP will be subject to income tax. Accordingly, I contend that 
by reason of the error by Phoenix in advising me that I could take an annuity of £346,782.48 
I lost the possibility of taking a further £15,833 tax-free cash from the SIPP. However, as and 
when I now take that sum it will be subject to tax at a rate of 45%. This means that as a 
result of the Phoenix error upon which I reliedI will have to pay extra tax of £7,125 on the 
sum of £15,833, which had I known of the Phoenix error I could have taken as tax-free 
cash.
On 5 September 2022 Phoenix set out Mr Bs options, one of which was to wait for the 
outcome of his complaint before taking his pension benefits. But it made clear the figures it 
had provided him on 26 July 2022 couldnt be guaranteed and that the annuity available in 
the future could be higher or lower. He opted to take the offer on the table and secured an 
annual income backdated to 1 July 2022. In doing so he appears to have been wary about 
the potential for any annuity offer being reduced again should he delay his decision.
While Ive no doubt had Mr B been provided with the right figures in May 2022 hed have 
seriously considered all his options, including those hes identified at points (i) to (iv), the 
pattern of his decision making subsequently suggests he wouldve proceeded to take an 
annuity at that time.
I also mindful that had Mr B waited for his SIPP funds to have reached the maximum 
potential TFC threshold, the annuity on offer to him couldve changed. What he mightve 
gained on the swings, he couldve lost on the roundabouts.
Further, Mr B hasnt yet experienced an increase in his tax liability as a result of the things 
that have happened. Any such liability will only crystalise if and when he takes further 
benefits from his SIPP. And there are various options, opportunities and decisions to be 
taken in this regard, including in relation to estate planning. So, Ive decided any potential 
future loss is uncertain and too remote.
While dont agree with Mr B that Phoenix should honour the quote he selected from its May 
2022 retirement application pack, and nor have I concluded he has made a telling case that 
he has suffered consequential financial detriment as a result of the events complained 
about, as Ive already established, Phoenix was responsible for serious and substantial 
failings.
When Im considering a complaint like Mr Bs I think about whether its fair to award 
compensation for distress and inconvenience. This isnt intended to fine or punish a 
business  which is the job of the regulator. But when somethings gone wrong, recognition 
of the emotional and practical impact can make a real difference.Were all inconvenienced at times in our day-to-day lives  and in our dealings with other 
people, businesses and organisations. When thinking about compensation, I need to decide 
that the impact of Phoenixs actions was greater than just a minor inconvenience or upset. 
Its clear to me that this was the case here.
Phoenix also came to this conclusion. It apologised, explained what had happened, upheld 
his complaint and offered Mr B £1,500 for the things it got wrong. His expectations about the 
level of annuity he would receive were raised and he suffered a major loss of expectation. I 
recognise he also feels had he been presented with the right figures at the right time this 
couldve affected his decision making. And the way Phoenix initially revealed its errors to Mr 
B was poor.
Taking all of these matters into account, and considering this Services usual approach to 
payments for distress and inconvenience, I think the substantial offer of compensation of 
£1,500 made by Phoenix Life Limited to Mr B in recognition of its failings is fair. Subject to 
Mr Bs acceptance of such, it should now make arrangements to pay him this sum.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive already set out, Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2023. 
Kevin Williamson
Ombudsman