DRN-2374891
The complaint
Miss N and Miss N complain Legal and General Assurance Society Limited (L&G) unfairly 
declined a claim on their mothers (Mrs N) life insurance policy. Miss N and Miss N are 
bringing this complaint as trustees of Mrs Ns policy.
What happened
In 2007 Mrs N took out a life policy with an insurer that was later taken over by L&G. The 
policy would pay a sum of £203,000 if Mrs N passed away before the policy ended in 2024.
Sadly, in 2019 Mrs N passed away. Her cause of death was 1a) Alcoholic ketoacidosis 2) 
Liver cirrhosis, Ischaemic heart disease. A claim was made under Mrs Ns policy and L&G 
asked Mrs Ns doctor for information in relation to her cause of death. Based on the medical 
evidence it received, L&G thought Mrs N hadnt fully disclosed her depression or disclosed 
the extent of her alcohol use. So in November 2019 it declined the claim and refunded all the 
premiums Mrs N had paid. 
Miss N and Miss N thought this was unfair and told L&G Mrs N had answered the application 
questions to the best of her ability and knowledge at a time when shed been recently 
bereaved. And that when Mrs N applied, she gave the original insurer consent to access her 
medical records, and it should have done so since Mrs N disclosed treatment by a 
consultant psychiatrist for postnatal depression. And they questioned the relevance of L&G 
saying it wouldnt have offered Mrs N cover, since the original insurer had underwritten the 
policy and not L&G. 
L&G remained of the view Mrs N had made a reckless misrepresentation and didnt change 
its position. So Miss N and Miss N referred their complaint to our service. After looking into it, 
our investigator thought L&G had acted fairly and reasonably in the circumstances.
Miss N and Miss N disagreed, saying the policy was important to Mrs N as shed wanted to 
protect her children if she passed away, and she didnt know shed answered incorrectly as 
she was grieving. They said Mrs N fully disclosed shed had further medical treatment, 
because she said shed been treated by a consultant psychiatrist. And they questioned how 
L&G could comment on what the original insurer would have done  they said it might have 
accepted the policy with full disclosure. And that, based on what Mrs N did disclose, the 
original insurer should have asked for a medical report before it offered cover. 
As Miss N and Miss N disagreed with our investigator, their complaint has come to me to 
consider. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id firstly like to offer my condolences to Miss N and Miss N and to acknowledge that theyve 
brought this complaint under very difficult and upsetting circumstances. But while I dont 
want to add to their distress, Im not upholding the complaint. I realise this will be a very 
great disappointment to them, but Ill explain my reasons.
The relevant law here is the Marine Insurance Act 1906 as the policy was sold before 
6 April 2013, when the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 
(CIDRA) came into force. In line with our services long standing approach, Ill need to 
consider whats fair and reasonable in light of this. Ill need to think about whether Mrs N 
made a misrepresentation and if so, whether that misrepresentation was innocent, careless, 
or reckless or deliberate. And whether L&G has applied the correct remedy for that 
misrepresentation, which is set out in the Misrepresentation and Treating Customers Fairly 
 ABI Code of Practice Managing Claims For Individual and Group Life, Critical Illness and 
Income Protection Insurance Products September 2019 (2019 ABI code)
Mrs Ns policy application asked Do you have any plans to attend or within the last two 
years have you attended or been advised to attend any doctor, hospital or clinic for any form 
of advice, opinion, operation, treatment or test OR are you subject to regular medical review, 
receiving medical treatment or attention (minor ailments excluded)? Mrs N answered No. 
It also asked Have you ever suffered from any of the following? Any anxiety, depression or 
mental illness? Mrs N answered Yes and was provided with a Stress/Anxiety/Depression 
Questionnaire to complete. Ive set out the relevant questions from this questionnaire, with 
Mrs Ns answers highlighted:
Please state the medical diagnosis that has been advised to you. Post natal 
depression.
When did the condition commence, is there any particular reason for the symptoms and 
has there been more than one episode? November 91. 
Have you been treated as an Out-patient or referred to a psychiatrist? If so, please 
provide details of the consultations and dates. Yes. Dr [consultant psychiatrist] [city] 
general hospital April 1994.
Please state the treatment you received as an Out-patient. Psychiatrist consultation 
for five months, 1 appointment per week.
Are you having regular follow-up checks? If so, please state how often and with whom, 
and the date of the last appointment. No September 1994.
Is there any additional information that you can provide which will assist us in 
considering your application? Took Prozac for six months from April 1994  Oct 
1994.
Mrs N signed a declaration on both this questionnaire and the main application to confirm 
the answers were true to the best of her knowledge and that she agreed failure to disclose 
any material fact known to her may invalidate the policy. 
Im satisfied these questions made clear to Mrs N what information was relevant to L&G. 
And while I acknowledge Miss N and Miss N say Mrs N did fully disclose her relevant 
medical history, I dont agree. Ill explain why. When asked whether shed attended or been advised to attend any doctor, hospital or clinic 
for any form of advice, opinion, operation, treatment or test in the last two years, Mrs N said 
No. But I think she should have answered Yes, because in 2006 Mrs N was seen by a 
consultant psychiatrist, a different psychiatrist to the one she disclosed in the follow up 
questionnaire. Her medical records show she had appointments with this psychiatrist on 13 
February, 28 February, 18 April and 6 June 2006. 
The letters the consultant psychiatrist sent Mrs Ns general practitioner (GP) after these 
consultations noted Mrs N had a diagnosis of depression and alcohol misuse. The letter 
dated 15 February 2006 noted alcohol was a recurrent problem in managing Mrs Ns 
depressive illness. The letters dated 2 March 2006 and 8 June 2006 suggest improvements, 
but while the last letter noted I could find no evidence of mental illness, the consultant didnt 
discharge Mrs N from review. In any case, I think Mrs N should still have disclosed these 
consultations and what they were for. 
And the consultant psychiatrists letters in 2006 say Mrs N was referred to the alcohol team. I 
think this was also something Mrs N should have disclosed in her application, but she didnt. 
The evidence Ive been provided with doesnt show the outcome of that alcohol team 
referral. But its reasonable to think it didnt resolve Mrs Ns alcohol issues, since her medical 
records suggest that both this and her mental health concerns were long-term issues - the 
report Mrs Ns GP provided to L&G said Mrs N had been drinking too much since 1999, and 
Mrs Ns medical records suggest she was consulting professionals for her mental health and 
alcohol use for many years both before and after 2006. 
I agree that, in the Stress/Anxiety/Depression Questionnaire, Mrs N did disclose being 
diagnosed and treated for postnatal depression between 1991 and 1994. But as Ive said, 
Mrs N had also seen a different consultant psychiatrist in 2006 for depression and alcohol 
use. And Mrs N also saw that consultant psychiatrist on two occasions in early 2000, where 
they noted an impression of Mrs N having a major depressive episode compounded by her 
use of alcohol. Mrs N didnt disclose either the 2000 or the 2006 consultations in the 
Stress/Anxiety/Depression Questionnaire she completed.
Instead, I think its fair to say that what Mrs N did disclose in the questionnaire gave the 
impression of an isolated and historic mental health condition. So I think it was fair for L&G 
to conclude Mrs N hadnt correctly and fully answered the questions shed been asked in her 
application. 
I know Miss N and Miss N think the original insurer should have asked Mrs Ns doctor for 
more information. But the original insurer was entitled to rely on what Mrs N told it. If Mrs N 
had answered all the initial application questions correctly, L&G says cover would at that 
point have simply been declined. Which Ill now consider.
I think Mrs Ns misrepresentation made a difference to the underwriting outcome. L&G has 
provided evidence to show that if Mrs N had correctly and fully answered the questions set 
out above, it would have asked her doctor for more information about her depression. Given 
the medical evidence Ive seen, in particular the letters Mrs Ns consultant psychiatrist wrote 
to her GP in 2000 and 2006, Im satisfied L&G would have become aware of Mrs Ns history 
of depression and alcohol use.
I know Miss N and Miss N question how L&G can comment on what the original insurers 
underwriter would have done. But L&G has provided evidence to show that both L&G and 
the original insurer based their underwriting on the same manual. From this, L&G says the 
original insurer would therefore have declined cover solely because of Mrs Ns incompletely 
treated alcohol issues. And L&G has provided me with the underwriting criteria to evidence this. Therefore Im satisfied Mrs N wouldnt have been offered cover if she had fully 
disclosed her relevant medical history. 
L&G has categorised this misrepresentation as reckless. Sadly, Mrs N cant tell us why she 
answered the application questions as she did. Miss N and Miss N say Mrs N didnt know 
shed answered incorrectly as she was grieving, and that shed answered to the best of her 
ability and knowledge. 
I acknowledge what Miss N and Miss N say. But Im satisfied its reasonable to say Mrs N 
was aware of visiting a consultant psychiatrist in 2000 and 2006 for depression and alcohol 
issues. And Mrs N provided detailed information about her historic post-natal depression, so 
if she was able to remember information from so long before the application was completed, 
its reasonable to think she would have remembered the 2000 and 2006 consultations, some 
of which happened less than twelve months before applying for the policy. Mrs Ns medical 
records suggest shed spoken to medical professionals about her mental health and alcohol 
across many years before applying for the policy. So I cant see how Mrs N might simply 
have thought these were insignificant issues. Therefore I think it was fair for L&G to conclude 
that Mrs N made a reckless misrepresentation. 
The 2019 ABI code says that under these circumstances, an insurer can decline the claim 
and has the option to keep the premiums paid. Given this, its fair and in line with the 2019 
ABI code for L&G to decline the claim. I note L&G has refunded the premiums Mrs N paid for 
the policy  this is something L&G can itself choose to do, so it hasnt acted unfairly. 
Taking everything into consideration, Im not asking L&G to do anything further here, though 
I realise this isnt the answer Miss N and Miss N hoped for.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss N and Miss N 
to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2021.
 
Ailsa Wiltshire
Ombudsman