DRN-2928622
The complaint
Mr P complains about National Westminster Bank Plc (NWB) and the way they handled, and 
declined, his request for a refund of transactions made to gambling websites.
What happened
Mr P held a current account and credit card account with NWB. On 17 August 2020, Mr P 
made four separate transactions using his current account for £2,805.43, £2,065.74, 
£1,032.86 and £1,032.86 to a gambling website, who Ill refer to as A. These transactions 
were debited in Roubles due to the websites location. On 21 August, Mr P made five 
separate transactions using his credit card account for £481.19 and four sets of £962.38 to 
another gambling website, who Ill refer to as W. Again, these transactions were debited in 
Roubles due to the websites location.
Mr P said he didnt realise both websites were based in Russia until the transactions had 
been converted in Roubles. So, he complained to these websites directly and received a 
refund of around £1,800 but received no further contact following this. So, Mr P contacted 
NWB to dispute the transactions. NWB declined the chargeback as Mr P had disputed the 
transactions as services not described and they didnt think they had evidence to support 
this. Mr P was unhappy with this, so he raised a complaint.
Mr P was unhappy with NWBs decision to decline his chargeback. And he also thought 
NWB shouldve done more to block the transactions on his credit card account as they were 
for gambling which he felt shouldve been clear. So, he wanted NWB to refund him the 
amounts hed paid to both A and W.
NWB responded and didnt agree. They thought their decision to decline the chargeback 
was fair. And they didnt think theyd done anything wrong when processing the transactions 
based on the merchant code used by W. So, they didnt think they needed to do anything 
more. Mr P remained unhappy with this response, so he referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They thought NWB had 
declined Mr Ps chargeback fairly, in line with cards scheme rules. And they didnt think 
NWB had made an error when failing to block the transactions placed on Mr Ps credit card 
account as W had used the incorrect merchant code. And they didnt think it was fair to hold 
NWB responsible for this. They explained as W were based abroad, they didnt need to 
follow the same rules as set out for similar companies based in the UK. So, they didnt think 
NWB needed to do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He thought NWB were aware of his gambling addiction so shouldve done 
more to protect his account from any transactions that may have looked as though they were 
for gambling purposes. And he also didnt think it was fair for him to be disadvantaged by a 
mistake made by W when presenting the transactions under the wrong merchant code. So, 
he maintained his view that NWB should refund him the payments hed made to both A and 
W. Our investigator responded to Mr Ps comments, explaining their view remained 
unchanged. Mr P remained unhappy, so his complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mr P. I recognise he 
deposited a significant amount of money into the accounts he had with A and W. And I dont 
dispute Mr P was unaware these websites were based in Russia, so I can appreciate the 
concern he wouldve felt when he saw the transactions had been debited in Roubles. I also 
dont dispute Mr Ps claims that when he tried to remove the funds hes deposited to A and 
W from the accounts he held with them, he was unable to do so. So, I understand why Mr P 
returned to NWB who provided both accounts and sought a refund through them. And I can 
understand why, when NWB told Mr P theyd be unable to provide this refund, Mr P would 
be left unhappy due to the financial loss he was unable to address. 
But for me to say NWB have done something wrong, Id need to be satisfied they acted 
outside of the card scheme rules when declining the chargeback he raised. Or, that they 
failed to block the transaction made on Mr Ps credit card account when they shouldve done 
so. And so, are responsible for the financial losses attributed to the transactions made to W 
from this account. And in this situation, I dont think thats the case.
Ive first considered the chargeback Mr P raised, and NWBs decision to decline it. Its 
important to note that a chargeback is raised and considered against the cards scheme 
rules. It isnt based on the merits of the disputed between Mr P and A in this case. So, Id 
only expect NWB to consider Mr Ps claim against these rules and make a decision on 
whether they thought it was likely to be successful. 
Ive seen Mr P raised the chargeback as services not described. But NWB say theyve been 
provided no evidence to show that the funds Mr P deposited into his account with A from his 
current account werent available to use on the website. So, without this, they didnt think 
they could say Mr P hadnt received the service he believed he was paying for. And because 
of this, they declined the chargeback claim. And I dont think NWB have acted unfairly when 
reaching this decision.
Im satisfied NWB fairly considered Mr Ps chargeback claim. And as Ive also seen no 
evidence to show Mr P wasnt able to use the funds he deposited onto the website; I dont 
think NWB acted unreasonably when declining the chargeback on this basis. While I dont 
dispute Mr Ps testimony that he didnt realise the website was based in Russia, and I 
appreciate why this may have led him to want a refund rather than use the funds, I dont 
think this reason falls under the cards scheme rules as a valid reason for a successful 
chargeback. And so, I dont think NWB need to do anything more for this aspect of the 
complaint.
Ive then considered Mr Ps concerns about his credit card account and his belief that the 
transactions to W shouldve been blocked. For me to say they shouldve been, I need to be 
satisfied NWB shouldve realised from the information they had available that the 
transactions were for gambling purposes and that Mr P should be blocked from making 
transactions such as these. 
In April 2020, the Gambling Commission banned gambling merchants regulated in the United Kingdom from accepted payments made by credit cards. So, as Mr P was making 
payments from the UK, I can understand why he may think this applies in this situation. But 
the ban was on gambling merchants from accepting payments from credit cards, rather than 
credit card providers allowing customers to use their credit card accounts for transactions 
such as these. So, NWB dont have to prevent their customers from using their credit card 
accounts for these sorts of transactions. And even so, the website Mr P paid wasnt 
regulated in the UK as it was based overseas. So, the websites werent impacted by this 
ban.
Ive seen the merchant code W used when presenting the transaction to NWB. And this code 
related to Member Financial Institution  Merchandise and Services, which crucially, isnt a 
code representing any sort of gambling transaction. It was Ws responsibility to present the 
transactions correctly, not NWBs. So, I cant say NWB should be held responsible for any 
error W made. I recognise Mr P feels this is unfair and that hes been disadvantaged 
because of this and I understand why Mr W feels this way. But this is a concern hed need to 
raise this with W directly as my role is only to consider what NWB have done. And in this 
situation, I cant say they made a mistake as I dont think NWB wouldve been able to identify 
the transactions Mr P were for gambling purposes. So, I dont think they wouldve been 
reasonably aware that they had cause to block them.
But I appreciate Mr P disputes this. And hes referred to his statements which he believes 
shows he was gambling heavily at the time the transactions were made. Mr P has also 
explained NWB shouldve been aware of his gambling addiction at the time as hed 
explained this to his relationship manager.
NWB dont dispute they were made aware that Mr P had gambled using his credit card 
previously as Mr P had disputed a previous transaction. But Ive seen no evidence to show 
Mr P made NWB aware he had a gambling addiction or that he wanted a block to be applied 
to his account. Ive also seen no evidence to show Mr P had attempted to use his credit card 
account for other gambling transactions in the time before he made the transactions to W. 
So, I dont think I can say NWB acted unfairly by not blocking the transaction. From the 
information had, Mr P had made a genuine transaction to W and there was no information to 
suggest is was for gambling purposes. And even if it was, I cant see NWB were told 
explicitly by Mr P to block these sorts of transactions. So, I dont think NWB need to do 
anything more.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mr P was hoping for. And I recognise it doesnt help 
address Mr Ps financial losses which I dont dispute he paid to A and W without fully 
understanding who those websites were, and where they were located. But I dont think 
these losses have been caused by anything NWB have done wrong and so, it wouldnt be 
fair for me to say NWB should cover these.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mr Ps complaint about National Westminster 
Bank Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 February 2022.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman