DRN-2241203
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ns complaint is about a mortgage they held with Santander UK Plc. They say 
they were told they could pay off the arrears and charges balance and stop the 
repossession of their home in late 2019. However, when they tried to pay off the arrears and 
charges balance in December 2019, they were told they would need to pay the entire 
mortgage balance to be given their home back. They feel Santander acted unlawfully and in 
breach of proper and fair financial conduct.
Mr and Mrs N are also unhappy that Santander disposed of the contents of the house after it 
repossessed it, rather than arranging to return the contents to them. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs N took out a mortgage with Santander in 2008. From 2009 there were periods 
where Mr and Mrs N had difficulties paying the mortgage, but payment arrangements were 
made and arrears addressed. From 2017 arrears steadily built, the payment arrangement 
was broken by Mr and Mrs N, and in early 2018 Santander started legal action to repossess 
the property. 
Shortly before that happened, Mr and Mrs N informed Santander they were no longer living 
in the property and it was empty. Santander corresponded with Mr and Mrs N at their revised 
residential address thereafter. 
Santander was granted a possession order on 30 July 2019. Santander gave Mr and Mrs N 
a further opportunity to contact it to agree a way of repaying the arrears on the mortgage. 
They didnt do so.
In October 2019 Santander applied for a warrant for possession, which was granted. On 
22 October 2019 Santanders solicitors wrote to Mr and Mrs N to confirm the warrant for 
possession had been granted and would be enforced on 26 November 2019. The letter went 
on to explain what that meant  that the property needed to be vacated and all contents 
removed. If any contents were left in the property at the time possession was enforced, they 
would be disposed of after 14 calendar days.
The solicitors also sent a letter to the mortgaged property on 22 October 2019, addressed to 
The Tenant/Occupier. It explained when the eviction would take place and asked that all 
belongings from in and around the property be removed. If anything was left in the property 
Santander would assume it had been abandoned and would be at liberty to dispose of the 
items.
On 26 November 2019 Mr and Mrs Ns property was repossessed by Santander and the 
locks were changed. A property management company was commissioned by Santander to 
organise the property being marketed, which included getting the property into a suitable 
condition. A notice was placed in the front window giving details of the agent if anyone had 
any interest in the contents of the property and wanted to retrieve them. It was also detailed 
that the contents would be removed 14 days after 26 November 2019 and might be disposed 
of. Some items were removed immediately because of their hazardous nature  gas 
cylinders and flammable paints. 
The property management company has confirmed it tried to contact Mr and Mrs N by 
telephone on 27 November 2019, and left voicemails as it didnt get responses. The 
following day Mrs N called it and said she knew nothing about the repossession, so it 
recommended she speak to Santander. 
On 28 November 2019 Mrs N called Santander. She said she was aware the property had 
been possessed, although she hadnt received anything about the possession before it 
happened. She wanted to make a payment arrangement, but she was told that was no 
longer possible. The only option available at that time was to repay the entire amount owing. 
The agent explained the process for this to happen. It was also suggested Mr and Mrs N 
might want to seek independent financial advice.
On 29 November 2019 Mrs N called Santander again. It was again explained that if she was 
unable to redeem the mortgage in full Santander would continue with the process to sell the 
property  it had 24 days to value and market the property. Mrs N was asked to seek 
independent financial advice.
On 2 December 2019 Mrs N contacted Santander again. She said she hadnt received any 
correspondence about the pre and post-possession hearing processes and didnt have any 
court papers. It was confirmed to her that the letters had been sent to the property she was 
living in, not the one being repossessed. She was directed to the solicitors that had acted on 
behalf of Santander to check this information. It was incorrectly stated that 24 working days 
after the possession the property would be cleared and placed on the market. 
Santander sent Mrs N a letter on 2 December 2019 which enclosed an arrears statement.  It 
said that while the account remained in arrears and she didnt keep to an agreed payment 
plan, monthly arrears fees would be charged. Those charges were detailed later in the 
correspondence. It went on to say that it aimed to explore ways of preventing repossession, 
but if that had to happen, there would be costs for her to pay in relation to that action. The 
letter then said if she was unable to pay, she should ring Santander to discuss her situation. 
It also directed her to some debt advice organisations.
The property management company tried to contact Mr and Mrs N again on 4 December 
2019 about clearing the contents of the property. However, they didnt answer, and a 
voicemail message was left. It heard nothing further from Mr and Mrs N and so it cleared the 
property after the 14-day notice period expired on 11 December 2019.
On 6 December 2019 Mrs N called Santander and was told the account was with its internal 
litigation team and she would have to talk to that team about any arrangement she wanted to 
make. She said she wanted to make a payment that day and would call back to discuss an 
arrangement on the account.
Mrs N called again the following day. She wanted some details of the account and asked if 
the payment shed made the previous day had affected the arrears balance. She was told 
the account was showing a payment was pending on the account. When she tried to discuss 
the arrears, Mrs N was asked to contact the litigation team. 
On 9 December 2019 Mrs N called Santander four times. In the first call Mrs N said she 
wanted to discuss a way forward for the mortgage account. The member of staff she was 
speaking to said he couldnt discuss the account and tried to transfer her to the right team, 
but wasnt able to. The second call involved Mrs N asking for an email address for Santander. She was told she 
would need to deal with the possession team and gave her that teams email address.
In the third call to Santander Mrs N said she wanted to discuss the mortgage account. She 
told the agent the account was in arrears and explained the circumstances that had led to 
that position. She didnt mention the property had already been repossessed. The agent 
suggested going through a budget planner and Mrs N gave more information for this 
process. The agent then checked the account on Santanders systems and realised the 
property had been repossessed. Mrs N was told she needed to speak to a different team. 
Mrs N was transferred to the litigation team. 
Mrs N also called to make a payment of £2,000, which was processed for her. 
The following day Mrs N called Santander again. The agent she spoke to said her account 
was with solicitors. She asked how much the arrears were and said she would call back to 
make a payment. 
On the same day Santander emailed Mrs N and confirmed the only option to regain the 
property was to redeem the mortgage in full; there would be no more arrangements and 
making partial payments would not mean she and Mr N would get the property back. It 
explained what needed to happen if Mr and Mrs N had the money to clear the mortgage. 
Mrs N was also told the property would be placed on the market in 24 days. 
The property was cleared of all contents on 16 December 2019. The process of marketing 
the property was started. 
Mr and Mrs N were unhappy about what had happened and believed Santander had 
reneged on the agreement it had made.
Santander responded to Mr and Mrs Ns complaint and confirmed it was unable to change its 
position that the entire debt needed to be paid off in order to give them back possession. 
However, it offered to pay them £100 compensation for the misinformation Mrs N had 
received. It was not specified what information it considered was misleading, but there was 
no admission of it having told Mr and Mrs N they could get the property back by just paying 
the arrears, fees and charges balance.
Mr and Mrs N didnt accept Santanders position and asked us to consider their complaint. 
They told us Mrs N began negotiating with Santander about their property in late November 
and it was agreed they would settle all charges and interest and immediately resume 
payment of the monthly mortgage instalments. They paid £2,000 toward this agreement, but 
Santander reneged on the arrangement when she tried paying the remainder of the arrears, 
interest and charges. They believe a contract was entered into for Santander to return their 
property to them. Mr and Mrs N also confirmed during the investigation of the complaint that 
there had been nearly £50,000 of possessions in the property, ranging from fitness 
equipment, clothes, jewellery, photo albums and home improvement materials, but no 
furniture.
Ultimately, our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. She didnt think the evidence of the 
contact between Mr and Mrs N and Santander following the possession of their home 
supported that theyd been told they could regain their home if they paid off the arrears, fees 
and charges balance. She was satisfied that Mrs N had made the £2,000 payment having 
been told that repaying just the arrears wouldnt be enough for the property to be returned to 
them. So she didnt think Santander could be asked to refund that payment. In addition, the 
investigator was satisfied Mr and Mrs N had been given the opportunity to remove their 
possessions from the property before they were removed. She didnt recommend Santander 
do anything further. Mr and Mrs N were not happy with the investigators opinion. They said they thought the 
decision was a most cavalier and most cursory determination. They reiterated that they 
considered there had been a contract in place which would allow them to have the property 
back if they repaid the arrears. In addition, Mr and Mrs N highlighted that Santander had 
admitted to misleading them about what they needed to do to get their property back. 
Mr and Mrs N requested their complaint be reviewed and so it has been passed to me to 
consider.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Although I have read and considered the whole file, I will keep my comments to what I think 
is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point, its not because I have not considered it 
but because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses. What this 
means is that we dont represent either party, and I dont act under eithers instructions or 
take directions on how a complaint will be looked at.
Mr and Mr N have said they reached an agreement with Santander after their property was 
repossessed that meant it would give them back the property if they cleared the arrears 
balance. They have relied on Santanders letter of 2 December 2019 as evidence of this 
agreement. 
Mr and Mrs N would have had the option to keep the property by repaying the arrears and 
charges balance before Santander took possession of the property. However, I am satisfied 
that after the property was possessed, it was made clear to Mr and Mrs N that was no longer 
an option and they would need to repay the entire debt for the property to be given back. 
The letter of 2 December is a standard letter sent out to consumers in arrears; it didnt reflect 
the position of the account at that point, but it doesnt mean that Santander entered into an 
agreement to give the property back if the arrears, charges and fees balance was paid. 
Whilst Mr and Mrs N think that Santander admitted in its response to their complaint to 
having misled them about how they could get their property back, I am not persuaded that is 
the case, although the letter is not as clear as it could be, and so it could be interpreted that 
way if wanted. Santander did give Mr and Mrs N misleading information in relation to the 
marketing of the property, in that it at one point said it would be marketing the property 24 
working days after possession, rather than calendar days as was the correct position.  It also 
said in its email that it would be marketing the property in 24 days, but didnt confirm that 
was from the date of possession. However, it didnt give them any misleading information 
about what they had to do to get their property back  it was consistent about that.
In light of the above, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs N made the £2,000 payment they did in 
the full knowledge that it wouldnt result in the return of the property to their ownership. As 
such, I dont consider Santander needs to refund the payment.
I would also comment that Im satisfied the correspondence relating to the possession, both 
before and after the possession hearing and that to obtain the warrant, was sent to 
Mr and Mrs Ns residential address. Whilst they have said they didnt receive any of it, I note 
that it was correctly addressed and, whilst post can sometimes go astray, most is correctly 
delivered, as was the business letter of 10 December 2019.
As for the contents of the property, I am satisfied that Mr and Mrs N were aware they needed 
to remove their possessions and the timescale they had to do it. They didnt do so. I see nothing wrong with Santander clearing the property when it did or the disposal of the 
contents. Whilst Mr and Mrs N have said it is standard procedure for a lender to sell the 
contents of a property at auction, thats not the case. Whilst that might happen for some 
items of significant value, I have seen the photographs of the contents left in the property 
and its loft, and in my view nothing in those photographs would have merited Santander 
going to the effort and expense of trying to sell them at auction. 
Mr and Mrs N have also suggested the contents should have been placed in storage, the 
cost of which they would have been liable for. Again, this isnt something we would expect a 
lender to do as it would be yet another expense for a consumer, already in financial 
difficulties, to bear. 
I know that Mr and Mrs N wont be happy with my conclusions, but I dont think Santander 
entered into an agreement whereby Mr and Mrs N could retain ownership of the property on 
the basis they have suggested. Nor do I think it did anything wrong in relation to clearing and 
marketing the property. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs N to accept or reject my decision 
before 4 March 2021.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman