DRN-3764635
Complaint
Mr S has complained that Loans 2 Go Limited (L2G) irresponsibly lent to him.
Background
Mr S applied for two loans with L2G. But Mr S immediately withdrew from the first loan he 
therefore paid no interest. As this is the case, weve only looked at the complaint about Mr S 
second loan with L2G.
One of our adjudicators reviewed what Mr S and L2G had told us. And she thought that L2G
hadnt lent irresponsibly. So she didnt uphold Mr S complaint. Mr S disagreed and asked for 
an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending on
our website. And Ive used this approach to help me decide Mr S complaint.
L2G needed to make sure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, what this means is
L2G needed to carry out proportionate checks to be able to understand whether Mr S could
afford to repay before providing this loan. Our website sets out what we typically think about
when deciding whether a lenders checks were proportionate. Generally, we think its
reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of how much information it
gathers and what it does to verify it  in the early stages of a lending relationship.
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, a borrowers income was low or the
amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the risk of
it becoming unsustainable and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. So wed expect
a lender to be able to show that it didnt continue to lend to a customer irresponsibly.
L2G provided Mr S with a loan for £400 in December 2021. It had an APR of 769.9% and 
was to due be repaid in 18 instalments of £82.22, which meant the total amount to be repaid 
was £1,479.96. 
L2G says it agreed to Mr S application after he provided details of his monthly income and 
expenditure. It says it cross-checked this against information on a credit search it carried out 
on Mr S. The information Mr S provided about his income and expenditure showed hed be
able to comfortably make the repayments he was committing to. But it, in any event,
adjusted Mr S declaration to account for what its verification checks showed and and this 
left enough for Mr S to be able to make his payments. L2G says, in these circumstances it 
was reasonable to lend. On the other hand, Mr S has said he was in financial difficulty and 
shouldnt have been lent to.
Ive carefully thought about what Mr S and L2G have said. The first thing for me to say is that 
this was Mr S first loan with L2G. The information provided does suggest Mr S was asked to 
provide details of his income and expenditure and L2G didnt just rely on what it was told.
Bearing in mind the amount of the repayments, the credit search not showing anything too
alarming, Mr S lack of any previous lending with L2G, as well as the relatively low monthly 
repayments, I dont think it was unreasonable for L2G to rely on the payments being 
affordable as, on the face of things, they did appear to be. 
I accept that Mr S actual circumstances may not be reflected in the information gathered. 
And Im sorry to hear that Mr S has struggled with his payments. But its only fair and 
reasonable for me to uphold a complaint in circumstances a lender did something wrong. 
And, in this case, I dont think that L2G did anything wrong in deciding to lend to Mr S - it 
carried out proportionate checks even though its looks like the information it was provided 
with may not have told the whole story. L2G reasonably relied on this information and given 
the amount of the repayments involved and its lack of previous history with Mr S, I dont think 
it was unreasonable for L2G to provide this loan.
As this is the case, Im not upholding Mr S complaint. I appreciate this will be very 
disappointing for Mr S. But I hope hell understand the reasons for my decision and that hell 
at least feel his concerns have been listened to.
Although Im not upholding Mr S complaint, I would remind L2G of its obligation to exercise
forbearance should Mr S be experiencing difficulty and it choose to collect payments from 
him.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr S complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 24 November 2022.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman