DRN-3557628
The complaint
Ms B complains that Monzo Bank Ltd wont refund a disputed payment made from her 
current account. 
What happened
Ms B says that in September 2021 her phone was no longer allowing her to make 
contactless payments from her Monzo account via Google Pay. So she took steps to re-add 
her Monzo card to the app. Ms B says there appeared to be an issue with this process, but 
that on the 8 September 2021 she got a message to say she should complete the process of 
adding her card. Ms B did so, but later that day realised that three payments she did not 
recognise had been attempted from her Monzo account via Google Pay. Two of these 
payments were declined as there were insufficient funds to cover them, but one of the 
payments was allowed to go through.
Ms B contacted Monzo to say this payment had not been authorised by her. The payment 
was for car hire in a different country, and Ms B confirmed she had never been there.
Monzo investigated and decided not to refund the disputed payment. It said the Google Pay 
app had been set up on Ms Bs device and so, as the payment had then been made via 
Google Pay, Ms B must have authorised it.
As Ms B didnt agree with Monzos decision, she asked us to investigate. 
Since Ms B referred her complaint to us, Monzo has explained that if feels there were delays 
in its response to her concerns, and so has offered to pay Ms B £50 to recognise the impact 
of those delays.
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, she felt that 
there was no plausible explanation for how someone could have accessed Ms Bs Google 
Pay app to make the payments.
Ms B disagreed, so the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant law here is the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and broadly speaking 
Ms B is responsible for any payments that she has authorised (either by making them herself 
or allowing someone else to) and she isnt responsible for unauthorised payments. 
So, the key question here is whether Monzo has acted fairly in concluding that Ms B did 
authorise the disputed payments.
Im satisfied from the banks evidence that Ms Bs genuine Google Pay account was used to 
make the disputed payment, and that Google Pay had been set up on Ms Bs device. 
Monzos evidence shows that only one device was registered with it at that time, and this 
was a device that had first been registered with Monzo in 2019, and was then reregistered 
on 8 September 2021. So it seems clear that the device used to set up Google Pay was Ms 
Bs phone. But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own, enough to 
enable Monzo to hold her liable. So I also need to think about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more likely than not that Ms B consented to the payments being made.
From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Monzo to conclude that Ms B 
consented to  and so authorised  the transactions. Specifically, given that Im satisfied 
Ms Bs phone was used to set up Google Pay, I cant see how any other party could have 
then made a payment through Google Pay without Ms Bs consent. Ms B has confirmed that 
her phone had PIN and facial recognition set up as security features and that nobody else 
had access to her phone. So I agree with our investigator that the information Ms B has 
given to us doesnt suggest any plausible way that a fraudster could have gained access to 
her Google Pay facility.
I appreciate that Ms B says she has never been to, or had any connection with, the country 
where the transaction ultimately was made to. But given that this was an online payment, I 
dont think that means that she couldnt have made the transaction or allowed it to be made.
Taking everything into account, I think, on balance, that Monzo was reasonable to conclude 
that Ms B authorised these payments. It follows that Monzo is entitled to hold her liable for 
them.
Ive noted Monzos offer to pay Ms B £50 in recognition of any distress caused by the delays 
in providing her with a full response to her complaint. And Im satisfied that offer is fair in the 
circumstances.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint. Monzo Bank Ltd should now pay Ms B the £50 it has offered to 
her if it hasnt done so already.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 September 2022.
 
Sophie Mitchell
Ombudsman