DRN-3045950
The complaint
Mrs W complains about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) who declined her claim for damage 
under her home insurance policy.
What happened
In February 2021 Mrs W contacted Aviva to report that she had a leak from her roof, that 
also caused internal damage, following a storm. Aviva instructed a surveyor to assess the 
damage. The surveyor was unable to attend the property to assess the damage until around 
a week later. In the meantime, more water was entering the property and Mrs W had to get a 
contractor to carry out temporary repairs.       
Mrs W describes that she had to chase Aviva to get the survey inspection carried out as she 
was concerned about more damage to her property. Following on from this, the surveyor 
agreed to carry out a virtual survey. He requested photographs of the damage and spoke to 
Mrs Ws contractor about the damage. His report concluded that the damage caused was 
due to poor workmanship and not because of a storm.  
Aviva then declined the claim and said that there were no storm conditions present. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mrs W referred a complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint and didnt think it should be upheld. She 
concluded that there were no storm conditions around at the time of the event and so there 
was no insured peril that would be covered by the policy. But Aviva had offered £100 for the 
trouble and upset it caused (as it recognised that there had been some poor customer 
service issues) which Mrs W accepted. Our investigator concluded that she couldnt ask 
Aviva to do anything further to resolve the claim. 
Mrs W didnt agree with our investigator and requested a decision from an ombudsman. She 
felt that there had been storm conditions present, the roof was only a few years old and that 
her contractor and architect had confirmed that the roof was in good condition. So, she 
asked for a decision from an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to 
Mrs W, but I hope my findings go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision.
I note that Mrs W has made a few detailed points, which I have read and considered. I hope 
the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As an 
informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue.
In assessing the evidence, I must first establish whether there were prevailing storm 
conditions at the time of the claim. If I am not satisfied there were, I must decide if Aviva 
ought to have considered the claim under any other section of the policy.  
There are three questions we take into consideration when determining whether an event 
can be classed as a storm. These are: 
Do we agree that storm conditions occurred on or around the date the damage is said to 
have happened?
Is the damage claimed for consistent with damage a storm typically causes?
Were the storm conditions the main cause of damage?
If any of the answers to the above questions are no, then an insurer can reasonably decline 
a claim. 
Aviva determined that the conditions did not amount to a storm. It relied upon the policy 
terms and conditions that defined what amounts to a storm as:
An unusual weather event with persistent high winds usually associated with rain, thunder, 
lightning or snow. The wind speed or gust should normally exceed 55mph (48 knots) to be a 
storm
I have considered the local weather reports from 27 December 2020 to 31 January 2021, 
which are usually the best evidence I can rely on to check whether there were prevailing 
storm conditions. These show that there was rainfall around the time of the claim, but it was 
not sufficiently heavy.  Also, the wind speed wasnt sufficiently strong enough to meet the 
requirements of a storm as outlined in the policy terms and conditions. Looking at the 
reports, I cant be satisfied that a storm was present at the time of the event. So, the answer 
to the first question is no. 
I understand that Mrs W has asked me to consider evidence from her contractor, architect 
and a certificate of building control, that would show that the property was in a good state. 
And that it was unlikely that poor workmanship was the reason for the leak. Moreover, that 
the damage to the roof was as a result of heavy winds and a storm. But Mrs W hasnt 
provided a report either from her contractor or architect for me to consider. The building 
control certificate was signed off on 16 August 2016 and gives no indication as to the state of 
the roof in 2020. Nor has she provided me with any other weather report that could show 
that at the time, there were storm conditions prevailing.
Further, I have been provided with photographs of the affected roof and I can see that there 
are areas of loose mortar. So, I think it is more likely than not that the damage was caused 
by poor workmanship rather than a one-off event such as a storm. Consequently, I think that 
it was reasonable for Aviva to decline the claim, based on no storm being present.
Finally, I have looked at whether there were any terms contained within Mrs Ws policy that 
Aviva couldve applied such as accidental damage, to the claim. Having reviewed the policy 
schedule, I can see that Mrs W had cover that included accidental damage. But this did not 
extend to any damage caused to the building. So, I dont think Aviva was unreasonable not 
to consider the claim, under any other section of the policy. Aviva offered to pay £100 compensation for the poor customer service issues that Mrs W 
experienced. These included the delay in the surveyor carrying out the assessment.  As well 
as failing to contact Mrs W to directly communicate that the claim had been declined. And 
failing to recognise that Mrs W (who is elderly with health issues) was a vulnerable 
customer. Mrs W has accepted the award. 
Overall, I think Aviva has dealt with Mrs Ms claim fairly. Im not satisfied that there were 
storm conditions at the time of the event and any damage caused was likely a result of poor 
workmanship. So, I wont be asking Aviva to do anything more to resolve the complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons I have explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 November 2021.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman