DRN-3686098
The complaint
Mr P complains WPS Advisory Ltd (WPS) failed to provide the necessary confirmation of 
advice to allow him to proceed with a transfer of his defined benefit pension. This led to 
delays resulting in additional costs, which he would like refunded.
What happened
I set out the background to this complaint in my earlier provisional decision. For clarity I 
repeat it here.
Mr P had a preserved occupational pension scheme (OPS) with a former employer.
In January 2021, WPS wrote to Mr P regarding his OPS. His former employers had provided 
information about the benefits and the choices available for his pension including a cash 
equivalent transfer value (CETV). It offered to pay for initial advice, which would cover the 
suitability of the available options including transferring out of his scheme to a personal 
pension if appropriate.
 
On 26 February 2021, Mr P had an appointment with WPS to start the financial advice 
process. WPS sent various documents to read and complete prior to the meeting including
access to the online portal.
On 11 March 2021, WPS provided a Retirement Advice document with its recommendations 
as to whether a proposed transfer of Mr Ps defined benefits pension to a personal pension 
was suitable at this time. WPS explained its recommendation was based on the information 
provided and Mr Ps circumstances. After considering the estimated cost of purchasing the 
same benefits that Mr P was entitled to already with an annuity, the costs outweighed any 
benefit and so WPS did not recommend Mr P transfer his OPS to a personal pension.
Mr P accepted the advice and asked WPS to provide the advice declaration form which he 
believed he was entitled to and was what was needed to request to transfer the CETV to his 
new plan. He explained he had already carried out his own research of where he wanted to 
invest but needed the Section 48 Declaration (s48) certificate, to be able to complete the 
transfer.
WPS didnt agree to provide the s48 certificate. It said it didnt offer an insistent customer 
procedure and as it hadnt recommended transferring out of Mr Ps defined benefits scheme 
was the proper course of action to take it couldnt provide the declaration.
On 12 April 2021, Mr P complained to WPS about the service he had received.
Mr P had been offered a guaranteed CETV if he completed any transfer within a given 
timescale. He says he was becoming increasingly concerned he may miss this deadline and 
so on 15 April 2021, he sought the services of another financial adviser in an attempt to 
proceed.
On 27 April 2021, WPS issued its final response. It said it had correctly followed its process 
and confirmed as it didnt have an insistent client process, it could not issue the s48 
certificate. It didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.
Dissatisfied, Mr P brought his complaint to this service.
An investigator looked into things for Mr P. He issued his first view on 28 October 2021. He 
didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint and at this stage thought WPS had followed its own policies 
and procedures and acted fairly and reasonably in Mr Ps best interests.
However, following receipt of further information the investigator reconsidered all the 
information and issued a second view on 22 April 2022. He looked again at the regulatory 
requirements after pension transfer advice has been provided. He determined that having 
had enough information to provide Mr P with a recommendation, WPS should have provided 
him with a s.48 certificate, which would have confirmed he has received advice, albeit advice 
not to transfer his pension. In failing to do so, it was his view that WPS hadnt acted fairly 
and reasonably and as a result Mr P had incurred costs he otherwise wouldnt have. 
The investigator also noted that the firm he turned to for advice and to complete the transfer 
within the deadline window had expedited charges to account for the short timescale 
available. He accepted that Mr P would have had to pay for advice, but he wouldnt have had 
to pay the expedited costs if WPS had provided the S.48 or explained at an earlier stage that 
they couldnt provide the service Mr P was looking for.
He upheld Mr Ps complaint and set out what he thought WPS should do to put things right.
He said WPS should:
Pay the difference between the advice he would have had to pay for to transfer his 
pension and the expedited charges charged by his advice firm
Mr P took a withdrawal which equated to 21% of his Tax-free Lump Sum (TFLS). 
Had WPS issued the certificate he would have received this amount earlier and so he 
said WPS should pay 8% simple interest on the withdrawal amount from the date he 
should have received it to the date he actually received it.
Carry out a comparison between current values of the funds transferred  and what 
the value transferred would have been at the calculation date if the funds had been 
transferred on the date they should have been. (determined by deducting the number 
of days delay for which the investigator thought the business was responsible - he 
calculated that this is fourteen days.
The investigator set out, in this second view, how WPS should go about calculating fair 
compensation and detailed the calculation method in his view.
Mr P accepted the investigators second view and findings.
WPS did not and said it would provide further submissions. It asked for an ombudsman 
review.
I said I found the key issues to be whether WPS had sufficient information to make a 
recommendation and having done so if it should then have provided a S.48 declaration 
confirming independent advice had been given, to allow Mr P to take any action he chose 
with regard to the transfer of his pension benefits. If, as Mr P claimed, it failed to follow its 
regulatory obligations and Mr P suffered a loss or incurred costs as a result, what action 
WPS should take to put things right.   My provisional view focused on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint and I set 
these out below.
Did WPS have sufficient information to make a recommendation and if it did so, should it 
have issued an adviser confirmation of advice certificate?
I explained, legislation regulates the advice process, and the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), as the regulator, sets out how to practically implement such rules and requirements.
Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 says: Independent advice in respect of
conversions and transfers:
(1) Where a member of a pension scheme has subsisting rights in respect of any 
safeguarded benefits, or a survivor of a member has subsisting rights in respect of 
any safeguarded benefits, the trustees or managers must check that the member or 
survivor has received appropriate independent advice before 
(a) converting any of the benefits into different benefits that are flexible benefits under the
scheme.
(b) making a transfer payment in respect of any of the benefits with a view to acquiring a 
right or entitlement to flexible benefits for the member or survivor under another pension 
scheme.
(c) paying a lump sum that would be an uncrystallised funds pension lump sum in respect of 
any of the benefits
It defines appropriate independent advice as advice that is given by an authorised
independent adviser. Theres no requirement in the legislation for the member to follow the 
advice provided. And shortly afterwards, where advice is defined, that definition doesnt 
include an obligation on the advice being followed.
In short, Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 requires that trustees or scheme 
managers check that advice has been given (by a firm with the relevant permissions) before 
allowing a transfer to proceed where there are defined benefits or other safeguarded 
benefits worth more than £30,000. The requirement doesnt extend to ensuring that positive 
advice to transfer has been given. Someone who has received advice not to transfer can still 
go ahead.
I explained COBS 19 sets out the various requirements which firms must comply with when 
advising on a pension transfer  and in particular, when deciding whether or not such a 
transfer is suitable for the client, and in his best interests.
COBS 19.1.10 in the FCA Handbook states: 
(1) Where a firm has advised a retail client in relation to a pension transfer or
pension conversion, and the firm is asked to confirm this for the purposes of section 48 of 
the Pension Schemes Act 2015, then the firm should provide such confirmation as soon as
reasonably practicable.
(2) The firm should provide the confirmation regardless of whether it advised the client to
proceed with a pension transfer or pension conversion or not.
This makes it clear where advice has been given, the declaration should be completed 
whether the advice is to transfer or not. Its the fact of giving advice that creates the 
obligation to sign the declaration, not whether the advice is in favour of a transfer or not.
WPS pointed out there are two further pieces of regulatory guidance in addition to COBS 19.In additional submissions to this service, it said:
In FG21/3. Paragraph 2.14 it states:
"When giving full advice on a DB transfer, you will normally give 2 pieces of advice:
Whether to give up safeguarded benefits
Where to transfer the funds to, should the transfer proceed."
The adviser was unable to establish and demonstrate, on the basis of contemporary 
evidence, that the transfer was in the complainants best interests at the time of the 
engagement, as required by FCA COBS 19.1.6 G (3). Furthermore, the adviser was unable 
to demonstrate that the complainant was making an informed decision. Therefore, the 
recommendation was to retain benefits in the scheme without consideration of a receiving 
vehicle. Therefore, the dual requirements of FG 21/3 were not satisfied. 
This means we were unable to satisfy all the condition described in s48 (3) of the Pension 
Schemes Act 2015 which states For the purposes of the definition of appropriate 
independent advice in section 48(8) of the Act, the advice must be specific to the type of 
relevant transaction proposed by the member or survivor.
WPS has argued that they didnt have sufficient information to provide suitable advice. In its 
final response it details a number of areas Mr P declined to answer or pointed out that he 
was looking to transfer his pension regardless of the advice that was given by WPS. 
It appears that WPS took exception to some of the responses Mr P gave and in terms of 
providing advice in his best interest, it may have a point. But on that basis, it should not have 
provided a recommendation within its suitability report which advised Mr P to retain his 
benefits within his previous occupational scheme.
The relevant rule here can be found within COBS 9.2.6:
If a firm does not obtain the necessary information to assess suitability, it must not make a
personal recommendation to the client or take a decision to trade for him.
 Further clarification can be found in the FCAs Finalised Guidance FG21/3  Advising on 
Pension transfers and in particular the following paragraph:
4.3 Knowing and understanding information about your clients circumstances is the 
foundation of suitable advice. If you do not get the necessary information, you must not 
make a personal recommendation. This is because you cannot be sure that your advice will 
be suitable. Many of the problems we have seen with DB transfer advice are directly linked 
to poor information gathering which results in material information gaps. If you do not get the 
necessary information to assess suitability, you must not make a personal recommendation 
to the client or take a decision to trade for them.
I looked carefully at the suitability report. It says:
. Although you have the option of transferring your benefits in the Scheme to a personal 
arrangement, at present your retirement plans are not clear. In the absence of a clear plan, it 
is not possible to identify a tangible benefit to you in transferring now and taking on the risks 
that are currently taken by the scheme. The scheme will continue to provide you with a 
secure benefit at no risk or cost to you. You have no immediate need for further capital or income and therefore there is no need to 
take any benefits now, either from the scheme or from an alternative personal arrangement. 
Therefore, I recommend that you leave your benefits within the Scheme where you 
will continue to benefit from the security and guarantees offered by the scheme.
The suitability letter goes onto detail the risks associated with the advisers recommendation, 
which focus on the fact the transfer value could be higher or lower at a later date.
Importantly, under the section entitled Cost of Advice the adviser points out there is no cost 
to Mr P for the advice that has been given. This is because Mr Ps former employer paid for 
the advice, and WPS took a fee for the advice it refers to.
WPS has therefore accepted payment for advising Mr P and produced a recommendation 
and a suitability report and a CETV. So, I dont agree that WPS can argue now that it didnt 
have sufficient information given the information in the suitability report.
So, it follows that having given Mr P independent advice, and that being the test here, not 
what the advice was  it should have issued Mr P with a declaration to confirm it had done 
so.
Did WPS fail to carry out its regulatory responsibilities and did Mr P incur costs and/or any 
financial loss as a result?
I explained I had considered the suitability report. This is an important document as it usually 
details the clients circumstances and how the adviser has reached the recommendation 
given, considering a number of factors.
In its final response, WPS has asserted that Mr P withheld information or chose not to 
provide specific information which hindered the advice process but as I have already said, 
not to the extent that the adviser didnt feel able to make a recommendation.
I would have expected, where a client is believed to be unable or unwilling to provide any 
information that the adviser needed to be able to make a recommendation, they would have 
pointed to the Terms of Business and explained how the advice process worked. This 
would have been particularly important since WPS does not offer an insistent client process.
Had WPS initially told Mr P that they could not provide help or advice on the terms he may 
have been seeking, Im persuaded he was making it clear he would still have wanted to
transfer his pension from his employer scheme and so I agree its fair to assume he would 
have gone to another adviser. 
Mr P sought advice from another adviser very quickly, in fact within days when it became 
apparent to him that he would not be able to obtain the s48 confirmation of advice.
So, it is my view that WPS should have provided a confirmation that Mr P had received 
advice in accordance with Regulation 7 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 (Transitional 
Provisions and Appropriate Independent Advice) Regulations 2015.
In failing to do so, I dont think WPS has treated Mr P fairly and so I have now considered 
whether Mr P suffered any delays or additional costs as a result.
Mr P would still have had to pay for advice from another adviser. He has provided this 
service with the costs for this advice and the costs for expediting the advice to meet the 
necessary deadline to secure the guaranteed CETV.
The charging structure for the third-party advisers details the costs of expediting advice.
Issued within 18 working days £2,000Issued within 12 working days £2,500
Issued within 6 working days £3,500
Issued within 3 working days £5,000
Mr P said if WPS had told him at the appointment on 26 February 2021 that WPS would or 
could not facilitate what he needed; he would have made the approach to a third-party 
adviser then.  At this point, its reasonable to assume he would have had more than 18 
working days to complete the transfer and so he would have paid at least £2,000 for the 
advice.
He says his first opportunity to approach them was 15 April 2021. Looking at the timeline of 
events and the comments made by the third-party advisers, who said they wouldnt be able 
to issue within 12 days, Mr P paid the expedited costs of £3,500. 
I said Im persuaded by Mr Ps testimony, I think everything points to the fact he fully 
intended to transfer his pension and took the option of the free advice from WPS, as his 
previous employer paid for this. I find it more likely than not had Mr P been made aware at 
the beginning that WPS Terms of Business did not offer an insistent customer process; he 
would have acted differently.  But, in any event, WPS made a recommendation for Mr P to 
remain in the scheme, on that basis alone, WPS provided Mr P with independent advice and 
should have issued the Section 48. In failing to do so it unnecessarily delayed the process.
So, I said its fair to assume Mr P wouldve acted and would have invested earlier into
his chosen fund and received his pension commencement lump sum (PCLS) at an earlier
date and paid less for the transfer advice.
I said in my view, that WPS had been responsible for delays that led to an increased cost of 
£1,500 that Mr P would otherwise not have had to pay.
Mr P also took a withdrawal of £80,000, which equated to 21% of his TFLS. Again, in my 
view, he would have had access to this money earlier, had WPS issued the S.48 
conformation of advice and so I intend to ask WPS to pay 8% simple interest on this amount 
from the date it should have been received to the date it actually was received.
The investigator helpfully worked out an approximate timeline and having worked it back I 
agreed with his findings. The basis of this was:
5 March 2021 being seven days from initial meeting 26 February 2021.
23 March 2021 is the latest that the new report issued using 18 standard days.
15 June 2021 date of transfer based on 84 days between actual date of report being 
27 April 2021.
20 July 2021 was the actual transfer date
29 June 2021 taking PCLS 14 days after transfer would have been completed.
I set out in my provisional decision what fair compensation should take into account and 
what WPS should do to put things right. 
I offered both parties the opportunity to provide any further submissions they wished me to 
consider before issuing my final decision.
Mr P accepted my provisional findings but had a query over the number of days delay 
detailed in my provisional decision, for calculating the delay to his being able to access his 
TFLS.
WPS responded immediately to say it disagreed with my findings and would be making a 
further detailed submission. In that submission WPS said:
My provisional findings pay lip service to the regulatory requirements and 
responsibilities of an adviser
WPS declined to issue a declaration of advice because Mr P failed to disclose 
material information.
The recommendation it made was not a suitability report in accordance with COBS 
9.4.2AR. It was default recommendation to remain in the scheme because Mr P had 
not provided the necessary information to make a full recommendation and as such it 
does not meet the criteria of section 48 of PSA 2015.
WPS also submitted a request for an Oral Hearing in this matter. I rejected that request and 
set out my reasoning in a separate document. For clarity and in summary, this was on the 
basis that all the information required to reach a decision was available and there was no 
necessity to undertake an oral examination of the evidence.
WPS then had until 16 February 2023 to submit any further information it wished me to 
consider before issuing my final decision but did not submit any further representation.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I havent seen anything to persuade me to deviate from my provisional 
decision and so it follows I have reached the same conclusion and I uphold this complaint.
I have however, reconsidered the timeline of events and simplified the redress calculation. 
This has been provided to both parties for consideration. Both responded and I have 
considered all the submissions made before reaching my final decision.
In deciding this complaint Ive considered the law, any relevant regulatory rules and good 
industry practice at the time. I also carefully considered the submissions that have been 
made by Mr P and WPS. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I said Ive 
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words, I looked at what 
evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened. 
Mr P relies on section 19.1.10 of the FCAs Code of Business Sourcebook (COBS). That 
section of COBS says. 
(1) Where a firm has advised a retail client in relation to a pension transfer or pension 
conversion and the firm is asked to confirm this for the purposes of section 48 of the Pension 
Schemes Act 2015, then the firm should provide such confirmation as soon as reasonably 
practicable. 
(2) The firm should provide the confirmation regardless of whether it advised the client to 
proceed with a pension transfer or pension conversion or not.
WPS argues that it didnt provide advice because Mr P did not disclose all the material 
information required to provide a recommendation. If, as WPS, claims it was not in a position 
to provide Mr P with advice then I would have expected to see that clearly set out stating it 
did not offer an Insistent customer process and as such could not provide Mr P with any 
advice. I dont accept its position that the suitability letter it provided was for a default 
recommendation due to a lack of information.I say that because the pack it provided clearly sets out on page 1.
Thank you for taking advice from WPS Advisory. In this pack you will find the following:
1. Advice Letter
This letter summarises my advice to you, together with an outline of any costs you may 
have to pay and what you need to do next.
The TVAS provided to Mr P says:
The test confirms that if you had no clear alternative plan other than to take benefits in their 
current form, then we would have known to advise you not to transfer. It shows that there is 
a cost to the security you would be giving up by transferring, and what that cost is. As we 
have not identified good reasons to suffer this cost, this test simply reinforces our advice.
Cost of Advice
(Mr Ps former employer) is paying for you to receive advice on this offer. As you are 
retaining your benefits within the ceding scheme... there are no further costs to you.
For all of the reasons set out in my provisional view and those listed above, I dont agree 
with WPS assertion that it did not provide advice. WPS did provide a recommendation to 
remain in the scheme, issued a suitability letter and carried out a CETV analysis  all of 
which led it to advise Mr P to remain in his former employers DB scheme. It was also paid 
for the advice it provided by Mr Ps former employer.
If, as WPS, claims it was not in a position to provide Mr P with advice then I would have 
expected to see a summary of why it could not provide any advice without the necessary 
disclosures.
When taking all this into account Im persuaded that WPS did give Mr P advice and should 
have provided him with a declaration of advice to that effect. In failing to do so within a 
reasonable time from issuing its recommendation it led to Mr P having to seek expedited 
advice elsewhere to carry out the transfer which incurred him costs he would otherwise not 
have had to pay.
I have reconsidered the timeline of events. Although this wasnt challenged by WPS, I 
thought about the whether the insistent customer process made a material difference to the 
delays, and I wasnt persuaded that this element actually makes a difference. The issue here 
is that a recommendation was made and then WPS failed to issue the S.48 declaration, so I 
have simplified the timeline to reflect when the S.48 should reasonably have been issued 
and worked back from. In essence this means the timeline is brought forward in terms of 
calculating the redress.
The timeline should be based upon:
11 March 2021  Date of Recommendation
18 March 2021 The notional date the S.48 declaration could reasonably have been 
issued
20 March 2021 The notional date that Mr P would then have submitted the transfer 
request along with the s48 declaration to the scheme trustees (two days later seems 
reasonable)17 May 2021  The notional date at which the funds would have been transferred to 
the pension plan (i.e., number of days after the actual transfer request was submitted 
to the trustees up to the transfer completing and the funds being received by the 
pension plan). I calculate 14 days to be a fair and reasonable timescale, however, this 
takes the date to 03 April 2021 which was a Saturday and therefore this is calculated 
to the next working day i.e., 5 April 2021.
31 May 2021- The notional date that Mr P would have received the PCLS (i.e., 14 
days after the notional date above on which the transfer would been completed).
WPS accepted the revised timeline as did Mr P.
WPS challenged the fund used to calculate the redress (the actual fund Mr P transferred 
into) as it suspects access this particular fund would only be available and have to be 
advised by an IFA, and if he had proceeded with the S.48, it argues the fund used to 
calculate the redress wouldnt have been available to him.
WPS seems to be suggesting, after some considerable submissions, that an alternative fund 
to the actual one be considered.  Im not in agreement that is a fair and reasonable way to 
calculate the redress. Mr P was put in the position of having to seek advice from another IFA 
precisely because WPS failed to issue the S.48. As WPS challenged the timeline of the 
actual DB transfer, and so the actual timeline has been used in the calculation, it seems fair 
and reasonable to use the actual fund he transferred into for clarity and consistency in 
determining how to put things right.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, this service looks to put Mr P as close as
possible to the position he would probably now be in if WPSs error hadnt have taken place.
Based on the timeline, its reasonable to assume without the delays Mr P would have 
transferred his OPS on 17 May 2021 to AJ Bell (his Self-Invested Pension Provider)
What should WPS do?
To compensate Mr P fairly it should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ps' investment with the notional value if it had been
transferred on 17 May 2021. If the actual value is greater than the notional value, no
compensation is payable. If the notional value is greater than the actual value, there is a loss
and compensation is payable.
It should also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, WPS should pay into Mr Ps' pension plan, to increase its value by the
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect of
charges and any available tax relief. WPS shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension
plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If WPS are unable to pay the compensation into Mr Ps' pension plan, it should pay
that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have
provided a taxable income. Therefore, the compensation should be reduced to notionally
allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. This is an adjustment to
ensure the compensation is a fair amount  it isnt a payment of tax to HMRC, so MrP wont be able to reclaim any of the reduction after compensation is paid.
The notional allowance should be calculated using Mr Ps' actual or expected marginal
rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
Its reasonable to assume that Mr P is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the
selected retirement age, so the reduction would equal 20%. However, if Mr P would
have been able to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the
compensation, resulting in an overall reduction of 15%.
If either you or Mr P dispute that this is a reasonable assumption, you must let us
know as soon as possible so that the assumption can be clarified, and Mr P receives
appropriate compensation. It wont be possible for us to amend this assumption once any
final decision has been issued on the complaint.
Mr P had paid an additional £1,500 in adviser fees which formed part of the deduction
of charges within the AJ Bell SIPP on 21 July 2021. 
WPS should assume £1,500 would not have been deducted from the AJ Bell SIPP. If the 
above comparison shows that no compensation is payable, the difference between the 
actual value and the notional value can be offset against the fees with interest.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr P in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid.
If you consider that youre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, you should tell Mr P how much youve taken off. You should also give Mr P a 
tax deduction certificate in respect of interest if Mr P asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax 
on interest from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Portfolio 
nameStatus Benchmark From (Start 
date) _To (End 
Date)Additional 
Interest
A J Bell SIPP Still exists and 
liquidNotional value 
from A J BellNotional 
Transfer date 
of 17 May 
2021Date of 
decision8% simple 
interest from 
the date of the 
decision to 
the date of 
settlement
Actual value
This means the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
Notional Value
This is the value of Mr Ps investment had the occupational pension scheme benefits
been transferred to AJ Bell on 17 May 2021. WPS should request that AJ Bell calculate this
value.
Any additional sum paid into the AJ Bell SIPP should be added to the notional value
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in. This would include the AVC
which was transferred at the same time as the DB scheme.
The £80,000 tax free cash withdrawal from the AJ Bell SIPP should be deducted from the
notional value calculation at 14 days later, 17 May 2021 so it ceases to accrue any return in
the calculation from that point on.Any withdrawal, income, or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the
calculation from that point on. If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep
calculations simpler, Ill accept if you total all those payments and deduct that figure at the
end instead of deducting periodically.
Due to the delay, Mr P has had been deprived of using the £80,000 tax-free cash
withdrawal. I consider he would have been paid the lump sum on 31 May 2021, 14 days
after the assumed transfer date. WPS should calculate and pay interest at a rate of 8% per 
year simple from the notional withdrawal date 31 May 2021 to the date of the actual payment 
of 3 August 2021. And it should then pay the same interest rate on the difference from the 
date of actual payment up to the settlement date.
In addition, WPS should pay Mr P £300 for distress and inconvenience caused by 
unnecessary delays, the failure to provide the confirmation of advice certificate and causing 
undue worry that he may miss the TVAS deadline and lose the initial enhanced offer.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
The Brooks Macdonald portfolio fund is where Mr P invested his funds when the transfer 
occurred, and it is fair and reasonable to assume that this is where he would have
invested had the transfer occurred on the date it should have. The notional value should 
therefore be calculated on the same basis as Mr P actually invested within his replacement 
SIPP.
My final decision
For the reasons I have given I uphold this complaint and direct WPS Advisory Ltd to 
undertake the redress as detailed above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2023.
 
Wendy Steele
Ombudsman