DRN-1970902
 
The complaint
Mr N is unhappy how Sanderson Drake Limited (SD) dealt with his claims for mis-sold 
payday loans.
What happened
In 2019, Mr N instructed SD to make mis-selling claims against three payday lenders hed 
borrowed money from in the past. Because he didnt hear anything from SD after chasing 
them updates on multiple occasions, Mr N started to chase the payday lenders himself. And 
he told SD he wanted to cancel his claims.
The claims were successful and SD invoiced Mr N for their fees. Mr N has complained that 
SD didnt handle the claims process from start to finish, as promised in their advertising, and 
that they didnt keep him updated.
Despite having a regulatory obligation to do so, SD didnt co-operate with our investigation 
and didnt provide any of the evidence that we requested. Because of this, the investigator 
based her view solely on the evidence Mr N provided.
SD terms said they would keep Mr N updated throughout the entire claims process. And 
our investigator didnt think SD had always done this. But she did think SD had done the 
work Mr N had instructed them to do. The investigator also thought SD shouldve told Mr N 
what their cancellation costs would be when they received his cancellation request. 
The investigator recommended that SD pay Mr N £75 to compensate him for the frustration 
and inconvenience their failure to keep him reasonably updated has caused. Mr N agreed 
with the investigators recommendations, but SD didnt.
SD provided their evidence in response to the investigators view. This evidence was mainly 
copies of emails that Mr N had already provided. So the investigator didnt think SDs 
evidence changed her view, and this has been passed to me to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached the same 
overall conclusions as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The basic facts of this case arent disputed. Mr N instructed SD to make the claims on his 
behalf, and they did so. They also invoiced Mr N for the successful claims in line with the 
terms hed agreed to. Because of this, my decision will focus on whether SD kept Mr N 
reasonably updated, whether they responded to his emails, and whether those responses 
were fit for purpose.SD requested further information for the claims against payday lender C on 29 August 2019. 
This email went to Mr Ns junk mail folder, and he responded to SD on 19 September 2019, 
saying hed get this information over to them. The following day Mr N chased SD for an 
acknowledgement to his email. I dont think it was unreasonable for SD not to respond to Mr 
Ns email immediately and I wouldnt expect them to do so. I also dont think that Mr Ns 
email of 19 September 2019 necessarily needed a response. 
But I do think SD shouldve responded to his email on 20 September 2019 asking for an 
acknowledgement, as it was clear that Mr N wanted this. Mr N sent the information SD had 
asked for on 20 September 2019, and SD acknowledged receipt of this a few days later.
Mr N asked SD for an update on his claims on 16 October and they responded the same 
day. They asked him for further information on some potentially new claims, but they didnt 
provide the update hed asked for on his existing claims. On 22 and 24 October 2019 Mr N 
emailed SD to say hed provided the further information asked for, and asked SD for a 
response. On 28 October 2019 he emailed SD saying he was fed up waiting for them to 
respond. He also said Ill take those two {claims} elsewhere or chase myself. 
SD sent Mr N some documents to sign on 28 October 2019. He replied the following day, 
telling them Im not signing anything, until someone starts replying to my emails!
Ive also seen that Mr N emailed SD asking for updates on 11 September, 26 September, 18 
October and 31 October 2019. Ive not seen anything to show me that SD responded to 
these requests.
Its clear from evidence that Mr N was expecting SD to keep him updated as to what was 
happening with his claims. And he was also expecting his emails providing further 
information to be acknowledged. And given that SDs terms said theyd keep him updated 
throughout the entire claims process I dont think this was an unreasonable expectation. 
But, while SD were dealing with the information Mr N had provided and were processing his 
claims as instructed; they werent keeping him reasonably updated. And this was causing Mr 
N an increasing amount of frustration.
Mr N emailed SD on 1 November 2019, telling them that he wanted to cancel, because he 
wasnt receiving any responses to his emails. SD responded the same day telling him a fee 
of up to £360.00 before additional charges are applied and payable where a claim is 
cancelled. Please let me know how you wish to proceed. I dont think this response is good 
enough. 
While SDs terms allow them to charge for claims cancelled outside of any 14-day cooling off 
period; just saying the cancellation fees could be up to £360 plus additional fees isnt enough 
for anyone to make an informed decision on whether to cancel or not. SD shouldve told Mr 
N exactly how much the cancellation fees were going to be for each of his claims.
On 20 November 2019 SD emailed Mr N about their unpaid invoice. This told him that they 
have the right to charge additional fees and consider legal action if the invoice remained 
unpaid. These are factual statements and SD were reasonable in letting Mr N know what 
might happen. And as theyd done the work they were instructed to do, and this has resulted 
in a successful claim, SD acted reasonably in pursuing their fees. And Mr N paid the invoice 
under protest on 27 November 2019.
Also, in response to Mr Ns complaint about his emails being unanswered, SD asked him to 
provide read receipts before they could investigate this. While Mr N was able to provide 
these, I think this was an unnecessary request. Its reasonable to expect that an email sent 
to a valid email address, that wasnt rejected by an email server, to have been received. An email doesnt have to have been read before it can be classed as unanswered  an email 
thats ignored and never opened is just as unanswered.
Putting things right
Based on what Ive seen, SD did the work they were instructed to do, and they invoiced Mr N 
for this in line with the terms hed agreed to. But they didnt provide him with regular updates, 
not all of his emails were responded to, and the information they provided about cancellation 
fees wasnt sufficient for anyone to be able to make an informed decision.
Mr Ns emails to SD show his increasing frustration about the lack of meaningful contact 
from SD. So SD should pay Mr N £75 in recognition of the frustration and inconvenience 
they caused him. 
My final decision
For the reasons explained above I uphold Mr Ns complaint and Sanderson Drake Limited 
must follow my directions.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Andrew Burford
Ombudsman