DRN-1688865
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Hendy Group Limited mis-sold her payment protection insurance (PPI) 
alongside a hire purchase (HP) agreement.
What happened
Mrs B entered into a HP agreement over a three-year term when she bought a car in 2007. 
At the same time, Hendy sold her PPI to protect her monthly repayments in the event of 
disability or unemployment. It also included life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI was mis-sold. Mrs B disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me to review afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Bs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Hendy ought to have explained to Mrs B that she had a choice about taking out the cover 
and get her agreement for it to be added. She says Hendy suggested she had to have it. Ive 
thought very carefully about her recollections of the sale.
I dont know for sure what was said during the sale, but Ive seen a copy of Mrs Bs signed 
HP agreement. It included a section for PPI, setting out some of the policy details and asking 
her to sign separately if she wanted to take it. Mrs B signed in the relevant place.
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied on balance that Hendy gave Mrs B a choice 
about purchasing PPI and that she agreed to buy it without being unduly pressured.
If Hendy recommended the policy to Mrs B, it had to check that it was right for her. I dont 
know what checks it did but, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was right for her. For example:
 
Mrs B was eligible for the policy. And she wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, 
or limits on, the cover. 
Although Mrs B may have had death in service cover, the PPI benefits were 
considerable and covered more things. The unemployment benefits were payable for 
up to 12 months per claim and she could have claimed for disability up until the end 
of the HP agreement. With that in mind, I think shed have found the PPI provided 
useful protection in addition to the other ways she had of meeting her monthly 
repayments for a time. 
The PPI was flexible in that Mrs B could have cancelled it at any time if she decided it 
was no longer suitable for her.
Hendy also had to ensure it gave Mrs B clear information about the PPI to allow her to make 
an informed decision about whether to take it. As Ive said, I think that Mrs B chose to take it 
out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have provided 
useful additional protection for her if something went wrong. I also think it adequately set out 
on the HP agreement what the policy cost and what the monthly benefit was. Overall, I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.  
Taking everything into account, I dont think Mrs Bs lost out because of how Hendy sold her 
the PPI.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 September 2020.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman