DRN-4202603
The complaint
Mr P is complaining that he couldnt trade his spread bet positions because of IG Index 
Limiteds technical problems.
What happened
In January 2021, Mr P had several trading accounts with IG, with whom he was registered 
as a professional trader. This complaint is solely about his spread betting account. 
On 27 January 2021, when the US markets opened, IG experienced technical issues due to 
unexpected volumes of trades. Mr P couldnt access the platform for around 40 minutes, so 
was unable to manage his account. During this time, the markets went against Mr P. His 
equity fell below the margin requirement of 50% so IG closed a number of his positions. A 
loss of around £125,000 crystallised in Mr Ps account as a result.
Mr P spoke to IG on the phone that afternoon. They offered to reinstate the trades that had 
closed as a result of the margin call and refund the £125,000 losses. At the same time, IG 
told Mr P that hed need to either fund his account with around £18,000 or close some 
positions to avoid another margin call once the positions were reinstated. 
IG reinstated Mr Ps positions at around 7pm. The refund didnt go through until around 
10am on the following day. Mr P closed a few positions shortly after 7pm to avoid the further 
margin call. He then tried to continue trading but wasnt able to. He tried several trades over 
the course of around twelve hours, but they were all rejected. 
Mr P had further conversations with IG. He was very upset about the situation he found 
himself in when he was able to trade again  he said his account had lost over £120,000 due 
to IGs technical issues. IGs account manager made Mr P an offer  to refund the difference 
between the trades he could see Mr P had been attempting to make and the ones he made 
once hed regained access to his account. But this was only around £700 so Mr P wasnt 
interested. He said the trades hed tried to make represented a small proportion of what he 
would have done  he hadnt tried more because it clearly wasnt working.
When Mr P complained to IG they said Mr Ps loss calculation appeared to show his losses 
had arisen largely due to market movements and partly due to the positions he closed to 
avoid a margin call. So they said they couldnt be held responsible for his losses. They said 
theyd reinstated all the positions that had been closed as a result of the first margin call. 
They also explained that Mr P had experienced rejected trades on the evening of 27 January 
and morning of 28 January because the trades would increase his exposure when the 
account was already on a margin call. 
IG said they dont consider refunding clients in respect of missed opportunities on 
hypothetical trades. And they said Mr P hadnt been at all specific about how the technical 
issues had impacted him. So they offered him £1,000 as a goodwill gesture.
Mr P remained unhappy so he brought his complaint to our service and an investigator 
looked into things. Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. She said it was 
impossible to quantify what losses Mr P had incurred as a result of IGs technical issues so 
instead she considered the distress and convenience the issues had caused Mr P and said 
IG should pay him £800. By this point IG had withdrawn their goodwill offer of £1,000. 
Mr P was upset with our investigators response and asked for an ombudsman to look at the 
matter. Hes frustrated that our service hasnt calculated his losses and said that its not 
unreasonable to look at the loss in value of his investments between when the platform 
malfunctioned and when the refund went through  he wasnt able to manage his positions 
at all during this time. He added that IG should refund him all the commission theyd charged 
him, plus interest. 
I issued a provisional decision on 26 April 2023 in which I said: 
Its not disputed that there were technical issues affecting the IG platform between 
around 2.35pm and 3.20pm on 27 January 2021. So Ive not looked into this but instead 
thought about the position Mr P would have been had the technical issues not occurred.
Mr P was subject to a margin call just before 3pm on 27 January 2021. On a phone call 
with IG later that afternoon he said this wouldnt have happened if hed access to his 
account just before this, because hed have made trades to avoid the margin call. At 
around 7pm IG reinstated all the positions theyd closed and refunded the realised 
losses. On the face of it, then, Mr P was put back into the position hed have been in if 
the technical issues hadnt happened.
But unfortunately the refund didnt reach Mr Ps account until 10am on 28 January 2021. 
Mr P says this meant he couldnt trade as he wanted to. Its not entirely clear whether 
this was because the account was on hold or because he didnt have the margin to 
trade  IG have offered both explanations at different times. What is clear is that 
between 7pm and 8pm Mr P made additional trades to meet the additional £18,000 
margin requirement that IG had told him hed need. After that a number of his trades 
were rejected  but he would have been able to trade if the refund had reached Mr Ps 
account by that time.
I dont need to consider whether it was fair for the refund to take so long - if the initial 
technical issues hadnt happened, the refund wouldnt have been necessary. Mr P 
would have been able to trade throughout. Instead he lost the opportunity to trade 
between 8pm on 27 January 2021 and 10am on 28 January 2021 (as well as the 45-
minute period that the platform was down). 
Ive reviewed Mr Ps calculation of his loss. Hes taken the reduction in equity on his 
spread bet account on 27 January, and added back the refund, arriving at a loss of 
around £77,000. Hes then added on around £40,000 of losses he realised on trades 
when trying to avoid a further margin call. I think Mr Ps double-counted the £40,000 
loss as it forms part of the overall reduction in equity for the day. I also dont think either 
of the elements of this calculation are reasonable  Ill explain why. 
Taking the loss realised when trying to avoid a further margin call first, these were 
trades that Mr P chose to make  so its not reasonable to hold IG responsible for these 
losses. Doing so requires an assumption that Mr P could have kept his account within 
the margin requirements without realising losses. Looking at Mr Ps positions and the 
market movements I dont think thats a reasonable assumption. 
Thinking then about the £77,000 loss of equity in Mr Ps account  this is predominantly 
a reflection of the market movements on 27 January. Mr Ps calculation requires an 
assumption that he wouldnt have made any losses on that day. Mr P says he was a 
scalp trader so would have been able to benefit from the market movements. I can see 
from his trading history that he generally closed a fairly high proportion of his positions 
within a few minutes, and most within a few hours. But he did also often hold positions for many days. In addition, his trading history shows many days on which he made 
losses, some of them significant. For example, his losses on his spread bet account on 
15 January 2021 were around £74,000. So its not reasonable to say he wouldnt have 
made any losses if hed been able to trade throughout 27 January 2021 or that IG 
should compensate him as if hed made no losses.
Mr Ps also said IG should refund him all the commission theyd charged him, plus 
interest. Its not clear what period Mr Ps referring to, or whether hed like this to apply to 
all of his accounts with IG or just this one, but either way, Im satisfied its not a 
reasonable request. IG provided a service to Mr P its therefore not reasonable to ask 
them to refund commissions. Even at times when the platform was down, IG were 
available on the phone.
Mr P hasnt sent in any suggestion of what trades hed have made if hed had full access 
to his account on 27 January. Nor has he provided a commentary of what sort of thing 
hed have done. So I cant make a detailed assessment of what Mr Ps gains or losses 
might have been if IGs platform hadnt failed. 
However, I dont think the compensation suggested so far by IG or by our investigator 
goes far enough. Its clear Mr P was an active trader and Im persuaded that hed have 
carried out numerous trades to try to manage his positions if hed been able to. Mr P 
says hed had limited success with his trading before January 2021, but that hed started 
to make some money. And thats confirmed by his trading history  prior to January 
2021 his average daily gain on his spread bet account was around £100, but from 1 
January to 26 January his average daily gain was around £6,500 (even taking into 
account the day he lost £74,000).  
With cases like this its impossible to say exactly what Mr P would have done and 
therefore how much hed have lost or gained if the technical issues hadnt occurred. Im 
inclined to say the fairest solution is for IG and Mr P to take an equal share in the 
amount Mr Ps lost after the technical issues arose on 27 January 2021. 
Ive looked into what his losses were and provisionally calculated the following, taking 
the figures from the daily statements and trading history for Mr Ps account:
£
Opening equity on 27 January 2021 106,690.94
Closing equity on 27 January 2021 -95,000.74
Difference 201,691.68
Less: Amount refunded by IG -124,934.32
Less: Loss realised before 2:35pm on 27 January (not 
attributable to technical issues)-17,155.00
Add back: Amounts transferred into spread bet account 
from CFD account on 27 January26,000.00
Total loss 85,602.36
It follows that Im inclined to say IG need to pay Mr P half of this amount - £42,801.18.
Both parties replied to my provisional decision with extensive comments and IG sent some 
additional evidence. Ill set out their comments and my response to them below.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ps commentsIn summary, Mr P made the following comments:
Hed deposited £26,000 in his account hoping to be able to trade and this should be 
returned to him as he couldnt trade.
All commissions and spreads charged during the period he couldnt trade should be 
refunded.
The issue had wiped out his capital and denied him the opportunity to continue to 
make a living from trading.
All of his trades were scalping trades and hed have been able to protect against 
losses by hedging. 
As Id noted in the provisional decision, hed been making average profits of £6,000 a 
day  so as a minimum he should be put back in the position he was in before the 
system crashed.
Im satisfied I took all of these comments into account when reaching my provisional 
decision. The £26,000 is factored into the calculation set out above, and I was aware of the 
impact on Mr Ps livelihood. Ive taken the commissions and spreads into account when 
thinking about putting things right. Given the market at the time, and Mr Ps trading history, I 
dont think its reasonable to assert that hed have avoided any losses if the technical issue 
hadnt occurred. In summary, Mr Ps comments dont change my mind. 
IGs comments
Ive summarised IGs comments as follows:
The technical issue that IG experienced was caused by an unprecedented event  
high worldwide demand for specific stocks. This was widespread and impacted other 
clients as well as other brokers. Two days later, the Financial Conduct Authority 
issued a statement which said broking firms could withdraw their services if they 
considered it necessary or prudent to do so. This context isnt considered enough in 
the provisional decision.
Theres no evidence to show exactly what trades the client would have made while 
he couldnt access the platform or while he was waiting for the cash correction to be 
credited to his account. Its very generous to propose IG carry half the difference 
between the opening and closing equity on the account. Where an actual loss cant 
be determined, its not fair for IG to carry half the hypothetical loss.
The technical issue was sufficiently corrected by reinstating the positions, crediting 
back the realised losses, and the initial goodwill offer of £1,000. But there was a 
delay in crediting the cash correction. It could have been credited sooner but would 
still have taken at least two hours to process so wouldnt have been before 9pm. 
Even if the correction had been processed sooner, Mr P would still have been on 
margin call and unable to place trades. 
Mr P could have made a deposit on his account at any time in order to continue his 
trading.
I appreciate the technical issue was caused by unprecedented demand in the financial 
markets. Whilst I didnt comment on this in my provisional decision, I had considered it. And 
Id understood that IG had accepted that the issue was their fault. In their final response 
letter to Mr P they said This is clearly not something you should expect from IG, and I wish 
to assure you that measures have been put in place to reduce the likelihood of such events 
occurring again in the future. While the context is important, it doesnt change the fact that 
IGs platform failed Mr P and it wouldnt be fair for him to bear all the losses that arose as a 
result of that failure.IG have described the losses Ive calculated as being hypothetical. But it isnt hypothetical  
its the amount that Mr P actually lost between the start and end of 27 January 2021. We 
dont know what profit or loss he would have made had the technical issues not occurred 
and the margin call not happened. The platform issues led to a margin call which otherwise 
would likely not have happened. This margin call prevented Mr P from being able to manage 
his account and limit his losses. So, whilst I understand IGs view that its not fair for them to 
carry half of a hypothetical loss, Im not satisfied that its fair that Mr P carry all of the loss  if 
there had been no issues Im satisfied on balance that his loss for the day would have been 
much smaller, or he may have been able to make a profit. Thats why I suggested the parties 
share the loss.
As I said in my provisional decision, the delay to the cash correction is incidental as the 
correction wouldnt have been necessary if the platform hadnt gone down and Mr P had 
been able to trade out of the margin call. IG have sent screenshots showing that at several 
points in time between 7pm and 8pm Mr P would have needed more than the amount of the 
cash correction to avoid a margin call. But this doesnt take into account the cumulative 
impact of the 3pm margin call  its likely that if the margin call hadnt happened, Mr P 
wouldnt have been in such a negative position by 7pm. So this additional evidence doesnt 
change my mind.
While I dont disagree with IGs statement that Mr P could have made additional deposits 
and this would have allowed him to continue trading and potentially mitigate his losses, my 
understanding is that Mr P didnt have the money available to him to do this. 
In summary, IGs comments havent changed my mind and so my final decision is 
unchanged from my provisional decision.
My final decision
As Ive set out above, my provisional decision is that IG Index Limited should pay Mr P 
£42,801.18.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2023.
 
Clare King
Ombudsman