DRN-2820666
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an
Appointed Representative of Alexander David Securities Limited) to transfer his pension to a
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
What happened
The background to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. In brief, 
Mr G had said he was cold called by St Pauls Marketing Limited in 2016 and offered a 
pension review. He was told he could benefit from guaranteed returns but wasnt made 
aware of the risks. He said St Pauls Marketing provided him with promotional material 
relating to an investment in debentures issued by Just Loans. Following on from this he 
opened a SIPP and his existing pension worth approximately £17,000 was transferred to it in 
July 2016. The majority of this money was invested in Just Loans debentures.
Mr G, through his representative, subsequently complained to Alexander David Securities 
Limited in May 2019. I understand Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the 
complaint. The representative subsequently referred it to us. Our investigator asked 
Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to take into 
account. However, no files or evidence or arguments were received.
The investigator said he thought it was likely, from the information that was available, that St 
Pauls Marketing had recommended the investment to Mr G. He said it had provided Mr G 
with all the information about the debentures and the benefits of transferring his existing 
pension to the SIPP. The investigator said he thought St Pauls Marketing had advised Mr G. 
So he went onto consider the suitability of the advice for Mr Gs circumstances at the time.
The investigator noted that Mr G was in his mid-forties at the time of the transfer and his 
existing pension was his primary retirement funding. He said in this context, investing the 
pension into high risk bonds wasnt in line with his objectives at the time. The investigator 
thought that an adviser providing a recommendation in the best interests of their client 
should have identified this.
The investigator referred to COBS 10 (Conduct of Business Rules) which said:
This chapter applies to a firm which arranges or deals in relation to a non-readily realisable
security, derivative, or a warrant with or for a retail client and the firm is aware, or ought to 
have been aware, that the application or order is in response to direct offer financial 
promotion.
And COBS 10.2.1 which said
:
(1) When providing a service to which this chapter applies, a firm must ask the client to 
provide information regarding his knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant 
to the specific type of product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to 
assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate for the client.
(2) When assessing appropriateness, a firm must determine whether the client has the
necessary experience and knowledge in order to understand the risks involved in relation to 
the product or service offered or demanded.
The investigator said a high-risk investment of this type would be more suitable for an 
experienced investor with a capacity for loss. He said it was clear that Mr G wasnt such an 
investor, as he had little investment experience or such capacity for loss.
The investigator also referred to the Regulators Principles for Business which he said all 
regulated firms must follow. He said the Principles required St Pauls Marketing to, amongst 
other things, pay due regard to its customers interests and treat them fairly, and take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice and discretionary decisions for any 
customer who was entitled to rely upon its judgment. The investigator said he didnt think St 
Pauls Marketing had met these requirements. He said if they had they wouldnt have 
recommended the investment to Mr G. 
The investigator sent his view of the complaint to Alexander David. But it didnt respond. He 
wrote to both parties on 9 March 2021 saying that having reviewed the case he thought 
redress should be calculated slightly differently to what hed proposed in his assessment. He 
set out how he thought it should be calculated. No further evidence or arguments were 
provided by either party.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Alexander David didnt respond to Mr Gs original complaint or to the investigators requests 
for information. So theres only very limited evidence available to establish what happened at 
the time of the transfer and investment. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available, including Mr Gs recollections of 
events. The investigator set out his thoughts on the matter in his assessment, and Alexander 
David hasnt disputed what he said or provided any further evidence or arguments.
St Pauls Marketing was involved from the outset and following its input Mr G transferred his 
pension to the SIPP and invested in the debentures. In my experience its unusual for 
someone of Mr Gs background and experience to want to transfer an existing pension in 
order to invest in this type of investment without some external prompting. I think it was 
unlikely to have happened without the involvement of St Pauls Marketing. Im satisfied that it 
initiated the transfer and investment in the debentures. It was aware of where the investment 
was going to be made and facilitated it. 
When Mr G first made his complaint to Alexander David he said that it had advised him to 
transfer his pension and invest in the Just Loans debentures. He said he thought the advice 
about both was unsuitable. When Mr G referred his complaint to us he completed a 
complaint form a copy of which was sent to St Pauls Marketing. In it he said St Pauls 
Marketings adviser recommended that his best option was to transfer his existing personal 
pension to a SIPP and invest in Just Loans. When the investigator sent his assessment of 
the complaint to Alexander David he said he thought St Pauls Marketing had likely advised 
Mr G. Alexander David hasnt disputed any of this or provided further evidence or arguments 
to consider.In all the circumstances, and on the balance of the limited evidence that is available, I think 
its more likely than not that St Pauls Marketing did provide regulated advice to Mr G to 
transfer and invest in the debentures. 
The debentures were listed on a smaller overseas exchange, had limited liquidity, and the 
firm behind them were operating in a relatively new market and had a limited track record. In 
my view investing the majority of Mr Gs pension in a single asset increased the degree of 
risk the transaction presented. Overall, I think the transfer and investment into the 
debentures presented significant risks, and beyond the degree of risk Mr G was willing or 
had the capacity to accept. Accordingly, I think the advice was unsuitable.
However, even if St Pauls Marketing didnt give advice to Mr G, I think the evidence shows it 
was involved in arranging the transaction. The debentures were a non-readily realisable 
security.  COBS 10 required St Pauls Marketing to assess Mr Gs knowledge and experience 
in the investment field relevant to the specific type of product or service offered, so that it 
could assess whether the debentures were appropriate for him.
Mr G said he had little investment experience and Alexander David hasnt disputed this. The 
debentures presented significant risks. In my view they werent appropriate for Mr G given 
his knowledge and experience and this should have been clear to St Pauls Marketing.
Taking all the circumstances of the transaction into account, I think it was clear that the
debentures werent suitable or appropriate for Mr G. And like the investigator, I dont think St 
Pauls Marketing took reasonable care to ensure the suitability of its advice or acted in Mr Gs 
best interests.
Im satisfied that if St Pauls Marketing hadnt advised Mr G to transfer and invest in the 
debentures, or if it had told him they werent suitable or appropriate for him, he wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.
Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls Marketings failures caused Mr G to transfer and 
invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. Im satisfied its failures 
caused the losses that Mr G has claimed.
Putting things right
Fair compensation 
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr G as close as possible to 
the position he would probably now be in but for St Pauls Marketings failures. I think Mr G 
would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely what he would have done, 
but Im satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr Gs 
circumstances and objectives when he invested. 
What should Alexander David do? 
To compensate Mr G fairly Alexander David Securities Ltd should compare the performance 
of Mr Gs investment with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair value is greater than 
the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater 
than the fair value, no compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a 
loss, Alexander David Securities Ltd should pay into Mr Gs pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the 
effect of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing protection or 
allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr Gs pension plan 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan it would 
have provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise have been paid. The notional 
allowance should be calculated using Mr Gs actual or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age. 
I think Mr G is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at his selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr G would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation.
investment 
name status Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
reinvest
ment - 
25 
January 
2019The same benchmark 
on the loss calculated 
as at 25 January 2019 
to decision date. Then 
8% simple a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified of
Mr Gs 
acceptance of
this decision
In addition, Alexander David should: 
Pay Mr G £100 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied the matter has 
caused him. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mr G in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr G how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr G a 
tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate. Actual value 
This means the actual transfer value of the SIPP at the end date (the date of re-investment).
Fair value 
This is what the transfer value would have been worth at the end date had it grown in line 
with the benchmark. 
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value calculation from the 
point in time when it was actually paid in. Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of 
the SIPP should be deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases 
to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
Mr Gs circumstances were consistent with someone who only had limited capacity for risk. 
And in his complaint Mr G has said he was a low risk taker.
In all the circumstances, I dont think Mr G would have transferred but for St Pauls 
Marketings failures. But his existing pension was invested in funds presenting a greater 
degree of risk than he has said he was prepared to accept. So I think its likely he would 
have switched to funds better aligned to his risk profile if suitable advice had been given. I 
dont know exactly how he would have invested.  But I think the index I have outlined above 
is an appropriate benchmark and is a reasonable proxy for the level of risk that Mr G was 
willing and able to take. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices 
with different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Gs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared to 
take a limited level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr G into that position. 
It doesnt mean that Mr G would have invested 50% in some kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather I consider this is a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort 
of return Mr G could have obtained from investments suited to his objectives and risk 
attitude. 
The investigator recommended that fair compensation be calculated as at 25 January 2019; 
the date that Mr G decided to reinvest into the Just Loans Debentures. I think this is fair 
given Mr G had made his decision to reinvest his money of his own accord. I dont think 
Alexander David is responsible for any losses arising from the re-investment. 
And although Mr G may have suffered a degree of distress when the return on the 
debentures was uncertain, this would likely have been for a limited period given he agreed to 
reinvest in the debentures when they matured in January 2019. So I think £100 is fair in the 
particular circumstances.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Gs complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr G on the 
basis I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2021.
 
David Ashley
Ombudsman