DRN-2836073
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with how Santander UK Plc (Santander) have handled his complaint 
about being the victim of fraud.
What happened
Mr M says that he was subject to blackmail and threats between late 2018 and June 2019, 
and due to this gave his account details and cards and PINs to those threatening him. Mr M 
says they took control of his accounts held with four different banks including an account 
with Santander and made transactions without his permission as well as forcing him to make 
some transactions. Mr M says this continued until they came to his home in June 2019 and 
took him in a car  threatening him and physically assaulting him. Mr M says at this point he 
was scared of what would happen next and went to the police.
Its been unclear exactly how Mr Ms details were initially compromised. He has told us that 
his father wanted to learn about online trading, so Mr M helped him find a third party via the 
internet to help with this. And that within a few days of contacting that third party, Mr M and 
his father started to be blackmailed.
Mr M has also told us that he wanted to learn how to trade in forex and found a course 
online. He says he gave his card details and was tricked into sharing his bank details for his 
Santander account after he was told a trade account had been set up for him. As part of 
setting up that trade account Mr M also shared his driving licence. He says that shortly after 
this he noticed unauthorised transactions on his Santander account, so he contacted the 
third party who had set up the trade account and complained. Mr M says they told him that if 
he did anything they would come to his house and hurt his friend or his family.
Mr M says that both himself, his father and a friend were subject to blackmail and threats 
and all lost money to the fraudsters. Mr M says they knew his home address and came to his 
house on some occasions and threatened him with violence. He says he had to open new 
accounts with Banks B and Bank C as he lost control of his accounts with Santander and 
another bank. But that the fraudsters found out about the new accounts and took control of 
those as well. Eventually all of Mr Ms accounts with all four banks were closed.
Mr M says the fraudsters called from a withheld number and came to his house and deleted 
their conversations with him from his phone  so he doesnt have any evidence of his 
contact with them. But Mr M has provided four screen shots of messages which appear to be 
from around May 2019. Mr M gave us the name and contact details for the police officer 
overseeing his case, as well as a letter from Victim Support.
Mr Ms Santander account
In February 2019, Mr Ms account received a large credit with a cheque paid in of over 
£9,000.
Santander say they contacted Mr M about the deposit and were told that he didnt know 
anything about the cheque. They say the cheque was paid in using his card. As they werent 
happy with his explanation, they decided to withdraw his banking facilities and close his 
account.
Mr M wasnt happy with his account being closed and raised a complaint with Santander. He 
also raised a dispute about all of the transactions made on his account after his wages were 
paid in in January 2019  saying he didnt make them.
The disputed transactions raised with Santander are in bold. Note the transactions in italics 
for £800, £48 and £218, were all online transfers to an account in Mr Ms name held at 
another bank  Bank B.
Date Time Type of transaction Amount
28.1.2019 Bank Giro Credit (Mr Ms wages) £1,367.57 cr
Cash withdrawal at branch  chip and PIN £300
Bill Payment to O £800
Bill Payment to J £48.86
Bill Payment to J £218.98
29.1.2019 Cheque paid in at branch £9,572.00 cr
30.1.2019 Returned cheque £9,572.00
5.2.2019 Interest paid after tax £1.71 cr
6.2.2019 Cheque paid in at branch £9,025.29 cr
Cheque paid in at ATM £5.00 cr
7.2.2019 Returned Cheque £9,025.29
8.2.2019 Card Payment £2.85
9.2.2019 Card Payment - pay at pump  chip and PIN £71.21
Santander asked Mr M how the chip and PIN transactions wouldve been completed as his 
genuine card was used. Mr M told Santander hed lost his wallet and when he got his wallet 
back didnt realise his card was missing. They also asked how a fraudster wouldve got      
Mr Ms PIN for the chip and PIN transactions. Mr M said hed loaned his card to his mother 
and had written the PIN down for her, and it wouldve been in the wallet with his card. 
Santander investigated Mr Ms complaint but declined to refund the disputed transactions or 
reopen his account. They said they werent happy with the explanation Mr M gave regarding 
the cheque that was deposited to his account. Also, they werent prepared to refund the 
disputed transactions because the PIN was kept with his card, and the bill payments were 
made using the same device (his registered mobile phone) and IP address as for previous 
genuine online banking. So, they werent fully satisfied that Mr M hadnt made the 
transactions himself. 
As Mr M disagreed with Santanders response, he brought a complaint to our service. He 
also told us that he wasnt happy with how Santander handled a phone call with him on      
12 February 2019.
While Mr Ms complaint was with our service, he told Santander that he hadnt lost his wallet. 
Hed given access to his account to fraudsters while being blackmailed and threatened. And 
that hed been too scared at the time to tell Santander the truth. Santander told Mr M they had registered a CIFAS marker (06) against him, but they would consider removing it if 
provided with a copy of a police report. 
An investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint and didnt uphold it. Ultimately, he felt Mr M had 
consented to the transactions by giving the third parties the means to access his account. 
And that Santander hadnt acted unfairly in closing Mr Ms account. The investigator said 
theyd listened to the call Mr M had with Santander and didnt feel it was unprofessional or 
handled poorly. And that Santander hadnt acted unreasonably in registering a marker with 
CIFAS.  
Recently Mr M has told us that his last genuine transaction on his Santander account was 
made on 8 February 2019 to S. But looking at his statements it appears that he means         
8 January 2019, which is when the payment to S was made. This adds an additional eight 
transactions made between 8 January and 28 January, when his wages were credited to his 
account that he is disputing.  Note the transaction in italics was an online transfer to an 
account in Mr Ms name held at another bank  Bank B.
Date Time Type of transaction Amount
8.1.2019 Card payment to S £41.70
Bill Payment to A £646.94
17.1.2019 Card payment - online £52.56
18.1.2019 Card payment  chip and PIN £20.00
24.1.2019 Bill payment to J £848.65
Faster payment to J £5.00
Faster payment to J £5.00
Faster payment credit from J £800.00 cr
Bill payment to O £800.00
As Mr M disagreed with the investigators opinion, the case was passed to me to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also very carefully considered everything that Mr M has told us, and Ive taken into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and good 
industry practice at the time.
Can Santander hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions?
Generally, Santander can hold Mr M liable for the disputed transactions if the evidence 
suggests its more likely than not that he made or authorised them himself.
In this case its not in dispute that Mr Ms genuine card and PIN were used to make the card 
transactions. And Mr Ms online banking credentials were used to make the bill payments, 
including a One Time Passcode (OTP) which was sent to Mr Ms registered mobile phone. 
But the regulations relevant to this case say that is not, on its own enough for Santander to 
hold him liable. I also need to think about whether the evidence suggests that Mr M 
consented to the transactions being made.Ive listened to the call Mr M had with Santander where he reported the fraud on 
11 February 2019. He told them he had left his wallet on the bus, so he went to the bus 
station and was allowed to check the bus  and found his wallet. But he didnt realise that his 
Santander card wasnt in there. Mr M was very clear and detailed in what he told Santander 
about how he lost his wallet and why he loaned his card to his mother including how he 
wrote down the PIN and wrapped it around the card. 
During the call with Santander on 12 February 2019, they discussed the results of their 
investigation into Mr Ms fraud claim  they say theyre declining his claim as they believe its 
a fraudulent claim. They advise that the bill payment transfers Mr M is disputing were done 
on his registered mobile phone (based on the device ID on their reports) and were 
authorised with a One Time Passcode (OTP) that was sent to his registered mobile phone. 
At this point in the call Mr M tells them that its only the card transactions that hes disputing. 
Later Mr M told us and Santander that he hadnt told the truth initially as he was scared to 
tell them what was really happening. 
I appreciate that Mr M says he was scared to tell Santander the truth. But its very difficult 
when Mr M has provided one scenario of what happened, which sounded very convincing in 
the calls Ive listened to, but later provides an entirely different account. Including Mr M only 
very recently telling us that he was disputing more transactions than he had previously 
complained about.
Also, the three bill payment transfers made on 28 January and the one on 24 January, were 
all made to Mr Ms account with another bank  even though one had another name entered 
as the reference. The evidence supports that an OTP was sent to Mr Ms registered mobile 
phone which was required to authorise these transactions. And its unusual for a fraudster if 
they had access to Mr Ms Santander account and online banking to transfer funds to one of 
Mr Ms accounts at another bank. Or to get Mr M to transfer the funds to his own account, 
when they couldve had the funds transferred to their account. Besides which, as the funds 
were transferred to Mr Ms account, I cant see that he suffered a loss for those four transfers 
in relation to his complaint against Santander, and Im aware that Mr M had told Santander 
that he wasnt disputing these transactions. 
The cheques that were deposited into Mr Ms account were removed by Santander, so he 
hasnt suffered a loss in relation to those transactions.
This then leaves the card transactions (including ATM withdrawals and chip and PIN 
purchases) which were made using Mr Ms genuine card with his PIN. For these payments, I 
need to think about whether the evidence suggests that Mr M consented to the transactions 
being made.
The Payment Service Regulations 2017 (PSRs) set out the circumstances under which we 
would consider a consumer to have consented to transactions. In this case Mr M says he 
gave his card and PIN to the fraudsters, which enabled them to make those transactions. 
While I accept what Mr M has told us about being blackmailed and threatened into giving his 
card to them, being coerced or pressured into giving consent doesnt change the starting 
position under the PSRs that he has given consent.
Im also conscious that a number of the chip and PIN transactions arent the usual pattern I 
would expect to see where a fraudster is involved. The transactions are for nominal amounts 
especially the middle payment of £2.85. And theyre spread out over nearly a three-week 
period.  Usually Id expect to see the whole balance in the account removed in as short a 
time possible, as the fraudster wouldnt know when the card or account may be blocked.  Overall Im persuaded that in these circumstances Mr M has authorised the transactions by 
giving out his card and PIN. So, I cant fairly ask Santander to refund Mr M.
However, Ive also considered whether Santander couldve or shouldve done anything to 
prevent these transactions including the transfers from being made on Mr Ms account. 
Could Santander have prevented the payments
Having considered all of the transactions that debited Mr Ms account before and after the 
receipt of his wages (with the exception of the cheques for £9,000), there is nothing 
particularly unusual or out of character about them. So, I wouldnt have expected them to 
have flagged. The highest transaction was an ATM withdrawal for £300 and all of the 
transactions happened over a period of nearly two weeks.
As I wouldnt have expected them to have been flagged with Santander as a possible 
indicator that Mr M mayve been the victim of fraud, Im satisfied that Santander havent 
missed an opportunity to have stopped or prevented the payments.
Have Santander acted fairly in closing Mr Ms account? 
Santander are entitled to end their banking relationship with Mr M in line with their terms and 
conditions, in the same way that he can decide that he doesnt want to bank with them 
anymore. 
Ive listened to the call with Mr M on the 12 February 2019, during which Santander discuss 
the result of their investigation into his fraud claim. They tell Mr M they believe he is making 
a false claim and as a result, they will be leaving the blocks on his account and closing his 
account in 30 days time. They tell Mr M he will have to make alternative banking 
arrangements. Based on what Ive seen, Im satisfied that Santander havent acted unfairly 
in closing Mr Ms account.  
And based on the differing accounts that Mr M gave Santander with regards to what he was 
disputing and what happened on his account, I cant say they have acted unreasonably in 
registering a CIFAS (06) marker  which relates to misuse of facility. Im satisfied that at 
the time they had a reasonable basis to believe that Mr M may have made a fraudulent claim 
or misused his account with regards to the large cheques that were deposited. And they 
offered to consider removing the marker if Mr M provided a copy of the police report, once 
he told them about the blackmailing and threats he experienced, which was reasonable.
I appreciate that Mr M wasnt happy with how the call on the 12 February 2019 was handled 
by Santander, but the staff were professional and explained to Mr M the outcome of their 
investigation and next steps. I didnt hear anything in the call that would suggest to me that 
Santander delivered a poor level of service, or where an award would be due. I believe most 
of Mr Ms dissatisfaction with this call comes from the fact that Santander suggested that he 
was making a fraudulent claim and as such they were going to close his account.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied that Santander can hold Mr M liable for the 
disputed transactions and I wont be asking them to refund Mr M. Also, theyve acted fairly 
and reasonably in closing Mr Ms account and registering a CIFAS marker. So, I wont be 
asking Santander to do anything further.My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 July 2021.
 
Lisa Lowe
Ombudsman