DRN-1270342
 
The complaint
Ms Ds complaint is about her credit card account not being closed.
The details of this complaint are well-known to both parties, so I will not repeat them again 
here. Instead, I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Ms D says Barclays didnt close her account when she asked it to do so. But that isnt 
the case. 
Ive listened to the recording of a call Ms D had with Barclays on 5 October 2018. 
She initially asked Barclays to close the account. But after confirming she wasnt in 
financial difficulty it offered to significantly reduce the accounts interest rate for a two 
year period. It also explained a number of times that to get this new reduced interest 
rate the account would have to remain open. Ms D clearly understood this and 
agreed to the account remaining open to obtain the reduced interest rate for a two 
year period.
Ms D also says Barclays didnt respond to her complaint. But it says it sent a 
response to her address some eight days later. Its unfortunate if Ms D didnt receive 
this but I cant hold Barclays responsible for that.
Barclays closed the account after Ms Ds complaint in May 2019 and as there was a 
balance owed on it until August 2019 interest wouldve still been payable even 
though the account had been closed. Thats fair.
Taking everything into account, although I recognise Ms Ds strength of feeling, I 
dont think Barclays has done anything wrong. And I cannot fairly or reasonably 
require it to do anything more or differently.
 
For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 June 2020.
Stephen Cooper
Ombudsman