DRN-3845234
The complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) have decided not to fully refund 
them after they say they were the victim of a scam.
What happened
The background of this complaint has been set out in detail within our Investigators view of 
14 November 2022 and is well-known to all parties. It doesnt appear to have been disputed 
by either party, so, I wont repeat everything again here. But in summary, its not in dispute 
that Mr and Mrs M were contacted by fraudsters, who had intercepted emails theyd had with 
their solicitor abroad, regarding a property Mr and Mrs M were purchasing. The fraudsters 
also intercepted emails between Mr and Mrs M and the owners of the property they were 
buying from. They tricked Mr and Mrs M into making three payments totalling £392,498.09 
for what they thought were related to the property purchase, but they were actually made to 
accounts controlled by the fraudsters. 
To provide further context, in 2017, Mr and Mrs M had attempted to purchase a property 
abroad. They were in touch with their solicitor, who was based abroad, in relation to this 
purchase. However, the intended purchase didnt go through. In 2018, Mr and Mrs M found a 
new property they wished to buy. At the end of December 2018, Mr and Mrs M agreed a 
purchase price for the new property. Delays were encountered due to some building 
regulations and so the exchange of the property didnt occur until July 2019. Mr and Mrs M 
say they were in regular contact with their solicitor abroad and, with the owners of the 
property they were buying. 
On 2 July 2019, Mr and Mrs M successfully transferred €22,202 (£20,000) to their solicitors 
euro account via a legitimate currency conversion company. Then on 19 July 2019, Mr and 
Mrs M sent the balance of the purchase price of £377,528.09 via one of the banks 
branches. These funds were sent from Mr and Mrs Ms joint current account with Lloyds. The 
payment was sent to the solicitors euro account via a foreign exchange service provider  Ill 
refer to as C. Mr and Mrs M say at the time of this payment in branch, a second staff 
member advised them to call the foreign exchange service provider to confirm the bank 
details were correct  which they did at the time.  
C received the funds and in turn converted the balance and sent this onto the solicitors 
account abroad. From what I understand, the receiving bank abroad wouldnt allow the funds 
to be processed as it said it didnt receive sufficient information from C and so, the funds 
were returned to C. There was then some correspondence between Mr and Mrs M, their 
solicitor abroad and with whom they believed to be the solicitors accounts manager. Mr and 
Mrs M were told that once the funds had returned to the UK, it would arrange an alternative 
UK bank account and from there the funds would be sent to the solicitors client account. 
They were told the funds would be sent across in tranches. 
Whilst it is not fully clear as to when the email interception occurred, it is my understanding 
that it is believed/suspected that the fraudsters became involved around 25 July 2019, when 
Mr and Mrs M have explained they received an email from whom they believed to be their 
solicitor, confirming the alterative UK account details. The funds were returned to C on 
6 August 2019 and the funds were then returned to Mr and Mrs Ms account with Lloyds on 
12 August 2019.
On 13 August 2019, Mr and Mrs M attended a branch to make a payment of £377,498.09 to 
a new payee (the alternative account details theyd been provided with). Lloyds say a high 
value checklist (HVC) was completed and warnings were provided. It adds it followed Mr and 
Mrs Ms instructions and the payment was made successfully. 
It is my understanding that on 2 September 2019, Mr and Mrs M received an email from the 
solicitors account manager to confirm the last amount had been sent to the solicitors 
account abroad. The same day Mr and Mrs M say they received an email from whom they 
believed to be the owner of the property they were purchasing. The email asked Mr and 
Mrs M to loan the owner £9,000 to enable them to pay the deposit on the forwarding home 
they were buying. Mr and Mrs M told us that they were aware, due to the delays with the 
building regulations, that the owners were at risk of losing their new home. So, they agreed 
to loan the money to them. I understand that Mr and Mrs M contacted, whom at the time they 
believed to be, their genuine solicitor (albeit they were in touch with the fraudsters) and, 
believed itd been arranged for this money to be repaid following completion. 
Mrs M, via online banking transferred £9,000 to the details provided on 2 September 2019. 
They then received a further email from the owners to ask for a further £6,000 which they 
agreed to. Mrs M again via online banking sent a payment of £6,000 to the same account 
details on 3 September 2019. 
Following the payment on 3 September 2019, Mr M messaged the owners to check the 
money had been received. But the owner replied letting him know that he had no knowledge 
of the payments or email exchange. It was at this point, Mr and Mrs M contacted Lloyds to 
report theyd been the victim of a scam relating to the two payments totalling £15,000. 
Mr and Mrs M also contacted their solicitor and it was following this contact that they 
discovered theyd also been the victim of a scam in relation to the payment they made on 
13 August 2019 for £377,498.09. They reported this payment to Lloyds on 
4 September 2019. 
Due to what happened Mr and Mrs M were unable to purchase the property and they 
incurred a €5,000 penalty for not doing so.
Lloyds is a signatory of the Lending Standards Board Contingent Reimbursement Model 
CRM Code (CRM Code) which requires firms to reimburse customers who have been the 
victims of APP scams like this in all but a limited number of circumstances. 
When Lloyds considered the matter and issued its final response on 8 January 2020, it said 
it wasnt liable for the payment of £377,498.09 as there was no bank failure and the branch 
gave an effective warning. It doesnt agree Mr and Mrs M met their standards under the 
CRM Code when sending this payment, nor did they take sufficient care in checking the 
validity of the beneficiary account. Lloyds was able to recover £213,958.49 in total from the 
beneficiary and this has been repaid to Mr and Mrs M. 
Lloyds accepted 50% liability for the online payments Mrs M made of £9,000 and £6,000 on 
the basis that an effective warning wasnt given about the scam they fell victim to. However, 
it held Mr and Mrs M equally liable as it felt they didnt conduct sufficient checks when 
making the payments. It refunded £7,500 and paid 8% simple interest and paid £100 
compensation. It then issued a further response on 31 January 2020, in which Lloyds 
arranged to pay a further £65  this was £40 for the costs Mr and Mrs M incurred when providing evidence and £25 in recognition of it not responding to Mrs Ms letters or 
addressing her within its correspondence concerning their joint account. 
Mr and Mrs M remained unhappy and so they brought their complaint to our service. The 
complaint was initially reviewed by one of our Investigators who upheld the complaint in part. 
Lloyds didnt agree with this assessment. It raised the CRM Code was relevant to the 
payments made in this case and that the Investigators recommendations were not in line 
with the CRM Code. The complaint was then referred for an Ombudsmans decision, 
however, it was felt further investigation was needed and so the complaint was passed to 
another Investigator at our service. Having reviewed everything afresh, she recommended 
the complaint be upheld in full. In summary, she didnt think Lloyds had been able to 
establish that Mr and Mrs M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making all the 
payments. Whilst she didnt agree with everything the previous Investigator had set out, she 
explained that as the payment of £377,498.09 was a highly remarkable payment  made in 
branch  she thought Lloyds should have identified there was a possible risk of an email 
intercept scam, given that the payment details were received by email and was shown to the 
branch staff. She felt the bank missed an opportunity to have had a meaningful conversation 
about the payment. Had this happened she thought the scam wouldve unravelled.  
Our Investigator also acknowledged the banks reference to the Phillip v Barclays Bank 
judgement where the judge took a different view about the Quincecare duty. Whilst she 
didnt suggest the Quincecare duty applied to this case, she acknowledged that this service 
has a duty to resolve complaints based on what we think is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case  taking into account not just the law but also the regulators rules 
and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what we consider to have been good practice 
at the time. This includes the CRM Code, which Lloyds is signed up to. 
Lloyds didnt agree with our Investigators assessment. In summary, it didnt accept it should 
be held fully liable for all the money Mr and Mrs M lost as a result of the scam. Whilst it 
accepted 50% liability for the two online payments they made, the bank maintain it 
completed its duty of care under the CRM Code for the payment made in branch and 
provided relevant warnings, completed a HVC, provided a fraud leaflet and asked them to 
complete additional checks. It adds Mr and Mrs M were confident they knew where the 
payment was going, and it says they refused to do any additional due diligence. On this 
basis, it maintains Mr and Mrs M are 100% liable for payment one and should be held 
equally liable with the bank for payments two and three.  
Our Investigator considered the banks response, but her assessment remained unchanged. 
As Lloyds continued to disagree with our Investigators view on the complaint, its been 
passed to me for a final decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised this complaint briefly, in less detail than has been provided, 
and in my own words. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed on what I 
think is the heart of the matter here. If theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because 
Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual point or 
argument to be able to reach what I think is the right outcome. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free alternative to the courts. 
I am aware that Lloyds considers too high a standard has been applied to what is expected 
of it in terms of its obligations to question its customers instructions based on the Phillip judgement, and its implications to the Quincecare duty. Lloyds has now received a large 
number of final decisions related to APP fraud, published on our website and so I see no 
reason to go into detail as to all our relevant considerations.
I also think it is important to recognise that there is, in parts, limited information available  
namely relating to the emails Mr and Mrs M sent and received during the scam. From the 
submissions, I can see Mr and Mrs M provided this information to Lloyds, although it has 
been unable to provide these within its submissions to our service. It has explained that it 
has been unable to locate these. I wouldve expected Lloyds to have retained this 
information, especially as it had requested this when investigating the matter. Given the time 
thats passed, I also recognise that memories of events can fade. So, where there is a 
difference in Mr and Mrs Ms and Lloyds version of events or limited information available, I 
will base my findings on what I think is more likely than not to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the Investigator. Im satisfied that: 
- Under the terms of the CRM Code, Lloyds should have refunded Mr and Mrs M the 
full amount theyve lost. I am not persuaded any of the permitted exceptions to 
reimbursement apply in the circumstances of this case. 
- In the circumstances Lloyds should fairly and reasonably refund the outstanding 
money Mr and Mrs M lost.
Ive thought carefully about Lloyds representations regarding whether Mr and Mrs M had a 
reasonable basis for believing the transactions to be genuine and whether they ignored 
effective warnings. But they do not persuade me to reach a different view. 
Did Mr and Mrs M have a reasonable basis for belief when making the payments?
In this case, I am not persuaded that Lloyds has demonstrated that it can choose not to 
reimburse Mr and Mrs M under the terms of the CRM Code because they lacked a 
reasonable basis for belief. As payment one was made in branch and payments two and 
three were made at a later day via online banking, I will explain my reasons why for each 
payment below. 
Payment one - £377,498.09
- Mr and Mrs M werent aware of how email impersonation/intercept scams worked 
and hadnt previously been a victim to this type of scam. They were expecting to 
make a payment regarding the property they were buying. In fact, they had made the 
payment previously in branch but due to other issues the money was returned to their 
account. Im further mindful that against this backdrop, Mr and Mrs M had been 
dealing with their solicitor since 2017 and that their communication was 
predominantly by email due to them being abroad, the time difference and the cost of 
calls. And based on what Mr and Mrs M have told us, there was nothing concerning 
or out of the ordinary in terms of the tone of the emails. It has not been possible for 
me to see all the correspondence as its no longer available. I note Mr and Mrs M 
provided a large volume of correspondence to Lloyds at the time it investigated the 
scam, but Lloyds has told us it is unable to provide these. Whilst this is disappointing, 
Ive not seen any reason to doubt what Mr and Mrs M have told us.  From the 
correspondence that I have seen, there is a discreet difference to the email address 
the fraudster used to that of the genuine solicitors email address. I dont think Mr and 
Mrs M acted unreasonably by not noticing this. - Lloyds has raised Mr and Mrs M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when 
making the payment to the new payee details. However, I dont agree. Mr and Mrs M 
were expecting to make a payment as evidenced by the earlier genuine payment 
they made in branch in July 2019. However, for the reasons explained under what 
happened, the money was returned, and they were expecting to have to make the 
payment to a new account. Lloyds within its submissions also comments its 
inevitable that a new payee was going to be set up for the second payment, given 
there was an issue with the first one. With this in mind, I cannot agree with this point, 
as the bank itself accepts that Mr and Mrs M reasonably would have needed to send 
the funds again via other channels/means.
- During correspondence, with whom Mr and Mrs M genuinely believed to be their 
solicitor and accounts manager for the firm, they queried elements relating to the new 
payment they needed to make. For example, they queried the compliancy of sending 
the money in this alternative way to remain below the threshold of €100,000 they 
were told for the bank abroad. Mr M copied a genuine partner of the solicitors firm in 
this correspondence and received a response back from them  confirming all was 
legal and compliant. Although, it is my understanding that this was also likely 
intercepted by the fraudster. In the absence of Mr and Mrs M being aware of the 
scam  email interception, I think this reasonably would have added to Mr and 
Mrs Ms belief as to the alternative way theyd been asked to resend the payment for 
the property. In addition to this, whilst the new payee details were for a UK account, 
Mr M explained that due to his career, in his experience, it wasnt unusual for a firm 
to have bank accounts in the UK in a different name. And as explained by our 
Investigator, having looked at the firm it appears to have offices both in London and 
abroad. With the longstanding relationship between Mr and Mrs M and their solicitor, 
Mr Ms career experience and the response they received to the queries they made - 
I dont think they missed such an obvious red flag here that ought to have caused 
them concern about the payment they were making. I think what Mr and Mrs M had 
been told would have been plausible to them. 
- Lloyds also highlighted that C was concerned about the receiving account. Ive 
considered the information contained within an email dated 6 August 2019 from C, 
however, Im not persuaded the contents of this email ought to have put Mr and 
Mrs M on notice that they might be at risk of fraud or being scammed  and more 
specifically that they might be the victim of an email impersonation/interception scam. 
The contents of the email from C raised questions about the solicitor and was not 
solely about the receiving account. Whilst I am in no way saying this information 
should have been ignored or not considered, given that Mr and Mrs M had a 
professional relationship dating back to 2017 with their solicitor, I dont think it 
unreasonable why they believed and were persuaded by what their solicitor and the 
fraudster would have told them, particularly as Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M 
understood how invoice intercept scams worked. 
- Based on everything Ive seen, I consider this to have been a sophisticated scam 
Mr and Mrs M fell victim to. During the time their emails were intercepted there was 
contact with their genuine solicitor at points. There were also calls between Mr and 
Mrs M and whom they believed to be the accounts manager at the firm, albeit its 
now come to light that this was the fraudster. During the phone contact the new 
account details were confirmed with whom they believed to be the genuine account 
manager. All of this combined, Im satisfied, would have added further to their belief 
that the payment request was legitimate. 
Payments two and three- I think an important factor to bear in mind is that at the time of making the payments 
of £9,000 and £6,000 Mr and Mrs M werent aware that their solicitors emails had 
been intercepted/impersonated. This came to light after they realised theyd been the 
victim of a scam following these two payments. 
- Mr and Mrs M say they mainly communicated with the owners of the property they 
were buying by email. Ive not seen the email communication between Mr and Mrs M 
and the owners. However, in the call to report these payments to Lloyds they do 
confirm the email address for the owner was correct and the same as the email used 
in the previous months. They further added that there wasnt a difference in the 
content/tone of the communication  this appeared consistent with their previous 
emails.
- Lloyds says Mr and Mrs M didnt have a reasonable basis for belief when making 
these payments as they didnt take steps to check the payee details. At the time of 
Mrs M making these two payments, she recalls seeing a smaller bank name being 
shown which she says she knew to be a legitimate bank. The online banking audit 
information is no longer available due to the time thats passed and so, I cant say for 
certain what Mrs M saw when making the payments at the time. But in any event, I 
dont find this point changes my conclusions. I say this because, on balance, I dont 
think the receiving bank name wouldve highlighted or alerted Mrs M to the risk that 
she might be falling victim to an email intercept scam. 
- Lloyds also doesnt consider the reasons Mr and Mrs M were given for the online 
payments were reasonable. They feel the request for a loan shouldve been a red 
flag to them and that they shouldve been aware that the funds wouldnt have been 
sent directly to an individual. Im afraid I dont agree. Here Mr and Mrs M, following 
their previous communication with the owners of the property and their knowledge of 
the delays with the sale, understood the owners to be at risk of losing their forwarding 
property. With this in mind, Mr and Mrs M have explained that while they werent too 
happy about the request, it didnt come as a surprise. I also note they contacted who 
they thought at the time was their solicitor to take steps to check that their funds (this 
loan) would be safe if sent directly to the owners. To their knowledge at this time, 
they received a response that indicated provisions had been made and theyd get 
their money back. Although unbeknown to them this was from the fraudsters. So, I 
think Mr and Mrs M were cautious before making these payments and took 
appropriate steps before doing so. 
With all of the above in mind, in light of all the circumstances here, and in line with the 
requirements of the CRM Code, Im not satisfied Lloyds has been able to establish that when 
Mr and Mrs M sent the payments they did so without a reasonable basis for belief.
Did Mr and Mrs M ignore an effective warning? 
Ive carefully considered the banks representations about the warnings it gave. 
In this case, Lloyds refunded Mr and Mrs M 50% of payments two and three (£9,000 and 
£6,000 respectively) on the basis that an effective warning wasnt provided. Because of this, 
I dont need to comment on this aspect for these payments further. Here, I will focus on 
whether Lloyds has shown that Mr and Mrs M ignored an effective warning for the payment 
of £377,498.09 made in branch. 
Under the provisions of the CRM Code, as a minimum, an effective warning needs to be 
understandable, clear, timely, impactful and specific. It must also provide information that gives customers a better chance to protect themselves against being defrauded and should 
include appropriate actions for customers to take to protect themselves from APP scams. 
The CRM Code sets out minimum criteria that a warning must meet to be an effective 
warning. In very broad terms, it requires that a warning will be capable of countering the 
typical features of the generic scam type identified during the payment journey. Taking 
everything Ive seen and been told into account, I cant safely say the warning Lloyds says it 
gave was relevant to the type of scam Mr and Mrs M fell victim to. I dont think it was 
impactful enough to affect a customers decision making in a manner whereby the likelihood 
of this scam succeeding was reduced for payment one.
Before, I go on to explain why, I think its helpful to acknowledge that there is a dispute 
between the bank and Mr and Mrs M as to what happened in branch. I wasnt present at the 
time of the branch visit and so I dont know with certainty exactly what happened or what 
was said at the time. So, where there is a difference in the parties version of events or 
limited information available, I will base my findings on what I think is more likely than not to 
have happened in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Lloyds has provided a copy of the HVC that was completed with Mr and Mrs M and I can see 
it provides the following warning, which branch staff are instructed to read to customers, 
alongside issuing the customers with a fraud in-branch leaflet. 
There are a number of scams currently in operation and customers are being contacted by 
individuals claiming to be from trusted organisations such as Police, HMRC, your broadband 
company or the Banks fraud team: -
Has anybody contacted you recently and asked you to make this payment?
Trusted organisations will never ask you to move funds to a safe account or collect 
funds from you  are you sure this is not a scam?
I need you to read through this leaflet and confirm that you have no doubts about 
making this payment today. Please be aware that if this transaction is later found to 
be fraudulent your money could be at risk.
The HVC captures that the purpose of Mr and Mrs Ms payment is for a house purchase.  
Having looked at the fraud leaflet Lloyds say wouldve been provided to Mr and Mrs M, I can 
see this covered a number of different scam types such as, bank and police impersonation 
scams, broadband provider scams, social media scams, romance scams and rogue trader 
scams.
Based on the above and what Ive seen, Ive not seen anything that shows the warnings 
given covered email interception scams. The warning above doesnt cover the specific type 
of scam that Mr and Mrs M were falling victim to, and that Lloyds ought to have been aware 
was a risk, given Mr and Mrs M had told it the payment was for a house purchase and the 
bank was aware that theyd received the payee details by email. In the absence of anything 
that shows there was an emphasis or context of the inherent risk of receiving account details 
by email  at the time they were asking to make the payment - particularly given Lloyds, as 
the professionals here, would have been aware of the prevalence of this type of scam, I cant 
be satisfied that Lloyds warning, met the standards required of it under the CRM Code, and 
it follows that Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M ignored an effective warning as there is no 
persuasive evidence this was the case. 
Lloyds maintains there was a scam chat with Mr and Mrs M, but its said Mrs M was 
uncooperative and, that they refused to carry out further checks. Mr and Mrs M disagree with 
this and say no specific questions were asked. They also strongly dispute the allegations that Mrs M was rude or difficult to the branch staff member. Whilst the parties recollections 
differ, within Lloyds submissions to our service it also comments that the branch 
recollections dont explicitly say Mr and Mrs M were told to contact their solicitor abroad. As 
highlighted by our Investigator, the banks testimony as to what happened in branch is 
confusing and somewhat contradictory in some parts. Having thought carefully about what 
Ive been told, on balance, I cant be as persuaded as Id need to be to say Lloyds did 
provide an effective warning within its discussion with Mr and Mrs M in branch. Ive reached 
this finding having taken into account the variations in the banks testimony and what Ive set 
out above in regard to the HVC and the fraud leaflet.  
For completeness, I think it important to note all parties strength of feelings in relation to the 
branch visit. Id like to assure all parties that Ive thought carefully about what theyve said in 
relation to what their recollections are from that visit. But here, what I need to decide is 
whether Lloyds are able to establish Mr and Mrs M ignored an effective warning. 
It doesnt appear to be in dispute here that when the first genuine payment was made in 
branch in July 2019, that the bank advised Mr and Mrs M to contact the beneficiary to check 
the payment details. Lloyds within its submissions, when referencing the payment in 
July 2019, say additional checks were completed in branch which resulted in Mr and Mrs M 
being asked to contact the solicitors abroad. Whilst, I dont consider this to be correct as at 
the time of the payment in July 2019 Mr and Mrs M were sending the funds to C  a foreign 
exchange service provider, I am satisfied they were prompted to contact C as they did check 
the details. However, Im not persuaded Lloyds sufficiently brought to life how email intercept 
scams work  I accept its likely they were told to contact C but theres nothing to suggest 
that Mr and Mrs M understood the context behind this. 
The banks submissions in parts also suggest that they accept Mr and Mrs M werent told to 
contact the solicitor abroad or why doing so was important. So, when taking all the above 
into consideration, I cant fairly and reasonably say that an effective warning was provided 
within the discussion that was had in branch in July or August 2019. For the avoidance of 
doubt, even if Lloyds had provided an effective warning in July 2019, the loss did not occur 
at that point and so it wouldnt have met the timeliness component of an effective warning. 
Overall, for all the reasons Ive explained within this decision, Im not persuaded Lloyds has 
shown Mr and Mrs M lacked a reasonable basis for belief when making all of the payments 
as part of this scam, or that they ignored an effective warning. 
Could Lloyds have done anything else to prevent the scam?
Finally, Ive thought about whether, moving away from the CRM Code, Lloyds couldve done 
anything else to prevent Mr and Mrs M falling victim to the scam. Having thought carefully 
about this and considering what was good industry practice at the time, while I dont find the 
payment was so unusual in the circumstances of this particular case (given the initial 
payment in July 2019), I do consider it a significant payment. And given that the purpose 
was for a house purchase, where the payment details were received by email, which the 
bank had been made aware of, I think Lloyds ought to have been on notice that Mr and 
Mrs M might be at risk of financial harm, specifically an email intercept scam.  
Had a meaningful discussion taken place about the payment with Mr and Mrs M, I think this 
wouldve made a difference. As Ive noted above, the testimony provided by the bank about 
the scams chat it says it had with Mr and Mrs M has been confusing at points and also 
somewhat contradictory. Given what Ive seen and been told, on balance, Im not persuaded 
Mr and Mrs M were prompted to call their solicitor to verify the payment details. Im also not 
persuaded for the same reasons outlined above that the bank brought to life what an email 
intercept scam really looked and felt like to Mr and Mrs M. Had it done so and a meaningful conversation happened, such as the bank providing the context and prevalence of email 
intercept/impersonation scams  such as how email addresses can be cloned or slightly 
altered so that they appear to be genuine and, the significance of contacting the solicitor on 
a verified and trusted number to confirm the payment details, I think this more likely than not 
wouldve prevented the scam. 
I am aware Mr and Mrs M had received a call from whom they believed to be the accounts 
manager for the solicitors firm a few days before they made the payment. But had the bank 
asked open and probing questions and provided details about what email intercept scams 
looked and felt like  bringing the scam to life, I think on balance this wouldve led to them 
realising theyd not reached the account manager on a verified number  that theyd 
received calls from whom they believed to be the accounts manager but that theyd not been 
able to reach him when they attempted to call him directly. And, given the significant value of 
the payment, I think it is more likely than not that theyd have been prompted to contact the 
solicitor using a verified number to check the payment details. At which point they would 
have spoken with their genuine solicitor or the genuine accounts manager and the scam 
wouldve unravelled. 
Whilst there is a dispute about the branch visit, in particular concerns that Mr and Mrs M 
didnt wish to follow advice given and complete further checks, based on everything Ive 
seen, on balance I think it is more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M wouldve acted on the 
banks advice and taken steps. I say this because, Mr and Mrs M contacted C when advised 
to check the account details by the branch when making the payment in July 2019.I think its 
reasonable to expect professional financial businesses to be alive to the fact that email 
intercept scams were, and still are prevalent, and had this been made known to Mr and 
Mrs M, I find it unlikely they wouldve proceeded regardless and risked the significant sum of 
money which represented their life savings. 
For clarity, my thoughts that Lloyds ought to have prevented the scam from the payment of 
£377,498.09 on 13 August 2019, have an impact on the outcome of this complaint, given Ive 
decided Mr and Mrs M shouldve been reimbursed under the provisions of the CRM Code. 
The impact relates to the interest payable only.
Impact on Mr and Mrs M 
As a result of the scam Mr and Mrs M fell victim to, they were unable to proceed with their 
intended purchase and to date have been unable to do so due to the large amount of money 
they lost. They also told us that following the scam coming to light they had difficulty sleeping 
and concentrating  impacting their mental health. 
I do recognise the actions of the scammers, who are ultimately the party who perpetrated 
this fraud on Mr and Mrs M and, therefore, were the direct cause of their losses and the 
subsequent impact. And so, when considering carefully the impact on Mr and Mrs M, it 
would be disproportionate for me to attribute the impact solely on Lloyds. 
However, based on what Ive seen and been told, Im persuaded that had Lloyds acted as I 
think it should have done, then the impact on Mr and Mrs M would have been lessened. In 
brief, I can see Mr and Mrs M offered to provide the bank with information to help with their 
claim, but that this wasnt accepted until a much later date. Mrs M also experienced 
unanswered letters and she wasnt addressed within the correspondence about the joint 
account, which caused her upset and frustration. Mrs M also felt the lack of reply/lack of 
being addressed within correspondence as being sexist. The bank also specifically referred 
to CCTV footage when declining to reimburse Mr and Mrs M for all their losses but didnt 
provide this. This, amongst other customer service aspects, Mr and Mrs M say exasperated 
the situation and caused them further anxiety and upset.  
Lloyds paid £100 compensation following Mr and Mrs Ms complaint being raised. It then 
paid a further £25 compensation for what it said was an oversight in Mrs M not being 
addressed in its correspondence. 
Taking everything into account and thinking about the share of the impact reasonably 
attributable to Lloyds here, I still consider it appropriate to make an award of £300 as 
recommended by our Investigator for the material distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs M 
have suffered. 
I also consider that Lloyds could have prevented Mr and Mrs M from losing the money they 
did as a result of the scam and, thereby, significantly reduced the overall impact on Mr and 
Mrs M. For instance, on balance, I find it unlikely they wouldve incurred the €5,000 penalty 
they subsequently had to pay as a result of not completing the purchase of the property. And 
so, I find it fair and reasonable that Lloyds reimburse this cost in full. 
Paying interest 
With the above in mind, I think the bank should pay interest on the money Mr and Mrs M 
have lost as part of this scam. I think Mr and Mrs M have suffered a significant loss of 
opportunity  they havent been able to purchase a property that they wanted to utilise and 
so I find 8% simple interest per annum is fair for that intangible loss in this particular case. 
While I think it is fair and reasonable that Lloyds pay 8% simple interest per annum on the 
amount Mr and Mrs M have lost which was £377,498.09, Im aware that money was 
recovered and credited back to them. £190,253.61 was recovered and credited back in 
October 2019 and so, from this point the interest should be paid on £187,244.48. A further 
£23,704.88 was recovered and credited back to Mr and Mrs M in December 2019 and so the 
8% simple interest should then be paid on the remaining £163,539.60.  
The payments of £9,000 and £6,000 were made by Mrs M with the intention of being a loan 
to the owners of the property they were buying from. Lloyds has reimbursed 50% of these 
payments. So, in light of this, the interest should be calculated at the rate the funds 
originated from which was the Club Lloyds Savers annual account (£9,000 payment). I do 
note that the £6,000 originated from an external bank account, but in making a pragmatic 
finding, I think Lloyds should apply the Club Lloyds Saver Annual account rate to remaining 
refund of £7,500.
Putting things right
Lloyds Bank PLC, should now: 
- Refund Mr and Mrs M the outstanding loss in full (I calculate this to be £163,539.60 + 
£7,500)   
- It should pay 8% simple interest on the total loss of £377,498.09 from 
13 August 2019 until 2 October 2019. This is the point that £190,253.61 was 
recovered and credited back to Mr and Mrs M 
- It should pay 8% simple interest on £187,244.48 from 2 October 2019 until 
2 December 2019 which is when a further £23,704.88 was recovered and credited 
back to Mr and Mrs M 
- It should pay 8% simple interest on the remaining amount of £163,539.60 from 
2 December 2019 to the date of settlement 
- Pay interest on £7,500 at the rate of the Club Lloyds Saver annual account, on half of 
each payment from the date it debited to the date of settlement 
- Pay a further £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
- Pay the GBP equivalent of the €5,000 fee to Mr and Mrs M, to cover the penalty they incurred. *The penalty was charged on 7 February 2020, so Lloyds should use the 
exchange rate for EUR to GBP on 7 February 2020, according to the Bank of 
England website  shown as 1.1804 on this date 
- It should pay 8% simple interest on the GBP equivalent of the €5,000 fee from the 
7 February 2020 until the date of settlement
- Refund the CHAPS fee of £30
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and instruct Lloyds Bank PLC to settle the 
matter as set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 March 2023.
 
Staci Rowland
Ombudsman