DRN-3331067
The complaint
 
Mr H complains about the service he received from Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited 
(Aviva) during a call he had with them on 15 December 2021. 
What happened 
Mr H had a call with Aviva on 15 December 2021 where he requested a hard copy of their 
privacy policy to be sent to him, along with details of his marketing preferences. 
Mr H was unhappy with how the call was handled and complained to Aviva.
Aviva looked into the complaint and issued their final response letter on 17 December 2021. 
They confirmed Mr Hs marketing preferences and that a hard copy of the data privacy policy 
had been ordered for him. They also arranged for £100 compensation to be sent to Mr H by 
cheque, for how the call was handled.  
Mr H brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators considered Mr Hs complaint, and 
explained she thought £100 compensation was fair in the circumstances. 
Mr H disagreed. He said he still hadnt received a copy of the privacy policy. Our investigator 
confirmed with Aviva that a copy had previously been sent to Mr H, and Aviva also offered to 
send out another policy, which the investigator thought was fair.
As Mr H disagrees, the complaint has been passed to me for review and a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, because I think Aviva have already paid 
him fair compensation for what went wrong. Ill explain why.
I appreciate Mr H felt his call to request a hard copy of the privacy policy and details of his 
marketing preferences was handled poorly. The adviser put Mr H on hold and came back to 
let him know he could access the policy online. However, this wasnt what Mr H asked for 
and as he later explained in the call, he didnt have online access. 
I do think the adviser was trying to be helpful when he let Mr H know the information was 
available online. And I also think Mr Hs behaviour was challenging and contributed to the 
way the call progressed. However, I can understand why Mr H felt the adviser wasnt giving 
him the service he asked for, and I note that Aviva have accepted the call wasnt handled in 
the way theyd usually expect.
Mr H says he didnt receive a copy of the privacy policy. Aviva have shown us a copy of the 
letter they say they sent to Mr H on 9 February 2022, which included a hard copy of the 
policy. I can see the letter was addressed correctly. And theyve also sent us a copy of their 
records to show the letter was sent out. So on balance, Im satisfied the information Mr H 
asked for was sent to him after his original request. Aviva have now sent him another copy, 
so I think theyve done enough to resolve this.
Aviva have apologised to Mr H for how the call was handled, and have paid compensation of 
£100. Taking into account what went wrong here, I think this is fair and reasonable 
compensation. So Im not going to ask Aviva to do anything else.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding Mr Hs complaint, for the reasons Ive explained.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 June 2022.
 
Helen Sutcliffe
Ombudsman