DRN-2983017
The complaint
Mr G says Progressive Money Limited (PML) lent to him irresponsibly.
What happened
Mr G took out a 36-month instalment loan from PML on 9 April 2018. It was for £4,000 and
the monthly repayments were £203.04. The total repayable was £7,320.40. 
Mr G says the loan was unaffordable for him and forced him to take out further loans. Better 
checks would have shown he was already repaying informal debts to family as well as other 
loans and credit cards.
Our investigator found that the loan should not have been given. He said from the checks 
PML carried out it should have seen that the loan would not be affordable for Mr G. He 
provided the detailed income and expenditure analysis to PML that supported this finding, 
explaining that he had also reviewed Mr Gs credit card statements as Mr G had said he 
used credit for some of his essential living costs on the application call.
PML disagreed. It said, in summary the investigator calculated Mr Gs income to be 
£4,720.02 and his total expenditure to be £4,536.96. It did not dispute the income figure but 
said the food and travel costs are double-counted; the investigator has used a number that is 
much higher than Mr G declared for childcare and he has used the wrong values for council 
tax, tv and car insurance. It added it did not review Mr Gs credit card statements at the time 
of the application, but it is not unusual for a consumer to use credit cards for some of their 
daily expenses. 
It asked for an ombudsmans review, so the complaint was passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints is set out on our website and
Ive followed it here.
The rules and regulations when PML lent to Mr G required it to carry out a reasonable and
proportionate assessment of whether he could afford to repay what he owed in a sustainable
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or an affordability
check.
The checks also had to be borrower-focused. So PML had to think about whether repaying
the credit sustainably would cause any difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr G. In
other words, it wasnt enough for PML to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its
money back, it had to consider the impact of the loan repayments on Mr G.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of each loan application.
In general, what makes up a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount, type and cost of credit they have applied
for.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have
been more thorough:
- the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
- the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income);
- the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required
to make repayments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of
this in mind when thinking about whether PML did what it needed to before agreeing to lend
to Mr G. So to reach my conclusion I have considered the following questions:
- did PML complete reasonable and proportionate checks when assessing Mr Gs 
loan application to satisfy itself that he would be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way?
- if not, what would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown?
- did PML make a fair lending decision?
- did PML act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
I can see PML asked for certain information from Mr G before it approved the loan. It asked
for details of his income, credit commitments and living expenses. And it validated these by
obtaining his recent bank statements. It also checked his credit file to understand his existing
monthly credit commitments and credit history. From these checks combined PML 
concluded the loan was affordable for Mr G.
Im satisfied these checks were proportionate initially. But I dont think that PML could make 
a fair lending decision without also taking into account the amount Mr G was spending on 
credit after he had explained that he used his credit card to cover some of his daily living 
costs. To carry out a fair affordability assessment I think it needed to understand how much 
he spent on credit each month for this type of expenditure, in addition to what it could see on 
his bank statements.
The investigator explained he had reviewed Mr Gs credit card statements, and these 
showed he spent a monthly average of £626.33 on essential items (food and travel). PML 
said that as our assessment also included another £937.24 for food and travel there was 
cost duplication. But that it is into the case. I have double checked Mr Gs bank statements 
between January and March 2018 and Mr G spent on average over £900 each month on 
groceries, petrol and train travel  in addition to the amount he put on credit.
PML also queried childcare costs as the investigator said £152.20 could be seen on bank 
statements, plus Mr G told him he spent around £250 a month via ATM withdrawals. This 
total of £402.20 was much higher than the £70 Mr G declared at the point of application. I 
find the fairest position would be to use the sum of the relevant transactions on the bank 
statements (largely ParentPay) which totals £169.25.  PML also queried the values the investigator had used for council tax, tv and car insurance. 
Looking first at council tax, the £172.50 monthly average includes a one-off payment of 
£58.50 on 19 March 2018 to the council, as well as three monthly payments of £153. I would 
agree the £58.50 should be deducted as it seems to have been a one-off cost. The tv figure 
of £132.37 includes the cost of the licence at £12.37 each month. This is reasonable. The 
£18.18 for insurance, rather than £46.31, is a different insurance and it can be seen there 
are two direct debits for insurance each month  on for £18.18 for life cover and one for 
£46.31 so I find both values ought to be included in the affordability assessment.
The other significant cost I feel ought to have been taken into account was the amount Mr G 
was repaying to two family members each month as this was informal debt and the average 
monthly cost was £291.67 (the investigator included one but not both of these debts).
Based on this analysis of Mr Gs monthly expenditure (non-discretionary) his total spend was 
£4,484.36, as broken down below. My analysis shows Mr G spent less on food and more on 
petrol/transport than the investigator calculated  but I think this as I have included petrol 
bought from a supermarket in petrol/transport, not food. 
Jan-Mar 2018 average in £
Mortgage 1311.25 
Food 539.97 
Water 60.05 
Electricity/Gas 110.00 
Council tax 153.00 
Petrol/transport 414.50 
Sky/cable TV 132.26 
Gym membership 39.99 
Car insurance 46.31 
Mobile phone 148.10 
Childcare 169.25 
Food/travel spend on credit 626.33 
Aviva Life 18.18 
Credit commitments 398.51 
Family loan 1 141.67 
Pocket money 25.00 
Family loan 2 150.00 
 
This meant after taking on this loan Mr G would only have monthly disposable income of 
£32.64. Given his personal circumstances I dont think this was enough to cover all 
unplanned and seasonal expenses over a 36-months period. I think PML ought to have 
realised there was a risk the loan would become unaffordable for Mr G at some point during 
its term. It follows I think PML was wrong to lend to Mr G.
I havent seen evidence that PML treated Mr G unfairly in some other way.Putting things right
I think its fair and reasonable for Mr G to repay the capital that he borrowed, because he 
had the benefit of that money. But he has paid interest and charges on a loan that shouldnt 
have been provided to him.
So it should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges from the loan and treat all the payments Mr G
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Gs loan account results in him having effectively made payments
above the original capital borrowed, then PML should refund these overpayments
with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date the
overpayments would have arisen, to the date of settlement*.
If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital still to be paid, then PML should
work to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr G.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Gs credit file in relation to the
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires PML to deduct tax from this interest. PML should give Mr G a
certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
My final decision
I am upholding Mr Gs complaint. Progressive Money Limited must out things right as set out 
above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 April 2022.
 
Rebecca Connelley
Ombudsman