DRN-1628104
Complaint
Mr T is unhappy with how Barclays Bank UK Plc, trading as Barclaycard, have managed his 
credit card.
Background
In January 2015, Mr T took out a credit card with Barclays. He says he completed a balance 
transfer to this account and didnt use it very often over the next four years.
In January 2019, Mr T was applying for a mortgage and was asked to get an up to date 
balance on his credit card as part of the application process. He says he was shocked to 
discover the balance was significantly higher than he expected. Mr T says the mortgage 
adviser told him he should be receiving regular statements either through the post or online. 
Mr T says he never received a paper statement and hadnt logged on to his account online 
to check his balance either.
Unhappy with this Mr T complained to Barclays. He felt they should have told him about the 
changes in his interest rate. He says he was also unhappy that Barclays adviser effectively 
blamed him for not checking his emails, and said the adviser really harassed him to say it 
was Mr Ts responsibility to keep an eye on his account.
Mr T says when he eventually got the statements, he realised the 0% interest on his balance 
transfer ended in December 2017. And he said because he was unaware of this, he was 
unable to renegotiate the rate, or move his balance elsewhere. Mr T was also unhappy that 
Barclays initially said the complaint had been resolved, when clearly that wasnt the case.
Barclays replied to Mr Ts complaint in February 2019. In summary they said Mr T was 
automatically registered for online statements, which he could have accessed at any time. 
They said Mr T was told about changes to his interest rates, and these were contained in his 
monthly statements. And any emails they send come from an unmonitored mailbox  so they 
wouldnt have seen Mr Ts out of office replies to those emails.
Barclays added they were sorry Mr T felt harassed by the person he spoke to in January, but 
reiterated it was his responsibility to ensure the details they hold are correct. Barclays also 
said sorry for closing the complaint, when he was told itd be investigated further.
In March 2019, Mr T wrote to Barclays again not accepting what hed been told. He said the 
general rule in the industry is that credit card issuers should give customers 45 days notice 
of interest rates increasing. And that if someone is in persistent debt, they should be taking 
steps to help customers who have got into the habit of only paying the minimum payment. 
Mr T says he was never told about changes to the interest rates, despite the terms and 
conditions saying they had to  and had never been given any support.
Because Mr T didnt agree with this, he asked our service to look into things. One of our 
investigators did so and felt his complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary, he said Barclays 
had managed Mr Ts account correctly, in line with the terms and conditions  and as hed 
expect.Mr T though didnt agree. He said hed had no communication from Barclays around the 
persistent debt issue until quite recently  but even then, he felt their statement about him 
not beginning to make more payments was threatening.  He added that Barclays didnt keep 
him informed of changes to interest rates  and no letters were received by him. He also 
said that the email address had never been used by Barclays, so they should have been 
aware there was no active email and tried to contact him another way. Because of these 
issues, and how long the matter has taken, he feels Barclays should waive the interest for 
the period of time from his complaint onwards. 
Our investigator reconsidered the issues Mr T had raised, but still didnt think his complaint 
should be upheld  so its been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think its important to explain that my role is to consider whether Barclays have acted fairly 
and reasonably in the handling of Mr Ts complaint. I note hes been told about the way 
different financial institutions operate, but Im only looking at what Barclays have done here.
Changes to interest rates
Mr T has complained that Barclays havent kept him up to date with interest rate changes. 
Hes argued theyve never contacted him about these and thinks they should have done.
But I dont agree with Mr T on this point. When he took out his credit card Barclays have said 
he signed up to paperless statements. Mr T hasnt disputed this, so Ill take it that he accepts 
this as correct. When you sign up to paperless statements, I think its then reasonable for 
Barclays to assume Mr T was comfortable with that choice.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions that Mr T agreed to. These say that they may notify 
Mr T of any changes in a variety of ways  one of which being his online statements.
Mr T has told us he never accessed his online statements. But Ive seen copies of the 
statements that were available to Mr T if hed logged in online to check them. These 
statements do show information about his interest rates.
This includes each monthly statement, for 18 months, showing that his 0% interest rate was 
due to finish in December 2017. And shows that part of his balance moving to Barclays 
standard interest rate. I can also see notifications about changes to the Bank of England 
base rate.
Taking all of this information into account it seems that Mr T did sign up to paperless 
statements, and Barclays did fulfil what was expected of them by providing him with the 
necessary information. Because of this I cant fairly hold Barclays responsible for Mr T not 
reviewing the information they made available to him.
 
Barclays not realising Mr T wasnt accessing his account online  and his email address was 
out of date
Mr T has also complained that Barclays didnt realise he wasnt accessing his account, and 
the email address he had registered with them wasnt in use. Barclays have explained the email address from which they send notifications isnt monitored  so they wouldnt have 
received the out of office Mr T said he placed on that account.
Referring back to the statements Mr Ts account was managed well. As hes said himself, he 
set up a regular payment to cover the minimum monthly payment. So, I wouldnt usually 
expect Barclays to need to get in touch with Mr T if everything is running smoothly.
In terms of the email address, I dont agree with Mr T that it was Barclays responsibility to 
recognise it wasnt in use. Barclays terms and conditions say its the responsibility of their 
customers to keep them updated  and in Mr Ts case Im not aware of any reasons why he 
couldnt have done this. So, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong under this 
section either.
Barclays have provided me with information to show Mr T updated his email address in 
January 2019, when he raised this complaint.
Barclays actions around persistent debt
Mr T has complained that Barclays previously didnt send him notifications about persistent 
debt and have only started to do so when he raised this complaint.
To clarify persistent debt is where a card holder has paid more in fees, interest and 
charges than off their balance in the last 18 months. Barclays had to explain an increase in 
payments will reduce Mr Ts cost of borrowing and reduce his balance sooner. They should 
encourage Mr T to contact them to see whether they could afford to repay more, explain if he 
reaches 36 months in the same situation his card could be suspended  and provide 
information on free debt counselling services. 
Barclays have provided copies of the notifications sent out  these all meet the requirements 
of persistent debt. And Ive also seen the notification Mr T provided that Barclays sent him in 
July 2019  which wasnt a formal notification as required under the rules. This notification 
was sent to his email address  so given Mr T hadnt updated his email address until he 
made the complaint it seems likely the reason he didnt receive the notifications, is because 
they were sent by email.
I also understand Mr Ts concern about the notifications saying theyll close his account if he 
doesnt take more steps to reduce the balance on his card. But this is whats required by the 
regulator, so I cant reasonably say Barclays did anything wrong in including that mandated 
wording.
But even if I accept Barclays have made an error in not sending the notifications to Mr T I 
dont think the current position would be any different.
I say that because the notification in July sets out what Mr T needs to do to change his 
situation. But Ive looked at Mr Ts statements for several months after this. Mr T hasnt 
made more than the minimum payments, in the three months after receiving this notification. 
So, even if they had told him this earlier, Ive seen nothing to suggest Mr T would have then 
increased his payments in the three months that followed.
So, for the reasons Ive explained above, I dont uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint either.
Barclays refusing to freeze the interest on his credit cardI can see that Mr Ts unhappy Barclays didnt freeze the interest on his credit card during the 
time of the complaint. As our investigator explained, if his complaint was upheld then hed 
get a full refund  if it wasnt, then hed still be responsible for the interest charges.
Generally speaking, Barclays wouldnt be required to freeze interest on a credit card unless 
theres a specific set of circumstances  making a complaint about the interest charges 
themselves isnt one of those.
Because of that, I dont think Barclays have done anything wrong in not freezing the 
charges.
I can also see Mr T is unhappy that Barclays closed down his complaint, when he was left 
with the impression it would be fully investigated. Barclays are allowed eight weeks in total to 
investigate matters  and I can see they did provide their full response to his complaint in 
that time.
My decision
For all the reasons Ive explained above I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 May 2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman