DRN-4159400
The complaint
Mrs A complains about The National Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited 
(NFU) and their decision to decline the claim she made for the vet fees she incurred when 
she sought treatment for her horse. 
What happened
Mrs A held a Horse and Rider insurance policy, underwritten by NFU. Around July 2022, Mrs 
As horse, who Ill refer to as L, started stopping during competitive rounds when show 
jumping. Ls treating physio suggested Mrs A contact her vet, to obtain a potential diagnosis 
to explain this. So, this is what Mrs A did.
Mrs As vet, who Ill refer to as S, administered an injection into Ls hocks around that time. 
And Mrs A raised a claim on her policy provided by NFU for the cost of the treatment.
NFU acknowledged the claim, and sought a completed claim form and other information 
from S. But this wasnt received until December 2022. And during this time, Ls condition 
hadnt improved. But it was found that L was able to compete without any issues at a lower 
level of competition.
NFU considered S expert report, and they referred this to their own in-house vet for their 
consideration. NFUs in-house vet also spoke to S directly, to gain a greater understanding 
of the situation. And, following this consideration, NFU declined the claim, stating the 
treatment L received was elective and so, not covered by the terms of the policy. Mrs A was 
unhappy about this, so she raised a complaint.
Mrs A disputed the version of events and testimony provided by S. And she felt S 
recommended the treatment, meaning it was unfair to deem it to be elective. Mrs A was also 
unhappy about the length of time it had taken NFU to make a decision on the claim. So, she 
wanted the claim to be accepted, and compensation for the delays shed experienced.
NFU responded to the complaint and upheld it in part. They recognised they couldve 
progressed Mrs As claim better from December 2022, when they received all of the 
information they needed from S. So, they paid Mrs A £50 to recognise any inconvenience 
she was caused by this. But they thought their decision to decline the claim was fair, based 
on S and their own in-house vets reports and recommendations. So, they didnt think they 
needed to do anything more regarding this aspect of the complaint. NFU did however offer 
Mrs A the chance to seek an additional expert report to dispute the testimony of S at her own 
cost. And they confirmed they would consider this information if and when it was received.
Mrs A remained unhappy with this response, so she referred her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and didnt uphold it. They noted Mrs As concerns 
about the testimony of S, her own vet. But despite this, they felt as S was the expert who 
treated L, NFU and their in-house vet were fair to rely on the information S provided. And 
based on this, they thought NFU were fair to decline the claim, within the terms and 
conditions of the policy Mrs A held. They also thought the £50 NFU paid to recognise the 
delays fell in line with our services approach. So, our investigator didnt think NFU needed to 
do anything more.
Mrs A didnt agree. And she didnt think it was fair that NFU were relying on what she 
believed to be inconsistent testimony from S, when she had provided information from the 
physio which she thought supported her version of events. Mrs A felt NFU shouldve spoken 
to her directly before declining the claim and she made it clear she felt industry process 
should be changed to ensure a situation like hers doesnt happen again. As Mrs A didnt 
agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint for broadly the same reasons as the 
investigator. Ive focused my comments on what I think is relevant. If I havent commented 
on any specific point, its because I dont believe its affected what I think is the right 
outcome.
First, I want to recognise the impact this complaint has had on Mrs A. I recognise Mrs A feels 
strongly that the treatment administered by S was provided based on S guidance and so, 
should be covered under the terms of the policy she held. And I appreciate Mrs A took out 
this policy to protect her financially against unforeseen treatment, such as the treatment 
being claimed for on this occasion.
But for me to say NFU should accept the claim and cover the costs Mrs A has incurred, I first 
need to be satisfied NFU have done something wrong. So, Id need to be satisfied they failed 
to act within the terms and conditions of the insurance policy Mrs A held when they declined 
the claim. Or, if I think they acted within these, that it was unfair for them to do so. And on 
this occasion, I dont think thats the case.
Before I explain why Ive reached this decision, I think it would be useful for me to explain 
exactly what Im able to consider. I recognise Mrs A is unhappy with the report and testimony 
S provided to NFU. But any issue Mrs A has with S, or the report they provided, isnt the 
responsibility of NFU and would need to be raised with S. I also dont think its NFUs 
responsibility to question or query the testimony S provided. I would, however, expect NFU 
to ensure their in-house vet took S report and testimony into consideration when deciding on 
how to settle the claim and Im satisfied NFU did this. So, my decision wont be talking to 
what Mrs A feels is discrepancies on S testimony.
Nor will I be talking about whether standard industry practice, which directs insurers such as 
NFU to rely on expert testimony, is fair. Or, whether more onus should be placed on the 
testimony of customers in situations where the customer disagrees with their own treating 
vet. This would be for the industry regulator, the Financial Conduct Authority, to consider and 
act upon as they are the organisation that set industry rules and guidelines.
Instead, Ive focused solely on the actions taken by NFU, to consider whether I think they 
were fair, and within the policy terms and conditions.
As Ive already discussed briefly above, I can see NFU passed S testimony and report to 
their own in-house vet to consider. And I can see S stated that the treatment they provided 
was requested by Mrs A and that no diagnosis had ever been provided regarding L and the 
issue regarding its unwillingness to jump a higher level of fence.So, based on this information, I dont think I can say NFUs in-house vet was unfair to 
conclude that the treatment L received was elective, in order to enhance Ls show jumping 
performance. Or, as L had since been able to jump without issue at a lower level of fence, 
and no physical diagnosis was provided, I dont think NFUs in house vet was unreasonable 
in deciding the issue was more likely to be behavioural. And as S, and NFUs in-house vet, 
were the experts, I think NFU were fair to rely on the information and outcome they provided.
The policy terms and conditions explain under the heading what is not insured that NFU 
will not pay for routine health care including routine farriery, elective treatment or wolf teeth 
removal and investigation or treatment of behavioural problems unless directly due to a 
physical condition covered by your policy. 
And as Ive already explained above, I think NFU were fair to deem the treatment as 
elective, and most likely resulting from a behavioural issue, based on the evidence provided 
by S and assessed by their in-house vet. So, Im satisfied that NFU acted fairly, and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions, when declining Mrs As claim on this occasion.
I also note a large portion of the delay in NFU reaching a conclusion on the claim was 
caused by S failure to provide NFU with the information they needed. Having reviewed the 
file, Im satisfied NFU did chase S regularly for this information. So, I dont think they were 
responsible for any delays up to December 2022. But I do recognise NFU accept they 
couldve progressed the claim more efficiently after this time and have paid Mrs A £50 to 
recognise this. I think this offer is a fair one, that falls in line with our services approach and 
what I wouldve directed had it not already been made.
I think it fairly addresses any inconvenience Mrs A felt caused by avoidable delays from 
December 2022 to the closure of the claim. But I think it also fairly recognises the claim was 
declined, so I dont think Mrs A lost out financially because of this delay. So, I dont think 
NFU need to do anything more regarding this aspect of the complaint.
I understand this isnt the outcome Mrs A was hoping for. And I appreciate her stance 
regarding the conflicting advice she feels S gave is unlikely to change. I also appreciate the 
time Mrs A has taken to vocalise her thoughts regarding this, and the evidence she supplied 
from the physiotherapist that regularly treated L around that time.
But only a qualified vet is able to make a diagnosis regarding treatment. So, while I do 
recognise Mrs As vet has given a different version of events and explanation regarding the 
cause of the discomfort L felt, I dont think NFU shouldve been compelled to consider this 
information and overturn the decision theyve reached because of it. And so, I dont think 
NFU need to do anything more on this occasion.
My final decision
For the reasons outlined above, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint about The National 
Farmers' Union Mutual Insurance Society Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 June 2023.
 
Josh Haskey
Ombudsman