DRN-2735435
The complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain about the way Saffron Building Society dealt with their mortgage 
application. They ask that it refunds the valuation fee.
What happened
Mr and Mrs V were building a house and needed funds to complete the building work. They 
made a mortgage application to Saffron in mid-2020 through a broker. A valuation was 
carried out in September 2020. The surveyor said the construction method meant the 
property wasnt readily mortgageable and Saffron declined to lend. 
Mr and Mrs V say they gave Saffron full information about the construction when they 
applied. If it had told them this was a problem at the outset theyd have applied elsewhere. 
Instead, they paid for the valuation and then had to use personal loans and credit cards to 
fund the building work while they made a mortgage application to another lender. Mr and 
Mrs V also say Saffron asked for documents which they felt were not required.
Our investigator said the valuer identified a specific issue which Saffron wouldnt have 
known about from the information it was given initially. The investigator said it was 
reasonable for Saffron to rely on the valuers expert opinion that the property wasnt suitable 
security. 
The investigator said the valuation was delayed as surveyors werent available, which was 
outside Saffrons control. There werent any unreasonable delays caused by Saffron. The 
fees paid by Mr and Mrs V were stated to be non-refundable, and the investigator said it 
wasnt reasonable to ask Saffron to refund them.
Mr and Mrs V didnt agree and so their complaint has been passed to me, an ombudsman, 
to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Vs complaint is that Saffron should have told them sooner that it wouldnt lend. 
They say it had enough information about the buildings construction to decide this before 
the valuation  or it should improve its forms so that it asks for the information it needs. They 
say Mr V has considerable experience and could have given Saffron more information and 
clarification if it had asked. 
I understand the points Mr and Mrs V make. However, Saffron had no concerns about the 
construction based on the information in the application or the breakdown of costs. It could 
have asked Mr and Mrs V for more details about the construction to see if there was 
anything to cause concern. However, Saffron doesnt have expertise to assess or value 
property. So its usual process is to appoint a valuer to help it assess whether the property is 
suitable security for the loan. Here, Saffron appointed a member of the Royal Institution of 
Chartered Surveyors. I think Saffron appointed a suitably qualified person to value the 
property and was entitled to rely on the surveyors expert opinion. Mr and Mrs V paid a non-
refundable fee for the valuation. 
The valuer said the buildings construction wouldnt be acceptable to many mainstream 
lenders. So it didnt meet the core requirement of being readily mortgageable. Saffron asked 
the firm of surveyors about the issue with the construction and to clarify aspects of the 
valuation report. The surveyors confirmed that the property wasnt readily saleable or 
mortgageable. In the circumstances, I dont think it was unfair for Saffron to decline to lend.
Its unfortunate that the valuation was delayed  it would have been better for Mr and Mrs V 
to have known sooner that they needed to apply for a mortgage elsewhere. However, this 
was outside Saffrons control as surveyors werent available for an earlier valuation. 
The surveyor raised a specific concern about the construction and I dont think its 
reasonable to say that Saffron could or should have identified this before the valuation. 
Saffron appoints a valuer as it doesnt itself have expertise to value property. Unfortunately, 
in this case, the surveyors opinion was that the property wasnt suitable security.
Mr and Mrs V say they dont feel all the information and documents asked for by Saffron 
were necessary. I understand that providing this took time and this must be particularly 
frustrating when the mortgage was then declined. Rules on mortgage regulation require 
Saffron to carry out stringent assessments of affordability before offering a mortgage. I dont 
think, from what Ive seen, that Saffron treated Mr and Mrs V unfairly when it asked for 
information and evidence to help it assess their application. 
Im sorry that Mr and Mrs V were in a difficult position having to raise finance to pay 
contractors. Mr V has a health condition and this all happened during the Covid-19 
pandemic. I do appreciate how difficult this must have been. I dont think though that Saffron 
made an error that would make it fair and reasonable to require it to refund the valuation fee 
or pay compensation to Mr and Mrs V.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision before 23 July 2021.
 
Ruth Stevenson
Ombudsman