DRN-3063099
The complaint
Mr and Mrs C complaint St Andrews Plc has unfairly declined a claim they made for damage 
caused by subsidence on their home insurance policy. 
What happened
In 2020, Mr and Mrs C contacted St Andrews to make a claim for damage caused by 
subsidence. 
This was the fourth claim theyd made for similar damage, following earlier claims in 2013, 
2014 and 2016. All previous claims had been declined as St Andrews didnt think the cause 
of damage was subsidence. Whilst it accepted there was movement in the property, it felt 
the damage reported had been caused by settlement, or other causes not covered under the 
policy.
Unhappy with St Andrews findings in 2020, Mr and Mrs C got their own report from a 
structural engineer. They say this report supports that there is damage caused by 
subsidence, and St Andrews has been negligent over the last eight years in not carrying out 
a proper investigation into the claim. 
St Andrews didnt agree the report showed there was subsidence damage. So it didnt agree 
to change its position. It also said it was too late for Mr and Mrs C to complain about the 
complaint outcomes in 2013 and 2014, as they were out of time. Those claims have been 
considered separately by this service and found to be out of time. 
St Andrews reviewed the claims in 2016 and 2020 and didnt agree to change the position 
on these. But it did acknowledge there were delays caused in responding to the report Mr 
and Mrs C provided and in providing the decision on the claim outcome in 2020. It 
apologised for the poor service and offered £200 compensation. 
As Mr and Mrs C didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. Since asking for an 
ombudsmans decision, Mr and Mrs C have provided a follow up letter from their structural 
engineer which says the building is likely suffering from subsidence.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As part of this complaint I will only consider the claims made in 2016 and 2020 and St 
Andrews response to them. 
Mr and Mrs Cs policy covers them for damage caused by subsidence. When making a 
claim, it is for the insured to demonstrate that the damage suffered is covered under the 
policy. If they do that, the insurer must cover the claim unless it can rely on an exclusion to 
decline it. 
In cases where damage is caused by subsidence, as the experts, we would expect             
St Andrews to assist its customer in assessing if the damage has been caused by an 
insured event, so Ive considered if St Andrews has acted fairly when assisting Mr and Mrs 
C to investigate the cause of the movement.  
In 2016, St Andrews felt some of the cracks had appeared due to structural alterations in the 
property causing issues with load bearing. For example, it thought the dividing wall between 
the bedroom and bathroom wasnt load bearing directly below, meaning the weight of the 
bath was causing deflection of the floor joists. It felt this was the likely cause of the internal 
cracking in the property.
I accept that St Andrews hasnt carried out any monitoring of the property, as commonly 
seen in subsidence cases. But monitoring is carried out where the business believe an 
external factor may be causing subsidence. In 2016, its expert felt it was issues with the 
structure of the property causing the cracks, and as this wasnt covered by the policy, it 
didnt think any further investigations were needed. I dont think St Andrews acted unfairly in 
relying on that report to say the damage hadnt been caused by subsidence and that no 
further investigation was needed. 
In 2020, Mr and Mrs C contacted St Andrews as they said the cracking had got worse.       
St Andrews visited the property again, it found that the cracking was most likely due to one, 
or a combination, of the following reasons:
(a) moisture expansion and thermal shrinkage within or between components, (b) 
localised settlement likely due to redistribution of loads through structural 
alteration/remodelling. (c) deflection of floor joists/beams, (d) inadequate past 
repairs.
Again, as the above are insured events covered under the policy, it declined the claim.
Mr and Mrs C have provided their own report from a structural engineer dated November 
2020. Mr and Mrs C say this report supports there is subsidence, but I dont think the 
conclusions do support that the damage suffered is covered by their policy. 
The conclusion of the report is:
The material under the foundation is loose madeground rather than natural soil 
or rock, and this material has insufficient strength to support the foundation loads. 
This has resulted in a magnitude of settlement under the internal wall, that is 
greater than the normal settlement of foundations under the external walls. This 
is known as differential settlement, and we estimate that the internal foundation 
has settled at least 30mm more than the external foundationsThis means the 
pressure on the soil below the foundation is higher than the soil is capable of 
resisting, without excessive volume change occurring.
Whilst theres no doubt from this report that the property is moving, Mr and Mrs Cs policy 
only covers them for damage caused by subsidence. The conclusions of this report suggest 
the damage has been caused by settlement, which is defined in the policy as downward 
movement of the ground underneath the buildings due to the weight of the buildings. This 
type of movement is different to subsidence and isnt covered under Mr and Mrs Cs policy. 
Mr and Mrs C have said that this report also references subsidence, and I agree that it does. 
But I dont think the use of the word subsidence means that is what the report is concluding. 
I think its clear from the conclusions that the damage is being caused by the weight of the 
building on the madeground, and not the downward movement of the ground beneath the 
buildings not due to the weight of the buildings, which is how subsidence is defined in the 
policy. So having considered the evidence from both parties, Im satisfied St Andrews has acted 
reasonably in saying the damage isnt covered by the policy. I can appreciate this is a worry 
for Mr and Mrs C, they say when they bought their home they had a structural survey carried 
out, and if St Andrews had handled the claim better, theyd have been able to take action 
against that surveyor. But St Andrews role is to assist Mr and Mrs C in investigating whether 
the damage is caused by something covered under the policy. And Im satisfied it has done 
that.
After asking for an ombudsmans decision, Mr and Mrs C sent a follow up letter from their 
same structural engineer dated October 2021. This letter says whilst the ground below the 
internal foundation is weak, it believes some other action may be causing the ongoing 
movement, such as leaking drains or water mains. But it hasnt been able to investigate this 
further due to the internal location of the subsidence. It considers as the damage has got 
worse over the past year, it should be classed as subsidence.
Having weighed up all of the evidence, Im not persuaded that this latest letter means          
St Andrews have treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly. The engineer hasnt contradicted any 
findings in its initial report, so Im satisfied St Andrews has acted fairly in relying on Mr and 
Mrs Cs original report. And I think the original report supports St Andrews position that the 
damage hasnt been caused by an insured event under the policy. 
St Andrews hasnt had sight of this new follow up from Mr and Mrs Cs surveyor, so if it 
wants to carry out further investigations into the drains once it has, it can do so. Mr and Mrs 
C have also been in touch with this service to say they think they have a blocked drain. This 
is something that needs to be considered by St Andrews before this service can get 
involved. This decision is to review whether St Andrews reached a reasonable decision to 
decline the claim based on the evidence it had in 2020. And as I think it did, Im not going to 
require it to do anything further. But it should consider any new evidence provided by Mr and 
Mrs C and provide a response.
I can see there were some delays in St Andrews getting back to Mr and Mrs C, and I think 
St Andrews offer of £200 to reflect the unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused is a 
fair one. So Im not going to ask it to pay any further compensation for this. 
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not going to ask St Andrews Insurance Plc to do anything 
differently.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 December 2021.
 
Michelle Henderson
Ombudsman