DRN-2624156
The complaint
Mrs H complains that National Savings and Investments (NS&I) has told her a savings 
certificate she has in her possession has already been cashed. 
What happened
Mrs H has told us in 1995 she placed funds with NS&I and received a savings certificate.
In 2019, Mrs H contacted NS&I regarding the savings certificate as she wanted to withdraw 
the funds. But NS&I said the savings certificate had already been redeemed. NS&I said, due 
to the passage of time, it had no records to show when the certificate had been redeemed. 
Ms H went on to complain and NS&I responded on 24 September 2020. NS&I said it had 
checked its records and found the certificate was repaid in 1998 but couldnt provide any 
further information. NS&I said that it often sends replacements for lost certificates and that it 
can arrange repayment without the physical document being required. NS&I didnt uphold 
Mrs Hs complaint. 
Mrs Hs complaint was passed to an investigator at this service. They thought NS&I had 
dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt ask it to do anything else. Mrs H asked to appeal 
and has told us in 2015 she was forwarded two NS&I certificates by her ex husband, both 
quoting different values for what they were worth. Mrs H says NS&I has written to her since 
2015 about the two certificates she held. Mrs H has also told us she had moved abroad a 
few months prior to the date NS&I says the certificate was cashed. As Mrs H asked to 
appeal, her complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand why Mrs H is upset and concerned. I can also see that, because of the 
amount of time that has passed, the lack of clear information about what happened has 
impacted the situation. Ive looked at the available information to see whether NS&Is 
response to Mrs H is reasonable. 
NS&I has sent in what limited evidence it has from its systems concerning when the 
certificate in question was redeemed. It shows that it was repaid in 1998, as NS&I has said. 
In addition, NS&I has sent us evidence to show the searches it completed on its systems 
after Mrs H asked it to trace the certificate. The searches dont show an active certificate 
matching the details Mrs H provided. Had the certificate remained active, Id have expected 
NS&Is searches to have located it. 
Whilst I appreciate NS&I didnt initially tell Mrs H the certificate was repaid in 1998, Im 
satisfied what limited systems information there is verifies the date it has given. And, as 
NS&Is searches didnt find any evidence that the certificate remained active I think its more 
likely than not that it was redeemed as claimed. 
Mrs H has told us she had moved abroad shortly before the certificate was cashed in 1998. 
But, as NS&I has said, there is only a very limited amount of information available at this 
point and it shows that certificate in question was redeemed. Theres no evidence to show 
NS&I has made an error or paid someone who wasnt authorised to redeem Mrs Hs 
certificate.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs H but I think NS&I is correct when it says the certificate has 
been repaid. As Im satisfied NS&I has done all it can to try and trace the certificate and has 
dealt with Mrs Hs complaint fairly, Im not telling it to take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 April 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman