DRN-3808610
The complaint
Ms R and Mr L have complained that Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
As it is essentially Ms R making the complaint, I will mainly just be referring to her in my 
decision.
What happened
Ms R and Mr L took out the PPI in 1998 at the same time as arranging the mortgage. 
Although it was a joint mortgage, the PPI was set up just to cover Ms R.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Ms R disagrees with the adjudicators opinion 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold the complaint and Ill explain why.
Ms R says she was pressured into taking out the PPI as she was told that she wouldnt get 
the mortgage without it.
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage application form. It has a separate section for insurance 
and it has a tick next to personal accident and sickness with redundancy extra which 
suggests that Ms R chose to take out PPI. She could have chosen to take out a policy for 
accident and sickness only, which would have been cheaper. Also, the policy was set up to 
cover Ms R only. All of this suggests that some consideration was given to how the policy 
would best work for them.
From what we know of Santanders sales processes at the time, the PPI was normally 
presented as optional and I havent seen any evidence that would lead me to conclude that 
something different happened in this case. 
I have no doubt that Ms R has provided her genuine recollection of events. But the sale was 
a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising if her memory has faded somewhat. Its 
possible that she was told that she should take out the policy because it would be a good 
idea to protect the mortgage repayments, rather than being told that she had to take out the 
policy. This is a subtle difference and something that might easily be misremembered after 
all this time.
Ive thought very carefully about what Ms R has said. However, on balance, Im not 
persuaded that I can rely on her recollection to conclude that the policy was mis-sold. It 
seems to me that she probably decided to buy the policy, knowing that she didnt have to, 
even if she no longer remembers doing so.
Santander advised Ms R to buy the PPI. That means that, in recommending it to her, it 
needed to ensure that it met her needs. And from what I know of her circumstances at the 
time, the PPI was suitable for her.
Ms R would have received some sick pay from her job. But the PPI would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than she would have received full pay for. Ms R has 
said that family could help. But having the policy would have avoided the need to ask other 
people to pay her mortgage for her.
Its possible that Santander didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But Ms R was not affected by any of 
those things. For example, she didnt have a pre-existing medical condition that might have 
been excluded under the policy terms. As I consider they had an interest in the policy and 
decided to buy it, I dont think that further information would have caused them to change 
their minds. So they are no worse off as a result of anything Santander may have done 
wrong, so theres nothing Santander needs to do to put things right.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Ms R and Mr Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2023. 
Carole Clark
Ombudsman