DRN-2907921
The complaint
The estate of Mrs B complains about how Scottish Widows Limited administered a whole of 
life with profits bond policy.
What happened
The estate of Mrs B made a claim under the policy after her passing in early 2020. Scottish 
Widows processed the claim and made payment to the estate.
After receiving payment a representative of the estate looked into how the claim amount was 
calculated and contacted Scottish Widows asking for a further explanation. Scottish Widows 
took some time to provide the information, and when they did some of it was incorrect. To 
apologise for the incorrect information, and for the time taken to provide a response, Scottish 
Widows offered the estate a payment of £450.
The estate didnt accept the offer and brought the complaint to this service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. They agreed that some incorrect information had 
been given, but overall thought the claim amount had been calculated correctly. They 
explained they couldnt comment on the offer of £450 as this service doesnt have the power 
to make awards to representatives. 
The estate remained unhappy and asked our investigator some more questions about the 
calculations. Our investigator then obtained further explanation from Scottish Widows. After 
reviewing this information they still thought that Scottish Widows hadnt done anything 
wrong. The estate didnt accept this saying they still felt all is not well in the matter especially 
because incorrect information had been given. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The estate of Mrs B has provided a lot of information about this complaint and its clear to 
me how strongly the representative feels about what happened. And this is very 
understandable as they were given incorrect information which made the already emotional 
task of dealing with the estate more difficult. I want to assure the representative that Ive 
read and considered everything theyve provided even if I dont mention it all in detail. Ive 
summarised what happened which reflects the informal nature of this service.
I also think its important to say that I cant consider any type of payment for inconvenience 
to the representative of the estate. Thats not to say that there werent problems that caused 
inconvenience. But theres a distinction between the estate itself as the eligible complainant, 
and the representative who brings the complaint on behalf of the estate. This applies even if 
there is only one representative, such as in this case here. What I can consider is if there is 
any actual financial loss to the estate. And having reviewed everything that happened I dont 
think there was any financial loss.
When dealing with the estate Scottish Widows gave some incorrect information. This was 
obviously upsetting for the representative as it confused the matter around how the claim 
was calculated. I can understand the upset caused, however there is no actual financial loss 
here; its more a loss of expectation, and some added unnecessary confusion. And since I 
can only consider any financial loss to the estate, and not any emotional distress to the 
representative, this isnt something I will be making an award for.
The estate is unhappy in general about how the policy was administered and how it 
performed. Investments of any kind can go up, and they can go down. When the value goes 
down this is always disappointing. Having looked at the policy I havent seen anything to 
show that it wasnt invested or administered in the way it shouldve been. 
The issue of final interest added to the policy and the final bonus have both caused a lot of 
concern. Ive looked into these and am satisfied they were both applied correctly. 
A representative of the estate provided information sourced from the Scottish Widows 
website and Ive looked at this. I think its important to say that information on the website 
might give an indication of things like growth in the funds, but every policy is different. A with 
profits policy, like Mrs B held, will have a different final bonus depending on when it was 
taken out. This is because the final bonus depends on investment experience over the 
lifetime of the policy. 
Our investigator explained that some information is commercially sensitive. Because of this 
they werent able to give the estate a fuller explanation about some of the calculations. I can 
see the frustration here for the estate. However I havent seen anything to suggest that the 
calculations werent done in line with the terms and conditions. I know this is frustrating 
however Im satisfied the calculations were done how they shouldve been. 
Having considered everything that happened I think Scottish Widows treated the estate fairly 
and reasonably. Thats not to say the representative of the estate wasnt put to some trouble 
overall, as I think they were, but this isnt something I can consider. 
Scottish Widows has agreed an offer of £450 to settle this complaint. The estate should 
contact Scottish Widows directly if they now wish to accept this.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint and I 
dont think Scottish Widows Limited need to do anything to settle the complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2022. 
Warren Wilson
Ombudsman