DRN-3172416
The complaint
Mr N has complained Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) failed to close his account when 
he asked them to and this effected his credit file negatively.
What happened
Our adjudicators looked into Mr Ns complaint about Barclays not closing Mr Ns account. 
They concluded that Barclays had not done anything wrong in relation to this, as there was 
not record of Mr N asking for his account to be closed. Mr N did not agree with this and so 
asked for an ombudsman to look at the complaint.
I can see that, since the complaint was raised with us, there has been some mention of 
disputed direct debits. As Barclays has not had the opportunity to look into these 
transactions, this decision will not address those transactions. That said, if Mr N wishes us to 
look into this matter he will need to raise this as a separate complaint.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And Ive used this approach to help me decide what to do about Mr Ns complaint. 
After giving this case a lot of thought, I dont think that Barclays has done anything wrong. I 
know this isnt the outcome that Mr N was hoping for. But I hope that my explanation below 
will help him to understand how I have come to this conclusion.
Mr N says he contacted Barclays about suspected fraud on this account in 2015 and during 
his contact with Barclays he asked for his account to be closed. I have looked at the notes 
surrounding this event and I cant see any mention that his account would be closed from 
either party. I also note that Mr Ns online banking and yearly account statements wouldve 
shown that this account was still open. So I wouldve expected him to query this sooner than 
he did had he actually made this request. So without proof that Mr N attempted to close his 
account, I cant say that Barclays failed to close his account.
Overall and based on the evidence I have been provided with, I cant say Barclays did 
anything wrong in relation to this matter. 
My final decision
Because of the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 April 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman