DRN-3790259
The complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about a secured loan he has with Swift 1st Limited trading as Swift 
Advances. He is unhappy that despite the term ending in March 2023, he has been told he 
will still owe almost £23,000 at that point. 
Mr P is represented in his complaint, but for ease I will refer to all comments as being his. 
What happened
Mr P took out a second charge secured loan in 2007. He borrowed just under £20,000 over 
15 years. Unfortunately, it was not long after the advance was made that payments began to 
be missed. Arrears started to build on the account, and reached a maximum of nearly 
£4,000 at the beginning of 2016. The arrears reduced overall until 2021, but further 
payments were missed. Various arrangements to pay were agreed between Swift and Mr P, 
but they were broken when payments were missed.
From September 2009 Swift sent Mr P annual statements, which set out the basic details of 
the loan, including the outstanding balance. In addition, they detailed the transactions for the 
year, including what Mr P should have paid and when, and what was paid.
At the beginning of 2017 Mr P raised concerns that there would still be an outstanding 
balance on the loan at the end of the term. He believed that was due to the fees and charges 
that had been applied to the loan. Swift responded to the complaint on 16 January 2017. It 
explained that the loan would only have been repaid at the end of the term if Mr P had made 
all of the payments that were due under the loan agreement, but many of the payments due 
hadnt been received. Swift went on to explain that when payments were missed, it 
increased the administration needed and so the customer was charged for those costs. It set 
out what charges had been applied and why. It was satisfied that it had applied fees and 
charges in line with the terms and conditions of the loan.
In June 2022 Swift wrote to Mr P again and explained that due to the missed payments, 
fees, charges and associated interest, there would be an outstanding balance at the end of 
the term in 2023. The letter went on to confirm that Swift was willing to work with Mr P to 
resolve the situation and enclosed information about some options that might be available. 
This initiated a complaint to Swift on 25 August 2022.
Swift responded a few days later. It declined to comment on the matter of the loan balance, 
fees and charges, and directed Mr P back to its January 2017 letter. In relation to the 
charges and fees applied to the loan thereafter, it was satisfied that they had been correctly 
applied. It explained that it was required to provide information to its customers about the 
status of their loans, and linked this to the payments Mr P had been told he needed to pay if 
he wanted to clear the balance of the loan by the end of its term. Contact details were 
provided in the event that Mr P wanted to discuss his payments. Swift also confirmed that 
the interest rate charged was that which Mr P had agreed to at the time he took out the loan, 
other than it had been reduced as a concession due to the Covid-19 pandemic.
On 20 September 2022 Swift wrote to Mr P confirming a payment arrangement that had 
been agreed, starting on 1 October 2022. It confirmed that if he paid the £421.76 each 
month thereafter, the loan would be repaid on 1 October 2027, assuming all payments were 
made and there were no interest rate changes or additional fees or charges added to the 
account. 
One of our investigators considered the complaint. He explained that we were unable to look 
at the issues covered by the final response letter of 16 January 2017, as Mr P hadnt 
referred the complaint to this service within six months of the letter, and there were no 
exceptional circumstances that had prevented him doing so. However, we could consider the 
complaint for the period after the January 2017 letter. He was satisfied that Swift had kept 
Mr P informed of the situation with the loan over time and that the fees, charges and interest 
applied to the loan had been applied appropriately. In addition, the investigator was satisfied 
that the payment arrangement Swift had offered Mr P was appropriate in the circumstances. 
Mr P didnt accept the investigators conclusions. He said that it was unfair that they were 
being asked to pay back so much. In relation to us not considering the 2017 complaint, Mr P 
said that we should, as his wife had raised the issues that had become the complaint, not 
him. It was also commented that neither he nor his wife had made a formal complaint at the 
time. In addition, Mr P said he had no recollection of receiving the 2017 complaint response. 
Mr P asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman.
Our investigator explained that a formal complaint hadnt needed to be made in 2017, all that 
was needed for Swift to treat the content of the telephone conversation as a complaint, was 
an expression of dissatisfaction. He was satisfied that Swift had acted reasonably in setting 
up a complaint at the time. In relation to the receipt of the 2017 complaint response, the 
investigator explained that the letter had been correctly addressed, and so it was most likely 
that it had been successfully delivered. He commented further on the charges and interest 
rate that had been applied to the loan, but remained satisfied that they had been applied 
fairly. 
As Mr P didnt accept that we could only consider part of the complaint, it was referred to me 
to consider our jurisdiction. I issued a decision on DATE in which I confirmed that we were 
not able to consider Mr Ps complaint the account balance, interest, fees and charges before 
the final response letter of January 2017. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We review our jurisdiction at every stage of our process and so I have reviewed it again. I 
remain satisfied that my conclusions set out in my decision of 16 November 2022 are 
correct. This decision will only, therefore, consider Mr Ps concerns about the account 
balance, interest, fees and charges from January 2017.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr P entered into the contract with Swift, he agreed to pay a certain amount every 
month. He didnt do that, and this resulted in charges and fees being added to the amount 
he owed and additional interest accruing, as the amount owed was higher than it should 
have been. This situation continued after January 2017 with the application of interest and a 
further five charges. Lenders are generally permitted under the mortgage terms to apply fees 
and charges to cover the additional cost of administering a mortgage account that is in arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
However, lenders also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, we will still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly. One situation where we 
generally find that arrears fees or charges havent been applied fairly is if it has been applied 
in respect of a month where the customer has paid either the contractual payment or a 
different amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. Another is if more than one fee 
has been applied in the same month.
I have looked at Mr Ps payment record from January 2017, using the fairness test 
referenced in the previous paragraph. I find that all of the fees and charges applied since 
that date have been fairly applied when payments were missed and, in relation to the field 
agent visit, when Mr P was not responding to Swifts attempts to discuss the loan and 
arrears.
When an individual owes a debt it is generally accepted that interest is payable until the debt 
is paid off. In this case Swift applied the rate of interest that was detailed in the loan 
agreement Mr P signed in 2007 until 1 May 2020, when it reduced the rate slightly. I cant 
find that this was inappropriate in the circumstances.  
Since 2017 Swift provided information to Mr P to keep him up to date with what was 
happening with his loan. It also explained to him that the loan wouldnt be paid off by the end 
of the term unless he increased his payments. While this information may have worried 
Mr P, I cant find it was inappropriate for Swift to have done so as it is important for a 
customer in arrears to know what is happening with their account.
I note that Mr P has raised concerns about the affordability of the new payment arrangement 
going forward, and that he agreed to it as he didnt think he really had a choice. I can only 
suggest that if Mr P is concerned about his ability to make the payments under the new 
arrangement he should speak to Swift about those concerns. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr P to accept or reject my decision before 
16 December 2022.
 
Derry Baxter
Ombudsman