DRN-3268521
The complaint
Mrs O says AWP Assistance UK Ltd mis-handled a claim she made on her home emergency 
insurance policy.
All references in this decision to AWP include its appointed administrative agents.
What happened
In 2021, Mrs O  whos elderly  contacted AWP to make a claim on her policy due to 
problems she was experiencing with her electrics at home. AWP sent out an engineer to 
investigate and they told her theyd isolated three plugs before leaving for another 
appointment.
Mrs O said she was left without a working fridge freezer, washing machine, microwave, 
freezer in the shed and CCTV. She subsequently called her own electrician who tried to find 
out what AWPs engineer had done so they could resolve the problem for her. The electrics 
were eventually repaired by her own electrician almost four months after the initial fault had 
been reported to AWP. Mrs O complained to AWP about its handling of the claim, which she 
said left her without crucial facilities for a considerable time.
AWP didnt uphold the complaint. It emphasised to Mrs O that the purpose of the policy was 
to make her home safe and secure and to ensure no damage or further damage was caused 
to her home or its contents because of the emergency. AWP was satisfied it had done that. It 
noted Mrs O had requested a copy of its engineers report and sent it to her, with its 
apologies for the delay.
Unhappy with AWPs response, Mrs O complained to us. Our investigator considered her 
complaint and, in the absence of a complaint file from AWP despite repeated requests for it, 
recommended that it should be upheld. They thought Mrs O had, through the actions of 
AWP, been left without power to her shed and to white goods and that AWP should have 
restored power itself. The investigator asked AWP to reimburse Mrs O for the work carried 
out by her own electrician, plus interest. They also asked her it pay £300 as compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused by its actions which led to a four-month delay in 
the issue being resolved.  
AWP didnt agree with the investigators findings. They said the policy didnt provide for the 
maintenance of Mrs Os property, rather it was for AWP to review the situation and make 
things safe for her. It said that, by isolating the relevant plugs and advising her of its actions, 
it had done that.
As the investigator couldnt resolve the complaint informally, it was passed to me to review 
afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ordinarily, the starting point for me would be to consider the policy terms, and especially 
those AWPs relied on, to determine whether it acted fairly. Because AWP hasnt provided a 
copy of the full policy term, or otherwise responded to several requests weve made for its 
complaint file, Im unclear as to what those terms might be. Mrs Os tried to provide us with 
the information we need, and this has proved helpful, but there are still gaps. Nevertheless, 
Ive gone on to reach a decision based on the available information.
In response to Mrs Os complaint, I can see that AWPs quoted some of what it feels are the 
policy terms that apply to the claim. And in response to the investigators assessment, AWP 
asked that they review their recommendation or confirm where in the policy the investigator 
believes it states a full repair should have been carried out.
But its difficult for me to rely on AWPs quotation of what it feels are the relevant policy 
terms without sight of them. Its possible that AWPs mistaken as to what policy terms apply 
here and its given little indication of the exclusions that might apply. And it doesnt help that 
it hasnt provided the complaint information weve asked for.
What does seem clear is that Mrs O was left without the use of certain white goods despite 
AWPs engineer report indicating shed been left with refrigerator facilities. Further the plug 
to a freezer in her shed ran from a plug AWPs engineer had isolated, so the freezer 
switched off and meant she lost the food inside. Arguably her home was also less secure 
without functioning CCTV.
In trying to clarify what work AWPs engineer had carried out and how, Mrs O repeatedly 
chased it for its report. I think its fair to say this would have helped her in trying to arrange 
repair work through her own engineer. AWP did eventually provide Mrs O with further 
information, but I gather that did delay matters for her significantly. It apologised to her for 
this, but I dont think that went far enough in putting things right for Mrs O in the 
circumstances.
I believe AWPs actions have caused Mrs O considerable frustration and upset. Shes elderly 
and was coping with losing her husband, who sadly died while she was in contact with AWP 
to resolve matters. I think AWPs handling of the claim and subsequent complaint added to 
the distress she suffered.
Putting things right
I require AWP to:
Reimburse Mrs O the cost of the related work carried by her own electrician, subject 
to reasonable proof of payment, and in line with the remaining policy terms; and
Add and pay simple interest of 8%* a year on the cost of that work, calculated from 
the date Mrs O paid the electrician to the date of settlement; plus
Pay Mrs O £300 as compensation for the distress and inconvenience its actions have 
caused her.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires AWP to deduct tax from this interest. AWP should give 
Mrs O a certificate showing how much tax its deducted if she asks for one.My final decision
For the reasons given, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require AWP Assistance UK 
Ltd to put things right for Mrs O as explained above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 February 2022.
 
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman