DRN-2241443
The complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
What happened
Mr and Mrs A took out a monthly-premium MPPI policy in 2000, at the same time as
remortgaging their home. The policy only covered Mr A. And it covered him for accident, 
sickness and involuntary unemployment.
The initial premiums for this insurance were about £11 a month. And, following a successful 
claim, it would initially have paid out about £180 a month for up to 24 months.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Mr and Mrs As complaint should be upheld. As
they disagreed, the matter has come to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on
our website. Ive taken this into account in reaching my decision.
I know that this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs A, but Ive decided not to
uphold this complaint. I explain why below.
Mr and Mrs A say that they didnt consent to take the policy and that it was just added to 
their mortgage. They also say that they didnt even know they had it until a few months 
ago. 
Ive thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs A have said, as set out above, as they are 
very clear about these recollections. But I think that Mr and Mrs A knew that the policy 
was optional and that they chose to take it. I say this because Ive seen:
othe mortgage application form signed by Mr and Mrs A. This has a section in it 
dealing with MPPI where it recommends that the applicant considers taking out the 
insurance. Underneath there are two boxes  one to accept the recommendation, 
and the other, equally prominent, to decline it. I can see that Mr A has signed the 
first-mentioned box and the second one has been left blank;
oMr As signed application for the MPPI, which is a separate document. The amount of 
cover requested was for the mortgage repayment plus a further 25% towards 
mortgage related costs. The amounts shown for cover and the premiums are higher 
than those that applied at the time the mortgage actually started, which was about a 
month later. But this is anticipated on the form which says that, if the monthly 
mortgage payment changes prior to completion of the mortgage, this may affect the 
monthly premium payable;
othe mortgage quotation which shows the MPPI premium as one of the costs included 
in the monthly package costs;
Because the sale was so long ago, I can understand why Mr and Mrs A no longer 
remember all this.
Additionally, Mr and Mrs A have referred to an old letter they had received during the 
time that the cover was in place which referred to the MPPI premiums. So, at the very 
least, they would have been reminded of the existance of the policy at that point.
BoS has told us that the MPPI was sold during a meeting. And Ive seen its records 
which refer to a central London branch. However Mr A is adamant that he never 
attended any meetings, and certainly not one in London. I cant be sure that the record 
refers to the geographical location where the sale took place. It could, for instance, refer 
to the office where the application was processed. In any event I dont have to clarify this 
as it doesnt change my decision. 
To give Mr and Mrs A the fairest outcome, Ive considered their complaint on the basis 
that BoS advised them to take out the policy. This means that it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure that it was suitable for Mr A and Mrs A. BoS also had to give them clear, 
fair and not-misleading information so that they could make an informed decision 
whether they wanted to take the insurance or not, in the light of their circumstances at 
the time.
I dont know what steps BoS took to check the suitability of the MPPI. But, knowing what 
I do about the terms and conditions of the policy and Mr and Mrs As circumstances, I 
find that it was suitable because:
oMr A was eligible for the policy;
oI havent seen anything to suggest that Mr A would have been caught by any of 
the MPPIs main restrictions and limitations  such as those affecting someone 
who had a pre-existing medical condition;
oIve seen the information Mr and Mrs A provided to BoS at the time of the sale. 
This shows that Mr As income was much greater than Mrs As. So I think that it 
was reasonable for the insurance to be taken out in Mr As sole name. This is 
because had he not been able to work, this would have had a more significant 
negative effect on their ability to make their mortgage repayments than had Mrs A 
been off work. This conclusion is not affected by the fact that the property was in 
their joint names  from which flows the necessity that the both the mortgage and 
buildings insurance had to be in their joint names;
oIm satisfied that the policy was reasonably priced by reference to other policies 
available in the market at the time. And it offered reasonable benefits. And I 
havent seen anything to make me think that Mr and Mrs A couldnt afford the 
premiums. In any event, because it was paid for monthly, had they later thought 
that they couldnt afford the MPPI, or no longer wanted it, they could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost;oMr A was entitled to sick pay from his employment, and he and Mrs A had some
savings. But, following a successful claim, the MPPI would have paid out in
addition to these other means, leaving those available to help meet other 
expenses while Mr A was unable to work. And the policy would have paid out for 
up to 24 months;
So I find that the policy could have been of use to Mr and Mrs A. I say this particularly 
bearing in mind the serious consequences that could have arisen had Mr and Mrs A 
been unable to make their mortgage repayments, which were secured on their home;
Its possible that BoS didnt tell Mr and Mrs A everything that it ought to have about the 
policy during the sales meeting. But as Ive concluded above that it was suitable for them 
and they seem to have wanted this type of cover, I think that they would still have taken it 
had BoS given them clearer information.
As Ive said, Ive considered everything Mr and Mrs A have told us, including that they didnt 
try to make a claim when Mrs A was ill. But the fact that they may subsequently have 
forgotten that they had the policy, doesnt mean that they were not aware of it at the time of 
the sale. And, in any event, Mrs A wasnt covered by the insurance. Mr A also queries why 
they would have taken MPPI on this mortgage when they hadnt with their three other 
lenders. I obviously cant know what their thoughts were at the time the policy was sold. But 
its unlikely their financial and other circumstances, and hence needs, remained the same 
throughout the period the property was mortgaged with the various lenders. And I know that 
at the time of this sale Mr A had recently changed employment. So this and Mr and Mrs As 
other comments dont change my decision.
From all the above I conclude that Mr and Mrs A havent lost out because of anything that 
may have been wrong with BoS sales process. So theres nothing I require BoS to put right.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision before 28 December 2020.
 
Ros Barnett
Ombudsman