DRN-1766550
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank PLC placed a block on her current account which 
meant she was unable to use online or telephone banking to monitor and access her 
account. She then found Barclays unhelpful and unclear about what she could do to have 
the block removed. She feels shes been treated unfairly and dismissively. 
What happened
Miss S has a current account with Barclays, and, in July 2019, she received a text message 
alert that a passcode had been requested to access her account. But this wasnt something 
shed done so she contacted Barclays. A block was then placed on her account and a new 
card was sent to her. Also, her online banking and telephone banking access details were 
replaced. She recalls being told that she would only have to visit a branch if she needed 
some money in the coming few days.
However, Miss S then found difficulty in viewing her recent transactions online and through 
telephone banking. Again, she contacted Barclays about this, but she was told she would 
need to visit a branch with identification to sort out these issues.
 
Miss S took time off work to go to a branch, but the problems still couldnt be sorted out. And 
when she phoned Barclays, the advisers were unable to access her account details and told 
her she would either need to contact its fraud department or go back to the branch for help.
The issue wasnt resolved until September 2019, when Miss S went to the branch again and 
the staff were able to speak with Barclays fraud department.
 
Miss S complained about the inconvenience this had caused her and the way the situation 
had been handled. Barclays apologised and credited Miss Ss account with £50. But Miss S 
didnt feel Barclays had answered her complaint. She said that she hadnt been told 
originally that she would need to go into a branch to have the blocks removed, and she felt 
Barclays had been unhelpful and didnt give her any other options, even when she explained 
why going to a branch would be difficult for her. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint. He said he understood that the situation 
wouldve been stressful while Miss S was unable to access her online and telephone 
banking. But he said it was right to block the account when Miss S told it that it hadnt been 
her that requested the passcode to access it, and it was reasonable to ask her to then go to 
a branch with identification so that the blocks could be removed. The investigator said 
Barclays had paid Miss S £50 for the poor customer service shed received, and he felt this 
was reasonable. 
Miss S didnt accept the investigators findings. She said Barclays had initially mis-informed 
her as she was told she would only need to visit a branch if she needed to withdraw money 
the weekend following the block being applied. She felt that the matter could have been 
sorted much sooner if shed been given the right information. She tried to contact Barclays, 
but it wouldnt discuss her account or offer her any alternative to resolve the issues, and this 
was upsetting. 
She had to take time off work and the issue only got resolved when the branch staff spoke to 
Barclays fraud department. She said she felt that her complaint hadnt been properly 
addressed. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to all the provided call recordings from Miss Ss conversations with Barclays 
about this matter. I can fully appreciate that this situation has been frustrating for Miss S, 
particularly as shed attempted to do what Barclays had told her, but still needed to phone 
and visit the branch several times to try and get the blocks removed from her account. And 
these restrictions meant that she couldnt keep up-to-date with reviewing her account.
 
When Miss S originally spoke with Barclays fraud department and explained that it hadnt 
been her that had requested the passcode; blocks were placed on her account. A new card 
was ordered for her and it was explained that she should receive this in a few days, but she 
would need to go to a branch with identification if she needed to withdraw any money or look 
at her account balance or transactions in the meantime. Miss S was also given new numbers 
to access her online banking and the telephone banking and was told that a new passcode 
for the telephone banking would be sent to her in the post. 
During this call, Miss S wasnt told she would need to go to a branch to have the blocks 
removed, however the adviser did explain that the blocks meant that neither Miss S, nor any 
third party, would be able to view her account details until the blocks were taken off. Miss S 
was given a phone number to call once she received the passcode in the post so that she 
could pass security and her account could be reactivated. I think this may have been why 
she wasnt told she needed to go into the branch. I dont think she was mis-informed about 
this when she was told she would need to call.  
From the call recordings, I understand that these blocks prevented Barclays customer 
service advisers from accessing her account, just as they did for her and any potential 
fraudster or third party. This meant the advisers were unable to verify her details or view 
Miss Ss account information to continue to help her. The advisers tried to call through to 
Barclays fraud department, where its likely that more information couldve been provided. 
And, when it seemed that there would be a long waiting time, they suggested Miss S call this 
team herself or visit a branch.
 
So, although I can understand this will have added to Miss Ss frustration and confusion 
about why she couldnt fully access her account, the advisers will have had limited 
information to be able to help her. The blocks were there to protect the security of Miss Ss 
account and couldnt be removed until the necessary verification had been met.
 
Barclays has apologised for the customer service Miss S experienced, and for the length of 
time she was in the branch trying to resolve the matter. It credited her account with £50 to 
recognise this and I think that represents a fair resolution to this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept or reject my decision before 24 September 2020.
 
Cathy Bovan
Ombudsman