DRN-3043428
The complaint
Mrs B complains that Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) should not have
increased the credit limit on her credit card account as the lending was both unaffordable
and irresponsible.
Mrs Bs husband represents Mrs B in her complaint. But for ease of reading I refer to all
submissions as if they came from her even if it was him who made them on her behalf.
What happened
In 2004 Mrs B applied for a credit card account with M&S. The application was successful,
and M&S provided her with a credit card with a credit limit of £5,500. In August 2014, M&S
increased the credit limit to £6,600 and in May 2015 increased this further to £7,600.
Mrs B complained to M&S about their decision to grant her the credit and mentioned that she
had a diagnosed problem of spending addiction. M&S didnt uphold her complaint and said
that they didnt believe they had been irresponsible in providing Mrs B with her account and
credit limits. They also said that they hadnt been made aware of Mrs Bs spending addiction
and that they had put in place a payment plan for her once they were contacted by a third 
party debt advisory service.
Mrs B wasnt happy with M&Ss response and so referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into Mrs Bs complaint but didnt uphold it. She said, in summary,
that Mrs Bs account management had been such that M&S shouldnt have had any
concerns about granting the two credit limit increases.
Mrs B didnt agree. She said that sufficient financial checks hadnt been undertaken after the
credit card was issued. Mrs B also said that M&S didnt consider her existing credit
commitments which she was only servicing by paying the minimum amount due each month.
Mrs B asked for an ombudsmans decision and so her complaint has been passed to me.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in August 2021, in which I said the 
following:
Firstly, Id like to clarify that I am only considering M&Ss decision to increase the credit limit
on Mrs Bs account. I say this because Mrs B has said in her response to our investigators
view that her concerns are about what M&S did after it issued the credit card, not before. So,
I wont be considering M&Ss decision to grant Mrs B the credit card in 2004 as I believe she
doesnt want us to consider this as part of her complaint.
Ill focus in this decision therefore on the two credit limit increases granted by M&S. Ive
considered  amongst other things  the rules and guidance for lenders set out in the
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) within the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook.
These were the rules and guidelines set in place at each time M&S increased the credit limit
on Mrs Bs account.
I think there are two overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this complaint. These questions are:
1. Did M&S complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
a. If so, did it make a fair lending decision?
b. If not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mrs B
    could sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did M&S act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
If I think Mrs B has been disadvantaged in any way by M&Ss actions, Ill go onto
consider what I think is a fair way to put things right.
Did M&S complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mrs B
would be able to repay the borrowing in a sustainable way?
Before granting credit, M&S were required to carry out a reasonable and proportionate
assessment of Mrs Bs ability to sustainably repay the debt. This is often referred to as an
affordability check. This check had to be borrower-focussed. This means it needed to be
concerned with whether Mrs B could sustainably afford the borrowing (considering her
specific circumstances), rather than how statistically likely she was to repay. The latter is the
risk posed to M&S as the lender, or its credit or lending risk, but this is not necessarily the
same as an assessment of affordability.
Whats considered reasonable and proportionate will vary depending on a number of factors
such as, but not limited to:
The type and amount of credit;
 The total repayable and the size of the regular repayments;
The duration of the agreement;
The cost of the credit; and
The consumers individual circumstances.
What this means is that there isnt a one-size-fits-all approach to what is considered
proportionate, as any of these factors (or others) might influence what a reasonable and
proportionate check ought to be.
Its unclear exactly what information M&S used to determine that the limit increases were
affordable to Mrs B. Theyve said that they looked at her account management and
considered information they received from the main credit reference agencies. M&S also
said that they may have considered other financial information from Mrs B during the limit
increase request call. However, it looks to me that the increases were agreed automatically.
So, its quite possible, and perhaps likely, that no questions were asked of Mrs B on each
occasion. And its not clear what account management information and credit information
M&S did consider as they havent been specific about that although that is because they no
longer hold those records due to the passage of time.
However, irrespective of that, my view is that increasing the limit by around £1,000 each time
based on good account management and credit file information alone wouldnt be sufficient
to determine that each increase was affordable. Mrs Bs account management would haveshown M&S how she was managing her existing credit limit with them, but not that she could
comfortably take on another £1,000 of credit. And the credit file information would only really
have shown how Mrs B was managing her other commitments, again, this would not have
shown that she could take on more credit at that time. So, I dont currently find that M&S
carried out reasonable and proportionate checks for each limit increase.
Ive gone on to consider what reasonable and proportionate checks would have been at
each time and what that likely would have shown M&S.
The first credit limit increase in 2014
I think M&S should have certainly determined Mrs Bs existing financial commitments at the
time, which included her account management with them. Its quite possible that they did
that to some degree at least as they mentioned they took this into account as well as
obtaining information from the credit reference agencies. Mrs Bs account management
looks to have been fine in the main. Ive looked at the account statements and can see she
reduced her balance through payments quite significantly in April 2014 and June 2014. So, it
doesnt appear that Mrs B was struggling to repay what she was borrowing using the existing
card limit.
In respect of the credit file information, as M&S arent able to say what they saw, Ive looked
at the transactions on Mrs Bs current account statements from three months prior to try to
establish what information M&S may have seen. These show that Mrs B had around three to
four existing credit commitments at that time from what looks like credit or store cards as
well as regular monthly payments for insurance, mortgage and utilities.
I cant be sure that Mrs B was only repaying the minimum each month towards all of the
three to four credit commitments although this was of course entirely possible, and perhaps
even likely bearing in mind that each monthly payment was around the same each month.
But even if that were the case, Mrs Bs ability to take on further credit would be dependent
on her overall financial circumstances, not just the amount of credit she had at that time.
Clearly, if M&S had seen concerning signs about her existing commitments, then that would
have alerted them to whether or not Mrs B should take on further credit.
That doesnt appear to have been the case though as Mrs B herself mentions that her credit
file looked fine at this point, by which she likely means there were no missed payments from
any of her existing commitments.
I think a more proportionate check should have been for M&S to have also asked some
questions around Mrs Bs income and expenditure. That doesnt mean that M&S had to
forensically analyse that position, particularly as there were no obvious signs of any financial
distress or difficulty at that time. But some questions around that were I think appropriate.
Had M&S done this, I dont think that this would have led them to decline the increase in the
credit limit. I can only really base what they would have found out from Mrs Bs bank
statements (which I believe showed household income and expenditure) as thats the only
information I have to hand. But looking at these, credits of between around £2,500 to £3,300
came into the account each month for the three months prior. So, although I cant be sure,
its likely that Mrs B would have disclosed her household income to have been between
these figures. And looking at essential expenditure as well as committed credit
commitments, expenditure looks to have been around the £1,000 to £1,200 mark, and thats
taking into account average food expenditure for those months.
So even if M&S had carried out a proportionate check, I think they still would have assessed
that the proposed increase was affordable for Mrs B. And so it follows that I dont uphold this
part of Mrs Bs complaint.The second credit limit increase in 2016
I see no reason why my thoughts around what a proportionate check should have been in
2014 should also have been what M&S should have done in 2016, at least to begin with.
Again, they were increasing Mrs Bs access to credit for a not insignificant amount. From
what I can tell, they carried out the same checks as they did in 2014. Ive already said why I
think a more proportionate check should have been determining Mrs Bs income and
expenditure at that time as well as the information they likely would have seen from her
account management and credit file information. I think the same rationale applies to the
increase in 2016.
Mrs Bs account management again doesnt look like it should have concerned M&S. She
paid a significant amount of money to reduce the account balance in March 2016. And there
werent any missed payments or occasions where Mrs B went over her credit limit which
might have been signs that she was struggling to manage the account.
Mrs Bs position in respect of her committed monthly expenditure changed quite significantly
between 2014 and 2016 however. I say this having again looked at Mrs Bs bank account
statements for the three months prior to the increase. These show that as well as standard
monthly costs such as a mortgage, phone bills, utilities and insurance, her other credit
commitments had increased to around eight or nine a month. And these were for credit or
store cards and a car finance agreement for just under £200.
The amounts Mrs B was paying each month for these particular credit commitments were in
some cases well over £100. And because these amounts were broadly the same each
month, its quite possible these were only the minimum payments.
That doesnt mean that M&S should though have declined the increase by itself. But bearing
in mind the increased levels of committed credit commitments Mrs B had, I think it would
have been proportionate for M&S to have sought to have verified Mrs Bs income and asked
questions around her expenditure to ensure that she wasnt already overcommitted and
unable to sustainably repay the credit in a reasonable period of time.
Again, Ive had to base my thinking on what M&S likely would have seen from Mrs Bs bank
account statements as thats the only detailed information I have to hand. That doesnt mean
that M&S should also have looked at these bank statements. But this is the best
approximation of what M&S would have likely seen had they looked into Mrs Bs income and
expenditure.
This has proven a little difficult as the credits coming into Mrs Bs account were irregular on
occasion. For example, a credit of £9,000 came into the account in March 2016 which put
the account into significant credit but only for a few days before it went overdrawn, as it
seems this payment was used to pay a significant amount from other lines of credit Mrs B
had with two other creditors. I dont know who the credit was from and whether it was
something that Mrs B had to repay. I note though that this didnt appear to come from
another lender so its possible Mrs B didnt have to repay this. But because of its nature, I
highly doubt this should have been treated as regular income.
If I were to exclude this amount to try to establish the more likely position of Mrs Bs
household income, this comes to an average of around £2,500 for the three months prior.
And, without other evidence to hand, I suspect this is likely the amount that would have beentaken into account by M&S.
Mrs Bs committed monthly expenditure had though clearly increased by this time. And,
aside from the large payments made to two creditors which came from the £9,000 credit, it
looks that Mrs B was paying on average around £850 a month towards her existing credit
commitments. In addition, Mrs B was paying around £350 toward her mortgage, phone,
utility and insurance costs which I suspect were joint household costs. However, this would
have left around £1,300 each month to pay for other costs like food and petrol and normal
day to day living expenses. So, in theory at least, Mrs B would have been able to help draw
down her existing credit commitments and the proposed limit increase from that disposable
income. I dont think therefore that M&S would or should have seen enough to have
determined that it was irresponsible to increase Mrs Bs credit limit or that it was
unaffordable. So, I wont be upholding this part of Mrs Bs complaint.
Ive seen from Mrs Bs submissions that her financial circumstances changed in 2018 when
she was made unemployed. That wouldnt though have been foreseeable to M&S at that
time. And it doesnt appear that Mrs B made M&S aware of her spending addiction before
2018. I appreciate the seriousness of what Mrs B has said to us about this. But I cant see
how M&S would have been able to see that had they carried out a proportionate check.
Did M&S act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
Ive not seen any evidence that M&S acted unfairly or unreasonably.
I asked Mrs B and M&S to send me any further submissions or evidence for me to consider
and gave them a certain period of time to do so. Neither party replied. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I have received no further submissions or evidence to consider since my provisional
decision was issued, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and decision.
So, for the reasons given in my provisional decision which I have outlined above, I do not
uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 October 2021. 
Daniel Picken
Ombudsman