DRN-4376599
The complaint
Mr E complains that the Hire Purchase agreement he entered into with 247 Money Group 
Limited trading as 247Money was unaffordable.
Mr E is represented by a third party in bringing his complaint. But for ease of reading I will 
only refer to Mr E in my decision.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr E acquired a car by entering into a Hire Purchase agreement with 
247Money. The cash price of the car was £16,100, Mr E paid a deposit of £1,100 leaving a 
balance of £15,000 with added interest the total amount repayable was £26,183 over 60 
months by monthly instalments of £418.06.
Mr E said he struggled financially and had to take out further borrowing to maintain his 
repayments. He complained to 247Money saying they shouldnt have lent to him as he 
couldnt afford the loan.
247Money said theyd carried out thorough checks to determine the affordability of the 
lending. They said theyd verified Mr Es income, checked his active credit commitments and 
had spoken to Mr E. They said they were aware that Mr E was using his overdraft but didnt 
have any concerns about how he was managing his finances.
Mr E wasnt happy with 247Moneys response and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said that 247Money had done proportionate and reasonable checks prior to 
lending to Mr E. But said the information showed that Mr E was already struggling financially 
and so it was irresponsible of 247Money to add to his indebtedness. He said 247Money 
should:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund the deposit, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to 
the date of settlement.
Calculate how much Mr E has paid in total and deduct £250 per month for fair usage. 
If Mr E has paid more than the fair usage figure, 247Money should refund any 
overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file regarding the 
agreement.
And if there were any arrears after the settlement was calculated, 247Money should arrange 
an affordable repayment plan, treating Mr E with forbearance and due consideration.  
247Money didnt accept our investigators findings. They said the information theyd seen at 
the time of lending didnt indicate Mr E was struggling financially. They said Mr E had paid a 
deposit and added that hed kept up to date with his repayments, apart from one which he 
cleared quickly. And hadnt raised any concerns to them about struggling to make his 
monthly instalments, they asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice when someone 
complains about irresponsible and/or unaffordable lending. There are two overarching 
questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in all of the 
circumstances of the complaint. These are:
1. Did 247Money complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy themselves that 
Mr E would be able to repay the credit in a sustainable way?
a. if so, did 247Money make a fair lending decision?
b. if not, would reasonable and proportionate checks have shown that Mr E could 
sustainably repay the borrowing?
2. Did 247Money act unfairly or unreasonably in some other way?
The Consumer Credit Conduct of Business sourcebook (CONC) requires 247Money to carry 
out a reasonable assessment of whether Mr E could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable 
manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The affordability checks should be borrower-focused, meaning 247Money need to think 
about whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse 
consequences for Mr E. Basically its not enough for 247Money to only think about the 
likelihood of Mr E being able to pay them back (credit risk) they must also consider the 
impact of repayment on Mr E himself (affordability risk).
Theres no set list for what reasonable and proportionate checks are. But Id expect lenders 
to consider the specific circumstances of the loan application. What constitutes a 
proportionate affordability check will generally depend on several factors such as the specific 
circumstances of the borrower, their financial history, current situation and whether there are 
any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty.
247Money has shown that they verified Mr Es income, they checked his credit history and 
used Office for National Statistics (ONS) data. They also checked Mr Es bank statements 
for the preceding months leading up to the lending when assessing his ability to repay. And 
they carried out a validation call with Mr E. So, I agree with our investigator that 247Money 
carried out proportionate and reasonable checks before lending to Mr E.
I now need to determine whether having done so they made a fair lending decision.
247Money has said they saw Mr E had multiple transfers in and out of the account and that 
his bank account was overdrawn when they assessed whether the lending was affordable 
for him. But they were satisfied that Mr E was managing his finances. Ive carefully thought 
about what 247Money has said. But simply obtaining information about a borrower doesnt, 
on its own, mean that a lender will have carried out a borrower focused assessment of the borrowers ability to sustainably repay a loan.
CONC 5.2A.12 says the lender must consider the customers ability to make repayments 
under the agreement:
(3) without the customer having to borrow to meet the repayments; 
(4) without failing to make any other payment the customer has a contractual or statutory 
obligation to make; and
(5) without the repayments having a significant adverse impact on the customers financial 
situation.
And having looked at Mr Es bank statements I dont think hes able to make the monthly 
instalments without having to borrow to meet the repayments. Mr E consistently uses his 
overdraft facility, only ever being a day or two each month when he isnt in his overdraft with 
daily overdraft fees being applied to his account. 
I can also see that on a regular basis Mr E was taking on further credit commitments by 
utilising a no interest loan membership service, that specialised in providing credit for 
consumers with a poor credit history. As well as a payday loan alternative. I can see the 
three months prior to the loan Mr E increased his indebtedness using these options by 
around £1,500. Mr E also had existing monthly debt collection commitments. 
247Money said that the transactions in and out of the account didnt cause them any 
concern and it was for Mr E to manage his account. But Mr E transfers money of various 
amounts, in and out of his account numerous times over the course of each month, many 
times there are several transactions on the same day. And for very small amounts. Id 
consider this to be unusual activity for someone who was managing their finances. 
Overall, Im satisfied that Mr E didnt have the funds necessary to make the monthly 
payments to this agreement, without him borrowing further or it having a significant adverse 
impact on his financial position. 
So having carefully considered everything, I think that the checks 247Money did should have 
alerted them that Mr E wasnt able to sustainably make the payments to this agreement 
without further borrowing. So, I dont think 247Money lent responsibly to him as he wasnt in 
a position to take on this commitment.
Putting things right
 As I dont think 247Money should have approved the lending. Ive considered how this can 
be put right. The agreement should be ended, as I dont think its fair for 247Money to be 
able to charge any interest or charges under the agreement. And Mr E should be refunded 
his deposit of £1,100 plus 8% simple interest. 
When it comes to the instalments paid by Mr E, Ive taken account of the fact that Mr E has 
had use of the car. I think its fair he pays for that use. I dont think Mr Es monthly instalment 
of over £400 a month is reflective of what fair usage would be. This is because a proportion 
of each repayment went towards repaying interest.
There isnt an exact formula for working out what a fair usage should be. In deciding whats 
fair and reasonable Ive thought about the amount of interest charged on the agreement,    
Mr Es likely overall usage of the car and what his costs to stay mobile would likely have 
been if he didnt have the car. In doing so, I agree with our investigator that Mr E should pay 
£250 for each month hed use of the car.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask 247 Money Group Limited trading as 247Money to:
End the agreement and collect the car with nothing further to pay.
Refund Mr Es deposit of £1,100 adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement.
On return of the car, calculate how much Mr E has paid in total and deduct £250 per 
month for fair usage. If Mr E has paid more than the fair usage figure, 247Money 
should refund any overpayments, adding 8% simple interest per year* from the date 
of payment to the date of settlement. If there is an underpayment after the settlement 
is calculated, 247Money should arrange an affordable repayment plan, treating Mr E 
with forbearance and due consideration.  
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Es credit file regarding the 
agreement.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 247Money to take off tax from this interest. 247Money 
must give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if Mr E asks for one.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2023.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman