DRN-3610807
The complaint
Mr S complains about an excess mileage charge when his agreement with Northridge 
Finance Limited (Northridge) was voluntary terminated.
What happened
In January 2017 Mr S was supplied with a car through a hire purchase agreement
with Northridge.
The total repayable under the agreement was £14,303.30. Mr S was required to make 48 
monthly payments of £165.85 and there was a final optional payment of £5,342.50 if he 
wished to buy the car at the end of the agreement. The agreement set out that Mr S had the 
right to terminate the agreement at any time before the final payment was due. In doing so, 
Northridge would be entitled to the return of the car and at least half of the total repayable 
under the agreement. This was £7,151.65.
The agreement also set out that Mr S had a mileage cap of 32,666 miles over the four year 
duration of the agreement. It said that if he terminated the agreement for any reason and he 
exceed the mileage cap, Northridge could charge him nine pence for every mile that he 
exceeded the allowance by. 
In March 2020, Mr S chose to exercise his right to terminate the agreement early. His 
request to voluntary terminate led to a complaint being raised with this service. This 
complaint was resolved, with our service finding that Mr S shouldve been allowed to 
voluntary terminate the agreement when he requested it.
In October 2020 Northridge informed Mr S that he owed them £982 as they said he had 
exceeded the mileage allowance on the agreement.
Mr S said that various provisions in the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) meant that the 
charges Northridge had applied were unlawful. He said that Northridge could not recover any 
amount exceeding one half of the total price payable under the agreement as he had 
exercised his right to voluntary terminate the agreement. He said Northridge could only 
charge excess mileage fees if he had continued the agreement until the hire period expired 
and opted to return the vehicle.
Northridge said Mr S was contractually liable for the excess mileage fee. They said hed 
agreed to the terms of the agreement. These included a declaration hed signed. This said 
that it had been explained to him there was a mileage cap of 32,666 miles, and that I will be 
liable to pay the excess mileage charge as set out in the agreement and clause 5.8 of the 
terms & Conditions if he returned the goods following termination of the agreement at any 
time during the term of the agreement. 
They said the car had done 44,819 miles when returned to them. This led to the excess 
mileage charge of £982.
Mr S wasnt happy with the response and complained to this service.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr S complaint. He said that he was not persuaded that the 
provisions of the CCA prevented Northridge from seeking payment of the excess mileage 
charge from Mr S upon voluntary termination. He said he felt that the charges were clear, 
fair, and not misleading and these were set out in Mr Ss agreement before he entered into it 
with Northridge.
Mr S disagreed. He said that the charge for excess miles was for liquidated damages and 
wasnt part of the total cost of credit. He said that section 100 (1) of the CCA applied and 
meant that he was only required to pay half the total amount payable. He also cited a county 
court judgement that he said supported this argument.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached the same overall conclusions as the investigator, and for 
broadly the same reasons. If I havent commented on any specific point, its because I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
In considering this complaint Ive had regard to the relevant law and regulations; and the 
regulators rules and guidance. Mr S was supplied with a car under a hire purchase 
agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement which means were able to look 
into complaints about it.
The issue here is whether or not it is fair and reasonable for Northridge to charge Mr S for 
excess mileage after he voluntary terminated the agreement and returned the car. 
Considerations under the CCA
The terms and conditions of the hire purchase agreement provide for an excess mileage 
charge should the car be returned, and the agreed amount of mileage has been exceeded 
by the customer.
Sections 99 and 100 of the CCA set out the rights consumers have to voluntary terminate 
their hire purchase agreements and the liability that is due on termination. I consider these 
relevant to determining what is fair and reasonable here.
Section 99 of the CCA refers to a consumers right to terminate a hire purchase or
conditional sale agreement by giving notice. It states:
99 Right to terminate hire-purchase etc. agreements.
(1) At any time before the final payment by the debtor under a regulated hire-
purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement falls due, the debtor shall be 
entitled to terminate the agreement by giving notice to any person entitled or 
authorised to receive the sums payable under the agreement.
(2) Termination of an agreement under subsection (1) does not affect any liability 
under the agreement which has accrued before the termination
Section 100 of the CCA sets out the consumers liability on termination:
100 Liability of debtor on termination of hire-purchase etc. agreement.(1) Where a regulated hire-purchase or regulated conditional sale agreement is 
terminated under section 99 the debtor shall be liable, unless the agreement 
provides for a smaller payment, or does not provide for any payment, to pay to 
the creditor the amount (if any) by which one-half of the total price exceeds the 
aggregate of the sums paid and the sums due in respect of the total price 
immediately before the termination
(3) If in any action the court is satisfied that a sum less than the amount specified in
subsection (1) would be equal to the loss sustained by the creditor in consequence of 
the termination of the agreement by the debtor, the court may make an order for the 
payment of that sum in lieu of the amount specified in subsection (1).
(4) If the debtor has contravened an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods 
or land, the amount arrived at under subsection (1) shall be increased by the sum 
required to recompense the creditor for that contravention
The Termination: Your Rights section of Mr Ss hire purchase agreement refers to the 
liability that is due on termination and in his case, that was £7,151.65. Other sections of the 
agreement Mr S had with Northridge also referred to the liability on voluntary termination, 
including where excess mileage, damage charges or other charges may increase the final 
liability. 
Whether or not it is fair for a lender to apply the charge will depend on the terms of the 
agreement that has been entered into. I have to decide whether or not the agreement has 
been constructed in a way as to allow the charging for excess mileage without contravening 
what is set out in the CCA regarding voluntary termination. In Mr Ss case, I think it has. Ill 
explain why.
Section 99 sets out that any liabilities which accrue prior to termination are not affected by 
the termination. What this means is that Mr S is liable to pay any charges which have built 
up prior to the termination of the agreement, and that these charges are in addition to the 
other liability for early termination. So if the liability for excess mileage charges has accrued 
prior to termination it is not incompatible with what is permitted under section 99. To 
determine if the liability has accrued prior to termination I have to look at Mr Ss agreement.
Mr Ss hire purchase agreement has a section headed: Charges. This section includes a 
section for Excess Mileage. This explains the mileage cap of 32,666 miles and what charges 
will apply if the mileage cap is exceeded. It says that if the agreement is terminated early, 
and if the mileage cap has been exceeded by more than 100 miles, the mileage allowance 
will be pro-rated to the reduced period of time and that, we shall be permitted to recover 
from you an Excess Mileage Fee at the rate of 9 pence per mile.
The agreement goes on to explain how the fee will be calculated. It includes a formula used 
for calculating the charge. This is shown as (A-B) x 9 pence. It then describes A as:
the mileage at termination less the Recorded Mileage cited in the 'Description of 
Goods' section above and less the number of miles accrued (my emphasis).
And clause 5.8 of the terms and conditions attached to the agreement further explain the 
Excess Mileage Fee. This says:
(i) Where the Goods are any type of motor vehicle, you must not allow the Goods to 
exceed the Mileage Cap at any time during the period of hiring the Goods under this Agreement. The Mileage Cap is set out in the Charges section of the Agreement or a 
proportionately lesser amount for any part of the period of hiring of the Goods prior to 
the due date for payment of the Optional Final Payment.
(ii) If you are in breach of clause 5.8 (i) and the Mileage Cap (as may be 
appropriately pro-rated) is at any time exceeded during the period of hiring, then in 
the event that you terminate this Agreement for any reason and you have not 
properly exercised your option to purchase the Goods and the Goods are returned to 
us, you will pay us immediately upon demand the Excess Mileage Fee calculated as 
shown in the Charges section of the Agreement.
Section 7 of the terms sets out the right to end the agreement. Paragraph 7.3 states:
You acknowledge and agree that the amount by which the Mileage Cap has been 
exceeded will have accrued prior to the date on which you serve written notice to end 
this Agreement other than the mileage accrued in returning the Goods to us in 
accordance with clause 7.4.
Having considered the terms of the agreement, Im satisfied the liability for excess mileage 
charges accrue prior to the termination. The wording of the agreement, and particularly 
clause 7.3 are clear that the miles done over the mileage cap accrue prior to termination. So 
it follows that liability has accrued before the agreement was terminated. 
Im satisfied that my interpretation of how the charges are described in the agreement is 
reasonable. So I consider that the charges arising out of this particular contract are 
consistent with what is allowed under section 99 of the CCA. 
Ive also considered the rules set out in the regulators Handbook and cover these below.
 
the clarity of the contract 
Mr S said that he believed if he returned the car early under the voluntary termination 
process, his liability would be £7,151.65. It appears from this that Mr S was not clear about 
the application of the excess mileage charge in the event of his voluntary termination of the 
agreement. 
Even if I were mistaken in my interpretation of the points above regarding when excess 
mileage charges begin to accrue, I still also consider that a lack of clarity in the contract 
about the cost of ending the agreement early is an important consideration as to whether it is 
fair and reasonable to enforce an excess mileage charge in the particular circumstances. In 
considering what is fair and reasonable I have considered the FCA Principles for 
Businesses. In particular Principle 7 which says: 
Principle 7
A firm must pay due regard to the information needs of its clients, and communicate
information to them in a way which is clear, fair and not misleading
I have also had regard to the relevant provisions of the FCAs Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC) including:
CONC 2.3.2
A firm must explain the key features of a regulated credit agreement to enable thecustomer to make an informed choice as required by CONC 4.2.5 R (adequate
explanations).
CONC 4.2.5
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must:
a) provide the customer with an adequate explanation of the matters referred 
to in (2) in order to place the customer in a position to assess whether the 
agreement is adapted to the customers needs and financial situation;...
(2) The matters referred to in (1) (a) are:
a) the features of the agreement which may make the credit to be provided 
under the agreement unsuitable for particular types of use;
b) how much the customer will have to pay periodically and, where the 
amount can be determined, in total under the agreement;
c) the features of the agreement which may operate in a manner which would
have a significant adverse effect on the customer in a way which the 
customer is unlikely to foresee.
In considering the clarity of the information Mr S was given, I have reviewed the agreement. 
Im satisfied the agreement is clear that he would be charged for excess mileage, that this is 
accrued prior to termination, and how it would be calculated. This is based on the 
information contained in the agreement and that I have referred to above; including the 
section headed TERMINATION: YOUR RIGHTS, and clauses 5.8 and 7.3 of the 
agreement.
In addition, Mr S also signed a declaration that explicitly included a statement that the 
excess mileage charge would be payable if he exceeded the mileage cap (pro-rated) at any 
time during the term of the agreement. 
So Im satisfied the agreement was clear, fair, and not misleading.
Overall, I am satisfied that Mr S should be liable to pay the excess mileage charge, as I 
consider that the excess mileage charge as specified in the contract here is consistent with 
what is allowed to be charged under the CCA. 
Mr S has also referred to a County Court Judgment. I have considered that judgement, but I 
dont agree that it is relevant to his case. Thats because, as Ive explained above, Im 
satisfied that the charge accrues prior to termination, and its reasonable for Northridge to 
seek payment after termination.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 December 2022.
 
Gordon Ramsay
Ombudsman