DRN-2169083
The complaint
Mrs M complains about the print quality of her address on her John Lewis Financial Services 
Limiteds statements.
What happened
Mrs M is unhappy with the print quality of her address on her Partnership Card statements. 
She thinks her address is too faint and should be clearer and feels this may cause problems 
with her statements being delivered to her.
John Lewis didnt uphold her complaint but said it would pass on her feedback to the 
relevant team.
Unhappy with John Lewiss response, Mrs M referred her complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt recommend that Mrs Ms complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator reviewed Mrs Ms statements from August 2019 to March 2020. Our 
investigator noted that although Mrs M would prefer her address to be printed in a way she 
finds clearer, she thought it was reasonable for John Lewis to print her statements using 
their standard printing style.
Mrs M disagreed with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
She referred the investigator to other parts of her statement where she doesnt think the 
printing is clear and she also says the credit card statements she receives from her other 
credit card providers are very clear.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must firstly make clear that Ive only seen scanned copies of Mrs Ms statements from 
August 2019 to March 2020 and not physical copies. However, if the printed versions of Mrs 
Ms statements were unclear or faint I think its more likely than not that this would also be 
the case with the scanned versions. However, I havent found this to be the case. The 
scanned versions I have seen clearly show Mrs Ms address.
I agree with the conclusion reached by our investigator for the following reasons:-
John Lewis told us their Partnership Card statements are generated and printed by a 
third party and that their statements were redesigned to their current style in October 
2016. They confirmed the printing of Mrs Ms address on her statements is consistent 
with the standard style and font used by them. The statements Ive seen appear to 
show Mrs Ms address in the same way on each statement, so it appears to me that 
John Lewis used its standard printing style and font.
We would expect John Lewis to make reasonable adjustments if Mrs M had any 
specification communication where shed made John Lewis aware of her needs. 
However, Mrs M has confirmed to our service that she doesnt have any specific 
communication needs.
Although Mrs M would like her address to be printed in a clearer way I think its 
reasonable for John Lewis to print her statements using its standard printing style as 
Mrs M confirmed that she doesnt have any specific communication needs.
We would also expect John Lewis to look into the print quality of their statements if 
they had received similar complaints to those raised by Mrs M. However, John Lewis 
confirmed this wasnt the case.
Mrs M is concerned that the print quality of her statements may cause her statements 
not to be delivered. Whilst I appreciate Mrs Ms concerns, Mrs M hasnt provided any 
information to suggest that did in fact have problems with her statements being 
delivered to her.
Mrs M also says that the credit card statements shes received from other businesses  are 
much clearer but Im afraid I cant comment on those as Im only deciding Mrs Ms complaint 
against John Lewis here.
John Lewis confirmed that it would report Mrs Ms comments to the relevant team. Based on 
the information Ive seen I think John Lewis treated Mrs M fairly and it follows that I do not 
require John Lewis to do anything further.
Since the investigators view, Mrs M has also drawn to our attention other parts of her 
statements where she feels the print should be clearer. Strictly speaking as these are new 
points that Mrs M didnt raise in her original complaint to John Lewis, Mrs M will need to 
raise these issues first with John Lewis and give it the chance to investigate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 October 2020.
 
Michelle Hayward
Ombudsman