DRN-2393344
The complaint
Mrs O complains about a decision taken by Black Horse Limited (Black Horse) to hold her 
liable for a balloon payment of £11,805 in respect of a personal contract purchase (PCP) 
she took out.
What happened
Mrs O entered into a PCP with Black Horse in January 2016. Under the terms of the PCP 
Mrs O undertook to pay Black Horse:
35 monthly payments of £286.86 followed by one monthly payment  in month 36 
and on the understanding that she wasnt returning the car  of £11,805, or
35 monthly payments of £286.86 followed by one monthly payment  in month 36 
and on the understanding the car was being returned without further charges being 
payable  of £nil.
Now Mrs O originally decided that she would return the car and exercise the second option 
above. However, she then decided to allow her daughter to part exchange the car for 
£10,500 against a new car acquisition she was making and in essence exercise the first 
option above.
However due to confusion amongst a number of parties the £10,500 wasnt paid to 
Black Horse to part settle the balloon payment of £11,805 due and owing under the first 
option, the option ultimately exercised by Mrs O.
And because Black Horse didnt receive the sum of £10,500 and the sum of £1,305 under 
separate cover, it placed the balloon payment of £11,805 in default and recorded the same 
with credit reference agencies.
Mrs Os complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded that it should 
be upheld in part. In his view it would be unfair to ask Black Horse to write off the balloon 
payment of £11,805 but it would be fair to ask Black Horse to:
come to a repayment plan with Mrs O for the £11,805 owed
remove the default recorded with various credit reference agencies
pay Mrs O £350 for the distress and inconvenience she had been caused
Black Horse responded to say that it accepted the investigators view on the understanding 
that Mrs O pay it £286.86 a month  by way of a repayment plan  and that if this repayment 
plan isnt kept to then default would be reregistered by it with various credit reference 
agencies.
The investigator considered Black Horses response to his view and felt it was both fair and 
reasonable. So he put it to Mrs O with the recommendation she accept it.
Mrs O responded to say that she wasnt in a position to either accept or reject Black Horses 
offer. And because of this both parties were notified that the complaint would be passed to 
an ombudsman for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in November 2020. In summary I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would point out that where the information Ive got is incomplete, unclear or 
contradictory, Ive to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. 
Secondly I would add that Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill concentrate my 
comments on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not 
because Ive failed to take it on board and think about it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Based on what both parties have said and submitted Im satisfied that the car wasnt 
returned to Black Horse and Black Horse didnt receive the £11,805 balloon payment that 
was due to it as a result of this non-return.
Furthermore, and again based on what both parties have said and submitted, Im further 
satisfied  on the balance of probabilities  that Mrs Os daughter used Mrs Os car to obtain 
£10,500 against her new car acquisition and therefore has had benefit of this sum of 
money.
Because of what I say above I, like the investigator, find that it would be unfair that the 
balloon payment sum of £11,805 (or the part exchanged sum of £10,500) be written off. And 
that Black Horse is reasonably entitled to hold Mrs O liable for the sum of £11,805. But 
because of the confusion that occurred over what Mrs O was told she owed, being advised it 
was £nil when in fact it was £11,805, I find that its only fair that Black Horse pay Mrs O £350 
for any distress and inconvenience caused and the default recorded with various credit 
reference agencies be removed.
However, Im unable to make a finding on whether it would be fair or reasonable  going 
forward  that Mrs O pay Black Horse £286.86 a month under a repayment plan. I say this 
because I cant say for certain that this sum is affordable. And as Im sure Black Horse is 
aware its required, where a consumer is, or might be, in financial difficulties to treat that 
consumer positively and sympathetically. Therefore what I find in this respect is that what 
Black Horse should do is liaise and engage with Mrs O to come to a repayment plan that is 
affordable to her and acceptable to all.
Black Horse responded to say it accepted my provisional decision.
Mrs O responded to say she didnt accept my provisional decision. In summary she said that 
her car was never used as part exchange and was completely separate from [her] 
daughters contract. And that it was confirmed to her by Black Horse that it had no further 
financial interest in the car and that the balance was settled.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.I dont dispute that Mrs O was initially advised by Black Horse  incorrectly  that it had no 
further financial interest in her car. But I remain satisfied, and for the reasons already given, 
that based on what both parties have said and submitted that the car wasnt returned to 
Black Horse and Black Horse didnt receive the £11,805 balloon payment that was due to it 
as a result of this non-return. And, on the balance of probabilities, Mrs Os daughter used 
Mrs Os car to obtain £10,500 against her new car acquisition and therefore has had benefit 
of this sum of money.
So, given what I say above and given that Black Horse said that it accepted my provisional 
decision, I see no reason to depart from my provisional findings and I now confirm them as 
final.
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited must:
come to a repayment plan with Mrs O for the £11,805 owed
remove the default recorded with various credit reference agencies
pay Mrs O £350 for the distress and inconvenience she has been caused
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs O to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 December 2020.
 
Peter Cook
Ombudsman