DRN-4461790
The complaint
Mrs J complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited (RSA) unfairly declined a 
claim she made under her home insurance policy.
Mrs J is represented in this complaint by her husband, Mr A. For ease, Ill refer to anything 
said by Mr A as being said by Mrs J.
RSA is the underwriter of this policy i.e. the insurer. Part of this complaint concerns the 
actions of its agents. As RSA has accepted it is accountable for the actions of the agents, in 
my decision, any reference to RSA includes the actions of the agents.
What happened
In late 2022, Mrs J made a claim under her home insurance policy with RSA. She said her 
handbag was stolen after she left it outside a restaurant. The handbag contained gold 
jewellery and £400 cash.
RSA instructed its jewellery experts to validate the claim. They valued the alleged loss of 
jewellery to be around £23,000. However, they said they werent able to validate the loss 
with the information provided by Mrs J. They also had concerns that Mrs J might have made 
a similar claim in 2019. 
RSA instructed loss adjusters to investigate the claim further. Following the investigation, 
RSA decided to decline the claim on the basis that it hadnt been proved by Mrs J. 
Mrs J raised a complaint with RSA, but it maintained its position. It said it didnt believe     
Mrs Js claim had been presented in the utmost good faith, which was a condition of the 
policy. It said it had not received any satisfactory proof of ownership or purchase for the 
items being claimed for and it was not satisfied with the circumstances surrounding the 
claim.
Mrs J remained unhappy and asked our service to consider the matter. 
I issued a provisional decision on 25 October 2023 where I explained why I didnt intend to 
uphold Mrs Js complaint. In that decision I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont intend to uphold Mrs Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The personal possessions section of the policys terms and conditions says RSA will cover:
Theft, accidental loss of or accidental damage to your personal possessions whilst within 
the United Kingdom, or anywhere else in the world for up to 60 days in any one period of 
insurance which you or your family own or are legally responsible for.
They go on to say:
We will require proof of ownership and value predating the loss or damage for items over 
£2,500. If you are unable to provide this information, we may choose to reduce your claim 
payment or refuse to pay your claim.
I understand that part of Mrs Js claim relates to a matching set of jewellery which she says 
has individual items worth less than £2,000 each.
However, in the making a claim section of the policy it says RSA might ask you to send us 
at our expense, all the documents and information (including written estimates and proof of 
value or ownership we may require;
And in the general conditions section of the policy it says an insured person must give us 
all the information and help that we ask for...
Given the high value of the claim, I think it was reasonable for RSA to have asked for further 
evidence to show Mrs Js ownership of the items she said were stolen. 
RSA says the photographs her representative initially sent to it werent the original images. 
This meant EXIF data that would have allowed it to see when and where the photographs 
were taken was missing.
Mrs J later provided some further photographs of the jewellery for RSAs review. RSA has 
acknowledged these contain EXIF information, but it says there is no GPS data to show 
where they were taken. It says it believes they were taken outside of the UK.
Mrs J says that some of the photographs were taken overseas, and she can provide more 
information to show they went there as well as more photographs taken in the UK.
I appreciate Mrs J feels that photographs are enough to evidence her ownership of the 
jewellery. But I dont think it was unreasonable for RSA to require additional evidence, given 
the value she was claiming for. 
Mrs J says shes provided evidence of the purchase of jewellery for her daughter, which was 
part of her claim. I can see there are items and amounts handwritten on some headed paper 
from a jewellery shop. However, this isnt dated and the report from RSAs loss adjuster says 
it contacted the jewellers and they were unable to confirm any information from the 
handwritten quotation.
Mrs J has provided a screenshot showing a payment of £30 to the jeweller in June 2022. 
However, she hasnt provided evidence to show she paid the balance of the jewellery which 
would have been over £1,400. So, Im not persuaded that what shes provided is sufficient 
evidence to show ownership of the jewellery.
When a policyholder makes a claim, the onus is on them to show that they have suffered a 
loss. RSA says its been unable to establish legal ownership of the items Mrs J says were 
stolen. Based on what Ive seen, I think RSAs conclusion about this was reasonable.
In her outcome to the complaint, our investigator said she thought it would be fair for RSA to 
review Mrs Js claim for the £400 she says was in her handbag when it was stolen. However, 
RSA says it believes that declinature of the whole claim should be maintained.
Mrs J has provided an image of a print-out of a bank statement showing that £400 cash was 
taken out of an account. According to RSAs notes, Mrs Js representative said the cash was 
to be used for household expenses, family, food etc. However, the cash appears to have 
been taken out 18 days before the alleged theft. RSA has commented that the timescale is a bit of a stretch. And I think it does seem unlikely that Mrs J would still have been in 
possession of the full £400 so long after it was taken out.
RSA has also raised some concerns about the circumstances in which Mrs J says the loss 
occurred. It says it is of the view that Mrs Js claim has not been presented in utmost good 
faith. 
Mrs Js representative told RSA that she returned to the restaurant she had left her handbag 
outside of on the day of the alleged loss. However, RSAs loss adjusters report says when 
they contacted the manager of the restaurant, they said they had never received any enquiry 
regarding the loss of the handbag or jewellery. The manager spoke with all the staff and 
confirmed this was the case.
Given the above, I dont think its unreasonable for RSA to decline Mrs Js claim for the cash 
that was stolen.
I appreciate my answer will be disappointing for Mrs J. But having considered everything, I 
think RSAs decision to decline her claim in full was reasonable. So, I dont intend to tell it to 
do anything further.
I gave both parties the opportunity to send me any further information or comments they 
wanted me to consider before I issued my final decision.
Responses
Mrs Js representative said hed managed to get a valuation done when he went overseas. 
He said he did not have it to hand previously but the overseas jeweller told him they had it 
after he asked them to find it. He said the reason he and Mrs J hadnt provided this evidence 
before was because they were never told the issue was with ownership. They were told the 
issue was with another claim in 2019 and then they were told the circumstances of the claim 
never happened, so it never came to the ownership.
Mr A provided a copy of the valuation, which we sent to RSA for comment. 
RSA said this didnt impact the decision or outcome of the claim. It said Mrs J would have to 
prove she was the legal owner of the items.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A says part of the reason he hadnt previously provided the document was because RSA 
had never told him and Mrs J that there was a problem with ownership. 
The letter from RSAs agents (dated December 2022) advising of RSAs decision to decline 
the claim says: We have not been provided with any proof of purchase, receipt, or original 
images of the items claimed for.
In its response to their complaint (dated January 2023) RSA said: We have not received 
any satisfactory proof of ownership or purchase for the items being claimed for and we are 
not satisfied with the circumstances surrounding the claim.
So, Im satisfied that RSA told Mr A and Mrs J that part of its reason for declining the claim 
was there being no satisfactory proof of ownership for the items claimed for. Despite this, Mr A doesnt appear to have mentioned a valuation having been carried out on 
some of the items claimed for in 2021 until recently.
The document hes provided is a handwritten note on what appears to be headed paper from 
a jewellery store overseas, which is dated May 2021. It looks like Mrs Js name is on it. 
There is also a brief description of some of the items claimed for and an amount.
RSA isnt satisfied that this document is evidence that Mrs J is the legal owner of the items 
she says were stolen. I dont think this is unreasonable.
In any event, proof of ownership wasnt the only reason RSA declined Mrs Js claim. As I 
said in my provisional decision, it also had concerns about the circumstances in which Mrs J 
says the loss occurred. And I think these concerns were understandable, in light of what Ive 
seen. 
Taking everything into consideration, I dont think its unreasonable for RSA to decline      
Mrs Js claim. I understand this will be disappointing for both Mrs J and Mr A, but the new 
information theyve provided hasnt changed the outcome Ive reached.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman