DRN-4255953
The complaint
Mr G complains that Motability Operations Limited didnt correctly handle his Data Subject 
Access Request (DSAR) and that Motability Operations Limited has breached the Equality 
Act 2010 in its dealings with him. 
What happened
On 3 January 2023, Mr G requested, by email, copies of all data relating to him held by 
Motability Operations. He says that Motability Operations said it sent a response by post on 
31 January 2023 but as he has no access to post due to his disability he didnt know if a 
response had been sent. Mr G says that he had made several requests that he is 
corresponded with by email due to his disability and thinks that Motability Operations has 
breached GDPR and the Equality Act 2010 in its actions. 
Motability Operations issued final a response in April 2023. It said that it had acknowledged 
Mr Gs request for all future correspondence on a separate complaint to be sent by email, 
but it hadnt applied this reasonable adjustment more widely across the business. It said this 
was a mistake and resulted in Mr Gs DSAR not being handled in the correct way. 
Regarding Mr Gs DSAR, it said part of the response included call recordings that were too 
large to send by email, so they were put on a USB stick and posted to Mr G. This USB stick 
was returned, and it contacted Mr G about this. The call recordings were then sent to Mr G 
electronically, but it acknowledged that this issue had caused Mr G stress and 
inconvenience. It confirmed that it would look to ensure Mr Gs reasonable adjustment was 
adhered to when documents needed to be sent to him. It said it would make a £250 goodwill 
payment to Mr G in response to the experience he had. 
Mr G wasnt satisfied with Motability Operations response. He said by failing to comply with 
the GDPR by not sending him the requested data in line with his request and within the 
required timescale he suffered further injury to his feelings. He didnt accept the 
compensation provided by Motability Operations was enough and said that if his case went 
to court, he would likely be awarded more than £9,500 plus costs.
Our investigator didnt uphold this complaint. He noted that Motability Operations made a 
mistake by sending the initial response to Mr Gs DSAR through the post. But he said that 
when it was informed of this it acted quickly and fairly in making arrangements for the 
information to be sent electronically. Given this he thought the £250 compensation it 
awarded was reasonable.
Mr G didnt agree with our investigators view. He said the view failed to consider Motability 
Operations failure to make reasonable adjustments and the impact this had on him. He said 
his case is one of disability discrimination and the compensation provided was derisory.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has raised concerns about Motability Operations actions in regard to both the GDPR 
and the Equality Act 2010. 
Our role isnt to decide if a business has breached data protection laws. This is for the 
Information Commissioners Office, and I can see Mr G has contacted it in regard to this 
matter. However, we can decide whether it is fair for the business to pay compensation to 
the consumer or take any other action to recognise the impact of whats happened.
Mr G has also said that Motability Operations has discriminated against him by not taking on 
board his reasonable adjustments. While we take any allegation of discrimination seriously, 
we are an informal dispute resolution service, meaning we dont have the power to decide 
whether or not Motability Operations is in breach of the Equality Act 2010, as only a court 
has the power to do this. What we can do is take relevant law and regulation into account 
when deciding whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of a complaint. 
Taking the above points into account, I have assessed Mr Gs complaint based on what I 
consider fair and reasonable given its specific circumstances. Having done so I find that 
Motability Operations has done enough in response to the issues raised. I have explained 
my reasons for this below.
Motability Operations explained that Mr Gs reasonable adjustment of receiving all 
communication by email had been applied to its dealings with him on a complaint he raised 
but it hadnt been implemented more widely throughout the business. Because of this part of 
the response to his data request was sent by post. This was a mistake and Motability 
Operations acknowledged this.
When a mistake has been made, we expect the business to put the customer back in the 
position they would have been had this not occurred, and where appropriate we will award 
compensation. In this case, when Motability Operations was made aware of the issue of 
sending the call recordings by post it responded quickly to amend its usual approach and 
sent the call recordings electronically. Motability Operations has also confirmed that the 
reasonable adjustment of Mr G receiving all correspondence by email has been 
implemented on its systems. Given this I find that Motability Operations has taken the 
actions required to put Mr G back in the position he would have been had the mistake not 
occurred.
Mr G has said this issue caused him stress and inconvenience and he doesnt think the 
compensation offered by Motability Operations was enough. He has made reference to other 
compensation awards, specifically the Vento bands. I note the comment but in this case, I 
have assessed what I consider fair and reasonable and this service has its own approach to 
awarding compensation in regard to this. 
Having looked at the issues and timings involved in this complaint I find the £250 Motability 
Operations awarded is fair. I say this because Mr Gs data request was sent on 3 January 
2023 and Motability Operations acknowledged this and said it would revert within 30 days 
and that it would respond to Mr Gs request by email. An email was sent to Mr G on 31 
January 2023 attaching the documents he had requested (this was the main response to his 
request). This was within the 30 days of his request and in line with his communication 
preferences. 
However, the email sent on 31 January 2023, also noted that the call recordings Mr G had 
requested had been sent by post on a USB stick (and it provided a password). Mr G didnt 
contact Motability Operations at that time and had he done so it could have resolved the issue sooner. Instead, Motability Operations emailed Mr G on 28 February 2023 when the 
USB stick had been returned. Mr G then explained the issue with receiving items by post 
and raised his complaint about the actions Motability Operations had taken. Motability 
Operations took measures to ensure the call recordings could be sent electronically. So, 
while these werent received by Mr G until 6 March, I find that Motability Operations 
responded quickly when the issue was identified and sent the call recordings in the 
appropriate format within a week. 
Based on the above and considering the impact on Mr G of the mistake that was made, I 
think the compensation Motability Operations awarded in this case was reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 November 2023.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman