DRN-2927488
The complaint
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint is about National House-Building Council (NHBC)s decision to 
turn down a claim made under their building warranty.
Mr and Mrs M are being represented by J in this complaint.
What happened
Mr and Mrs M live in a property covered by a ten-year Buildmark policy provided by NHBC. 
The start and end dates of the policy fall between 2015 and 2025. 
In November 2019, Mr and Mrs M notified NHBC of some issues surrounding the installation 
and operation of a stove. NHBC investigated the issue and in January 2020 it turned down 
the claim. NHBC said that the stove didnt fall under a part of the property covered by the 
warranty. And it said it couldnt see any evidence of any physical damage caused by a 
defect of one of the listed parts covered.
J complained to NHBC on behalf of Mr and Mrs M about its decision to turn down the claim. 
It said that NHBC had paid out on similar claims in neighbouring properties. In June 2020 
NHBC provided its final response. It maintained its position and reasons for turning down the 
claim and said that in any event, the repairs it felt were necessary would have most likely be 
less than the Minimum Claim Value (MCV) of the policy.
J didnt agree and referred the complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked at everything and recommended the complaint shouldnt be upheld. 
They concluded that NHBC had turned down the claim fairly and that it couldnt be covered 
under any other sections of the policy.
J doesnt agree. They say that there is no material difference between the claims which have 
been accepted in neighbouring properties and Mr and Mrs Ms claim.
The complaint has now been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms claim falls under Section 3 of the Buildmark policy. The policy covers 
problems with a newly constructed home that can be linked to a breach by the builder of one 
or more of NHBCs technical requirements. And the value of a claim needs to exceed the 
MCV of the policy.
Under the section titled When this section applies is states:
This section applies if there is physical damage to your home because the builder failed to 
build the following parts of your home to comply with the NHBC requirements:
flues, chimneys and access steps, to the main structure.
The policy goes on to define the main structure as:
The following parts of your home:
a. The dwelling.
b. In the case of a flat or maisonette, the structure of the building containing it.
c. The garages and permanent outbuildings.
I think the main structure is clearly defined in the policy and the terms of Section 3 set out 
that the physical damage needs to have occurred to the flue of the main structure in order to 
be covered.
Mr and Mrs M provided a report from a chimney specialist, who Ill refer to as C. Cs report 
states that the issue concerns 5kw m/f stove installation. We have concluded and deem the 
installation to be unsafe and that insufficient steps have not [sic] been taken to install this 
stove.
Having considered this report, the photos and video evidence provided, Im not persuaded 
that it shows any physical damage to the flue of the main structure. And any damage that is 
apparent is clearly linked to the faulty installation of the stove. Im satisfied that the stove 
isnt a listed item under Section 3 of the policy. So I find NHBCs decision to turn down the 
claim reasonable in the circumstances.
I acknowledge Js argument that NHBC has paid for other similar claims in neighbouring 
properties, and I can certainly understand why this would feel unfair to Mr and Mrs M. So Ive 
considered whether there are any grounds to pay this claim on a fair and reasonable basis.
NHBC was asked about wider circumstances concerning the similar claims. It confirmed that 
it provided different levels of cover for a number of properties in this development; some 
policies were worded differently; there were a number of similar claims made; and some may 
have been paid in error. 
Im satisfied that NHBC has clearly shown examples of the different policies that may be in 
force here and acknowledged the possibility of a genuine mistake. But I dont think it would 
be either fair or reasonable for me to require NHBC to pay this claim as a result of a mistake 
it may or may not have made on a similar claim. 
My role here is to look at the individual circumstances of this complaint and see if the policy 
terms have been applied fairly. And having done so I cant see that NHBC has done 
anything wrong in how it dealt with Mr and Mrs Ms claim. It was consistent in its reasons for 
turning it down and dealt with the matter in a timely manner upon notification of the damage. 
So for these reasons, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about National House-Building 
Council.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2021.
 
Dan Prevett
Ombudsman