DRN-2288666
The complaint
Mr S and Mrs C have complained about Covea Insurance plcs handling of their car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Covea includes their agents.
What happened
Mr S took out car insurance with Covea on 1 January 2019. He took out the policy online 
through an insurance broker. Mrs C was a named driver.
Unfortunately, on 13 December 2019, Mr S and Mrs Cs car was stolen. They reported the 
theft to the police and claimed on their policy.
When Covea looked into the claim and did some checks, they found out that Mr S had a 
criminal conviction in 2013 where he received a prison sentence of three-and-a-half years. 
Covea said that their underwriting guidelines (their rules) meant that had they known about 
Mr Ss conviction, they wouldnt have provided cover. Covea said Mr S not telling them about 
the conviction amounted to, whats known in the insurance industry as, a reckless 
misrepresentation. Because of that Covea treated the policy as though it had never come 
into existence (known in the insurance industry as voidance); didnt pay the claim; and didnt 
refund the premium for the policy year.
By the time Covea had made their decision about Mr S and Mrs Cs policy in early 2020, the 
policy had renewed on 1 January 2020, and they had already made a premium payment. 
Covea also voided the 2020 policy but made a pro-rata refund of the premium to Mr S and 
Mrs C as they didnt think it would have been fair to retain the whole premium for the whole 
of the second policy year.
Mr S and Mrs C didnt agree with Coveas actions so they complained. But Covea didnt 
change their decision. Mr S and Mrs C didn't think that was fair so they brought their 
complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. She felt that Coveas actions were 
reasonable. As Mr S and Mrs C didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been 
passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Covea have said that what Mr S did by not disclosing his conviction amounted to, what is 
known in the insurance industry, a reckless misrepresentation. And theres specific 
legislation - the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  
that sets out what insurers may do if there is a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. It 
says that insurers:
may avoid (treat as though it never existed) the insurance contract and refuse all 
claims, and
need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it 
would be unfair to the consumer to retain them.
CIDRA says a misrepresentation is deliberate or reckless if the consumer:
(a) knew that it was untrue or misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
(b) knew that the matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
Under CIDRA, Mr S had a duty to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation. To 
decide whether or not Mr S took reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation, I have to 
look to see if Coveas question, about whether or not he had an unspent conviction, was 
clear. The question Mr S was asked during the application process was: Do you have any 
unspent criminal convictions?. Next to the question was a blue exclamation mark that gave 
the following information when the curser was hovered over it:
A spent conviction is a conviction which, under the terms of the Rehabilitation of 
Offenders Act 1974, can be effectively ignored after a specified amount of time. 
However, if youve received a prison sentence of four years or more, your convictions 
will never become spent.
Mr S answered no. But at the time Mr S did have an unspent conviction. When he was later 
questioned by Covea as to why he didnt disclose his conviction, Mr S initially said the 
question asked for motor vehicle offences and not criminal records. Covea then told Mr S 
that the question asked, Do you have any unspent criminal convictions?. Mr S then said he 
thought the question meant he was only required to declare convictions from the past five 
years and that any conviction outside of that timeframe was considered spent. But I note the 
information given beside the question didnt mention timescales. It didnt say any conviction 
older than five years was spent.
Soon after Mr S took out the policy, Covea sent him a document called: Statement of Fact. 
That document confirmed the information on which Covea agreed to insure Mr S. It asked 
Mr S to read it carefully and to correct any errors. It warned that failure to correct any 
inaccurate information may result in the policy being treated as though it never existed 
and/or any claims being rejected. That document confirmed Mr S didnt have any unspent 
convictions based on his answer when he was asked during the application. That was a 
misrepresentation which Mr S failed to correct despite having the opportunity to do so. 
CIDRA specifically says that: a failure by the consumer to comply with the insurers request 
to confirm or amend particulars previously given is capable of being a misrepresentation for 
the purposes of this Act. So, not correcting the wrong information in the Statement of Fact 
document was again a misrepresentation.
It was Mr Ss responsibility to take reasonable care in correctly answering the question. If he 
was unsure, he could have found out whether his conviction was spent or not. I think Mr S 
didnt care whether or not his answer was untrue or misleading, and he didnt care whether 
or not it was relevant to Covea. That's because if had cared I think he would have paid 
closer attention to whether or not he was answering the question accurately. I therefore I 
agree with Covea that Mr S was reckless in making the misrepresentation he did.
Covea said that had they known about Mr Ss unspent conviction, they wouldnt have 
insured him. Covea have provided me with information (their underwriting guidelines) that confirms that. So, I think it was reasonable for Covea to act in line with the remedies CIDRA 
offers them and void Mr S and Mrs Cs policy.
The policy renewed on 1 January 2020. Although often some consumers think renewals are 
a continuation of the original policy, a renewal is in fact a separate and new insurance 
contract. Because an insurer already has all the information about the policyholder from the 
previous year, they dont go through a question and answer process like they do when first 
taking out the policy. Instead, weeks before the policy is about to renew the insurer will send 
the consumer a renewal invitation letter which will have a Statement of Fact, or similar, 
document, that confirms all the information on which the insurer is offering cover. In Mr Ss 
case the renewal details said he didnt have any unspent convictions. He didnt correct that 
so that, like the previous policy year, was a reckless misrepresentation. Covea also ended 
that policy as though it never came into existence. And although Covea could have retained 
the entire premium, they made a partial refund which I think was reasonable.
I am aware that Mr S and Mrs C, and their family, were badly affected by the theft of their car 
just before Christmas. And that they lost out on a lot of money because they had just bought 
the car shortly before the theft. While I sympathise with their situation, for the reasons given 
above, I think Covea dealt with them in a fair and reasonable way.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 April 2021.
 
Mehmet Osman
Ombudsman