DRN-3705314
The complaint
Mr P complains that a car he bought was not of satisfactory quality. Because he paid most of 
the purchase price using his debit card issued by TSB Bank plc, he thinks it should provide a 
refund.
What happened
In May 2021 Mr P bought a used car from a dealership which Ill call M. He paid £4,000 in 
total, £3,500 using his debit card and the balance by way of part exchange. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr P arranged to have the car checked by his local garage. It said that 
the car had been involved in an accident and had been poorly repaired. Mr P arranged for 
some work to be carried out on the car, and he contacted M to explain what had happened. 
Mr P agreed with M that he would receive a refund of £1,000, but it does not appear that it 
was ever paid. 
In July 2021 Mr P contacted TSB to explain what had happened. TSB said that he should 
submit the dispute online and it would be considered. Mr P was reluctant to do that and 
instead wrote to the bank with the evidence he had. He did not want to return the car to M, 
as he felt that would place him at a disadvantage. Also, he had spent nearly £1,000 on the 
car, which he did not want to lose. 
TSB said it could not trace having received Mr Ps letter enclosing the evidence of the 
dispute with M. And without it, it could not submit a chargeback request through the card 
scheme  in this case, VISA. It invited Mr P to send the evidence again. 
When Mr P contacted TSB again, the bank said it was too late to submit a chargeback 
request. Mr P referred the matter to this service. 
Our investigator thought that TSB had done enough to try to obtain a refund through the 
chargeback scheme. He noted that Mr P might be able to pursue matters directly with M, but 
did not recommend that TSB do any more to resolve the case. Mr P did not accept the 
investigators assessment and asked that an ombudsman review the case.      
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Chargeback is a process by which certain disputes about card payments can be resolved  
for example, where a payment has not been authorised or has been duplicated. It can also 
be used where, for example, goods are not as described or have been returned but no 
refund has been given. 
There is no legal or regulatory obligation on a card issuer to request a chargeback, but we 
generally take the view that it is good practice to do so where there is a reasonable prospect 
of success. If a customer asks a card issuer to make a chargeback request, it should handle 
that request with proper care.
I am satisfied in this case that Mr P did, as he says, provide TSB with documents in support 
of his request. I think it likely that they were delivered but that TSB did not process the 
request as it should have done. I can see that it would have preferred the request to have 
been made online, but Mr P has explained, quite reasonably in my view, that he did not feel 
confident doing that.
Had TSB processed not mislaid Mr Ps correspondence, it would have been able to make a 
chargeback request within the relevant time limit. I must therefore consider whether its 
failure to do so led to any loss. That is, would a request have been successful? 
The investigator noted that any chargeback request would have been under the code 
including defective merchandise. The evidence that the car was defective is, however, 
quite limited. To a large extent, it comprises exchanges with the merchant (agreeing a partial 
refund) and repair invoices. The invoices are, however, not necessarily evidence of defects, 
and I note that they include, for example, an invoice for a service and other matters of 
routine maintenance. The claim for the refund did not include evidence that the car had been 
returned  because it had not been. 
Whilst, therefore, I think that TSB should not have mislaid Mr Ps documents and should 
therefore have been in a position to submit a chargeback request in time, I am not 
persuaded that it would have been successful. In the circumstances I have described, I think 
it unlikely that the card scheme would have upheld the request. That is, even if TSB had not 
made an error, Mr Ps position would have been much the same as it is. It follows that I do 
not believe it would be fair to require TSB to make a refund in this case.       
My final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I do not require TSB Bank plc to do anything 
more to resolve Mr Ps complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 November 2022.
 
Mike Ingram
Ombudsman