DRN-3776893
The complaint
Mr A complains that True Potential Wealth Management LLP (TPWM) didnt give him all the 
information it ought to have when discussing his pension. 
What happened
Mr A took advice from TPWM in 2018. The advice involved transferring pension benefits to a 
personal pension recommended by TPWM. When the recommended personal pension was 
set up, Mr As pension funds were held in two parts. One where a portion of the funds were 
invested and another where the remainder was held in cash. Mr A had an ongoing dialogue 
with TPWM about his personal pension after this advice, with it providing ongoing support.
In early 2021, Mr A was considering a partial transfer from the personal pension that TPWM 
had recommended. The funds held in investments were to remain as they were. But Mr A 
was looking at transferring all of the funds held in cash to a self-invested personal pension 
(SIPP) with a different provider. As part of this transaction, he was looking to take the 
maximum possible tax-free cash (TFC) from the cash part of his pension, to fund 
renovations to a property hed recently purchased. Mr A was in discussion with another 
business, which Ill call Firm F about transferring to a SIPP. And I understand Firm F was to 
be the discretionary fund manager (DFM) when the SIPP was established.
Mr A had an annual review with TPWM on 6 January 2021. A follow up email to that meeting 
confirmed Mr A had informed TPWM hed been discussing his pension with Firm F. 
On 23 March 2021, Mr A sent his adviser at TPWM an email. This said, as per earlier text 
messages between the two, he was sending extracts of the recommendation hed received 
from Firm F. The email explained that he thought he was likely going to proceed with the 
transfer. It also said he was happy to discuss this with the  TPWM adviser. The extracts of 
the report confirmed Mr A intended to take the maximum available TFC from the transferred 
pension and fully crystalise this fund in doing so. It also said, Please note that you may 
have the option of crystallising your funds before transferring these pensions.
I can see there were further emails between the adviser at TPWM and Mr A after the receipt 
of this information. This included TPWM asking for a breakdown of the anticipated fees. The 
last email in that chain, on 24 March 2021, confirmed that the adviser would call Mr A the 
following day to discuss this further.
TPWM says, in the discussion Mr A then had with the adviser on 25 March 2021, he 
indicated that he hadnt yet made a decision about transferring and was going to speak to 
Firm F. TPWM has though provided internal emails, including one dated 30 March 2021, 
which indicated that the adviser did expect the partial transfer away from the existing 
pension to proceed.
TPWM says, on 8 April 2021, Mr A still hadnt decided if he was going to transfer. But he 
said he did want to access TFC from the cash fund. TPWM says Mr A was informed he 
could request this using his client site.
Mr A subsequently requested 25% of the portion of the pension held in cash be paid to him 
as TFC. The payment was processed as requested.
An application was then made to the pension provider by Firm F on Mr As behalf, to transfer 
the cash fund to a SIPP. This application was rejected. Mr A queried the reason for this with 
the pension provider, which explained that a partial transfer from Mr As personal pension 
was no longer possible. This was because the pension as a whole, comprising the cash 
part and invested funds, was now made up of both crystallised and uncrystallised funds  
the withdrawal of TFC having meant a portion became crystallised. The pension provider 
explained that partial transfers from pensions in that position were not permitted by HMRC.
Mr A complained to TPWM. He said hed been clear that he intended to make a partial 
transfer, as he was keen for his pension to be split between two providers. And hed also 
explained to TPWM that he would be taking TFC. He said TPWM had gone as far as to 
explain that if the TFC was taken before a transfer, he would incur less in fees. And it had 
not made him aware that if he took TFC before transferring, he would no longer be able to 
complete a partial transfer. 
TPWM didnt uphold Mr As complaint. It said while its adviser had discussed the possibility 
of withdrawing TFC and provided information on how this could be requested, Mr A had 
proceeded to apply for this on a non-advised basis. It said the department that processed 
the request were not able to give advice and werent aware of the earlier discussions. And 
so, it didnt think it was responsible for him now being unable to make the partial transfer he 
had intended. It also added that Mr A could make the same investments it understood Firm F 
had recommended through his existing personal pension provider, albeit using a different 
DFM. And it estimated the costs for doing so would be lower. So, it didnt think he was any 
worse off.
Ive seen evidence that, since the response to the complaint in October 2021, TPWM has 
continued to act as Mr As adviser. I understand Mr A approached it about drawing further 
TFC from the uncrystallised portion of the pension. And when he did so, it said he could ask 
for this through his client site or have an advised review. Mr A has made the point that he 
wasnt offered the option of an advised review in April 2021. 
Mr A has also provided copies of messages with his TPWM adviser in December 2021. In 
these messages the adviser confirmed, in relation to what happened in April 2021, that they 
were fully aware of your intention to access tax free cash from your pension funds. They 
also confirmed We also had discussions around the level of fees that would be payable if 
you took the tax free amount via [Firm F] or [existing pension provider] and that the 
adviser had pointed out Firm F would levy a withdrawal fee.
Mr A asked our service to consider his complaint. He reiterated that TPWM had known he 
was intending to make a partial transfer and take TFC from the portion transferred. He said 
he had never intended to take TFC before the transfer and this was only something he 
considered because TPWM had indicated hed pay lower fees. But he said its adviser hadnt 
understood or explained that this would in fact have meant the transfer could not go ahead.
One of our Investigators considered the complaint. She acknowledged that TPWM hadnt 
advised Mr A when he took TFC in April 2021. But she noted that he didnt seem to have 
been offered this option. And she thought TPWM was aware of his intentions and had 
provided him with information, which it had a duty to ensure was accurate. But she felt this 
was incomplete. To put things right the Investigator recommended that TPWM pay Mr A 
£400 for the distress and inconvenience caused, noting that he couldve made the same 
investments hed planned via Firm F, through his existing pension provider.  TPWM accepted the Investigators opinion.
Mr A said he didnt think the £400 recommended was fair. He said his objective was having 
two pension providers, but this could not now be achieved. He didnt think the 
recommendation provided any real justice and that TPWM being penalised this amount sent 
the wrong message. He also said he had now lost faith in TPWM and, as he was now unable 
to partially transfer his pension, he intended to transfer his entire pension fund to a new 
provider. But he said the cost for doing so would likely be greater than the partial transfer he 
had intended, as the cost was based on the value transferred. So, he didnt think the 
recommendation fairly compensated him.
The Investigator explained that the redress suggested wasnt intended to punish or penalise 
TPWM, as that was not our role. And she still considered the amount shed recommended to 
be reasonable. She also didnt think it would be fair to require TPWM to cover costs incurred 
if Mr A now chose to transfer his whole pension fund. 
Mr A still didnt feel the recommendation went far enough so asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman. As a result, the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
After TPWM gave Mr A advice around a pension transfer in 2018, the information indicates it 
provided an ongoing service, including annual reviews. And, in my view, it is clear from the 
correspondence Ive seen that Mr A made TPWM aware of his intentions in early 2021  to 
transfer part of his pension fund and draw TFC from the transferred portion. But Im satisfied 
that the eventual withdrawal of TFC in April 2021 was undertaken on a non-advised basis. 
Ive seen no evidence of formal advice being given or a recommendation report having been 
produced. And indeed, neither party have argued that one was, and Mr A has acknowledged 
he wasnt offered formal advice. But even though it didnt advise him, as there were 
discussions, I think TPWM needed to make sure it provided him with clear and relevant 
information.
Mr A has said that he hadnt thought about drawing TFC before making the partial transfer to 
a new SIPP before speaking to TPWM and that it was the first to suggest this. But I note in 
the extract of the report Mr A received from Firm F, which he shared with TPWM by email, it 
talked about him potentially having the option of crystallising funds before the transfer. And it 
went on to talk about what it understood the relevant costs to be of taking TFC before and 
after the transfer. Indicating Firm F had suggested taking TFC before a transfer as a 
potential option as well. It appears that Firm F was also aware of Mr A holding pensions in 
both cash and investments as the same report extract made reference to an invested pot 
but noted that this wasnt reviewed as part of Firm Fs report. What isnt clear is whether 
Firm F understood that the cash and investment elements were part of the same pension 
and the implications of taking TFC and crystallising some benefits. But ultimately, Im looking 
at TPWMs actions here.
TPWM was aware that Mr As cash and investment were part of the same pension. As it 
had recommended the pension to him when he took it out and had provided ongoing annual 
reports on this.
Im also satisfied that TPWMs adviser understood what Mr A was looking to do in 2021. In 
correspondence with Mr A after the complaint, the adviser said to him that they were fully 
aware of your intention to access tax free cash from your pension funds. And in internal emails before the TFC was taken, the adviser made it clear that they understood Mr A was 
looking to move approximately half of his fund to a different provider  so would be 
undertaking a partial transfer.
The adviser also acknowledged to Mr A that theyd had a discussion around the fees thatd 
be payable if TFC was taken before or after the transfer. And given that the email chains Ive 
seen indicate a discussion was scheduled, after Mr A provided extracts of Firm Fs report but 
before TFC was withdrawn, on balance Im satisfied this likely was discussed before TFC 
was withdrawn.
So, based on what TPWM knew about Mr As intention and what it shouldve known from its 
position as an expert  that taking TFC would partially crystalise the pension pot, meaning 
there were both crystallised and uncrystallised funds, and prevent a partial transfer under 
HMRC rules  I think it ought to have been aware that taking TFC before a partial transfer 
wouldnt have allowed Mr A to do as he intended. But I cant see that this information, which 
TPWM shouldve realised was important in the circumstances, was shared by it with Mr A. 
Again, Im satisfied it didnt give advice on taking TFC. But as Im satisfied that it did discuss 
the costs of taking TFC before or after a transfer, I think it either ought to have shared what it 
knew or suggested Mr A take advice before drawing TFC because of the implication. 
So, I dont think TPWM gave Mr A all of the information which, in my view, it shouldve done. 
As a result, Ive thought about what should be done to put things right.
Our services approach where something has gone is wrong is to try, as far as possible, to 
put a consumer back in the position they wouldve been in but for that mistake. Mr A has 
been clear his intention was to partially transfer his pension and have it split across two 
pension providers. But that isnt something that can now be done as I understand HMRC 
rules now mean a partial transfer cant take place. So, Mr A cant be put into that position 
and what has happened cant be undone.
TPWM has explained that the investments Mr A was intending to make through Firm F could 
be taken through his existing personal pension. This is likely to involve a different business 
acting as DFM, if Mr A still requires a fund manager. But the annual cost may in fact be 
lower by doing this than hed have otherwise paid by transferring  which TPWM explained 
in its response to the complaint. So, I dont think Mr A was prevented from investing or 
caused an investment loss.
I dont doubt that Mr A has been caused upset and frustration. He is in a position where he 
cant do as he intended and that cant be undone, which was no doubt very disappointing to 
learn. And Im sure that having to complain about this added to those feelings of frustration. 
And as I think TPWM shouldve done more, I think it is right that it makes a payment to 
address this. But, while I know Mr A does not agree, I think a payment of £400, as 
recommended by our Investigator, would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Mr A 
has said such an award isnt a sufficient penalty and sends the wrong message. But it isnt 
our role to fine or punish a financial business as we are not a regulator. 
Mr A has said that he now intends to transfer his pension in full to a different provider, as he 
has lost faith in TPWM. This is a different course of action than he originally intended, and 
he thinks it is likely to cost him more than the partial transfer wouldve. I understand why 
Mr A may decide to do this. But he isnt required to move his pension. And again, TPWM has 
said that he can still invest as he intended to before the TFC was taken, just through his 
existing pension. I understand why Mr A may not be happy with this option. But ultimately 
this is his choice. And while he is entitled to decide what to do, I dont think I can fairly say 
TPWM needs to meet the associated cost if this is what he decides.My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained I uphold this complaint.
To put things right, I require True Potential Wealth Management LLP to pay Mr A £400 for 
the distress and inconvenience its actions have caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 May 2023.
 
Ben Stoker
Ombudsman