DRN-1729110
 
The complaint
Miss F complains that Vanquis Bank Limited wont refund her £300 after a cash machine 
failed to dispense her money.  
What happened
Miss F has a credit card account with Vanquis.
On the 9 May 2019 Miss F attempted to withdraw £300 from her Vanquis credit card, using a 
cash machine owned by another bank, Ill call R. Miss F says she didnt receive her money, 
but £300 was later debited from her account.
Miss F says that she originally requested £400 then £350 from the machine but this declined 
 due to the limit on withdrawal amounts. On requesting £300 she explained the ATM 
machine displayed a message to say only £20 notes were available which she accepted, her 
card was returned and the cash dispenser opened but no cash was presented. Miss F 
contacted Vanquis to let them know shed been charged for the transaction but the cash 
hadnt dispensed  Vanquis advised her to wait five days to see if the transaction on her 
statement was reversed. As this didnt happen Miss F made further contact with Vanquis to 
dispute shed received the cash. 
Vanquis contacted bank R who provided them with information to show the cash had 
dispensed and the machine balanced, without any surplus funds. So Vanquis didnt refund 
the money to Miss F. 
As Miss F wasnt happy with Vanquis decision she complained to our service. One of our 
investigators looked into Miss Fs complaint. He didnt think that Vanquis had acted unfairly 
in declining Miss Fs claim. And was satisfied that there wasnt enough evidence to indicate 
theyd been a problem with the machine that day.
Miss F didnt accept our investigators opinion. In summary, she said CCTV should have 
been requested by the bank and it would show she didnt receive her funds. As Miss F didnt 
agree, its been passed to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And in doing so I dont think Vanquis 
need to do anymore here, Ill explain why below.
The cash machine that Miss F used wasnt owned by Vanquis but by Bank R. Bank R 
have confirmed there were no problems reported with the machine before or after the 
disputed transactions  and theres no evidence the machine was tampered with. Theyve 
also provided evidence to show that the machine balanced  meaning there werent any 
surplus funds identified in the ATM  and a copy of the journal role which gives a breakdown 
as to the transactions which took place before and after Miss Fs.From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Vanquis to decline Miss Fs refund. 
This is because:
Bank R have evidenced that the ATM machine balanced between the 7 May 2019 
and 14 May 2019. If Miss Fs withdrawal hadnt dispensed Id have expected to see a 
£300 surplus.
Ive seen evidence from Bank R that the cash was dispensed in the form of 30 x £10 
notes. 
Ive thought about a whether a cash trap could have been installed  a device placed 
on the machine that catches a customers cash when its dispensed. But I think this is 
unlikely to have happened in Miss Fs case. I say this because I can see from the 
evidence Bank R provided the transaction prior to Miss Fs ended 48 seconds before. 
And I dont think its likely a cash trap could be installed in this time. 
Miss Fs been consistent in explaining what happened on the day of the transaction. 
Shes also explained wanting to withdraw £500 to make a deposit on an item. But, 
the ATM journal roll shows that Miss F only attempted to withdraw £400 in her first 
transaction and shes confirmed not attempting to make any further withdrawals that 
day or soon after. I find it unusual that Miss F didnt make any further attempts to 
withdraw the £300 soon after the failed withdrawal. 
 
In response to our investigators opinion, Miss F said the lack of CCTV footage makes a 
significant difference to the outcome. Its possible that CCTV footage might have shown she 
didnt receive her £300.  But as this evidence isnt available, I need to reach my 
conclusion on the information Ive been provided with. And I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence to show the £300 Miss F attempted to withdraw wasn't dispensed. As our 
investigator explained if the cash was released and taken by another member of the public 
this isnt the banks responsibility, and as a consequence this isnt something I can hold 
Vanquis liable for.
I realise this will be very disappointing for Miss F, but I dont think Vanquis need to 
do anything further here. And I wont be asking them to refund Miss F the £300.
My final decision
My final decision is I don't uphold Miss F's complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Jeff Burch
Ombudsman