DRN-3879269
The complaint
Mr M and Mrs M complain Clydesdale Bank PLC trading as Virgin Money (Virgin) made 
numerous mistakes following the presentation of a cheque theyd issued for an investment.
What happened
Mr M says he issued two cheques at the end of September 2022, one for £150 to his 
financial advisor (FA) and one for £15,000 to an investment business. Mr M says Virgin 
incorrectly processed the cheques which ultimately resulted in the £15,000 cheque being 
returned unpaid, debiting this cheque to his bank account incorrectly as £150 and without 
any authority, then paid the difference of £14,850 to his financial advisor, rather than the 
investment business. Mr M says it was fortunate his FA noticed the error and immediately 
returned the payment. 
Mr M and Mrs M says while they havent suffered any direct financial loss, the matter has 
caused them extreme embarrassment and want a letter of apology from Virgin admitting to 
its mistake, and compensation for the trouble and upset this matter has caused. 
Virgin says while it understands Mr Ms and Mrs Ms frustration, it wasnt responsible for the 
mistakes that occurred here. Virgin says the presenting bank (PB) had incorrectly keyed the 
cheque Mr M had issued for £15,000 as a sum of £150, which in line with its process Virgin 
paid. Subsequently Virgin says the PB then attempted to present the same cheque, under 
the same cheque reference number for £15,000, but given that cheque had already been 
presented and paid Virgin couldnt accept it again and it was returned unpaid. Virgin says on 
Mr Ms request it then paid the difference of £14,850 back to the PB, who seem to have in 
error paid this into the account of the FA and not the investment business  but that wasnt 
its mistake. 
Virgin says as a token of apology for the service Mr M received when he called about the 
bounced cheque it paid him £30. 
Mr M and Mrs M werent happy with Virgins response and referred the matter to this service. 
The investigator looked at all the available information but didnt uphold the complaint. The 
investigator says it was the PB who had incorrectly processed the cheque Mr M and Mrs M 
issued for £15,000 as £150 and then incorrectly attempted to present the same cheque 
again, which is why it was returned unpaid by Virgin. Additionally, the investigator says from 
the information available it seems the PB then incorrectly allocated the sum of the difference 
sent by Virgin of £14,850, to his FAs bank account rather than the investment business. 
While the investigator could understand Mr Ms and Mrs Ms frustration, the mistakes here 
while not of Mr Ms and Mrs Ms making, nor were they Virgins  any mistakes made here 
seems to be with the PB. With that in mind, the investigator couldnt hold Virgin responsible 
for addressing the impact these errors may have made. 
Mr M and Mrs M didnt agree with the investigators view and asked for the matter to be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be upholding this complaint and I will explain how I have come to my 
decision. 
I can understand it would have been frustrating and upsetting for Mr M and Mrs M to learn a 
cheque theyd issued for an investment, had been returned unpaid due to banking 
processing errors and not because of any mistakes they had made. 
When looking at this complaint I will consider if Virgin were responsible for the errors that 
occurred after Mr M and Mrs M had issued cheques to their FA and an investment business.
Mr M initially referred to two cheque reference numbers as 005744 for £15,000 payable to 
the investment business and 0005745 for £150 payable to the FA. However, during the 
course of the investigation it was discovered the £15,000 cheque was actually numbered 
005743 and the cheque numbered 005744, was in all likelihood for £150 payable to his FA. I 
say this as the latter numbered cheque, at the time of the investigation hadnt been 
presented to Virgin for payment. So, for the purposes of this complaint, I will focus on the 
cheque for £15,000 as this is the centre of Mr Ms and Mrs Ms complaint. 
The first thing to say here is I do have some sympathy with Mr M over this matter and to be 
clear he didnt make any mistakes as he says, when he correctly issued the two cheques 
mentioned above. That said what is important is to establish whether the mistakes were a 
result of Virgins actions and Im not persuaded here it was. 
Its worth mentioning the way the clearing process works has changed in recent years and is 
now mainly electronically based, in part to speed up the cheque clearing cycle with much 
less manual intervention involved. So here, when Mr M and Mrs M issued the cheque for 
£15,000 for the investment and it was banked at the PB, it was the PBs responsibility to 
process the correct amount of the cheque and to the correct account. From the information I 
have seen the PB seems to have processed and keyed Mr Ms and Mrs Ms £15,000 cheque 
as £150 and on its electronic presentation, given the amount involved it was paid by Virgin in 
line with its process.
Unfortunately, it seems the PB must have realised its mistake and rather than dealing 
directly with Virgin, it then represented the cheque numbered 005743 again, for £15,000. So, 
with that in mind I can understand why Virgin had little option other than return the cheque, 
given it had already paid the same cheque with the same reference number when it was 
originally presented to them by the PB. Its worth saying here that if Virgin had paid that 
cheque again, in essence it would have paid the same cheque twice for a total of £15,150 
which Im satisfied wouldnt have been correct. 
I can see that when dealing with this, Virgin were asked by Mr M to pay the difference of 
£14,850 and it did that by paying this to the PB as I would expect here - after all it wouldnt 
have the banking details of the investment business in any event. As I have said earlier its 
the responsibility of the PB to correctly allocate these monies to the bank account it was 
intended, but it appears as though this was incorrectly passed to the FAs bank account 
instead. 
While I understand Mr Ms frustration here I cant say Virgin were the cause of the problems 
he and his wife suffered, that seems to be the result of the PBs processing errors. As the 
investigator has explained the complaint brought to this service by Mr M and Mrs M was about Virgins involvement and not of the PB here. 
I was pleased to hear that the issue has since been put right and the FA swiftly returned the 
incorrect payment, but any complaint about the PBs potential mistakes would need to be 
routed through the FA, as Mr M and Mrs M dont hold a banking relationship with the PB 
here. 
While I understand this decision may come as a disappointment to Mr M and Mrs M, its 
content could be used by them to show the investment business the unpaid cheque wasnt a 
mistake of their making. With this in mind I wont be asking anymore of Virgin here. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 April 2023.
 
Barry White
Ombudsman