DRN-2932051
The complaint
Mr R complains that Santander UK Plc revoked his mortgage offer and recorded an entry 
about him on fraud prevention databases. 
What happened
In 2019, Mr R applied for a mortgage with Santander. He says he instructed the services of a 
third party who said they were a mortgage broker. But that this broker then submitted false 
and incorrect information in the application to Santander without his knowledge.
Santander initially accepted the application and issued an offer, but then withdrew it. Mr R 
complained and Santander responded to say that his application no longer met its lending 
criteria. 
Mr R brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator thought that Santander hadnt 
acted unfairly when it recorded the entry to the fraud prevention databases. But that 
following Mr Rs explanation and the evidence he provided  concluded that these should 
now be removed. 
Santander disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to consider the matter.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a mortgage application is made, a lender will assess it and conduct relevant checks 
against the information provided and use its own lending criteria to help decide whether to 
lend. 
Here, Santander said it found discrepancies when assessing the application and so it 
decided to enter the markers on the fraud prevention databases. Ive thought carefully about 
whether Santander acted unfairly when it did this. Having done so, Im not persuaded it did 
and considering the information, I dont think that the decision to enter the markers was 
unreasonable. Considering the discrepancies, I also dont think it acted unfairly when it 
revoked the mortgage offer.
Mr R has explained that he was a first-time buyer and unaware of the process that needed to 
be completed to obtain a mortgage. He says he placed his trust in a third party who told him 
that he was a mortgage broker and would apply on his behalf. 
But regardless of the source of the information, its not in dispute that it was inaccurate and 
so I dont think Santander acted unfairly when it decided to apply the markers on the fraud 
databases. And as the application was made in Mr Rs name, it follows that the markers 
would be registered against him. 
When he complained to Santander to ask for the markers to be removed, Mr R said that hes 
been unable to contact the broker and that he thinks its unfair that the markers remain 
registered against him as it wasnt him that supplied the inaccurate information. Santander 
further investigated the matter but decided not to remove the markers.
Santander, quite rightly, has questioned why Mr R provided the broker with his personal log 
in details. Ive seen that Mr R now accepts this wasnt the right thing to do. But I find his 
explanation as to why he trusted this broker to complete and handle everything to do with 
his mortgage application plausible. 
Ive not seen anything to persuade me that Mr R would have known that this broker was 
not actually regulated to provide mortgage advice. Rather, I think he was introduced to him 
and trusted that this was the way things worked. Ive seen evidence and communication 
between Mr R and the broker which I consider supports his version of events. Im also 
aware that he made a payment to this broker in return for the service. Again, I find this 
supports his account of the situation. 
Ive kept in mind the principles CIFAS sets out for its members, which are publicly available 
on its website. One of the principles sets out the standard of proof for making an entry  
which is that there must be reasonable grounds to believe there has been a fraud or 
attempted fraud, supported by clear relevant and rigorous evidence that could be reported to 
the police. There are various criminal offences that amount to fraud, but a common feature is 
seeking to gain financially through dishonesty. 
As Ive said, I think that Mr R trusted this broker to make this mortgage application on his 
behalf. I think he has now provided persuasive evidence that supports his version of events 
and taking into account this further evidence, Im not persuaded that its still fair to say that 
the required standard is still met. And without this, I dont consider these is a reason for 
these entries to remain. 
Ive thought carefully about what both Santander and Mr R have said and, in all the 
circumstances, I think the fair outcome is for it to now remove the entries it made.
Putting things right
I dont think it was unreasonable at the time of the application for Santander to have made 
the entry on the databases. 
But once Mr R explained the situation and that the information was provided by the broker 
 along with evidence which supports his account, I dont think I can fairly say the threshold 
is still met, so the rationale for recording the entry falls away. And I therefore think its fair for 
Santander to remove the entries now. 
 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and direct 
Santander UK Plc to remove any fraud prevention database entry it has made about Mr R in 
connection with this mortgage application.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 October 2021.
 
Camilla Finnigan
Ombudsman