DRN-1494696
 
The complaint
Mr K says Provident Personal Credit Limited - trading as Satsuma - irresponsibly lent to him.
What happened
This complaint is about five instalment loans Satsuma provided to Mr K between April 2016 
and April 2018. A summary of Mr Ks borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Repayment
1 06/04/2016 29/04/2016 13 weeks £150.00   £71.54
2 14/05/2016 02/07/2016 13 weeks £220.00 £104.95
3 09/07/2016 30/08/2016 13 weeks £100.00   £47.71
4 15/01/2017 10/05/2017 3 months £240.00 £118.08
break
5 28/04/2018 Outstanding 9 months £300.00 £66.60
Mr Ks complaint was reviewed by one of our adjudicators and they didnt think it should be 
upheld. They thought there wasnt anything in the information Satsuma had asked Mr K to 
provide that should have prompted Satsuma to do more checks about Mr Ks financial 
circumstances before lending to him. So, the adjudicator couldnt say Satsuma was wrong to 
have given the loans to Mr K.  
Mr K disagreed. He said he was struggling to repay the loans and was struggling financially 
and with a number of health issues. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it was 
passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term lending - including all the 
relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors 
include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
There was a significant break in Mr Ks borrowing from Satsuma. There was a gap of around 
11 months between loans 4 and 5. I think it would be reasonable for Satsuma to view this 
gap as an indication that Mr Ks finances had stabilised after whatever the circumstances 
were that had caused him to take out his previous loans. So, I will look at Mr Ks borrowing in 
two separate lending chains. 
Ive carefully considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context 
and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. Having done this, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators view because he thought Satsumas checks didnt go 
far enough and it should have been aware that he was struggling financially and had 
borrowing from short-term lenders as well as other debts. So, it shouldnt have lent to him.
Chain one  loan 1 to 4
Satsuma has told this service about the checks it carried out before approving any of the 
borrowing. It has said it asked Mr K about his employment status and he confirmed he was 
employed and had a monthly income of between £1,150 and £2,100. Satsuma also checked 
Mr Ks normal monthly living costs. Mr K declared these to be between £200 and £730 a 
month. Satsuma says it also searched Mr Ks credit file and it has provided the results of its 
search. There werent any recent adverse entries like defaults or county court judgements 
(CCJs) recorded on it at the time the loans were taken out. Based on this information, given 
that loan 1 was for a relatively low amount and based Mr Ks declared income and 
outgoings, it wasnt unreasonable for Satsuma to consider the lending affordable
However, I can see on the credit file results, there was an indication Mr K was borrowing 
from other short-term lenders around the time of loan 1  which can be a sign that someone 
is juggling their finances due to trying to make ends meet. So, I think this ought to have 
given Satsuma some cause for concern about what Mr K was telling it about his financial 
position. I think Satsuma needed to take the steps to verify the information Mr K was 
providing. And it could have done this several ways, such as asking to see his bank 
statements, or for copies of his payslips and/or bills.
But in saying this, weve asked Mr K to provide additional information  such as a copy of his 
credit file and copies of his bank statements from around the time of the lending. But hes 
only given us limited information  such as a copy of the summary page of his credit file. 
Hes also explained he cant obtain his bank statements. So, without any further information, 
I cant say an error has been made regarding the checks Satsuma should have done as I 
dont know whether it would have thought the loan was unaffordable for Mr K. Overall, I cant 
say Satsuma was wrong to have provided loan 1 to Mr K. For loans 2, 3 and 4, Mr K didnt display any difficulty repaying the loans and the credit file 
results from the time of these loans dont show any recent short-term loans or any other 
adverse entries. Although loan 2 was for a higher amount than loan 1, loan 3 was for a much 
smaller amount. And there was a gap of three months between loan 3 being repaid and loan 
4 being taken out. In addition, Mr K declared outgoings decreased for loans 2 and 3. So 
overall, I dont think Satsuma was wrong to have provided these loans. 
Chain two  loan 5
As mentioned above, loan 5 was taken out nearly a year after loan 4 was repaid. So 
effectively, a break in the chain of lending starts the clocking ticking again on what we 
consider to be proportionate checks a business should carry out when considering the length 
of borrowing relationship with a consumer. 
This means Mr K was back to beginning in his lending relationship with Satsuma. Even 
though he had to make monthly repayments, the highest repayment would have appeared 
affordable based on the information he declared to Satsuma. And there wasnt anything in 
the information Mr K provided at the time which would have given Satsuma cause for 
concern, so I think it was reasonable of Satsuma to have relied on what Mr K gave it. For 
example, he was now declaring a higher income than previously. And whilst he was 
borrowing his largest amount of £300, this was repayable over a longer period than his 
previous loans so the amount he had to pay each month was less. 
I think these factors had an impact of what level of checks would have been appropriate for 
Satsuma to carry out. Given this, I think the checks Satsuma did before lending the loan 
went far enough and I wouldnt have expected it at this stage to undertake any more in-depth 
checks. 
The information Mr K declared to Satsuma at the time of the loans may not have been an 
accurate reflection of his financial circumstances, but I think Satsuma was entitled to rely on 
that information. At these early stages of the lending relationship, and what Satsuma knew 
about    Mr K, I wouldnt have expected Satsuma to verify the information Mr K gave it. This 
therefore means, I cant say that Satsuma done something wrong in lending Mr K these 
loans.
I appreciate that my findings are likely to disappoint Mr K, and Ive noted his comments 
around his health issues, but I dont see that Satsuma was made aware of the significance of 
these before it lent any of the loans  in particular loan 5 to Mr K. So  whilst I am sorry to 
hear that Mr K has been struggling with his health  this point doesnt alter my decision. 
Overall, I hope my explanation will help him understand why Ive reached this conclusion.
My final decision
I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint and make no award against Provident Personal Credit 
Limited.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 July 2020.
 
Claire Marchant-Williams
Ombudsman