DRN-3067556
The complaint
Mr T complains about UK Insurance Limited (UKI). His complaint is about UKI cancelling 
his motor insurance policy because he hadnt told them about signage on his vehicle, which 
UKI treated as a modification he should have informed them about.
This decision only covers Mr Ts complaint about UKIs cancellation of his policy. Mr T also 
complained about how UKI dealt with a claim following an accident he was involved in. That 
was dealt with through a separate complaint to this service.
Mr Ts complaint was brought on behalf of his business. But his policy was held under his 
name and a personal policy rather than a commercial policy. This decision therefore refers to 
Mr T throughout.
What happened
Mr T had an accident in November 2020 when his vehicle hit a deer. In reversing his vehicle 
away from the road, Mr T then accidentally hit a tree branch. Mr T reported the incident to 
UKI and lodged a claim. In doing so, he mentioned that his vehicle had signage on it, relating 
to his business. UKI considered this to be something that Mr T should have told them about. 
UKI then cancelled Mr Ts policy under the terms and conditions that gave them the right to 
cancel where there were changes in a policyholders circumstances that meant they no 
longer met the criteria for providing insurance. UKI gave Mr T 14 days notice of cancellation.
Mr T was unhappy at the cancellation, saying he was never made aware he needed to tell 
UKI of the signage. UKI treated this as a complaint. They discussed the issue with the policy 
underwriters but maintained the decision to cancel the policy and advised Mr T how to obtain 
new cover after the cancellation. UKI also said that they would still consider his claim  but 
wouldnt cover any costs associated with signage on the vehicle. UKI also refunded that part 
of his premium for the period from which the cancellation took effect.
Mr T then complained to this service. He said that it was unfair to cancel his policy because 
he hadnt told UKI about the signage on his vehicle. Mr T said that hed been affected 
financially by having to obtain cover from another insurer.
Our investigator upheld the complaint, concluding UKI hadnt acted fairly. She didnt think 
UKI had been clear about what was meant by the term modification and that Mr T wouldnt 
have known what UKI considered to be a modification. To put things right, she said UKI 
should remove any record of the cancellation. And because Mr T had suffered distress and 
inconvenience from having to obtain alternative cover and concern about his ability to get 
cover, the investigator thought UKI should pay Mr T £150 in compensation.
UKI didnt accept the investigators view and requested an ombudsman review the 
complaint. They maintained their right to cancel the policy and that the acceptance and 
subsequent renewal of the policy, as well as the policy documents, made it clear that 
policyholders had to tell them about modifications. Also, had they known about the signage, 
they wouldnt have accepted it. UKI also gave examples of decisions made by this service 
they thought supported their view that signage was a modification that should be disclosed.
 
In my findings I agreed with the investigators conclusions that UKI hadnt acted fairly when 
they cancelled Mr Ts policy and that they should have asked a specific question about 
signage being a modification. I also agreed with the investigators view that UKI should 
remove record of the cancellation from internal and external databases and that £150 was 
fair compensation for distress and inconvenience to Mr T caused by the cancellation.
However, I thought UKI needed to do more to put things right. While I didnt think UKI 
needed to reinstate the policy, I concluded it would be fair and reasonable for UKI to refund 
any difference in premium that Mr T had to pay to obtain alternative cover (if he did pay a 
higher premium). Any difference would be based on the full year premium for Mr Ts new 
policy so long as this was like-for-like cover, compared to the full year cost of the premium 
Mr T paid for his policy with UKI at the renewal prior to the cancellation.
 
Because I concluded that UKI needed to do more to put things right than the 
investigator, I issued a provisional decision to give both parties the opportunity to 
consider things further. This is set out below.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of her complaint.
 
The key part of Mr Ts complaint is that UKI shouldnt have cancelled his policy following his 
telling them of the signage on his vehicle. UKI said that they cancelled Mr Ts policy under 
the terms and conditions of the policy, referring to the following condition:
5a Cancellation by us
We have the right to cancel your policy at any time by giving you at least 7 days notice in 
writing where there is a valid reason for doing so.
We will send our cancellation letter to the latest address we have for you.
Valid reasons may include but are not limited to:
l where there are changes to your circumstances which mean you no longer meet our 
criteria for providing motor insurance
Ive seen the evidence that UKI would not, under their own underwriting guidelines, have 
accepted the signage modification had they been told about it by Mr T. While I think this 
would fall under condition (5a) cited by UKI in their cancellation Ive not seen evidence that 
Mr T was made aware of this potential consequence [from putting signage on his vehicle]. 
His policy included cover for business use, so he could use his vehicle for business 
purposes. Its reasonable that, having taken out this cover, he would have thought that hed 
be able to use his vehicle for the purposes of his business.
Coming back to the cancellation, Ive considered what the policy says about changes, 
specifically relating to modifications. Under the heading What changes do I need to tell you 
about? the policy document states:
You must tell us of any of the following details change before you need cover to start:
You modify your car (please see general condition 8 for further details).
General condition 8 states:You must tell us what modifications you intend to make and obtain our agreement prior to 
making them. Modifications are changes to your cars standard specification. These include, 
but are not restricted to, changes to the appearance and/or the performance of your car
Failure to provide correct information or inform us of any changes could adversely affect 
your policy, including invalidating your policy or claims being rejected or not fully paid.
Theres also a definition of modifications that refers to changes to the appearanceof your 
car. Ive noted that at the inception of the policy, as well as subsequent renewals from 2018 
through to 2020, the answer to the question of whether there have been any modifications 
has been no on each occasion. UKIs case notes also indicate that Mr T was asked, at 
renewal in 2018 (the renewal after the signage was put on his vehicle) if anything had 
changed in the previous 12 months, to which the answer was no.
Ive considered these points carefully. While there is reference to changes in appearance 
theres no further description of what that might mean, nor specifically to signage. While I 
dont think UKI needs to list all the possible modifications and that signage could be seen to 
be a change in appearance, Mr T wasnt made aware that signage was something that 
would mean UKI wouldnt offer the policy at all (as opposed to offering it on different terms, 
for example a higher premium). 
Nor was he made aware that this would then lead to cancellation of his policy and that 
cancellation would be recorded on internal and external databases used by insurers, being 
very likely to affect his ability to obtain insurance (or the terms under which he could obtain 
insurance). Ive also noted from UKIs case notes theres a statement that Mr T couldnt 
cancel the policy himself and that that cancellation had to be from UKI so that Mr T would 
have to declare the cancellation to future insurers. Theres a further comment from UKI that: 
called the customer back to explain unable to cancel as requested. This suggests that Mr 
T may have wanted to cancel but was not allowed to so.
 
Ive thought about the points on the clarity of the question about signage being a 
modification, the consequences in terms of cancellation, and what may have been a refusal 
to allow Mr T to cancel (or to offer him the opportunity to cancel). Given the importance of 
signage on a vehicle to UKIs appetite to offer cover, I think UKI should have asked a 
specific question about this. Ive concluded that UKI acted unfairly and unreasonably 
towards Mr T when they cancelled his policy.
Ive also looked at the other decisions from this service that UKI referred to. While they 
consider complaints that involve changes to a vehicles appearance (including the addition of 
signage to a vehicle) they all involve cases of misrepresentation under The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Misrepresentation) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This requires consumers 
to take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when taking out a consumer 
insurance contract (a policy).
 
Ive noted that UKI told us that they cancelled Mr Ts policy and that they didnt seek to avoid 
the policy on the grounds that Mr T had made a misrepresentation. Which meant they didnt 
seek to avoid the policy from its inception (so they still considered Mr Ts claim for the 
accident damage as the policy was cancelled from a date after the accident). But as Ive 
concluded (based on the circumstances of this case) that UKI acted unfairly in cancelling Mr 
Ts policy in the way that they did, I dont think the other decisions from this service change 
my decision. 
Having concluded that UKI acted unfairly in cancelling Mr Ts policy, Ive considered what 
UKI should do to put things right. As Ive concluded that the cancellation was unfair, UKI 
should remove any record of the cancellation from both internal and external databases. 
Ive also considered the question of compensation. While the cancellation of his policy by 
UKI was recorded, I note that Mr T was able to obtain cover with another insurer. Ive also 
considered what Mr T has told us about the impact that the cancellation had on him, in terms 
of whether he would be able to obtain alternative cover and the cost of obtaining that cover. 
Taking these points into account, I think £150 compensation for his distress and 
inconvenience is fair.
Ive also considered that Mr T obtained alternative cover from another insurer, although Ive 
not seen what the difference in premium may have been. I accept that its a commercial 
decision for UKI whether theyre willing to insure a vehicle that has signage. So, as Mr T did 
obtain insurance from another provider, I dont think UKI needs to reinstate the policy, even 
though Ive concluded that their cancellation of the policy was unfair. Given this, I think it 
would be fair and reasonable for UKI to refund any difference in premium that Mr T had to 
pay to obtain alternative cover (if he did pay a higher premium). Any difference would be 
based on the full year premium for Mr Ts new policy so long as this is like-for-like cover, 
compared to the full year cost of the premium Mr T paid for his policy with UKI at the renewal 
prior to the cancellation.
 
my provisional decision
For the reasons set out above, its my provisional decision to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
I intend to require UK Insurance Limited to:
Remove any record of the cancellation from both internal and external databases.
Pay Mr T £150 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Refund any difference in premium that Mr T had to pay to obtain alternative cover (if 
he did pay a higher premium). Any difference would be based on the full year 
premium for Mr Ts new policy so long as this is like-for-like cover, compared to the 
full year cost of the premium Mr T paid for his policy with UKI at the renewal prior to 
the cancellation.
Mr T responded to say that one of his main concerns was that no record of the cancellation 
should be kept on internal or external databases, as he felt that would be detrimental to his 
obtaining insurance at a competitive rate in the future. He also thought UKI were unhappy at 
the £150 figure for compensation. While he was pleased that UKI had refunded the amount 
of premium for the unused period of cover when they cancelled his policy, he said that the 
cost of alternative cover was significantly higher (£511.80 for his new policy, compared to 
£267.68 for his policy with UKI). This wasnt something he had planned for.
 
In their response, UKI maintained that they were right to cancel the policy because of the 
signage, as it changed the appearance of Mr Ts vehicle and as such no longer met their 
criteria of offering cover. UKI accepted that they should have given Mr T the option to cancel 
but noted that they removed all the bars (a bar is where a consumer is barred from getting 
quotes on insurance products) and told Mr T that he didnt need to declare the cancellation 
when seeking insurance elsewhere. UKI also said that while Mr T would have needed to 
obtain alternative cover (as they were not offering cover themselves) they would be prepared 
to consider the additional costs of alternative cover incurred by Mr T, if he could evidence 
that the alternative cover was provided a like-for-like basis.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I remain of the view that the complaint should be upheld.
Mr T is understandably concerned that no record of the cancellation should be kept on 
internal or external databases. In their response, UKI have said that they have removed 
bars and that they believe Mr T was told that he didnt need to mention the cancellation 
when seeking insurance in the future. While this goes some way towards meeting Mr Ts 
concerns, I still think that my conclusion about UKI removing all record of the cancellation 
from internal and external databases remains appropriate. So Ive not changed my view on 
this point.
On the question of compensation, while Mr T thought that UKI were unhappy at this element, 
UKI themselves have made no comment about it. Again, I havent changed my view that its 
a fair amount for distress and inconvenience suffered by Mr T.
On the cancellation of the policy, UKI maintain their view that they were right to cancel the 
policy because the signage altered the appearance of the vehicle, although Ive noted that 
UKI accept that they should have offered Mr T the option to cancel the policy himself. 
However, UKI havent offered any new, substantive arguments to support their view that I 
hadnt considered when I issued my provisional decision. So, I havent changed my view on 
this point, that they acted unfairly in cancelling Mr Ts policy.
Ive noted that UKI have said that they would be prepared to consider the additional costs of 
alternative cover incurred by Mr T, if he can evidence that the alternative cover was provided 
a like-for-like basis. This is consistent with what I said in my provisional decision, so my view 
is unchanged on this point. Mr T has provided details of the cover under his new policy so 
that UKI can assess whether its on a like-for-like basis, with a view to reaching an 
agreement with Mr T on any additional cost he incurred when taking out his new policy. I 
think thats reasonable.
 
Taking all these points into account, then I havent changed my view and my reasoning and 
conclusions remain the same as in my provisional decision. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, its my final decision to uphold Mr Ts complaint.
I require UK Insurance Limited to:
Remove any record of the cancellation from both internal and external databases.
Pay Mr T £150 in compensation for his distress and inconvenience.
Refund any difference in premium that Mr T had to pay to obtain alternative cover (if 
he did pay a higher premium). Any difference would be based on the full year 
premium for Mr Ts new policy so long as this is like-for-like cover, compared to the 
full year cost of the premium Mr T paid for his policy with UKI at the renewal prior to 
the cancellation.
UKI should also pay simple interest of 8% on any agreed difference in premium, calculated 
on the basis set out above, from the date of Mr T taking out his new policy to the date Mr T 
tells us he accepts my decision (if he accepts the decision).
 Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman