DRN-2925584
The complaint
Miss S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt make her aware that her debit card was 
blocked.
What happened
In March 2021, Miss S phoned Barclays to discuss payments that she didnt recognise being 
taken from her account. The Barclays advisor told Miss S that a new debit card would be 
sent to her but didnt mention that she would no longer be able to use her existing card. 
Miss S then tried to pay for food at her local shop using her debit card but her payment was 
declined. She says she was very embarrassed by this, particularly as someone she knew 
was behind her. Miss S tried to withdraw money from a cash machine and her card was 
retained. Miss S says this experience triggered feelings of anxiety.
Miss S phoned Barclays the same evening but she didnt feel the advisor was interested in 
helping her. She logged Miss Ss complaint without offering to look into the issue or provide 
alternatives.
Miss S phoned Barclays again the following day and was told the complaint shed raised the 
previous evening hadnt been logged. Miss S says this resulted in her feeling more anxious. 
She was concerned that her personal data might have been left lying around on a piece of 
paper because her complaint hadnt been logged.
When Miss S phoned again the next day, she was concerned to learn that the only issue that 
had been logged was about her not accessing her card. This was logged the day after shed 
raised this with Barclays. Miss S says she was put on hold for 45 minutes before she ended 
the call and there was no attempt to call her back.
Miss S phoned Barclays again and was told her complaints hadnt been logged. She was 
given conflicting information about the timescale to resolve her complaint over the phone 
and in letters she later received from Barclays. 
A couple of weeks later, a Barclays member of staff phoned Miss S and offered her £100 to 
resolve her complaint. Miss S didnt feel this was enough compensate her for the distress 
and anxiety shed endured, so she brought her complaint to our service.
Our investigator looked into Miss Ss concerns and thought her complaint should be upheld. 
She recommended that Barclays pay her a total of £200 to compensate for the distress and 
inconvenience Miss S had experienced. She also explained that our service doesnt have 
the power to look into the administration of her complaint.
Barclays agreed to our investigators recommendation. But Miss S didnt feel that £200 was 
enough to compensate her for the anxiety and inconvenience shed experienced. She was 
also unhappy that Barclays had said they were unable to provide certain call recordings. 
Miss S also raised concerns that Barclays might have discriminated against her because of 
her race.
As Miss S has disagreed with our investigators view, her complaint has been passed to me 
to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as our investigator. Ill explain 
why.
Barclays has acknowledged that there were failings in the customer service it provided to 
Miss S and it has agreed to pay her a total of £200 to compensate her for the trouble and 
upset shes experience. So, I need to decide if this is sufficient to put things right for Miss S.
When Miss S phoned Barclays to discuss the transactions on her account, she was told that 
it looked like there was fraud on the account and a new card would be ordered for her. 
Barclays has accepted that the advisor she spoke to, didnt make it clear that she wouldnt 
be able to use her existing card while she waited for her new one. 
Miss S says that she was embarrassed and anxious when her card was declined in a shop 
and retained by the cash point later that day. I understand that Miss S spoke to two advisors 
that evening, but Barclays has only provided us with a recording of the first call which lasted 
less than two minutes. Miss S was clearly upset and worried about not being able to buy 
food. The call appears to have disconnected before the advisor looked at Miss Ss account.
While Barclays hasnt provided a recording of the second call that took place that evening, it 
has sent us notes from its investigation of Miss Ss complaint. Its noted that the advisor 
didnt attempt to resolve Miss Ss concerns about what she should do about money and that 
there were multiple ways Barclays could have helped her. 
Ive listened to a recordings of Miss Ss conversations with advisors she spoke to the next 
day and the day after that. It was no doubt frustrating for Miss S to have been placed on hold 
for so long, particularly as she was on her break at work.
I understand Miss S is frustrated that Barclays hasnt provided recordings of all of the phone 
calls. But its not within this services remit to fine or punish a business. Ive accepted what 
Miss S has told us about the calls as being a fair reflection of what happened. So, I dont 
think the call recordings would likely have made a difference to the conclusion Ive reached. 
Miss S told our investigator she feels Barclays may have discriminated against her because 
of her name and/or colour. The Equality Act 2010 says a person must not be treated less 
favourably because of their race. We dont have the power to decide if the Equality Act 2010 
has been breached. That is a matter for the courts. But Ive taken this Act into account when 
deciding whether Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably  given that its relevant law.
I understand why Miss S feels her racial background might be relevant. But theres nothing 
in the available evidence to suggest that the poor service she received from Barclays was 
because of her race.
I appreciate this was a distressing experience for Miss S. The poor service she received 
from Barclays resulted in unnecessary embarrassment and anxiety for her. She was worried 
about how she could pay for food and spent a long time on the phone trying to sort things out. But taking all of this into account, I think the £200 Barclays has now agreed to pay is 
reasonable compensation for the trouble and upset shes experienced.
Putting things right
Barclays should pay Miss S a total of £200 to compensate her for the trouble and upset 
shes experienced. This includes the £100 it offered her before she brought her complaint to 
our service.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint and direct Barclays Bank UK 
PLC to put things right by doing as Ive said above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 September 2021.
 
Anne Muscroft
Ombudsman