DRN-3645348
The complaint
Ms C complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (SD), trading as very, provided 
her with credit she couldnt afford to repay.
What happened
Ms C was approved for a mail order account in June 2016 and in November 2016 that was 
converted into a credit account with a £500 credit limit. The limit was increased to £1,000 in 
July 2017 and again to £1,300 in October 2017. When Ms C fell into arrears on the account 
SD started to reduce her credit limit from April 2019 and, when payments werent kept up to 
date, they reassigned the debt to a collection company in June 2019.
Ms C says the credit wasnt affordable for her.
SD disagree. They say that they considered Ms Cs credit file at the point of application and 
didnt find anything that would suggest she couldnt afford to sustainably repay the credit 
they were providing. They said her subsequent performance on the account was good and 
they noted her performance on other credit accounts reported to them by the credit 
reference agencies was good too. So, they saw no reason not to provide the increased 
limits.
Our investigator agreed that the credit had been responsibly lent but Ms C didnt. The 
complaint has therefore been referred to me, an ombudsman, for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our approach to considering complaints about unaffordable and irresponsible lending is set 
out on our website. Ive had this approach in mind when considering whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
I dont think SD have been able to demonstrate that they completed reasonable and 
proportionate checks before approving the initial credit limit of £500. Theyve suggested they 
reviewed Ms Cs credit file but the information they have provided is from credit reports that 
post-date their decision to lend. The files suggest the credit files were received in 2017 but 
the credit limit was approved in November 2016. So, I dont think theres evidence they 
considered Ms Cs performance on other credit commitments or her expenditure in sufficient 
detail.
I think it would have been proportionate for SD to have found out more about Ms Cs
committed expenditure, such as her actual living costs. I cant be sure exactly what they
would have found out if they had explored further. In the absence of anything else, I think it
would be reasonable to place significant weight on the information contained in Ms Cs bank
statements as to what would most likely have been disclosed.
Ive reviewed bank statements from the account I think its likely SD would have reviewed; 
the one Ms Cs salary was paid into.
They show that Ms C was receiving a net income of about £1,030 per month, she was 
paying about £175 every month towards revolving credit arrangements and about £235 per 
month towards other living costs such as food, petrol, clothes, and communications. Ms C 
had told SD that she was living with her parents at the time of her application and there were 
no housing costs that would have been apparent. I think the bank statements showed that 
Ms C had enough disposable income to afford to repay the relatively modest £500 credit limit 
SD were providing.
Ive also taken a look at the credit file Ms C provided to see if there were any signs of 
financial distress at the time of her application. The credit file doesnt provide a 
comprehensive record of each of the accounts but from what I can see it seems that at the 
time SD approved the credit for Ms C she had about £5,100 of outstanding credit 
commitments. There was no information to suggest she wasnt keeping up with payments or 
had defaulted any of her accounts and I dont think at the time of application that there was 
evidence Ms C was in financial difficulty. I dont think there was therefore information 
available to SD that would have suggested it was irresponsible to provide the £500 credit 
limit and I dont therefore think they were wrong to lend the money. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 October 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman