DRN-1460946
 
The complaint
Mr D complains that Clydesdale Bank Plc (Virgin) acted unfairly towards him when he was 
looking to re-invest funds he held in a maturing cash ISA.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Mr D and Virgin, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Mr D had a fixed rate Cash ISA which was nearing maturity, and he was looking to re-invest 
those funds. He received a mailing from Virgin inviting him to choose a new product, and he 
thinks that mailing was misleading. He feels it ought to have been made clear to him that 
there were other options open to him other than those he was directed to by the mailing. He 
wants Virgin to be honest and transparent, and has been at pains to point out that he is not 
and never has sought compensation.
Virgin denied that their literature had been misleading and explained that the products Mr D 
had been directed to were similar to those he already had, but their website contained all 
their product range. As such it did not believe it had acted unfairly.
Mr D was unhappy with Virgins final response and so brought the complaint to this service 
and our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that Virgin 
had done anything wrong either. Mr D didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be 
passed to an Ombudsman for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The role of the Financial Ombudsman Service is to mediate individual disputes between 
consumers and businesses, and to award redress where it is appropriate.  
I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether Virgin acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. 
Where evidence is not complete, I think about what is more likely to have happened in the 
light of the evidence which is available. I have to make an independent decision about what I 
think is right for each case, and thats what Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that 
Virgin has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
Mr D feels that it would not be unreasonable for him to make the assumption that the mailing 
document he received, and which he calls Your account is maturing would give him what he 
describes as all my account options. I dont agree, as the mailing does not say that. It says Simply click next to review your new account options, thus indicating that clicking where 
invited would lead to new rather than all options. 
Another document Mr D refers to and calls Your Account Choices, strengthens his 
argument, he says. The inclusion of tick boxes he feels would lead most people to assume 
that all the available ISA choices had been listed. Again, Im afraid I dont agree. In my view, 
the inclusion of the tick boxes is simply there to facilitate a choice from whatever is listed. It 
cannot be, of itself, an indication of the entirety of all available products. 
Mr D also complains that it is unfair that there were other options available on Virgins 
website, but which were not available to him when he was logged into his Virgin account. He 
has demonstrated this by use of screenshots. Virgin seemingly accept that on the face of it, 
that is true, and for the sake of completeness I should add that I have been unable to 
personally check, since I do not have an account with Virgin. But, our investigator did view 
Virgins website as if he was an existing consumer like Mr D, and by using the ISA maturity 
mailing Mr D was sent. And in so doing, he was able to see that it was possible to view the 
full range of savings products on offer through Virgins main homepage.
So I need to consider whether the mailing Mr D received can be said to be misleading. Part 
of the issue as Mr D has identified, is whether they should have put all of their options on the 
mailing they sent to him. In my view I think it would be disproportionate to expect a business 
to list on every mailing all of their products. I think it is reasonable to expect a business to be 
able to offer a selection of their product range which they might believe a customer would 
like, whilst also allowing the customer to explore other options. In this case that facility was 
there, through Virgins home page, but it would seem Mr D was unable to navigate to it. 
I also dont think that it is unreasonable to expect that Mr D should have looked on Virgins 
website, and had he done that, he would have then seen the full range of products available. 
So I agree with our investigator that I dont think Virgin has acted unfairly here and Im not 
upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Clydesdale Bank Plc. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 June 2020.
Jonathan Willis
Ombudsman