DRN-3927297
The complaint
Miss R is unhappy The Co-operative Bank Plc (Co-op) delayed an international transfer for 
£132,0000. She says this caused her a financial loss and a lot of trouble and upset. 
What happened
Miss R wished to transfer £132,000 from her account with Co-op to her new account abroad 
with a different banking institution. The funds were to be used for purchasing a property in 
the country where the new account was opened. And the money was being transferred in 
Pound Sterling. 
Miss R had two calls with Co-op on 17 August 2020 to discuss moving the money. During 
the first call Miss R was given details of what shed need to provide for Co-op to process the 
transfer. And Miss R was given an email address (Email 1) for where to send the required 
information. It appears this call was unexpectedly cut off. During the second call Miss R says 
she was told to send the information to Email 2  which she subsequently did. 
A week later Miss R contacted Co-op as the transfer had not gone through. And it came to 
light the information had been wrongly sent to Email 2 which was an old email address     
Co-op no longer used. 
Miss R re-sent the request to Email 1 on 24 August 2020. The following day Co-op 
requested Miss R provide the Society for Worldwide Interbank Financial Telecommunication 
(SWIFT) code for the beneficiary bank as well as the name on the beneficiary account.   
Miss R provided this information on 26 August 2020 which Co-op acknowledged on the 
same day and explained that the payment would be processed within 72 hours. 
On 28 August 2020 Co-op keyed the payment and it was routed via an intermediary bank 
(Bank 1). On the same day Co-op wrote to Miss R by letter to confirm the payment had been 
processed and confirmed the details of the transfer. 
When the funds did not arrive Miss R contacted Co-op on 2 September 2020 to find out what 
had happened. Co-op was able to confirm the funds had been returned, so they re-keyed the 
payment, but this time routed it via a different intermediary bank (Bank 2) as Bank 1 was 
unable to act in the transfer. 
When the Co-op re-keyed the payment this time they left a gap between the beneficiarys 
sort code and account number  rather than the one long number (made up of the same 
details) which was used in the first attempt to make the payment. 
Unfortunately the transfer still didnt go through and Miss Rs contacts abroad suggested  
Co-op were wrongly trying to create an International Bank Account Number (IBAN), rather 
than just send through the account number for Miss Rs account with the beneficiary bank. 
Miss R and her father (who held authority to deal with matters on Miss Rs Co-op account) 
raised their concerns and stressed only Miss Rs account number with the beneficiary bank 
was required to facilitate the payment. And so on 9 September 2020, following this contact, 
Co-op issued an amendment SWIFT message to Bank 2, and a separate SWIFT message 
to the beneficiary bank to clarify there was no IBAN, and the details of the account and sort 
code.
The beneficiary bank sent a SWIFT message directly to Co-op on 10 September 2020. 
However, the Co-op have said they could not locate this. The beneficiary bank was seeking 
the reference number for the amendment Co-op had issued. 
On 16 September 2020 Co-op put an urgent trace on the funds as they hadnt heard 
anything. And following a message they noted from the beneficiary bank on 11 September 
2020, Co-op replied to explain the payment had been sent via Bank 2 so Co-op did not have 
the reference the beneficiary bank was looking for. At this point Co-op asked both the 
beneficiary bank and Bank 2 for credit confirmation. 
On Friday 18 September 2020, Co-ops notes record that they chased Bank 2 again 
following on from their 16 September 2020 message. 
On Monday 21 September 2020 Co-ops notes refer to a message from the beneficiary bank 
dated 17 September 2020, which had let Co-op know they did not have the SWIFT keys 
needed, and so they couldnt accept the amendment that had been sent. The beneficiary 
bank therefore asked Co-op to forward the amendment to Bank 2. However, Co-op noted 
they had already done this and already chased Bank 2. Co-op therefore did not send any 
further messages. 
The transfer completed on 21 September 2020. 
Co-op closed their file on 3 January 2021 due to a lack of response from either the 
beneficiary bank or Bank 2. On 30 January 2021 Bank 2 confirmed to Co-op that the transfer 
had completed. 
Miss R raised her concerns with Co-op about the time taken to complete the transfer. 
Because Co-op could not find the second call from 17 August 2020 they accepted Miss R 
may have been given the wrong email address to send her transfer request to. Co-op 
therefore made an offer to Miss R of £100 for the trouble caused, and later they also offered 
to pay interest on the transfer sum for the initial week delay due to the confusion over the 
email  this amounted to £162 (net of tax). In relation to the rest of the transfer request, Co-
op said they had not done anything wrong. 
Miss R didnt accept this as a resolution and pursued the matter with our service. Two of our 
investigators considered the complaint, but both found that Co-op had acted fairly and 
reasonably, and that the offer made was fair in the circumstances. As Miss R didnt accept 
the findings of our investigators, the complaint was passed to me to decide. I issued my 
provisional decision to both parties, and below is a summary of my provisional findings. 
I provisionally concluded: 
Co-ops offer for the initial delay with the wrong email being used was fair in the 
circumstances. 
Co-op did not have a direct banking relationship with the beneficiary bank so an 
intermediary bank was required to help facilitate the transaction. Co-op used a third-
party to find out which bank could assist and selected Bank 1. And it wasnt 
unreasonable for Co-op to have taken this course of action. 
Details of the transfer were set out in the letter of 28 August 2020 for Miss Rs 
reference (with the account number and sort code as one long number), and a 
reminder that it was Miss Rs responsibility to ensure shed provided the right details. The letter also signposted to the account terms and conditions. And so the letter 
supported Co-op believed the transfer request had been dealt with. 
There was confusion due to the suggestion that Co-op were trying to create an IBAN. 
However, Co-op used the same information when they re-keyed the payment on 2 
September 2020, so it was difficult to say that Co-op had used incorrect information 
given the same account and sort code details were used to later process the 
payment successfully. 
There were no delays in Co-op sending the SWIFT message on 9 September 2020 
to clarify the payment details when Miss R and her father asked for this to be done. 
There was a gap of time between the beneficiarys request for clarification of the 
amendment, until 16 September 2020 and it is unclear what was happening in this 
time. But of note is that Co-ops terms and conditions explained this kind of cross-
border transfer could take up to four business days, and the time in question included 
a weekend. 
The beneficiary banks SWIFT message from 10 September 2020 was not 
referenced in Co-ops notes, only that there was a record that they could not match 
the SWIFT message. So it was difficult to say they had acted unfairly in not 
responding to this. 
Co-op issued SWIFT messages on 16 September 2020 to try and assist the 
beneficiary bank and they chased Bank 2. Co-op asked both parties to confirm when 
the transfer completed, but neither responded when that happened. It did not seem 
fair to hold Co-op responsible for Bank 2s actions and it was fair to note there were 
other parties involved in this transaction. I explained it was only possible for me to 
consider Co-ops actions under this complaint. 
I acknowledged the stress this matter had no doubt caused Miss R, but in the 
circumstances, I concluded Co-op had acted fairly and reasonably for their part in the 
handling of Miss Rs transfer. 
It wasnt unreasonable for Co-op not to engage with Miss Rs third-party contacts 
abroad as Co-op did not have the authority to do so. 
Responses to my provisional decision 
Co-op replied to say they had nothing further to add at this stage. 
Miss R and her representative responded to my provisional decision to say while they 
accepted the offer reflected what had gone wrong initially with the wrong email being used, 
they disagreed with what happened after that, for the reasons Ive summarised below. 
It was wrong to try and blame Bank 2 and the beneficiary bank, as Miss R had 
requested Co-op carry out the transfer so it was Co-ops responsibility. 
Internal problems with other banks were not Miss Rs problem. 
Co-op had a duty of care to Miss R and should have been pro-active in following up 
what had happened with the transfer and seeking out the right information when 
needed. It shouldnt have been for Miss R to always chase what was happening. 
Co-op shouldve known which intermediary bank to use, and so were clearly 
inexperienced and didnt know what to do with this type of transfer. If they had done, 
the transfer wouldve completed sooner. 
Miss R should not be expected to know how the transfer should be keyed. That was 
Co-ops responsibility and Miss R was not the financial expert here. And as the 28 August 2020 letter was sent to her parents address, she did not see this and it was 
not her responsibility to check the details were correct on the SWIFT message. 
The problem was that Co-op wrongly keyed the transfer information on two 
occasions rather than taking steps to find out what was needed. 
Discussion about the IBAN was unnecessary. Whatever the format that Co-op was 
using was clearly not appropriate for the beneficiary bank. 
That an amendment message was issued on 9 September 2020 is evidence that  
Co-op had wrongly processed the payment. 
Co-ops error caused a delay which resulted in a loss of £7,000 due to a fall in the 
exchange rate, as well as losing out on interest in the meantime. 
The matter caused Miss R a lot of emotional and physical stress which she should be 
compensated for. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I acknowledge this matter caused Miss R much upset and frustration and I do not 
underestimate the worry Miss R experienced for a time of not knowing where her funds 
were, and the impact she has described that this had for her. I also note that the loss Miss R 
is claiming for is not insignificant. I have reviewed the case in full again. However, having 
done so, and while realising this will be a disappointment to Miss R, I have decided not to 
uphold Miss Rs complaint, as Ill explain. 
Miss Rs most recent submissions are detailed, and while Ive not answered each and every 
point raised, I would like to reassure Miss R that I have considered everything, but I have 
focused my findings on what I consider relevant to the outcome of this complaint. 
I think its helpful to note that the role I have is to assess whether Co-op did anything wrong 
in the handling of this transfer. And if I were to find that Co-op, for their part, had made an 
error then I would have to consider, if there had been any impact, could this fairly be 
attributable to the error identified. 
As Miss Rs response is that the offer to reflect the earlier part of these events is acceptable, 
what remains in dispute is what happened shortly before the first transfer was submitted by 
Co-op, until the transfer completed. 
In the circumstances of this case, on balance, I have found Co-op have acted reasonably 
and I therefore dont think they need to do any more than pay Miss R the offer they 
previously made to her. 
I realise Miss R strongly believes Co-op is to blame for all the problems she has experienced 
with this transfer. However, in the circumstances, I do not find it fair or reasonable to say this 
given the transfer was not Co-ops responsibility alone. The transfer involved three separate 
banking institutions as part of the transfer process. For the purposes of this final decision, I 
only have the power to look at Co-ops actions during the course of these events. 
Miss R approached Co-op to transfer her funds abroad, and Co-op used the SWIFT network 
to communicate the payment Miss R was looking to make. 
When the sender and beneficiary banks have a commercial relationship with one another, 
instructing the transfer is far simpler and quicker given only two banks are involved. But not all banks have such a working relationship, so intermediary banks are required. Adding an 
intermediary bank to the process does add time to the transfer being completed. And 
responsibilities on the respective banks to ensure they are carrying out their obligations in 
terms of fraud prevention and anti-money laundering can also add time, as well as factoring 
in bank holidays, weekends and respective bank cut-off times. As noted above, these 
transfers  as set out in Miss Rs terms and conditions  could take up to four business days. 
Co-op explained to this service they used the International Banking System to find an 
intermediary bank to act for the beneficiary bank, but it later became apparent that the 
beneficiary bank no longer used Bank 1, so Co-op re-sent the payment request using Bank 
2. In the circumstances, I think Co-ops actions were reasonable here when looking to find 
an intermediary bank. 
From the submissions it appears Miss R feels most strongly that Co-op is at fault here 
because of how they set out the beneficiary details in the SWIFT messages. Ive reviewed 
the relevant SWIFT messages below. 
However, before I comment any further, I would refer to Miss Rs concerns that she had no 
responsibility in how the SWIFT messages were set out or knowledge of what was needed 
to complete the transfer. I accept that Miss R is not a financial expert here and it was of 
course not her completing the SWIFT message, but Co-op did ask Miss R for information 
about the beneficiary account details, which she supplied and I think it was reasonable of 
Co-op to rely on that information  that included the account number and the sort code. It is 
only later on that Miss R said the account number alone was needed  although as it will 
shortly follow in my findings, the transfer appears to have been completed with both the 
account number and sort code remaining in Co-ops SWIFT messages. 
On 28 August 2020 Co-op set out the beneficiary details as one long reference which 
included two letters at the start to denote the beneficiary banks country, followed by the sort 
code and account number provided to them by Miss R. 
On 2 September 2020 Co-op set out the beneficiary details slightly differently, with a space 
between the sort code and account number. 
For completeness, in both instances, Miss Rs full name was quoted in the beneficiary 
section of the SWIFT messages. 
On 9 September 2020 Co-ops notes record that they sent a message to Bank 2 and to the 
beneficiary bank to confirm and clarify that an IBAN had not been quoted on the payment 
request, and confirmed the account number and sort code again.  
Following these messages Ive not seen that any further information regarding the 
beneficiary details was sent by Co-op to either Bank 2 or the beneficiary bank. 
The subsequent messages included Co-op responding to the beneficiary bank to explain it 
wasnt possible to provide the reference the beneficiary bank was seeking as the payment 
was routed through Bank 2 (so the beneficiary bank would need to contact Bank 2), and 
contacting Bank 2 on 16 September 2020 for an update/ credit confirmation. Co-ops notes 
record they chased Bank 2 again on 18 September 2020. And that on 21 September 2020 
Co-op recorded the beneficiary banks message from 17 September 2020 that it did not have 
the SWIFT keys required to accept the amendment sent, but that Co-op had already 
messaged and chased Bank 2  so they didnt send a further message. 
As I mentioned in my provisional findings, there is some time during this process where its 
not entirely clear what has happened. And where Im unable to say what occurred, or where the evidence is unclear or incomplete, I reach my findings on the balance of probability, that 
is what I think more likely than not happened in the circumstances. 
Taking everything into account, it is difficult for me to say that Co-op have acted 
unreasonably during the course of these events. 
Im unable to find they did anything wrong when seeking out an intermediary bank to use for 
the transfer, so I think it unfair to hold Co-op responsible for the beneficiary bank not having 
the necessary relationship with Bank 1. 
So while Co-op have said setting out the beneficiary details as they did initially was their 
usual approach, even if this were to have caused any delay, given the payment needed to 
be re-keyed through a different intermediary bank anyway, I dont think it would be fair to say 
this could be deemed the cause of the delay at this point. 
I say this because at the time of sending the second payment request through on 2 
September 2020, the bank account and sort code were separated on the SWIFT message 
(and from Co-ops notes the same was confirmed in the SWIFT message sent on 9 
September 2020). Ive seen no records or further messages sent by Co-op setting out the 
beneficiary details after this date, so on balance, given the payment then went through on 21 
September 2020 without any further clarifications, I think its more likely than not the second 
instruction included the information needed in an accessible way for the payment to be 
completed. 
I also think Co-op was reasonable in their attempts to help the transfer go through  in so far 
as what they could do for their part in the transfer. Co-op re-submitted the payment as soon 
as it became apparent the first one hadnt gone through, and they clarified the details on 9 
September 2020 following the request from Miss R and her father without delay. And they 
chased this again on 16 September 2020 and 18 September 2020. 
I understand Miss R suggests Co-ops failure to chase matters after 21 September 2020 is 
an indication that they were not being proactive throughout these events. While I understand 
the point Miss R is making, according to her terms and conditions, transfers of this nature 
could take up to four business days, in essence a week if a transfer is submitted after the 
cut-off time on the relevant business day. And from the submissions available Im aware 
Miss R or her representative/s were contacting Co-op regularly anyway. However, I can only 
look at what has happened here, not what may or may not have happened. And even if Co-
op didnt follow up on the transaction after 21 September 2020, as the transfer had 
completed, I cant say any failure on Co-ops part to enquire further after this time would 
have made a difference at this point. 
Overall, I dont uphold this complaint. I realise this will be a disappointment to Miss R  but I 
can only consider Co-ops actions in these events, and in the circumstances based on the 
submissions and evidence Ive seen, I think theyve acted reasonably. Because of this I dont 
think they need to do any more other than make sure that Miss R is paid the offer they 
previously made to her if they have not already done so. My final decision
For the reasons above, I think The Co-operative Bank Plcs offer is fair, and my final decision 
is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February 2023.
 
Kristina Mathews
Ombudsman