DRN-2975746
The complaint
Mr C complains that Amtrust Europe Limited has unfairly refused to pay a claim for damages 
under his legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to Amtrust, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
What happened
Mr C brought a complaint about the police to their complaints body  the Independent Police 
Complaints Commission (IPCC). Following a successful outcome, he instructed solicitors to 
pursue the police for damages. 
Mr C subsequently raised a complaint to the Solicitors Regulation Authority (SRA) about his 
solicitor, who was later struck off as a result. He applied to the SRAs compensation fund for 
the damages hed been pursuing. But this was declined. 
In July 2020, Mr C contacted his legal expenses insurers  Amtrust  to make a claim. He 
was sent a claim form and was asked to provide various documents and information for the 
claim to be assessed. But Mr C said that Amtrust can access this information online and 
through the relevant parties to the complaint. 
Amtrust said it cant consider the claim without Mr C providing the requested information. 
So Mr C raised a complaint. He wants Amtrust to pay the damages hes owed, and for it to 
recover its costs under the laws of subrogation.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint. He said the legal expenses policy doesnt 
operate in the way Mr C believes it should; it doesnt pay the damages but rather covers the 
legal costs of pursuing the responsible party for them. He explained that until Mr C provides 
the information required, Amtrust arent able to assess whether there is cover available 
under the policy to pursue this matter for him.
As Mr C didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator and for broadly the 
same reasons. 
Like all insurance policies, the cover under Mr Cs legal expenses policy is subject to terms 
and conditions. And any claim made will need to be assessed in the first instance to 
determine whether or not its covered. 
The obligation falls on Mr C to prove that he has a valid claim that is within the scope of 
cover provided by his policy. And this is reflected in the policys terms and conditions which 
says [you] must supply at [your] own expense all of the information which [we] reasonably 
require to decide whether a claim may be accepted. 
Amtrust has set out the information it needs from Mr C to determine whether the claim is 
covered. This includes a copy of the contract he had with the solicitor, along with a timeline 
of events. Amtrust says it requires this information to determine whether both the contract 
was entered into and the claim arose within the period of insurance; both of which are 
requirements for cover under the policy. 
Its also asked for copies of correspondence and experts reports (which is likely to include 
any report issued by the IPCC and SRA) which will help determine if the claim is covered 
and whether or not it enjoys reasonable prospects of success. Im satisfied this information is 
reasonably required and I dont think its fair to expect Amtrust to search for it from multiple 
sources when the onus is on Mr C in making his claim.
From the information Ive seen, Mr C hasnt provided this information. So I dont think its 
reasonable to expect Amtrust to provide cover, when it doesnt know what its providing 
cover for and whether the policy extends to a claim of this nature. 
If Mr C wishes to pursue a claim under his policy, he should provide Amtrust with the 
requested information. But he should be mindful that the policy isnt designed to pay out 
damages, instead  if his claim is accepted  it will pay the legal costs of pursuing the 
responsible party. 
Our investigator also had concerns as to whether, based on the information hed seen, the 
claims Mr C wanted to make would in any case be covered by his policy. So those are points 
Mr C may wish to bear in mind when deciding on his next steps.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont consider that Amtrust Europe Limited has acted 
unfairly. So I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 23 September 2021.
 
Sheryl Sibley
Ombudsman