DRN-4092606
The complaint
Ms H complains that a car she acquired with credit from Oasis Motor Finance Limited wasnt 
of satisfactory quality.
Marsh FM LLP, a part of Marsh Finance Ltd, are the company administrating Ms Hs account 
on behalf of Oasis Motor Finance Limited. As Ms H has been corresponding with Marsh 
regarding this complaint Ill refer to it throughout for simplicity.
What happened
Ms H entered into a credit agreement with Marsh via an intermediary in March 2022 to
acquire a used car. The credit to buy the car was granted by Marsh under a hire purchase
agreement. Marsh was the owner and Ms H was, in essence, paying for the use of it. As the
owner of the car bought from the dealership, Marsh was responsible for the quality of the 
car.
The cash price of the car was £15,980 and the total payable under the agreement was
£24,084. This was to be repaid in 59 monthly instalments of £400 with a final instalment of
£499 (all figures rounded). The car was almost three years old and had been driven 46,495
miles when Ms H acquired it.
Ms H complained to the seller in early August 2022 that there was a problem with the car.
She explained that the clutch had gone and the air conditioning wasnt working. The seller
rejected the complaint and Ms H then got in touch with Marsh. On 12 August Marsh sent 
Ms H an acknowledgement of her complaint and explained that it would organise an 
independent inspection of the car.
This took place on the 25 August 2022. It confirmed the problems with the clutch and stated
that the clutch biting point was higher than expected and that it was difficult to select reverse
gear. So it was likely that the clutch was approaching the end of its in-service life. The
inspection concluded that the clutch had minimal future life expectancy remaining when
Ms H acquired the car and so the sales agent should be responsible for its replacement. The
inspection also confirmed that the air conditioning was not working though it appeared
undamaged and so was likely in need of a service.
Marsh wrote to Ms H on 29 September to say that the seller had accepted responsibility for
the clutch repair and agreed to cover the cost of the quote. Marsh told Ms H to liaise with the
seller regarding any potential assistance with the air-conditioning as the independent
inspector had noted that that was a service-related issue. Marsh apologised for the
inconvenience the matter had caused to Ms H.
Ms H was unhappy with this response and referred her complaint to us in early October. At
this point the car had not yet been repaired. I understand that the car was taken in for repair
on 31 October and took four days.
Our investigator looked into the complaint and recommended that Marsh pay Ms H
compensation of £150 to reflect the distress and inconvenience this matter had caused her.
Ms H accepted this recommendation but Marsh did not.
Marsh said Ms H was able to continue using the car throughout 2022 and so didnt incur any
additional transport costs. It didnt have any control over the time taken for the repairs and it
would have been up to Ms Hs appointed third-party garage to have provided her with a
courtesy car if she needed one. Marsh also said that it had arranged and covered the cost of
the independent vehicle inspection and had resolved the complaint within the timeframe
afforded to it which was set out in its acknowledgement letter to Ms H. In conclusion Marsh
said that it had acted fairly and in a timely manner and kept Ms H up to date at all times.
Marsh asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman for review and it came to me. I 
issued a provisional decision on 27 March upholding Ms Hs complaint. Ms H agreed with my 
decision but Marsh did not. This is my final decision on the complaint and will be legally 
binding on both parties if Ms H accepts it.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered the matter again, including what both parties said in response to my 
provisional decision, I remain of the view that Ms Hs complaint should succeed and that my 
proposals for putting things right for her are fair and reasonable. Ill set out my reasons again 
in this final decision.
As before, I have taken into account the law and relevant regulatory rules including, for 
example, the Consumer Rights Act (CRA) 2015 which implies a term into any contract to 
supply goods that those goods will be of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory means what a 
reasonable person would expect, taking into account the description of the goods, the price 
and any other relevant circumstances. The relevant circumstances in this complaint would 
include, for example, the nature of the fault and the age and mileage of the car. The CRA 
says the quality of the goods includes their general state and condition and other things like 
their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor defects, safety, and
durability.
So if goods are found to be faulty, the first question is whether the fault was there or
developing when the goods were supplied. It may be that a fault arose later through wear
and tear caused by normal usage. Even if it was agreed that there was a fault with the goods
which was present when they were supplied, it doesnt automatically follow that the goods
didnt conform to the contract at the time and found to be of unsatisfactory quality. It depends
on the circumstances.
It seems all parties have accepted the findings of the independent inspection regarding the
clutch and it isnt in dispute that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality in this regard when
Ms H acquired it. I understand that the clutch repair has now been carried out at no cost to
Ms H.
When we investigated Ms Hs complaint she told us that she remained unhappy with how the
air conditioning unit was working. The independent inspection didnt find a fault with the air
conditioning but suggested that it needed a service. I cant find that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality on this point given that the air conditioning unit is a serviceable part
which needed to be looked after. As the car was three years old and the agreement was for
five years, its likely that Ms H would need to service the air conditioning at some point.
Ms H told us that she had consulted an air conditioning specialist who stated that the airconditioning in a car should be serviced every three years. Ms H said that her car is a 2019
registration, therefore, if the car was serviced (as stated it had been) prior to purchase in 
April 2022 then the air conditioning would be filled with gas. I dont know what Ms H was told
about the servicing of the car before entering into the hire purchase agreement and I havent
seen anything to show that the air conditioning unit specifically was serviced before the car
was supplied to her. So I cant say that something went wrong here on the basis that Ms Hs 
expectations werent met.
Ms H told us that her main concern was the amount of time that passed before her car was
fixed - she raised this complaint at the beginning of August and her car wasnt fixed until the
middle of October. In an email to Marsh of the 19 October Ms H said that her car remained
faulty and the use of it was putting her and her family at risk. She said that at no point over
the last three months had she been offered a courtesy car and would appreciate any update
on her request for a vehicle replacement. Ms H said that she didnt feel her monthly payment
was justified given the goods she had received and the fear of the vehicle failing each time
she drove it. Ms H also said that she has suffered severe stress and anxiety during the
length of this complaint, which was getting worse due to the time passed and the lack of
communication she was experiencing.
Having reviewed everything, I agree with Marsh that it told Ms H the outcome of her
complaint within regulatory time scales (eight weeks) and I can see from the correspondence
supplied that it was in regular contact with Ms H and kept her up to date with what was
happening with her complaint. However, Ms H experienced distress and inconvenience
because she was provided with a car that wasnt of satisfactory quality and it took some time
for this to be put right for her. Ive concluded that some compensation would be appropriate
in this case to reflect the impact that this experience had on Ms H.
There isnt a specific calculation for awards to compensate for the emotional impact of
errors. We have an approach which Ive borne in mind alongside everything else when
making this decision. This approach (which is set out on our website) says that an apology
or a small monetary award of less than £100 will typically compensate a one-off incident
such as a small administrative error or a short delay, in other words an error that caused
minimal impact that is put right quickly. An award between £100 and £300 might be fair
where there have been repeated small errors requiring a reasonable effort to sort out. These
typically result in an impact that lasts a few days, or even weeks, and cause either some
distress, inconvenience, disappointment or loss of expectation. I think an award in this range
would be appropriate.
Our investigator suggested an amount of £150 which seems to me to be a fair and
reasonable amount in the context of this case.
Ms H said Marsh didnt respond to her request for a courtesy car. Nevertheless, Ms H was
able to use her car throughout. She had driven it almost 4,400 miles from when she acquired
it to the end of August when it was inspected which seems to me to be a reasonable monthly
average. So I cant find that Ms Hs use of the car had been impaired although it came with
an emotional cost which the above compensation acknowledges.
Ms H says it took four days for the car to be repaired and she was without it in that time.
Marsh said that it wasnt responsible for the length of time it took Ms Hs chosen third-party
garage to carry out the repairs. However, Marsh had accepted the quote from this garage 
and it was responsible for the quality of the car. I think its fair therefore for Marsh to refund
Ms H her payments for the time she was without her car at a rate of £13 for each day or part
of a day.In response to my provisional decision Marsh said again that it didnt agree with the 
compensation award as it had assisted Ms H at all times. Marsh asked if Ms H was aware of 
the time the repair would take when she opted to take her car to that particular garage. It 
also said that Ms H hadnt provided any evidence to say that she was not supplied with a 
courtesy car by her appointed garage or any evidence of transport costs incurred during the 
time the car was in for repair. 
Id covered the first two points in my provisional decision and so theyre addressed earlier in 
this document. Ms H told us that she was without her car while it was being repaired and that 
she paid for private and public transport for herself and her children. Ms H hasnt been 
specific or provided receipts for these costs but she has been consistent in what shes said 
on this point and Im happy to accept that Ms H wasnt offered a courtesy car at any stage. I 
remain of the view that Ms H shouldnt have to pay for the time she was without the car. 
Putting things right
In summary, Marsh should now:
Pay Ms H an amount of £150 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience 
this matter has caused her; and
Pay Ms H for the time she was without her car when it was being repaired at a rate of 
£13 for each day or part of a day.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Ms Hs complaint about Oasis Motor Finance 
Limited and it now needs to carry out the above steps to put things right for her.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman