DRN-3170820
The complaint
Mrs A complained that she was mis-sold an insurance policy for her bed by Acasta 
European Insurance Company Limited (Acasta).
What happened
Mrs A said she bought a bed which incorporated a TV, speakers, and a lifting mechanism. At 
the time of the purchase, she was sold an insurance policy by Acasta. Mrs A said Acasta 
informed her the insurance product covered everything to do with the bed. However, when 
Mrs A made a claim related to the electronic cable in the bed, she realised the policy didnt 
cover her for this or any of the electronics. Mrs A wants her claim covered and for Acasta to 
pay for her to have the electronics covered by a different insurer.
Acasta said the policy Mrs A bought was specifically for staining and accidental damage to 
the furniture, so doesnt cover the electronics within the bed. Acasta said Mrs A may have 
misunderstood some communications at the point of sale which related to the 
manufacturers warranty for the electronic parts of the bed.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She said the policy documents were 
clear that electrical components were excluded from the cover the policy provided and she 
didnt think it was likely the sales agent wouldve said the electronics were covered if the 
policy excluded them. Mrs A disagreed, so the complaint has been referred to an 
ombudsman.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand the strength of Mrs As feeling that her policy was mis-sold to her. I must make 
my decisions based upon the evidence that is available to me. So, Im sorry that Im going to 
disappoint Mrs A as I havent seen robust evidence to prove with certainty that the policy 
was mis-sold. And therefore, I wont be able to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
The point of sale was in a shop, so Im reliant on the testimonies of Acasta and Mrs A to 
make my decision. The different parties have put forward different statements. Mrs A said 
she was told by the sales agent that the policy covered everything, and she said she asked 
specific questions to understand this further. Mrs A says she was assured by the sales agent 
the policy covered the bed itself and all the electronic components. However, Acasta has 
denied this. It feels Mrs A may have mis-interpreted or mis-understood what it said. Acasta 
said its sales agent talked about the manufacturers warranty for the electronic items rather 
than the policy itself. As I cant review the actual conversation as it wasnt recorded on a 
telephone line, it was an interaction in a shop, I dont have any evidence of what happened. 
So, in effect its one word against the other. As I cant be certain on what happened, Im not 
able to say whether anyone did anything wrong, and so, unfortunately for Mrs A, I cant 
uphold the complaint based on this as I dont have reliable evidence.
Acasta said the electrical items arent covered under the policy terms and conditions, so I 
have reviewed these. I can see the policy does exclude motors, electrical components 
including the electrical mechanisms for adjustable beds and TVs and their associated 
components. On reading the policy further, it seems to be designed to cover the 
policyholder for accidental damage to the furniture element of the purchase, which in this 
case would be the structure of the bed, but not the electrical components. Based on the 
details of the policy, I therefore cant say Acasta have been unreasonable in saying the 
electronic elements of the bed arent covered by the policy.
I have also considered that the policy had a 14-day cooling off period, whereby, Mrs A could 
check the details of the policy and could cancel it with no charge if she was unhappy with 
any aspect of it. So, as Mrs A had this opportunity, but didnt use it, I dont think its fair to 
uphold this complaint. Therefore, for the reasons Ive set out, I dont have the evidence to 
conclude the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont require Acasta European 
Insurance Company Limited to do anymore. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 January 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman