DRN-2307737
The complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold them payment protection 
insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
What happened
Mr and Mrs K took out PPI alongside a mortgage in 2003. The policy paid a monthly benefit 
and covered Mr K in the event of unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs K didnt agree with this 
view. 
Mr K told us that he believed the PPI was a condition of the mortgage and he had no choice. 
He says he and his wife didnt need PPI as they had other ways to make the mortgage 
monthly repayments if he wasnt able to work, including significant savings and an income 
protection policy. And theyre unhappy with some of the assumptions made by our 
adjudicator.
Mr and Mrs K have asked for a final decision so this complaint comes to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Only Mr K had PPI but Mrs K was a joint party to the mortgage. So Ive looked at the 
information supplied about both their circumstances.  
Im sorry Mr and Mrs K feel our adjudicator didnt take properly into account everything 
theyve said or give due weight to what theyve told us they remember about the sale. Id like 
to reassure Mr and Mrs K that Ive looked at the complaint afresh  and Ive independently 
reached the same conclusions as our adjudicator.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Heres why I say this.
Bradford & Bingley couldnt provide all the paperwork from the PPI sale. But this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold the complaint. Its not surprising, given how long ago this sale 
happened, that full paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt reasonably expect Bradford & 
Bingley or Mr and Mrs K to have kept this. 
Ive no reason to doubt that Mr and Mrs K are certain about everything theyve told us. But it 
wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr and Mrs K to remember exactly what was discussed 
when they took out PPI so long ago. So whilst I understand their concern that the PPI wasnt 
presented as optional, what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold 
their complaint about how they were sold the PPI. 
I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. If theres only limited 
information I have to make reasonable assumptions where necessary. 
In order to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint Id have to find that its likely they werent given 
a fair choice about PPI or that it was added to their mortgage account without their consent. 
Overall, I dont find the evidence is strong enough for me safely to say that Bradford & 
Bingley didnt make it clear that it was open to Mr and Mrs K not to choose PPI if they didnt 
want to have it. Ill explain why.
On the mortgage application Mr and Mrs K signed, theres a section headed Payment 
Protection Insurance. It says here: You are recommended to take out mortgage payment 
protection insurance against accident, sickness and unemployment. A quotation for this will 
be provided unless you tick the box.
So, although I dont know what was said about the PPI, I think Mr and Mrs K wouldve been 
able to see on the application that PPI was separate from the mortgage. And this isnt 
wording that I think wouldve suggested to Mr and Mrs K that PPI wasnt optional.
A few days later, it looks like a mortgage illustration was sent to Mr and Mrs K setting out 
details of the mortgage deal being recommended to them. This letter included the following 
information:
We discussed that changes to your circumstances, for example, accident, sickness and 
unemployment, may affect your ability to repay the loan. You realise that this is an area in 
which you may have a potential shortfall and wish to discuss this in more details (sic) at our 
next meeting.
So I think that Mr and Mrs K wouldve understood that their mortgage wasnt dependent on 
them arranging accident, sickness and unemployment insurance  rather this was presented 
as something of benefit that they could follow up if they wished. 
Following a meeting, arranged to consider Mr and Mrs Ks overall financial situation, it looks 
like Bradford & Bingley wrote to them confirming that accident, sickness and unemployment 
cover was discussed and that the advisor explained how this could work alongside an 
income protection policy. 
It seems that the risk of Mr K being unemployed was a particular concern to Mr and Mrs K. 
So I can understand why they chose to take out unemployment cover only for Mr K. But to 
my mind this also points to the fact that at the time (even if they have forgotten this now) 
Mr and Mrs K understood that having PPI was their choice - and they chose only to have the 
cover that they decided they wanted at the time. 
Their mortgage was a major financial commitment repayable over a number of years and 
their home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept up to date. It looks 
like the policy offered Mr and Mrs K better protection than they wouldve had if theyd just 
relied on their existing benefits through work and their savings (Ill say more about this later). 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs K mightve felt PPI was useful to have. I can completely understand how Mr and Mrs K couldve forgotten this now. But, on balance, 
I think its likely that Mr and Mrs K decided they wanted to have the security and protection 
that the policy offered and they chose to take out PPI for Mr K to protect him in the event of 
unemployment.  
Bradford & Bingley advised Mr and Mrs K to buy the PPI. This is significant because if a 
financial business makes a recommendation about PPI not only does it have to give 
important policy information in a clear way - it also has to take reasonable steps to make 
sure the cover it recommends is suitable. 
Ive seen a written record of the discussion that Mr and Mrs K had with the advisor about 
their financial situation. It looks like this document was completed by the advisor and I cant 
see if its been signed by Mr and Mrs K as a true record of the discussion. But it appears to 
contain detailed information about their financial situation and I think its reasonable for me to 
rely on this as a fairly dependable source of information. 
I dont see any reason why a PPI recommendation for Mr and Mrs K wouldnt have been 
suitable when they took out the PPI. 
Based on what Ive seen and been told about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time, 
given that the policy wouldve paid out if Mr K lost his job and became unexpectedly 
unemployed, I think this wouldve been a useful benefit. 
The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit to cover Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage monthly 
repayments for up to 12 months per claim.
Repeat claims were possible which meant the policy offered long term protection for 
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage. 
As Mr K appears to have been the main earner, I can see why Mr and Mrs K felt it was 
important to protect his income. Although Mrs K was working at the time as well, I think 
losing Mr Ks monthly salary wouldve had a big impact on their joint finances and its difficult 
to see how Mrs K couldve managed the mortgage monthly repayments on her own for very 
long if only she was working. 
And there was always a possibility that, in the event of a joint accident, Mrs K couldve found 
she was unable to work. 
So a policy that paid a benefit for a lot longer than she couldve depended on getting sick 
pay though work offered Mr and Mrs K more dependable protection than relying on Mrs Ks 
income alone.
Mr and Mrs K mentioned having significant savings at the time. 
But everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
There was no guarantee when Mr and Mrs K took out their mortgage that they wouldve 
always had savings they couldve relied on if Mr K had needed to make a claim. 
And, if they didnt put all their money towards keeping down the cost of borrowing and they 
preferred to keep savings intact, perhaps to provide financial security or use for other 
spending they mightve had planned, then I think theyd have valued the protection PPI 
offered. Having PPI meant that Mr and Mrs K couldve relied on the policy to help pay their 
mortgage monthly repayments without needing to draw on their savings.  I've taken into account that Mr K says having an income protection policy meant PPI wasnt 
required. But having an income protection policy in place doesnt necessarily mean that the 
PPI wasnt suitable for Mr K. Looking at the level of cover the advisor recommended and at 
Mr Ks gross income at the time, it looks to me like he mightve only replaced a proportion of 
his monthly take home pay. So having PPI that covered his mortgage monthly repayments 
wouldve been an important part of the overall package of cover he had set up. 
I dont know if the policy Mr K actually took out was set up in line with that recommendation. 
But, without seeing details of the income protection policy and benefit level that Mr K had in 
place, I cant fairly say that I've seen enough information to be able to uphold his complaint 
that the PPI was mis-sold.
Mr K also mentioned that the advisor stated no additional cover was required in the event of 
his death and he relies on this as clear evidence that he required no cover in the event of 
loss of role. 
But I can see that Mr K had death in service benefit through work as well as life cover with 
an endowment policy that Mr and Mrs K took out with a previous mortgage and decided to 
keep running in order to give them this cover in the event of loss of life. So that could explain 
why the advisor didnt identify a need for any further cover in the event of  death. But PPI 
paid out a different benefit in different circumstances. So what Mr K has said about this 
doesnt affect the outcome of this complaint. 
Having PPI wouldve meant Mr and Mrs K could be sure theyd be able to make their 
mortgage monthly repayment - even if Mr K couldnt work. 
Overall, looking at their circumstances at the time, I think the PPI they took out provided 
Mr and Mrs K with a worthwhile benefit and I think the policy couldve been useful to them. 
When considering mis-sale complaints, I must think about all the ways its possible a policy 
couldve been mis-sold. This includes thinking about eligibility for the policy. Mr K was 
eligible for the policy  so not being eligible isnt a reason for me to uphold the complaint. 
There were some things that the PPI didnt cover. But it doesnt look as if that wouldve 
affected Mr K. So, I dont think having more information about the policy exclusions and 
limitations wouldve made any difference to Mr and Mrs Ks decision to take out PPI for Mr K.
Some of the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr K about the PPI mightnt have been as 
clear as it shouldve been. So its possible there may have been some failings in the way this 
policy was sold. But the policy gave Mr and Mrs K useful protection in their particular 
situation and Ive seen nothing to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for them. 
Taking everything into account, this leads me to the conclusion that Mr and Mrs K still 
wouldve decided to buy the policy even if theyd been given clearer information. 
This means I dont find that Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result of anything that Bradford 
& Bingley did wrong. 
So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision I've taken into account what Mr K said about the way some PPI 
was sold. But each complaint is looked at on its own merits - Ive looked at the circumstances that apply in this particular case and what happened on other cases doesnt 
change my conclusion here.  
I appreciate that what Ive said will come as a disappointment. But I hope that setting out the 
reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive reached my decision.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision before 17 December 2020.
 
Susan Webb
Ombudsman