DRN-1660864
The complaint 
Mr and Mrs C complain that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) to them alongside a loan in 2003. 
Background
The PPI that was sold to Mr and Mrs C was a single premium policy. That means Mr and 
Mrs C had to borrow extra on top of their loan to pay for it. They also had to pay interest on 
the cost of their premium. The PPI was set up to cover Mr C only. 
At the time they took this loan out, both Mr and Mrs C worked for Mrs Cs family business. 
With that in mind, our adjudicator thought the complaint should be upheld. Looking at how 
the PPI policy was worded, he thought that Mr C would count as self-employed and it would 
be quite difficult for him to make a claim. 
Nationwide disagreed with that view. It said it had a reference to show that Mr C was 
employed by the business and in the PPI questionnaire, he did not consider himself to be 
self-employed. It did not consider Mr C would have been able to control the affairs of the 
company. It reiterated its position that it was up to Mr and Mrs C to consider the information 
Nationwide provided and decide whether they wanted to take out the PPI. 
My findings 
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done so, I have upheld the complaint for the same reasons given by our adjudicator. 
Turning first to the terms and conditions of this policy, I can see that Mr C would have 
counted as self-employed if he: 
can control the affairs of a company [he works] for because either [he], or a relative or 
spouse, individually or jointly, hold the majority of the voting rights in that company
So as Mr C worked for his family firm, he could have been said to be self-employed. If he 
was, he could only make a claim on the policy if he could show he had stopped work 
because he could not find enough work to meet all his reasonable business and living 
expenses. 
This wasnt an advised sale, but Nationwide still had to make sure Mr and Mrs C had enough 
information about the cover so they could decide for themselves whether it was a good fit for 
their needs. 
I dont think these conditions would have been made clear to Mr and Mrs C when they 
bought the PPI. For me to establish this exclusion, I had to consider the definition of 
employment, unemployment and self-employed and then turn to page 9 of the policy document headed how to make a claim. On that basis, I dont think it would have been 
drawn to Mr and Mrs Cs attention. 
So the question for me now is whether Mr and Mrs C would have acted differently if that 
exclusion had been made clear. 
I have thought about what Nationwide said in respect of whether Mr C would have 
considered himself to be self-employed. With respect to Nationwide, it is the terms of the 
policy that are most important rather than Mr Cs perception of his employment status. 
Had Mr and Mrs C been aware that the insurer could have considered Mr C to be self-
employed and it could have consequently been more difficult to make an unemployment 
claim, I dont think they would have thought this cover was value for money. I think he would 
have thought it could be difficult for him to show hed lost his job because there wasnt 
enough work to meet reasonable business and living expenses. I dont think Mr and Mrs C 
would have bought the PPI. 
So I am upholding the complaint and Nationwide will have to take action to put things right. 
putting things right 
Mr and Mrs C borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it should have 
been and they paid more than they should have each month. So Mr and Mrs C need to get 
back the extra they paid. 
So, Nationwide must:
Work out and pay Mr and Mrs C the difference between what they paid each month 
on the loan and what they would have paid each month without PPI;
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs C paid each month from when 
they paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year ;
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them. 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
My final decision 
I uphold this complaint about Nationwide Building Society and require it to comply with the 
above putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman