DRN-2530846
The complaint
Mr S complains that the car he acquired through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Advantage Finance Ltd wasnt of satisfactory quality. He initially accepted repairs but now 
wishes to reject the car.
Mr S is represented by Mr B but for ease of reference I have referred to Mr S throughout this 
decision.
What happened
Mr S entered a HPA with Advantage Finance in July 2020 to acquire a used car. The car 
was sent for a service and MOT before being delivered. The car failed a MOT on 20 July 
2020 but then passed on 23 July. Mr S was told further repairs were being undertaken 
and he says the car was delivered on 10 August. Mr S says he was told at that time by 
the garage that carried out the repairs that the car was a non-runner before repairs and 
that although repairs had been carried out they thought the diesel particulate filter (DPF) 
needed replacing and that the car still had major issues.
Mr S drove the car after delivery and says it lost power and so he contacted the 
supplying dealer. It was agreed the car would be taken to a garage more local to Mr S on 
20 August. Mr S says he accidently took it to the wrong garage on 20 August but decided 
to have a smoke test carried out. He says issues with the turbo pipework were identified 
and that the mechanic said until that was dealt with further diagnostics werent possible. 
Mr S took the car to the correct garage (the repairing garage) on 21 August. He was 
contacted the same day to collect the car. However, after collecting it lost power again 
and went into limp mode. Mr S contacted the supplying dealer and it was agreed the car 
would be returned to the repairing garage on 2 September. On 3 September Mr S says 
the repairing garage called him to say he had damaged the car.
Mr S raised his complaint with Advantage Finance in August 2020 about the issues he 
had experienced with the car and asking to reject it. Advantage Finance arranged for an 
independent inspection to be carried out which took place on 5 October 2020. The 
inspection confirmed that there was an issue with the DPF and that it had been tampered 
with. It said given when the issue was raised and looking at the damage, this occurred 
before supply and given the issue this meant the car wasnt fit for purpose at delivery. 
Advantage Finance says that although it had evidence suggesting the damage to the car 
happened in between Mr S visits to the repairing garage it accepted that repairs should 
be undertaken. It says Mr S initially accepted repairs and had this been acted on these 
could have taken place.
Mr S says he had lost faith in the repairing garage and wished to reject the car. He 
raised his complaint with this service.
After investigating, our investigator concluded this complaint should be upheld.
Advantage Finance doesnt agree. It says that the evidence suggests that Mr S had 
other repairs carried out to the car which caused complications or further issues. It says 
that a repair has been offered and this is reasonable.
Ill now set out my decision and the reasons for it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided this complaint should be upheld for these reasons: 
Mr S acquired a used car through a HPA. Under the regulations, specifically the 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA 2015) Advantage Finance can be held liable if the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. The assessment of 
satisfactory quality takes into account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. 
At the time of acquisition, the car was over nine years old and had been driven over 
89,000 miles. Given this it is reasonable that some wear and tear would be expected. 
However, Mr S experienced issues as soon as the car was delivered.
Mr S experienced an issue with the car losing power when he drove it after taking 
delivery and reported this. It isnt reasonable that Mr S would experience issues with 
the car so soon. It was agreed the car would be returned to the repairing garage but 
prior to this Mr S had a smoke test carried out which identified an issue with the turbo 
pipe. A leak from the turbo clamp was identified in the failed MOT dated 20 July 2020 
and given when Mr S experienced the issues I think this suggests there were faults 
present with the car from the point of supply. 
On 21 August the repairing garage didnt identify any issues and Mr S collected the 
car. However, Mr S had an insurance black box fitted to the car and has said this 
showed the car wasnt test driven on 21 August. Even if no faults were found by the 
repairing garage on 21 August, as Mr S experienced the same issue after collecting 
the car has he had experienced following the car being delivered, I think this further 
confirms there were issues with the car that were ongoing from the point of supply.
As issues were identified and reported within the first 30 days of Mr S having the car 
he could have rejected the car under the short term right to reject. He did mention 
rejection to Advantage Finance at this time but then repairs were agreed. Had the 
repairs resolved the issues then this could have bene a reasonable remedy. 
Unfortunately, this wasnt the case.
The car was returned for repairs again on 2 September. On 3 September the 
repairing garage said Mr S had damaged the DPF. While I note the comments 
provided by the repairing garage, Mr S has said that he only took the car to an 
alternative garage the day before the repairing garage saw the car on 21 August at 
which time the issue of the DPF damage wasnt raised. An independent inspection 
was carried out in October 2020 which noted the damage and concluded this 
happened before the car was supplied to Mr S. Therefore, I find on balance that the 
car supplied to Mr S wasnt of satisfactory quality and that the evidence supports any 
issue with the DPF being present before Mr S acquired the car.
As I find the car wasnt of satisfactory quality, Advantage Finance is required to 
remedy the situation. I understand that it has agreed that repairs can be undertaken. 
However, in this case I find it fair Mr S is allowed to reject the car. I say this because 
he raised issues within the first 30 days and faults were confirmed and he asked at 
the time to reject the car. While repairs may have then been accepted, under the CRA 2015, the business is allowed one opportunity to repair. In this case the car was 
returned to the repairing garage in August and September 2020 and so the 
opportunity to repair has been provided but issues remain. The relationship between 
Mr S and the repairing garage has broken down and I find the fair resolution to his 
complaint is for Mr S to be allowed to reject the car.
As I find rejection is a fair resolution to this complaint, Advantage Finance should 
collect the car at no cost to Mr S and end the agreement with nothing further owing. I 
understand no deposit was paid as part of the HPA and so there isnt a refund 
required for this.
The issue arose straight after the car was delivered. Mr S has not been able to use 
the car for an extended period and any use he had was incumbered by the issues he 
experienced. Therefore, I find it fair that he is refunded any payments he has made 
under the agreement along with interest. Any payments that havent been made and 
fell due should be waived.
In the event any adverse information has been recorded on Mr S credit file regarding 
this agreement this should be removed.
Mr S has explained the inconvenience the issue with the car have caused him. He 
had to return the car on more than one occasion and was accused of causing the 
damage to the DPF. I find the issues he has experienced have caused him distress 
and inconvenience and I agree with our investigators recommendation of Mr S 
receiving £150 compensation because of this. 
For these reasons, I uphold this complaint.
Putting things right
Advantage Finance Ltd should:
accept the rejection of Mr S car and cancel the finance agreement with nothing 
further owing;
remove any adverse information regarding the finance agreement from Mr S credit 
file;
refund Mr S all payments made by Mr S under the agreement along with interest of 
8% simple a year from the date of payment to the date of settlement and waive any 
outstanding payments; and
pay Mr S £150 for the distress and inconvenience he has been caused in dealing 
with this issue.My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Advantage Finance Ltd should take the 
actions set out above in resolution of this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 May 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman