DRN-4378524
The complaint
Miss L has complained about the way Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited has handled her 
claim under her Car Insurance policy and the value it placed on her car once it had decided 
it should be treated as a total loss. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
Im satisfied the final value Admiral placed on Miss Ls car is in accordance with the 
terms of her policy and in line with the guides we use to check the likely replacement 
cost of a car. 
I can see Admiral paid interest on the amount due to Miss L to reflect the fact it was 
paid late, which I think adequately compensates her for the delay in payment. 
I can see Admiral didnt handle Miss Ls claim very well at times and this caused her 
distress and inconvenience, but Im satisfied that the £275 it has paid in 
compensation for this is fair and reasonable. 
I can see Admiral has admitted it should have appointed an independent motor 
engineer to inspect Miss Ls car on 15 September 2022, but didnt do this until 25 
October 2022. This delayed Miss Ls claim for 38 days and left her without the money 
to buy a replacement car for 38 days longer than should have been the case. So, I 
agree with our investigator that Admiral should pay her £10 per day to compensate 
her for not having a car for this period, i.e. £380 in total. 
I have noted Admirals point that Miss Ls policy does not allow for a courtesy car to 
be provided when the car insured has been declared a total loss. But the payment of 
£380 is compensation for the fact Miss L didnt have a car due to an error by Admiral, 
so the policy terms arent relevant.
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ls complaint and make Admiral 
pay her £380 in compensation. 
My final decision
I uphold Miss Ls complaint and order Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to pay Miss L 
£380. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman