DRN-3140261
The complaint
Mr W complains that Lloyds Bank PLC unfairly rejected a cheque he issued.
 
What happened
Mr W has explained he needed to make a payment to an investment company so wrote a 
cheque for a substantial sum. But when the business Mr W paid sent the cheque for 
processing it was rejected by Lloyds. 
Mr W called Lloyds and discussed the reasons his cheque was rejected. Mr W has told us 
he visited a branch and was able to transfer the funds to the investment company instead. 
Mr W complained but Lloyds didnt agree it had acted unfairly by rejecting the cheque. 
Lloyds said the way Mr W had written the date meant it wasnt scanned in full. As a result, 
the cheque payment couldnt be authorised. Lloyds paid Mr W £50 and apologised for the 
service he received when he called to talk about the rejected cheque. 
An investigator at this service looked at Mr Ws complaint but thought Lloyds had acted fairly 
when it rejected the cheque. Mr W asked to appeal so his complaint has been passed to me 
to make a decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has explained that it used a scanned version of Mr Ws cheque in order to process 
the payment. But because of the way Mr W wrote the date on the cheque, the 1 of 2021 
wasnt visible. And as the date appeared to be incomplete Lloyds rejected the cheque. I 
understand this caused some inconvenience for Mr W but I dont think that means Lloyds 
treated him unfairly. Ill explain why. 
The cheque Mr W issued was for a substantial sum so Id expect Lloyds to carry out 
thorough checks before approving the payment. And from Lloyds perspective, the cheque 
was incomplete because the scanned copy it used didnt contain the year. I understand Mr 
W feels Lloyds shouldve contacted him directly instead of declining his payment. But I think 
Lloyds acted reasonably by rejecting the cheque and writing to him to explain what had 
happened. 
I understand Mr W feels the wording of Lloyds letter is wrong because it says Cheque 
Incomplete. But I think thats an accurate description of why the cheque was rejected. I think 
its also reasonable to note that the letter is generic and sent as part of the automated 
cheque processing system. I can see it gives indications of the potential information that may 
be missing, including date. Im satisfied thats reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ws 
case.
Lloyds cheques contain various sections that have to be completed in full. Sections 
including Pay and Date are included. And each section has lines for the customers to 
write that information on. Looking at Mr Ws cheque, the year is written some way beyond 
the line next to Date and Lloyds has explained thats why it wasnt scanned. I appreciate 
Lloyds may not have specifically told Mr W why he needed to write above the lines provided, 
but I dont agree that means it treated him unfairly. 
Im sorry to disappoint Mr W but I havent been persuaded that Lloyds treated him unfairly 
when it rejected his cheque. Im pleased to hear Mr W was able to arrange payment via 
another means and didnt lose out on the investment. 
Lloyds paid Mr W £50 to apologise for how his call was handled. Ive listened to the call and I 
think the settlement fairly reflects the service provided to Mr W. As Im satisfied Lloyds dealt 
with Mr Ws complaint fairly Im not telling it to take any further action.
 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 December 2021.
 
Marco Manente
Ombudsman