DRN-1457746
The complaint
Ms S complains that Nationwide Building Society (NBS) referred her account to debt 
collectors which resulted in adverse information being recorded against her credit file, and 
which she thinks is unfair.
What happened
Our investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and issues, and is 
known to both Ms S and NBS, so there is no need for me to repeat them again here in any 
great detail. Instead I will focus on giving the reasons for my decision. So, if Ive not 
mentioned something its not because Ive ignored it, rather its because I dont think its 
relevant to the issues I need to deal with. 
Ms S got into financial difficulty with her account with NBS and a default notice was issued. 
On the 14 January 2019 Ms S entered into a payment plan with NBS agreeing to repay her 
debt at the rate of £20 per month over a period of 10 years, with the first payment 
commencing on the 28 February.
On the 1 April 2019 NBS wrote to Ms S because she had missed the payment due at the 
end of March. They asked in their letter that she call them within 7 days to discuss the 
options. She did so on the 6 April, but the department she needed to speak to had closed for 
the day. She did not call back until the 16 April at which point she was told her account had 
been passed to NBSs recovery agent, whom I shall call M. Nevertheless she paid £40 which 
she says brought her account up to date.
Ms S is unhappy her account was passed to M and feels that this to be unfair as she had 
brought the account back up to date, and the report to the credit reference agencies (CRAs) 
will have affected her credit file adversely. 
NBS said that as Ms S had broken her payment plan, and as she hadnt discussed her 
options with them as requested in their letter of the 1 April, they followed their recovery 
procedures and referred her account to M. As such they do not think they acted unfairly. Ms 
S was unhappy with NBSs final response and so brought the complaint to this service and 
our investigator looked into it. Having done so, the investigator didnt think that NBS had 
done anything wrong.
Ms S didnt agree with that and asked that the complaint be passed to an Ombudsman for a 
final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. The role of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service is to mediate individual disputes between consumers and businesses, and to award 
redress where it is appropriate.  I have taken into account both sides views in considering whether NBS acted fairly and 
reasonably. Ive looked at the issues raised and considered all the available evidence. I have 
to make an independent decision about what I think is right for each case, and thats what 
Ive done here. And in this case, I dont think that NBS has done anything wrong. Ill explain 
why.
Our service doesnt have the power to make rules for financial businesses, assess or direct 
that they change their policy or procedures, or indeed punish them. We only look at what 
happened in the circumstances of the individual complaint and check that NBS followed its 
rules and procedures and is applying them fairly to all customers.
The agreed facts are that Ms S did miss her March payment and therefore that broke the 
payment plan she had agreed to. NBS did write to her on the 1 April and she received that 
letter because she called on the 6 April. But even though she called she did not speak to 
NBS to discuss her options as she was asked to do. That wasnt her fault entirely because 
when she rang the staff she needed to speak to had gone home for the day. But Ms S didnt 
call back the next day or indeed within the 7 days NBS had asked her to in their letter of the 
1 April. So she never discussed her options as requested.
NBS say they took the decision to refer Ms Ss account to M, which they told her when she 
called on the 16 April. Ms S disputes that her case was referred to M by that time because in 
a letter from M they stated they did not get the case until the 26 April. Ive seen the letter and 
that is what it does say. That is odd 
because the call handler Ms S spoke to was able to say it had been referred to M which 
means he or she must have read that information from her file. So I think on balance it is 
likely that the decision to refer her account to M had in fact been taken on or before the 16 
April, but that it was simply not received by M until after that date.
I have considered the subsequent actions and payments Ms S made and note there has 
been some confusion over what she might or might not have paid. What she has said she 
paid, does seem to me to be borne out, but Im afraid that that has no bearing on NBSs 
decision to refer her account to M in the first instance.
The decision to refer Ms S account to M was one which NBS were entitled to make in the 
light of the broken payment plan and Ms S not calling and discussing her options with them 
within the 7 days specified.
Businesses have a responsibility to record correctly the status of any account, and are 
obliged to report factual information to the CRAs. In this case that is all they have done and I 
cant therefore say they have acted unreasonably in notifying the CRAs on the status of Ms 
Ss account, and I am unable to recommend this be amended.
So, although Ms S will probably be disappointed with my decision, I cant say NBS has acted 
unreasonably here because they have followed their procedures fairly. 
My final decision
For the reasons set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide Building 
Society.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision before 15 June 2020.
Jonathan WillisOmbudsman