DRN-3376479
The complaint
Mr R as director of T (a limited company) complains that Barclays Bank Plc trading as 
Barclaycard (commercial) unfairly reduced the credit limit on a business account charge 
card.
What happened
The terms and conditions of Ts business charge card required the outstanding balance on 
the account to be cleared each month. Ts credit limit was £22,000 and in early 2020 the 
balance outstanding was near the limit. 
Due to the pandemic, T suffered some financial problems and payments were missed and 
the account was suspended. But Mr R was in contact with Barclaycard about this and he 
says it offered various solutions including transferring the outstanding balance to a loan. 
Ultimately, T was able to use another loan option to repay the balance on the charge card. 
But Mr R says T did so on the basis that Barclaycard agreed the credit limit would remain at 
£22,000. And Barclaycard issued a letter confirming this. 
But shortly afterwards, Barclaycard wrote to T saying it had decided to reduce the credit limit 
to £1,400. Mr R - on behalf of T- complained to Barclaycard as he had been assured the 
credit limit would remain the same and, because of the reduction, T now had cash flow 
problems.
Barclaycard didnt uphold the complaint. It acknowledged it had initially agreed that the 
original credit limit would remain when the balance had been repaid. And it credited Ts 
account with £50 compensation for any inconvenience caused. But it says it didnt offer any 
guarantee as to how long the credit limit would remain in place and the account terms and 
conditions make it clear a credit limit can be withdrawn or reduced at any time. However, 
Barclaycard did agree to review the credit limit again if Mr R provided documentation about 
Ts finances - company accounts or bank account statements. 
Unhappy with the outcome, Mr R referred Ts complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into it but she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. She thought the account 
terms and conditions made provision for Barclaycard to reduce the credit limit. And she 
thought it was fair for Barclaycard to request documents to support Ts financial position so 
that Barclaycard could review the credit limit again.
Mr R didnt agree. He maintained Barclaycard had acted unfairly, saying it was wrong to rely 
on terms and conditions given the wider unprecedented circumstances at the time. He says 
the reduced credit limit caused T difficulties when it had repaid the outstanding balance in 
full rather than opting for any other assistance from Barclaycard. He also questions why a 
review of Ts account was required so soon after agreeing to keep the original credit limit in 
place. So, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have come to the same overall view as the investigator and for similar 
reasons. I recognise that Mr R feels very strongly about this complaint, so I will explain why.
The first thing to set out here is that the eligible complainant is T  a limited company. And 
the credit limit is business lending not personal lending. In these circumstances, a lender is 
not required to give the same due consideration or forbearance it would be required to 
provide to a personal customer.   
 
It is not in dispute that T had an outstanding debt with Barclaycard or that T was impacted by 
the pandemic. So, Ive thought about whether Barclaycard did enough to assist T  taking 
the above into account. 
Both parties acknowledge that Mr R was in contact with Barclaycard when T was unable to 
repay the outstanding balance on the business charge card. Its unclear exactly what was 
discussed at this time. But Mr R has said that Barclaycard did offer some support, so Im 
satisfied that Barclaycard went some way to try to help T during what was a very difficult 
time for the industry T was in. In any event, it seems T found funding elsewhere to allow it to 
repay the outstanding balance in full. And so, I dont think Barclaycard needed to offer any 
further support as the debt had been repaid.
But its accepted by both parties that Mr R sought assurances that the original credit limit 
would remain in place. And he got that assurance.
Independent to this, Barclaycard undertook another review of Ts account and credit facility a 
few weeks later. There isnt anything inherently wrong with that. Barclaycard is entitled to 
review credit facilities. But I have asked Barclaycard what prompted a second review so 
soon after the first. And it has explained that the initial review undertaken in July 2020 was 
prompted by the missed payments as opposed to a regular review. Whereas the            
August 2020 review was an automated periodical review. So, while I understand Mr R's 
frustration and appreciate his concerns about Barclaycard's actions undertaking two reviews 
in quick succession, Im satisfied Barclaycard has given a reasonable explanation as to why 
this happened.  
As a result of that review Barclaycard decided to reduce Ts credit limit to £1,400. This was a 
decision Barclaycard was entitled to make in line with the terms of the account, and that of a 
lender more generally. And I havent seen anything to persuade me Barclaycard guaranteed 
the original credit limit would remain in place for a set period of time.  
 
I appreciate what Mr R has said given the assurances about the original credit limit 
remaining in place. But when he challenged the decision to reduce Ts credit limit, 
Barclaycard agreed to reconsider the matter subject to Mr R submitting Ts business 
accounts and/or bank statements. This was a reasonable request given Barclaycards 
responsibility to ensure its lending is affordable and sustainable for the borrower. Providing 
this information would have given Barclaycard the opportunity to assess Ts ability to 
continue to meet the monthly payments required under the terms of the account. But from what Ive seen Mr R didnt provide the information to Barclaycard to enable it to reassess the 
matter.
As Barclaycard didnt receive the information it required, Im satisfied it didnt need to take 
any further action at that time. If Mr R now wishes to provide the information Barclaycard 
requested, he should contact it directly.
From what Ive seen I think Mr R is suggesting that  if hed been told the credit limit could 
be removed/reduced as soon as it was, hed have done something different. So, Ive thought 
about this. But the terms of Ts account require the outstanding balance to be repaid in full 
each month. And had that not happened its possible the account would have been 
defaulted. Even if Barclaycard had offered T a loan to allow smaller monthly repayments  I 
think its unlikely it would have continued to offer the same credit limit on the charge card. 
So, T wouldnt have had access to the original credit limit regardless.    
Barclaycard credited Ts charge card account with £50 in recognition of any inconvenience 
and given it also agreed to look at Ts credit limit again, Im satisfied that was fair. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R  on behalf 
of T, to accept or reject my decision before 5 July 2022.
 
Sandra Greene
Ombudsman