DRN-3635888
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) rejected his claim under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 (the Act), relating to the purchase of an air source heat pump 
(ASHP). Mrs H was present during the sale, is on the order form with the supplier and has 
provided her recollections of the sale. 
However, the loan was only taken out by Mr H, so only he has a right to pursue a claim 
against Ikano. Mr H is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).  
What happened
In October 2018, Mr H purchased an ASHP (including new radiators) from a supplier, which 
Ill call S. 
In February 2020, the CMC contacted Ikano to make a claim under section 75 of the Act on 
behalf of Mr H. The CMC said that the ASHP had been misrepresented in that Mr H had 
been told:
The ASHP would pay for itself within the period of the loan and cost him nothing.
He would receive Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) payments and a further subsidy 
on top of this. 
The loan repayments would be covered by RHI payments and energy savings.
The ASHP would increase the value of Mr Hs property.
Mr H would be protected from inflation. 
Mr Hs energy bills would be reduced. 
Ikano responded and rejected the claim. It said that Mr H was provided clear information 
about the cost and benefits of the system, and that the benefits clearly would not exceed the 
monthly loan repayments. Ikano said the system had performed in line with the quote. 
The CMC then referred the complaint to us. Our investigator thought that Ikanos response 
to the claim was fair and reasonable and that the complaint should not be upheld. Mr H and 
the CMC disagreed with this, so Ive been asked to make a decision. 
The CMC said, Mr H was present at the point of sale and recalls the representations made 
to him which he relied upon in deciding whether to purchase the ASHP. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75 allows a borrower, in some circumstances, to claim against a lender in the same 
way they could claim against a supplier of goods or services where there has been a 
misrepresentation or breach of contract by the supplier. 
In this case Mr H says the ASHP was misrepresented to him by S. I consider the alleged 
misrepresentations below.
The ASHP would pay for itself within the period of the loan and cost him nothing. 
The order form showed the following information:
The cost of the system - £12,995.00
RHI yearly estimate - £1,000
Customers gas bill is £510 per year
Current heating spend - £450
I think the information on the order form wouldve formed the basis of the discussion 
between S and Mr H. 
From this I think it wouldve been clear the basic cost of the system was £12,995.00. And 
that the RHI payment would be worth about £1,000 per year. Mrs H has confirmed that she 
was aware the RHI payments would be paid for seven years. So, I think Mr H ought to have 
known that the total RHI payments he would receive would be about £7,000. This is less 
than the basic price of the system. 
Ive seen nothing else that would suggest Mr H was told the system would pay for itself. In 
light of this, I dont think Mr H was told the system would pay for itself within the period of the 
loan and cost him nothing. 
Mr H would receive Renewable Heat Incentive (RHI) payments and a further subsidy on 
top of this. 
Mr H has been receiving RHI payments. I have found nothing to support Mr Hs allegation 
that he was also promised another government subsidy on top of this. There was no mention 
of this on the order form or elsewhere. So, Im not persuaded by this allegation. 
The loan repayments would be covered by RHI payments and energy savings.
On the same day as signing the order form, Mr H also agreed to pay for the ASHP using an 
interest-bearing loan. The loan agreement made clear that the loan would be repaid by 120 
monthly repayments of £155.51, with the total amount repayable being £18,670.72.
So, for the loan repayments to be covered by the RHI payments and energy savings, these 
would have to be at least £155.51 per month or £1,866.12 per year. The RHI payments were 
estimated to be about £1,000 per year for seven years, so the savings would have to be at 
least £866.12 per year during that time and £1,866.12 in the last three years of the loan. 
Mrs H told us her understanding was that running the ASHP would cost them £14 per month 
more than they were paying for gas heating. So, it does not appear that Mr H was told there 
would be any energy savings, but rather his energy costs would increase slightly. So, the 
financial benefits would only be the RHI payments, which were less than the loan 
repayments. 
As such, I dont think that Mr H was told the loan repayments would be covered by RHI 
payments and energy savings.
The ASHP would increase value of propertyI dont think it would be unreasonable to say that having an ASHP installed may increase the 
value of a property. The timing and cost of replacing the heating system may be something 
that influences the value of a property. And an ASHP is somewhat future-proofed if you 
consider UK targets to reduce carbon emissions may see consumers encouraged to replace 
gas boilers with ASHPs in the coming years.
Mr H would be protected from inflation
While the CMC mentioned this in its initial claim letter, it did not explain what it meant by that 
or how this misled Mr H or led to a loss. So, there is insufficient information for me to 
conclude that Mr H was told this, that it was misleading or that it caused him a loss. 
Mr Hs energy bills would be reduced
As mentioned above, Mrs H told us her understanding was that, overall, the cost of heating 
the home would increase slightly. So, it does not appear that Mr H was told energy bills 
would be reduced. 
Summary
In summary, I do not think the ASHP was misrepresented to Mr H. 
I understand Mr H is unhappy with how the ASHP heats his home. But he has been told it is 
working correctly. Mr H may want to seek advice on how to use his ASHP most effectively 
and efficiently to heat the home, since this will differ from gas heating.
My final decision
In summary, I do not think the ASHP was misrepresented to Mr H. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 December 2022.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman