DRN-4383367
The complaint
Mr K complains about the repayment of a fixed sum loan agreement he has with Sky UK 
Limited.
What happened
In April 2023, Mr K applied online for a fixed sum loan with Sky to pay for a brand new 
mobile telephone device. The loan application was successful and Mr K took delivery of a 
package the following day, from a third party courier.
Mr K says he received a brown cardboard package from the courier and the box for the 
device was inside. However, Mr K says the device was missing when he opened the box.
On the same day as the delivery, Mr K called Sky to complain and told them what had 
happened. Sky asked Mr K to send images of the packaging, which he promptly did. After 
reviewing their records, Sky sent Mr K their final response to his complaint. They said that 
the device was successfully delivered to Mr K, so he was responsible for the repayments to 
the fixed sum loan.
Mr K didnt accept Skys response and brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators 
looked into Mr Ks case and found that Sky hadnt treated Mr K fairly. She was persuaded 
that the device wasnt in the box, when Mr K received the package from the courier. So, she 
asked Sky to allow Mr K to exit the agreement and cancel it.
The investigator asked Sky to refund all the repayments Mr K had made to the fixed sum 
loan agreement, together with an interest payment because Mr K wasnt able to use those 
funds. The investigator also said Sky should remove any adverse information they had 
recorded about the loan, with credit reference agencies. 
Mr K accepted the investigators findings, but Sky didnt. They said all the evidence suggests 
that Mr K took delivery of the device, so its fair they hold him responsible for the 
repayments.
The investigator didnt change her conclusions, so Mr Ks complaint has been passed to me 
to make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Sky provided Mr K with a fixed sum loan to finance the purchase of an electronic device. It 
was also the supplier of the device, so it was responsible for its delivery. As well as the fixed 
sum loan to cover the cost, Mr K had an additional contract with Sky for the supply and use 
of the device, as well as associated services. 
Ive seen that the terms of Mr Ks fixed sum loan linked the other contract for the supply of 
the device. Given this, and as it appears that both contracts were sold as one package, in 
my view the contracts were intrinsically linked. The credit agreement actually sets out that it 
is a requirement for Mr K to also enter into a contract for the supply of equipment. So, Ill 
consider both contracts together in determining whether Sky has treated Mr K fairly. 
Mr Ks fixed sum loan has terms which seek to stop him setting off a claim under one 
contract against the other. This might apply in a situation where Mr K seeks to make a claim 
about the failure to supply the goods to him under the linked contract for goods and services. 
Ive thought about what the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) says about contract terms, 
and Im also aware that it is for a court to decide if a term is unfair. But, Im required to take 
into account relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. 
Having carefully considered this, I dont think it would be fair to exclude Mr Ks right to set off 
a claim under one contract against the other. I think we can consider Mr Ks claim that Sky 
breached its contract with him by not supplying the goods. In any case, there is a regulated 
credit agreement, under which Mr K is being charged for the goods. So, I can consider 
whether Sky is acting fairly by asking Mr K to pay where there is a dispute about delivery. 
As a result, Im able to decide whether I think, on balance, that the device was delivered to 
Mr Ks address. 
When the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory (as it is in this case), I make 
my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened given the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
The delivery of the package
During our investigation, Sky explained the process they have when sending a device to a 
customer. They say the box which contained the device was packed into a brown cardboard 
package, labelled and passed to a courier. Sky say this was all done under surveillance. 
However, Sky havent provided evidence to show where the device was in the box, before it 
was placed in the cardboard packaging. But, they have told us that the device was sealed in 
its box, when they took delivery of it from the manufacturer. Sky have also said that the 
weight of the package shows the device was in the box, when it was delivered to Mr K.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence we have here. I acknowledge what Sky have said 
about the weight of the package, when it was passed to the courier. Im also aware that the 
weight is rounded up, for the benefit of the courier. So, I dont think the weight on the 
package can be solely relied upon to decide Mr Ks case. 
Overall, I dont think the evidence Sky have provided about the journey of the package 
through their warehouse to the courier, is persuasive enough to show that the device was in 
its box, when it was sent to Mr K. Therefore, Ive looked at what happed when the package 
arrived at Mr Ks home, to think more about a fair outcome.
Both Mr K and Sky have shown that the package was delivered the day after the device was 
ordered. Skys records show the couriers photograph of the package inside Mr Ks open 
front door with a person standing beside it. The couriers notes accompanying the delivery, 
show it was taken in by someone with the same surname as Mr K.
I cannot see any obvious signs of damage or tampering from the couriers photograph. And 
Sky have said that they havent seen anything which concerned them about the delivery. 
Additionally, Mr K says he took the delivery himself from the courier. Having thought about 
all the evidence, on balance, I dont think a third party took the package on Mr Ks behalf. So, Ive gone on to consider the other photographs we have and what Mr K says about the 
package.
When Mr K first raised his concerns with Sky, he provided photographs of the packaging. 
Ive looked at Mr Ks photographs and I can see where he opened the brown cardboard 
packaging. The images dont show any clear, thin plastic wrapping used to seal the device 
box, but they do show where two thin plastic stickers were attached. The photographs also 
show the charging cord in the device box.
Mr K hasnt intimated that the device box was wrapped in clear, thin plastic when he opened 
it. This is different to what Sky says about how they received the device from the 
manufacturer. Mr K says he simply tore the cardboard packaging and removed the two thin 
plastic stickers from the device box, before opening it.
The tearing of the brown cardboard package by Mr K, means I have to look at the couriers 
photographs to think about its condition on delivery. Having done so, I dont think the 
cardboard packaging had been tampered with in such a way, that its contents had been 
removed. While I recognise what Sky have said about the removal of the clear, thin plastic 
wrapping of the device box, I find the evidence Mr K has provided persuasive.
On balance, I dont think the device box was sealed in the way Sky have suggested, when 
Mr K came to open it.
Ive concluded that the evidence doesnt show that the device was in the box when it left 
Skys premises. And that Im persuaded that the device box didnt have the clear, thin plastic 
wrapping, when it was delivered to Mr K. So, Ive thought about what Mr K and Sky did next 
to try resolve the issue.
The events after the delivery of the package
Skys records show that Mr K contacted them about the delivery, around 40 minutes after he 
received the package from the courier. The records also show that Mr K was prompt in 
providing photographs and that he pursued his concerns with Sky, over the following days. 
Additionally, Mr K has provided copies of emails between himself and a police officer, from 
when he reported the device missing to the authorities.
Against this background, I think Mr Ks actions were reasonable and timely. I also think they 
show how serious Mr K had taken his concerns that the device had been stolen. I can see 
that Mr K has been consistent with what he explained to Sky, the police and to us as part of 
his complaint. So, I find what Mr K says credible.
Furthermore, the police have provided comments to say they believe the device was sold to 
a pawnbroker, after searching a national database. Although the police werent able to find a 
record of the person who sold the device to the pawnbroker, I think this further demonstrates 
where Mr K was prepared to help with the polices investigation.
Sky have told us that the mobile telephone device was activated in early July 2023, just over 
two months after the delivery date. Sky havent been able to trace where the device was 
activated, or if it was used in connection to a particular account, offered through the 
manufacturer. So, I think the activation of the account likely supports where the device may 
have been sold on by the pawnbroker. This is consistent with what Mr K and the police have 
shown us.
Ive seen where Mr K has maintained the repayments due under the fixed sum loan 
agreement. He says hes kept up with repayments to avoid any adverse information from being registered on his credit file. He also says he has used a different device, while this 
complaint is ongoing. I accept what Mr K says here and I dont think by making repayments, 
it means hes accepted he took delivery of the device.
In all the circumstances, I think Mr K has been consistent and credible throughout 
complaining to Sky and during our investigation. On balance, Im not persuaded the 
evidence shows the device was in its box, when it left Skys warehouse and Im persuaded 
by what Mr K says about how the device box wasnt wrapped in plastic, when he opened the 
packaging.
Having considered everything, on balance, I dont think the device was in its box when Mr K 
took delivery from it, from the courier in April 2023. So, I dont think its fair for Sky to hold 
Mr K responsible for the repayments due under the fixed sum loan agreement.
It follows that I think Sky should take steps to remedy the situation for Mr K. I think its fair 
that Sky allows Mr K to exit the fixed sum loan agreement at no further cost to him. I also 
think its fair for Sky to refund all the repayments Mr K has made towards the agreement.
Mr K hasnt had the use of the funds he has paid to Sky since the start of the agreement. So, 
I think its fair for Sky to also add interest at 8% a year simple, to each repayment, from the 
date each payment was made, to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Finally, Ive not seen where Sky may have recorded adverse information on Mr Ks credit file. 
But, Im aware Mr K is worried about that and has tried to prevent it from happening, by 
keeping up with repayments. So, I think its fair for Sky to remove any adverse information 
they may have passed on to credit reference agencies about the fixed sum loan agreement.
Putting things right
For these reasons, Sky UK Limited should: 
1. allow Mr K to exit the fixed sum loan agreement and cancel it, at no additional cost to 
him; 
2. remove any adverse information about Mr Ks fixed sum loan, from the details held 
with credit reference agencies; 
3. refund all the repayments to Mr K that he has made under the fixed sum loan 
agreement, from the start of the agreement, to the date of settlement of this 
complaint; and 
4. add interest at a rate of 8% a year simple to part three of this settlement, from the 
dates the repayments were paid, to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Sky must pay these amounts within 28 days of the date on which we tell them Mr K accepts 
my final decision. If they pay later than this, they must also pay interest on the settlement 
amount from the date of final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple. 
If Sky deducts tax from any interest they pay to Mr K, they should provide Mr K with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities if 
appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Sky UK Limited to put things right as set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 January 2024.
 
Sam Wedderburn
Ombudsman