DRN-4311468
The complaint
Mrs C and Mr W complain about how AWP P&C SA handled their travel insurance claim and 
that it hadnt paid their claim. My references to AWP include its agents.
What happened
Mrs C has travel insurance for her and her family through her bank account. Mr W is also 
covered under the policy as he meets the definition of family under the policy terms. The 
travel insurance is underwritten by AWP.
In January 2022 Mrs C and Mr W booked a cruise. They departed on 27 June 2022 and 
were due to return on 11 July 2022. On 5 July 2022, during their cruise, they both tested 
positive for Covid-19. The ships doctor instructed that they were required to isolate in their 
cabin for five days or until they had a negative test for Covid-19. They tested negative on 
10 July and were able to return home as planned the next day. Mrs C and Mr W said they 
contacted AWP to inform it of the situation and AWP told them they could claim for their time 
in isolation.
Mrs C and Mr W submitted their claim online in late July 2022 and included their supporting 
documents. Mr W said he called AWP the same day to confirm receipt and to go through the 
documents. AWP acknowledged the claim and said Mrs C and Mr W would be contacted 
once the documents had been reviewed. 
Mrs C and Mr W chased AWP on several occasions but they had no further contact about 
the claim. They complained to AWP about the delays but it didnt respond so they 
complained to us.
AWP sent a final response letter dated 6 December 2022, which Mrs C and Mr W said they 
didnt receive. In the letter AWP apologised for the delays and offered £80 compensation to 
acknowledge Mrs C and Mr Ws distress and inconvenience. AWP also said the claim would 
be dealt with urgently. However, Mrs C and Mr W said they havent heard from AWP.
Mrs C and Mr W want AWP to pay their claim for the costs of the daily rate for their cruise 
while they were isolation and compensation for their stress and worry AWPs delays have 
caused. Mrs C and Mr W said they had both been affected financially by their losses not 
being paid. 
Our investigator recommended AWP pay the curtailment claim in line with the remaining 
policy terms, plus interest. Also, AWP should pay compensation of £400 in total for Mrs C 
and Mr Ws distress and inconvenience it caused by its delays.
AWP didnt respond to our investigators recommendation so the complaint has been 
referred to me to make a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
At the time of making my decision we havent heard from AWP with a response to our 
investigators recommendation, despite her chasing for a response and telling AWP that the 
complaint had been referred to me for a decision. In all the circumstances Im satisfied that 
its reasonable for me to make a decision on the evidence I have.
The regulators rules say that insurers must handle claims fairly. And they mustnt 
unreasonably decline a claim.
AWPs final response letter in December 2022 accepts that its excessive delays had 
caused Mrs C and Mr W distress and inconvenience. The letter also said AWP could see on 
our systems that your claim is being processed as a matter of urgency. But Ive seen no 
evidence that AWP has contacted Mrs C and Mr W about the claim since it sent that letter.
Mrs C and Mr W made the claim at the end of July 2022 so have been waiting over a year 
for AWP to assess and make a decision on the claim. I dont think its offer of £80 
compensation for Mrs C and Mr Ws distress and inconvenience is enough. Mrs C and Mr W 
have said how much stress, worry and inconvenience AWPs very poor service has caused 
them. AWP hasnt objected to our investigators recommendation that it pay £400 in total in 
compensation for Mrs C and Mr Ws distress and inconvenience, and in the circumstances 
I think thats a reasonable amount. 
Ive no evidence that AWP has made a decision on the claim which was submitted to it over 
a year ago. In the circumstances I think its fair for me to decide whether or it would be 
reasonable for AWP to pay the claim on the evidence Mrs C and Mr W sent to it.
The policy says under the cancellation and curtailment section:
What is covered
We will pay you up to £5,000  for any irrecoverable unused travel and 
accommodation costs (including excursions and other pre-paid charges) which you 
have paid or are contracted to pay together with any reasonable additional travel 
expenses, due to any of the following necessary and unavoidable events:

You fully curtail (cut short) your trip before completion or partially curtail (interrupt) 
your trip for more than 48 hours; or
You have to make an early return home as a result of any of the following events 
occurring:
1. Theillness of:
a. You;
b. Any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with;
c. A relative of you or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to 
travel with;

Note:
 For a, b, and c above, this will include being diagnosed with an epidemic or 
pandemic disease, such as COVID-19. For partial curtailment due to your admittance to hospital or confinement to your 
accommodation, we will provide cover for one other insured person to stay with you, 
if we have agreed that this is medically necessary.
2. You or any person with whom you are travelling or have arranged to travel with 
being held in quarantine by order or another requirement of a government or public
authority, based on their suspicion that you or they, specifically, have been exposed 
to a contagious disease (including an epidemic or a pandemic disease such
as COVID-19). This does not include any quarantine that applies generally or broadly 
to some or all of a population, vessel or geographical area, or that applies
based on where you are travelling to, from or through.
So the policy provides cover if Mrs C and Mr W partially curtail (interrupt) their trip for more 
than 48 hours if they have Covid-19. With their claim Mrs C and Mr W submitted Covid-19 
test certificates for each of them showing they both had positive Covid-19 tests on 5 July 
2022. They also submitted a Covid-19 certificate of recovery for each of them signed by the 
ships doctor which says they were in isolation on board the ship from 5 to 10 July 2022.
Mrs C and Mr W say the isolation meant they had to stay in their cabin for 24 hours a day 
apart from brief two exercise periods, in the morning and late afternoon. They werent able to 
take part in any of the included shore trips or go ashore. I accept their evidence about the 
effect of their need to isolate, they werent able to take part in their trip for the days they were 
in isolation.
I note that in Mrs C and Mr Ws claim submission they say Mrs C was in isolation for seven 
days as she chose to stay in isolation to look after Mr W. But the medical evidence is that 
they both tested positive on 5 July and were in isolation from that date to the 10 July. I cant 
see any medical evidence to support that Mrs C spent seven days in isolation.
Im satisfied that Mrs C and Mr Ws isolation on board the ship from 5 to 10 July 2022 meant 
they had to partially curtail their trip for more than 48 hours due to them both being ill with 
Covid-19, which is an insured event at paragraph 1 of the above policy terms. I think the 
claim is covered by the policy terms.
I also think the claim is covered on a fair and reasonable basis by paragraph 2 of the above 
policy terms. But theres no need for me to explain why as Ive already explained why I find 
that the claim is covered under paragraph 1.
Putting things right
AWP must pay the claim for the partial curtailment of the trip, 5 to 10 July 2022, in line with 
the remaining policy terms and limits, plus interest as Ive detailed below. It must also pay 
Mrs C and Mr W £400 compensation in total for their distress and inconvenience its caused. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to:
Pay Mrs C and Mr Ws claim for the partial curtailment of the trip, 5 to 10 July 2022, 
in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. Interest* must be added at 8% 
simple a year from the date of claim to the date of settlement, and
Pay Mrs C and Mr W £400 compensation in total for their distress and inconvenience 
due to its unfair handling of their claim.*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mrs C and Mr W how much its taken off. It should also 
give Mrs C and Mr W a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr W to 
accept or reject my decision before 10 October 2023.
 
Nicola Sisk
Ombudsman