DRN-3716195
The complaint
Miss C complains that National Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest) failed to remove her 
overdraft facility when she took out a personal loan to repay it.
What happened
Miss C held a student current account with an overdraft limit of £2,000 with NatWest. In 
November 2020 she took out a personal loan with NatWest for £2,550. The purpose of the 
loan was to consolidate her internal debt with NatWest.
The loan funds were paid into Miss Cs student account and the balance was reduced to 
zero. From December 2020 Miss C started using the overdraft facility again on her student 
account and by December 2021 she had utilized the full £2,000 overdraft limit. Miss Cs 
student and loan account entered NatWests collections centre due to her being in arrears 
on her loan and over her overdraft limit.
Miss C complained to NatWest that she was told that her overdraft facility would be removed 
once the loan was approved.
NatWest said it was Miss Cs responsibility to ensure she reduced the overdraft facility to 
zero and that she wouldve seen what the balance of her account was when she made 
transfers out of her account. But to assist Miss C it has refunded all interest applied to the 
current account since she took out the loan.
Miss C was dis-satisfied with this and brought her complaint to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked into Miss Cs concerns and reached the conclusion that she 
wouldve been given enough information to see the overdraft facility was still in place and 
had the opportunity to correct this but chose not to do so. 
Miss C disagrees and has asked for an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to look at the problems Miss C has experienced and see if NatWest has done 
anything wrong. If it has, I would seek  if possible - to put Miss C back in the position they 
wouldve been in if the mistakes hadnt happened. And I may award modest compensation 
that I think is fair and reasonable.
Miss C complains that NatWest failed to remove her overdraft facility when she took out a 
loan to consolidate debt with it. Unfortunately, NatWest have been unable to retrieve the 
phone call where Miss C applied for her loan. So I cant say exactly what was agreed or 
discussed with Miss C at the time and can only base my decision on what I consider most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence.
NatWest have told us that on receipt of the loan funds into her student account Miss C made 
a number mobile app transactions transferring funds from her student account to other 
accounts she held and each time she wouldve been shown what the account balance was. I 
can see from Miss Cs statements that by January 2021 just over a month after she received 
the loan funds into her account her account was once again overdrawn and by April had 
reached her overdraft limit. I can also see NatWest wrote to Miss C around this time and 
informed her that interest will be charged on overdrawn balances. 
So I think its likely Miss C would have known her overdraft facility hadnt been removed 
when she was able to transfer funds from one account to the other and saw the overdrawn 
account balance. 
And I think if NatWest had agreed with Miss C that it would remove her overdraft facility and 
Miss C still wished to have the facility removed, she wouldve questioned why she was still 
able to use her overdraft facility following the transfer of the loan funds into her account.
But she didnt do this  instead of contacting NatWest about this she chose to continue to 
use the overdraft facility until she exceeded the limit and her account was transferred to 
collections. 
Having a bank account comes with responsibilities one of which ensuring you are aware of 
the status and balance of your account. I dont think it would be fair to penalise NatWest 
because Miss C chose to continue to keep using the overdraft facility when she couldve 
mitigated a potential mistake and contacted NatWest and asked for the overdraft to be 
removed. Ultimately, Miss C had the benefit and use of the funds and I dont see why Miss C 
shouldnt pay NatWest back. 
So overall and having considered everything I do not think NatWest has treated Miss C 
unfairly and Im not upholding Miss Cs complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained Ive decided not to uphold Miss Cs complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 October 2022.
 
Caroline Davies
Ombudsman