DRN-3374058
The complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Barclays Bank UK PLC blocked and then closed their joint bank 
account. It has caused them a lot of disruption and they want it reopening.
What happened
Mr and Mrs P were long-standing customers of Barclays. While they were overseas they 
discovered their joint account had been blocked. It affected their direct debits and they 
couldnt check what transactions were going through. 
Mr and Mrs P were told their account was under review, but they hadnt received any 
communication about it. And after two months their account was closed with immediate 
effect. When Mr P returned to the UK he could only find the closure letters  but nothing 
about the account being blocked. 
Mr and Mrs P have been offered compensation for any distress and inconvenience caused 
but Mr P wants his account reopening.
Barclays said it was sorry for the difficulty caused to Mr and Mrs P. Itd placed safeguards on 
the joint account as it was carrying out an internal investigation. But itd taken more than the 
usual fifteen days to complete. And itd offered Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation for the 
time taken and any distress caused. 
Following its review Barclays said itd taken the decision to close the account. And it wasnt 
able to provide any further information. But Barclays said itd acted in line with the terms and 
conditions of the account. And it didnt think itd done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs P werent satisfied with Barclays response. So they contacted our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She looked at what had happened. But she was 
satisfied Barclays had followed the relevant terms of the account when itd closed the joint 
account. And she wasnt able to uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree with our investigator. Theyd not been given any reason why the 
account had been closed. And Barclays action had caused them considerable difficulties. 
So theyve asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear about the problems Mr and Mrs P have faced and the difficulties theyre 
currently going through. It mustve been very upsetting to discover their joint account had 
been blocked and then closed by Barclays.
So Ive looked very carefully to see whether Barclays has treated Mr and Mrs P fairly and 
whether its acted within the terms and conditions of the joint account.
Barclays system notes show it placed a block on the joint account at the end of January 
2021. And after carrying out a review Barclays decided to close Mr and Mrs Ps account with 
immediate effect in March 2021.
The terms and conditions of the account set out a range of circumstances which mean the 
bank can close an account without giving notice. Having looked at the information provided 
by the bank I consider Barclays has acted within the terms and conditions when it decided to 
close the joint account. 
Banks dont have to give specific reasons when they close accounts under these provisions. 
So Im afraid I cant ask Barclays to provide any further information about its decision. But 
from what Ive seen Barclays has followed the correct procedure when deciding to close 
Mr and Mrs Ps account. 
I do appreciate how much inconvenience and distress the closure will have caused Mr and 
Mrs P. Especially as they were overseas at the time and found it difficult to get in touch with 
the bank.
But Ive not seen anything to show Barclays had been made aware Mr and Mrs P were 
overseas. And I dont think it was unreasonable for the bank to send the account closure 
letter to the address it had on file. 
I can see there were longer than expected delays in carrying out the internal review before 
Barclays reached its decision. And the bank has offered Mr and Mrs P £200 compensation 
for any distress and inconvenience caused by the delay. 
I think thats a fair and reasonable outcome. But as Ive explained I cant say Barclays has 
acted unfairly or unreasonably in deciding to close Mr and Mrs Ps joint account. And I wont 
be asking Barclays to do anything more.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P and Mr P to 
accept or reject my decision before 20 April 2022.
 
Andrew Mason
Ombudsman