DRN-4030135
The complaint
Mrs S and Mr S have complained that Aviva Life & Pensions UK Limited declined a claim Mr 
S made for total and permanent disability benefit under their life assurance protection 
account.
For simplicity I will refer only to Mr S, as he submitted the claim under the joint account.
What happened
Mr S submitted a claim for benefit under the joint account in December 2021. The account 
had a 12-year term which ended in May 2022.
Mr S had total and permanent disability cover. The definition of incapacity was Activities of 
Daily Work. This provided that the account holder needed to be unable to perform three out 
of seven listed activities without help from someone else, even with the use if appropriate 
aids. The inability needed to be permanent and irreversible and the result of an illness or 
injury.
Aviva declined the claim. It said that the medical evidence showed that Mr S was undergoing 
a number of medical interventions which it expected would improve his functionality and 
ability to perform the relevant activities. Accordingly, it did not feel that Mr S met the 
incapacity definition prior to the cover ending in May 2022.
Our investigator agreed that the evidence showed Mr Ss inability to meet three out of the 
seven activities. But as he wasnt able to say this was permanent, he didnt recommend that 
the complaint be upheld. The investigator also explained that further evidence regarding Mr 
Hs retirement post-dated the claim. Mr S appealed. He said the pension evidence was 
relevant as it showed he would not recover from his condition.
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been referred to me to determine.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, Im aware Ive set out the background to this complaint in less detail than the parties 
and Ive done so using my own words. Im not going to respond to every point made by the 
parties. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find are the key 
issues here. Our rules allow me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of 
our service as a free alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it 
isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Ive fully reviewed the complete file. I havent included 
all sensitive medical details because they are well known to the parties. Likewise Im 
satisfied I dont need to comment on every individual argument to be able to reach what I 
think is the right outcome. 
I acknowledge that Mr S has serious health issues which affect his life daily and his ability to 
work. I recognise too that he will be very disappointed by my decision. But I agree with the 
conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
For his claim to succeed Mr S needed to show that he met the definition of 
incapacity. It is a stringent definition  based on the inability to meet three of the 
listed seven listed activities of daily work. The inability needed to be permanent and 
irreversible.
The evidence did show that Mr Ss inability to meet three of the seven criteria prior to 
the cover ending in May 2022. However Aviva didnt consider that the evidence 
showed that this was irreversible. It considered that the care and medication that Mr 
S was receiving would realistically allow for some improvement in his condition. 
Having had regard to the medical evidence, including recommendations for long term 
care and weight loss, I find that this was a fair and reasonable stance to take. It 
meant that Mr S didnt meet the definition for benefit to be paid at that time.
I note Mr Ss comments about an assessment with which he didnt agree. In 
summary the assessor found that Mr S demonstrated an inability to meet three of the 
tests  bending, walking and climbing, but found that improvement was likely to be 
made with weight control. Mr S was receiving treatment for this. Mr S felt that the 
assessor focused unfairly on his weight and noted inaccuracies in the report. I 
havent disregarded Mr Ss comments but having reviewed the file Im satisfied that 
Aviva correctly took into account all the medical evidence, taking advice from its 
Chief Medical Officer. I do understand Mr Ss strength of feeling here, but Im not 
persuaded that Aviva treated Mr S unfairly in concluding that the permanency 
element of the incapacity definition wasnt satisfied in May 2022.
Mr S believes that he is permanently disabled by his symptoms. He is retired on ill 
health grounds and is permanently unable to carry out his former occupation. But the 
test for total and permanent disability benefit under his account is not whether he is 
able to work in his former role or not, or whether he qualifies for pension benefit. It is 
an activities definition of incapacity rather than an own occupation one, and as I 
indicated the definition sets a high bar and must be met for a claim to succeed. 
Further Mr S needed to demonstrate he failed to meet the criteria before the cover 
ended. The evidence he has now submitted post-dates this. In all the circumstances I 
dont find that Aviva treated Mr S unfairly or contrary to the cover terms in declining 
his claim on the basis that he didnt meet the definition of incapacity.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision before 8 June 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman