DRN-4041730
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy with a car he acquired using a conditional sale agreement provided by 
Close Brothers Limited (CBL).
What happened
In June 2021 Mr M acquired a used car funded in part with a conditional sale agreement with 
CBL. The car cost £7,000, was around eleven years old and had covered around 86,000 
miles.
Mr M says shortly after acquiring it, an engine management light (EML) came on. He got in 
touch with the dealer, who attended the car later in the month. Mr M said the dealer told him 
an EGR valve was fitted and the EML reset.
In May 2022 unfortunately the car broke down. Mr M says the fuel pump had exploded and 
shards of metal had gone into the engine. It was taken to a garage who recorded the 
mileage as 94,920. This garage said the car wouldnt start and had a fuel issue fault.
Mr M complained to CBL and it issued its final response in June 2022. It said, in summary, 
that Mr M hadnt provided any evidence the fault was present or developing at the point of 
supply. It said as Mr M had the car for nearly a year and covered around 9,000 miles, it 
wasnt upholding the complaint.
Mr M remained unhappy and brought the complaint to our service. He said, in summary, that 
he believed the later fault with the car was linked to the earlier repair to the EGR. He said the 
EGR might not have been repaired as he said issues continued, such as the cars fuel 
consumption being poor and it being noisy. He said if it was repaired, he questioned how the 
dealer knew what repair needed to be done without seeing the car again since he acquired 
it. He said he thought the car might have aggravated a health condition. And he said the 
situation had caused issues with his mental wellbeing and professional life.
Our investigator issued a view explaining she didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
She said, in summary, that she thought it was most likely the EGR was repaired and she 
didnt think the later issues were linked to this earlier repair. And she said she hadnt seen 
enough to make her think the later issues with the car were present or developing at the 
point of supply.
Mr M remained unhappy. He said he couldnt be expected to know if the earlier repair was 
successful as he isnt a mechanic, and he shouldnt be punished for this as he now believes 
the car wasnt running as it should. And he reiterated some of his other points. 
Our investigator explained this didnt change her opinion, so the case has been passed to 
me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont think this complaint should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
Mr M complains about a car supplied under a conditional sale agreement. Entering into 
consumer credit contracts such as this as a lender is a regulated activity, so Im satisfied I 
can consider Mr Ms complaint about CBL.
When considering whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint. The CRA 
explains under a contract to supply goods, the supplier  CBL here  has a responsibility to 
make sure goods are of satisfactory quality. Satisfactory quality is what a reasonable person 
would expect  taking into account any relevant factors. 
I would consider relevant factors here, amongst others, to include the cars age, price, 
mileage and description. So, Ill consider that the car Mr M acquired was over eleven years 
old, had covered around 86,000 miles and cost £7,000  which is a significant reduction on 
what the car wouldve cost new. 
So, I think a reasonable person would not expect the car to be in as good condition as a 
newer, less road worn one. But, I think theyd expect it to be free from significant faults and 
would expect trouble free motoring for at least some time.
What I need to consider here is whether the car supplied to Mr M was of satisfactory quality 
or not.
Mr M believes the later issues which caused the breakdown were linked to the earlier issue 
with the EGR. So, Ive firstly considered this earlier issue.
Mr M says an EML came on and he was told the EGR was replaced shortly after he got the 
car. And hes provided some text messages from who he says was the dealer, confirming 
this. Its worth noting theres of a lack of other evidence here  for instance I dont have any 
job sheets or anything else from the time. 
Ive thought about this in isolation. But, I dont think I need to make a finding on whether, 
individually, this issue wouldve meant the car supplied was of unsatisfactory quality. Ill 
explain why.
Mr M has questioned whether a repair was carried out. And hes said if it was, it wasnt 
effective as the car was noisy and had poor fuel consumption. Essentially Mr M has said that 
the car wasnt running well after the repair, he just didnt know it.
Ive very carefully considered these points. Ive reviewed the text messages from the time 
Mr M says were from the dealer.
A message from the dealer said:
I fitted a new EGR valve and reset EML light
So, based on this, I think its most likely, without any further evidence, that repairs were 
carried out.
A message from Mr M to the dealer then says:
Just drove it home. All seems to be running dead onIve carefully considered what Mr M said about the repair not being successful. But, hes not 
provided any additional evidence to back up what hes said about the cars performance. I 
take his point on that he isnt a mechanic. And while I understand he says he only became 
aware that the fuel consumption and noise was an issue following the later breakdown, I 
dont think an in-depth knowledge of cars would be required to notice these issues, if they 
were present, during the significant time he had in the car after this repair.
I also need to consider Mr M was then able to use the car for around a year and cover 9,000 
miles in it. Given this, along with the messages above, Im satisfied on balance that a repair 
was carried out, and that it was successful. 
So, thinking about all of this, even if I was to find the car was of unsatisfactory quality due to 
the EGR valve, the repair was a remedy for this under the CRA.  This means, broadly, 
Mr Ms rights wouldve been met here. So, either way, I wouldnt uphold the complaint on this 
basis.
I have considered what Mr M said about the dealer being already aware of the issue when 
they attended the car, as it was repaired on the first visit. I dont necessarily think this 
situation sounds unusual  for instance the dealer knew what type of car Mr M had and 
might simply have brought along various parts. Theres no evidence of what happened here. 
But, whatever happened, it doesnt change my opinion that the repair was completed 
successfully.
Ive then considered the later issue the car suffered from. The notes from the garage in May 
2022 are hand written, and some words are somewhat tricky to exactly make out. But Im 
satisfied this likely said:
Found fuel issue fault with vehicle  checked fuel lift pump/pressure at fuel tank (word 
unclear) all ok  fuel being delivered to fuel pump at engine but not delivering to injector  
possible pressure pump  fuel pressure pad and fuel injectors are issue
Await Customer Authority for further Diagnostic/stripping to confirm and repair
So, Im satisfied from this that the car likely had an issue with the fuel system. But, I should 
point out a firm confirmation of the exact issue wasnt given by the garage. 
Its worth noting here that the information from the garage gives no indication of when this 
issue likely started or what caused it.
Ive very carefully thought about what Mr M said about this being linked to the earlier repair 
to the EGR. And Ive read all the details he gave about this. But, there is a lack of specific 
evidence here  for instance the information from the garage gives no indication that the 
issue was, or could be, caused by a previous repair to the EGR.
I also need to consider the lack of evidence here and weigh this up against the fact that 
Mr M had covered around 9,000 miles in the car and the breakdown occurred nearly a year 
after he got it.
Thinking about all of this, I havent seen enough to persuade me that the later fault with the 
car was linked to the earlier repair to the EGR. And I havent seen enough to make me think 
the issue with the fuelling system was present or developing at the point of supply, given the 
time and mileage here. I have also considered whether the car was reasonably durable or not. But, thinking about 
the mileage Mr M covered and the fact that at the point of the breakdown the car was around 
twelve years old and had covered nearly 95,000 miles, Im satisfied it was.
It follows all of this that Im satisfied it was most likely the car was of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied. 
I want to reassure Mr M that Ive carefully considered everything else hes said and all of the 
other information on the case. But, this doesnt change my opinion.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 April 2023.
 
John Bower
Ombudsman