DRN-3798239
The complaint
Ms I complains AXA Insurance UK Plc didnt handle a claim made on her motor insurance 
policy fairly.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them here. 
Instead, I will focus on the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms I had a motor insurance policy with AXA. In late 2021 she had a road traffic accident. 
Ms I made a claim on the policy, which AXA accepted.
Ms I says she was led to believe her car would be considered a total loss, then later told it 
would be repaired. As I understand it, it took some time for AXA to decide what to do with 
the car as the full extent of the damage couldnt be determined until it had been stripped. 
When the extent of the damage was determined, AXA decided it would repair the car. I 
accept this may not have been Ms Is preference, but it was for AXA to decide how to settle 
the claim, and I dont consider its decision to repair the car unreasonable given the 
estimated cost of the repair compared to the market value of the car. 
AXA doesnt think it misled Ms I over its intentions. Nor have I seen any compelling evidence 
to persuade me that it did. But AXA recognised (and I agree) that in the early part of this 
claim it could have provided clearer updates and managed Ms I expectations about repair 
timescales better. To apologise for the poor communication, AXA paid Ms I £150 
compensation. Im satisfied this sum fairly and reasonably reflects the distress and 
inconvenience Ms I was caused. 
The policy allowed Ms I access to a courtesy car. However, Ms I wasnt provided with one 
for a 10-day period. AXA needed to compensate Ms I for this, and it did. It paid her £200 
compensation for the distress and inconvenience not having a courtesy car caused Ms I. 
Ms I doesnt consider £200 enough as she says it would cost much more than that to hire a 
car for 10 days. I accept her point. But the compensation isnt meant to cover a financial loss 
as such - Ms I didnt hire a car at her own expense. Instead, its to compensate her for the 
distress and inconvenience of having to make alternative transport arrangements during the 
10-day period. Im satisfied £200 fairly and reasonably compensates Ms I for this.
The road traffic accident was in November 2021. Ms I didnt get her car back until July 2022. 
That is a very long time. However, Im not persuaded AXA knew how long the repairs would 
take when it first authorised them. I say this because the repairs were expected to be 
completed in late January 2022. This was later postponed to March, then May, then June 
and then July. I can understand why these continuous postponements annoyed Ms I greatly. 
But Im not persuaded AXA (or its approved repairer) is directly responsible. I say this 
because from the information available to me, repairs were ongoing but were held up by the 
need to wait for parts. 
Delays in obtaining parts isnt AXAs fault. It follows that while I have a great deal of 
sympathy for Ms I having to wait so long for the repairs, I dont consider I can fairly and 
reasonably require AXA to compensate her in the way she has asked. I do, however, find 
AXA could have been more proactive in providing updates to Ms I. It has agreed to pay Ms I 
£150 compensation in recognition of this, which I consider fair and reasonable.
Im aware Ms I has concerns with the quality of the repairs. That is a relatively new 
development and not something which was an issue when this complaint was brought to our 
service for an independent review. Nor, as far as I am aware, has AXA had an opportunity to 
look into the matter. I therefore wont comment on the quality of the repairs as part of this 
complaint. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Ms I a further £150 
compensation (if it hasnt already done so).
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms I to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 December 2022.
 
James Langford
Ombudsman