DRN-3068589
The complaint
Mr S complained about Intrum UK Limited pursuing him for debts, explaining that he had 
little prospect of ever being able to repay them.
What happened
This complaint is about two consumer credit accounts which both opened in 2014, and which 
were sold to Intrum in 2020 and 2021 respectively.
Mr S explained that in 2016, he was the victim of complex fraudulent activity which caused 
him severe losses. The impact of this was large, including causing him significant mental 
health issues which prevented him from working.
Mr S provided comprehensive evidence of this and asked if Intrum would consider writing off 
the two accounts they owned.
At first, Intrum declined. After some mediation from our investigator, Intrum agreed to close 
the accounts and stop pursuing Mr S for them. However, they said they would not adjust his 
credit file entries.
Our investigator issued a view suggesting that Intrum should mark the accounts as satisfied. 
Intrum didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review things afresh, so the complaints 
been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr S has gone through a truly tough time here. So Im most glad to see 
that Intrum have agreed to close these accounts such that Mr S is no longer pursued for the 
debts. I appreciate Intrums co-operation with our investigator, and it seems that both sides 
are broadly happy with the accounts being closed.
The only sticking point seems to be how this is treated on Mr Ss credit file. I understand 
Mr S would like the accounts to be removed entirely, and I can see where hes coming from. 
Hes explained candidly that he only fell behind on the debts because of the fraud and the 
fallout from that. However, his credit file is supposed to reflect  as much as reasonably 
possible  his actual credit history. And these were genuine debts which he took out before 
the fraud issues came about. So I dont think they should be removed entirely.
Ive also read through Mr Ss wider comments about the way credit referencing works more 
generally. But Im afraid Im not best placed to address those points. Our service is here to 
look at individual complaints about individual situations  its the regulator, the Financial 
Conduct Authority (or FCA for short) who look at how things work more widely. Here, I can 
only really consider what Intrum did in this individual case.
I understand where Intrum are coming from, too  I appreciate their arguments about 
wanting their credit report entries to be fair and accurate. Thats part of why, as above, Im 
not going to tell them to remove the credit file entries entirely.
However, I dont think it would be especially accurate to report these debts as still being 
active or awaiting payment when theyve actually been closed down. If the entries are not 
adjusted, then theres a risk it might look like Mr S is simply ignoring the accounts, or that he 
is still being actively chased for payments, when thats not the case. Further, in Mr Ss 
particular circumstances, we need to consider what would be a fair way to record things.
Our investigator suggested Intrum should mark the accounts as being satisfied. Thats one 
potential fair way we could reflect that these debts had been closed down, and I dont think it 
would be unreasonable in these rather unique circumstances. Mr S appears to be broadly 
happy with that suggestion, and Intrum havent raised any specific objection to marking the 
debts as satisfied (beyond their objection to adjusting the entries in general).
So in this particular case, I think it would be fair for Intrum to mark the debts as satisfied. 
What the business must do
I direct Intrum UK Limited to:
Continue to treat these accounts as closed as they agreed, such that Mr S is not 
pursued for these debts again in future; and-
Mark the accounts as satisfied on his credit file, from the date Intrum closed them.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I uphold Mr Ss complaint, and direct Intrum UK Limited to do 
what I set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 3 January 2022.
 
Adam Charles
Ombudsman