DRN-3168833
The complaint
Mr S complains that the regular premium contract for his personal pension contributions sold 
to him by St. James's Place Wealth Management Plc (SJP) wasnt suitable. Mr S is 
represented in this complaint by his financial adviser, but for clarity Ill refer to Mr S 
throughout.
What happened
Under the terms of his contract, Mr Ss employer had agreed to make contributions equalling 
5% of his salary, into his personal pension. Mr S would make an equivalent net contribution.  
In order to facilitate this, Mr S received pension planning advice from SJP in January 2019 
as he wanted to invest these contributions in the most tax-efficient manner possible. SJP 
advised Mr S to instruct his employer to make set monthly contributions through its payroll 
into his SJP personal pension.
These contributions continued until May 2020, at which point, under the advice of his current 
financial adviser, he transferred the pension fund to another provider.
Mr S was already in communication with our service about a linked matter, so complained 
directly to us that the regular premium contract was mis-sold. He said that as he was a high 
earner and a high net worth individual, the monthly amounts, when totalled together, 
exceeded his tapered annual allowance. He said SJP shouldve ascertained his income at 
the end of each financial year. And using this information, along with the amount of his 
available annual tax allowance, it shouldve calculated the maximum amount that could be 
contributed annually as a single premium to prevent him breaching the annual allowance 
going forward. 
The complaint was sent to SJP to allow it the opportunity to consider it and respond. But it 
didnt uphold his complaint. It said, in summary:
Monthly contributions were appropriate for both him and his employer.
Monthly contributions helped smooth market volatility.
There was no difference in the charges associated with monthly or an annual 
contribution.
He wouldnt have reached his annual allowance in the 2020/2021 tax year in any 
case.
SJP, in its annual review of his pension, wouldve recommended prior to the end 
of the tax year 2020/2021 changes to the monthly contribution to reflect the 
maximum amount he could have paid into his pension going forward.
Mr S didnt agree. He argued that his income had been in excess of inland revenue limits 
prior to the start of the regular premium contract, and in every year since, so he was 
therefore subject to the maximum tapering allowance. Consequently, he should never have 
been sold the regular monthly premium contract, and it was only because he decided to stop 
the contributions did he avoid exceeding inland revenue limits. Mr S said SJP should either 
undertake a redress calculation comparing the two funds or refund the additional charges 
hed incurred.
But our investigator didnt think his complaint should be upheld. She thought the 
recommendation given to Mr S by SJP to maximise his pension contributions was 
reasonable. And Mr S hadnt breached the annual allowance, and didnt think he wouldve 
done going forward either, so he hadnt suffered a loss. And SJP wouldve undertaken an 
annual review to confirm if the arrangements continued to meet his needs and objectives.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the regular monthly premium amount, equivalent to an annual 
contribution of £18,999.96 was in excess of the £10,000 limit for high earners, which 
reduced further to £4,000 in the tax year 2020/21. He reiterated the advice shouldve been to 
make a single premium pension contribution at the end of each tax year to the maximum 
allowable amount. The only reason a tax charge was avoided was due to the fact that he 
chose to stop the contributions to avoid it. So SJP should refund him the difference in 
charges between the regular premium contract and the single premium model.
Our investigator considered this but didnt change her mind. She thought the 
recommendation SJP made was a reasonable way to meet Mr Ss objectives at the time of 
the advice. And in any case Mr S couldnt be compensated for a loss which hadnt 
happened. 
As no agreement could be reached the matter has come to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I must point out that this decision only relates to whether the advice, given by SJP to 
Mr S to have his employer make monthly contributions to his personal pension, was suitable 
given his objectives and personal circumstances. A complaint about the suitability of the 
advice to transfer Mr Ss personal pension has been considered separately and is the 
subject of an ombudsmans decision, so I will not be revisiting this.
In assessing the suitability of advice given, I need to be satisfied firstly that SJP understood 
and considered Mr Ss personal circumstances, and secondly, that the advice met his 
objectives. And Ive seen both his circumstances and objectives noted in the Financial 
Review and the Recommendation letter. In this it is also recorded:
The overall priority for this investment is to invest into [a] tax-efficient vehicle over the long 
term (15+ years) with the aim of improving your potential returns.
So I think it is clear that Mr Ss main objective was to invest both his and his employers 
contributions in the most tax-efficient way possible. Contributions into a pension 
arrangement receive favourable tax treatment and so are generally seen as a tax-efficient 
way to invest. But there are upper limits to the level of contributions which are eligible for tax 
relief, both annually and over ones lifetime, and these vary depending on income and 
whether pension benefits have already been taken. But I can see from the recommendation 
letter that both the annual and lifetime allowances have been considered. And SJP 
reassured Mr S that the level of contributions wouldnt breach either of these. And Im 
satisfied that is most likely true, given that Mr S hadnt previously made contributions to a 
personal pension, so was able to utilise the unused allowance from the previous three years. 
But having said all that, I do think the recommendation letter could have been clearer. I think it gave Mr S the impression that the contributions to his personal pension could continue at 
that level, over the long term (15+ years) without incurring any tax charge. But when taking 
into account his income and the tapered annual allowance that he was subject to, I dont see 
that this was possible. After all, the contributions suggested were only possible because he 
was able to utilise three years of unused allowance. So, it was most likely that the 
contribution levels would need to be reconsidered once this was no longer the case. And I 
think it wouldve been helpful to Mr S if this had been noted in his recommendation letter.
Given Mr Ss earnings and the effect this had on his annual allowance, and having taken into 
account his ability to utilise the unused part of the allowance from the previous three years, 
Im satisfied that for the tax year 2020/21 had he continued with his contributions, they 
wouldnt have breached his available annual allowance.
But I think it likely that they wouldve breached the annual allowance if theyd continued at 
that level in tax year 2021/22. However, I also think it likely that this wouldve been taken into 
account as SJP had made it clear that the arrangement would be reviewed annually:
A key element of financial planning is conducting regular reviews of your investments to 
ensure the course of action  remains appropriate to your personal circumstances in the 
future as it is likely your objectives and circumstances will change over time.
As part of my ongoing service, I will aim to contact you both each year on the anniversary of 
your plan to provide you with an annual statement in respect of your investments so that we 
can arrange for review.
And given Mr Ss objective was tax planning, its reasonable to conclude that the annual 
review would have considered any potential conflict with both the annual and lifetime 
allowances, and SJP couldve advised him of his options before the start of the 2021/22 tax 
year. But because Mr S transferred his pension and moved to another adviser this annual 
review never happened.
So although I think SJP couldve been clearer in spelling out in its recommendation letter  
that the ongoing contributions werent fixed for the lifetime of his employment, I think this 
was always likely to be the case given that both Mr Ss circumstances and the tax rules were 
always subject to change. But even if I take this into account, I do not believe Mr S has 
suffered a financial loss from this, nor was he likely to in the future.
Mr S has said that it wouldve been better to make an annual contribution rather than a 
monthly one, as this would mean the contribution could be changed to the maximum 
possible up to the available annual allowance. And whilst I can understand this point, Mr S 
hasnt said whether his employer wouldve been able to facilitate this unusual scenario within 
its payroll arrangements anyway. And its also important to note that theres sometimes more 
than one approach that mightve met Mr Ss circumstances and objectives. Another adviser 
might take a different approach, but that doesnt mean what was originally recommended 
was unsuitable. 
And I think this is the case here. For all the reasons above Im satisfied, given his personal 
circumstances and objective, the advice SJP gave to Mr S to make monthly contributions to 
his personal pension through his employer was suitable.  
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 3 May 2022.
 
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman