DRN-2849295
The complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy that Coventry Building Society didnt reduce the interest rate on 
their mortgage in March 2020 in line with reductions in the Bank of England base rate (base 
rate). Theyve said that when the base rate increased those increases were passed on 
straight away, but when the base rate fell Coventry chose not to pass those reductions on.
What happened
Mr and Mrs R applied for this mortgage through a third-party mortgage broker. A mortgage 
offer was issued in August 2018 which set out the terms of the mortgage contract. That said 
Mr and Mrs R were borrowing £408,600 over 32 years on a repayment basis. The product 
was called Flexx for Term and that was described in the offer as A variable rate, currently 
1.89%, which is managed by Coventry Building Society and is set independently of its 
Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage 
term. The mortgage completed in September 2018.
In November 2019 Mr and Mrs R took a further advance on a fixed rate product.
On 11 March 2020 the Bank of England announced a base rate reduction of 0.5 percentage 
points, taking it from 0.75% to 0.25%. And then on 19 March 2020 a further reduction was 
announced, taking the base rate to 0.1%.
Mr and Mrs R complained to Coventry after the second base rate reduction as they were 
unhappy that Coventry hadnt reduced their interest rate, instead it had kept the rate for the 
Flexx for Term product the same.
Coventry didnt uphold the complaint. It said in its final response letter of 24 March 2020 that 
it needed to consider the interests of its membership as a whole, and its priority had been to 
make sure borrowers could access payment deferrals if they needed them, and to reduce 
interest rates for those borrowers who were on higher rates. It reminded Mr and Mrs R that 
there was no early repayment charge (ERC) so they could move to a different product  or 
lender  if they wanted to.
As Mr and Mrs R didnt agree they referred their complaint to this service. In their complaint 
form they acknowledged they knew this wasnt a base rate tracker product but said that the 
interest rate had always reduced and increased in line with the base rate. They said they 
were relying on the lower monthly payments to help them maintain other costs as they had 
little income coming in due to lockdown, and they didnt want to take payment holidays.
In the meantime, Mr and Mrs R repaid their mortgage in June 2020.
Our investigator considered the complaint and wasnt persuaded it should be upheld. He 
said, in summary:
Coventry had made Mr and Mrs R aware of the type of interest rate they were taking 
out.
The terms and conditions set out that the interest rate might change, and why, and 
he thought Coventry had exercised those terms fairly.
There were no obvious barriers to Mr and Mrs R either taking a new product with 
Coventry or moving their mortgage to a new lender if they felt the interest rate was no 
longer competitive.
The pandemic was an extraordinary situation that meant Coventry needed to offer 
support to borrowers that were struggling, and it had to move to running its 
operations remotely. He felt the substantial challenge provided by the pandemic led 
to changes in the way any lender would need to run its business.
The interest rate of 1.89% was a competitive rate across the wider mortgage market, 
particularly for a product offering such flexibility.
Mr and Mrs R didnt agree with our investigators assessment. They said, in summary:
The literature should state the rate doesnt get reduced, and the product should be 
advertised as having a rate floor.
Coventry increased the rate in 2017 and 2018 in direct response to the base rate 
rises.
When the base rate rises, savers gain and borrowers lose out, however when the 
base rate decreases, savers and borrowers both lose out.
A fair outcome would be for Coventry to change the rate to the same as it was when 
they took the mortgage out.
They shouldnt have to apply for another product as a result of Coventry behaving 
unfairly.
All the base rate decreases since the credit crunch have been in response to 
unprecedented events (such as Brexit).
Mr and Mrs R asked that their complaint be passed to an ombudsman to review.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs R have expressed a desire for contact from me to discuss the complaint. This 
would only be necessary if I considered I needed more information; that is, if I thought the 
submissions already made were at all unclear. So, this wouldnt provide either of the parties 
to a complaint with the opportunity to ask questions, nor would it be a dialogue with me. This 
would be for my benefit alone, if I considered there was anything at all in the paperwork which couldnt be clarified through the investigator. Having reviewed the case file, Im 
satisfied that I can decide the case without speaking to Mr and Mrs R. 
The starting point here is the mortgage contract that Mr and Mrs R entered into, and whether 
the nature of the product was fairly explained by Coventry in the paperwork at the time. I 
cant consider the advice that was given, as the mortgage broker was a third party acting on 
behalf of Mr and Mrs R.
What is the product and how will the interest rate vary?
The mortgage offer provides the following descriptions of the product:
FFN10 - Flexx for Term - A variable rate, currently 1.89%, which is managed by Coventry 
Building Society and is set independently of its Standard Variable Rate and the Bank of 
England Base Rate, to the end of the mortgage term. And;
From the date of completion of the Advance, up to and including the end of the mortgage 
term, the payable rate of interest, which is variable, will be managed by The Society at a 
rate, currently 1.89%, which will be set independently of The Society's Standard Variable 
Rate and the Bank of England Base Rate.
From that we can see this is a variable rate product that isnt linked to either the standard 
variable rate or the base rate; that is, it isnt a base rate tracker mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs R have said that they knew the product wasnt a base rate tracker, but that the 
rate had previously increased and reduced in line with base rate changes. But that hasnt 
always been the case. Whilst Coventry had changed the products rate by the same 
differential the three previous times the base rate had changed, the three base rate changes 
before that hadnt been reflected with a matching differential change across the board.
I understand Mr and Mrs R believed the interest rate would likely follow base rate, and the 
base rate is one factor that lenders take into account when changing their variable rate 
products. But Ive not seen any evidence that Coventry told Mr and Mrs R that their interest 
rate would always change in line with the base rate, and their mortgage offer clearly explains 
the interest rate is set independently of the base rate.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied Coventry set out the details of the interest rate of 
the product clearly and unambiguously, explaining it wasnt linked to the base rate. Although 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs R werent misled as to the nature of the interest rate of the product, 
I still need to decide if Coventry acted fairly.
Was it fair for Coventry to increase the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, and not reduce it in 
2020?
The Mortgage Conditions Issue K booklet records the general terms and conditions 
applicable to the mortgage. That says:
5.1 We may change the Interest Rate for any of the following reasons (which may relate 
to circumstances existing at the time or those which we reasonably expect to apply in 
the near future):
5.1.1 to respond to changes in the Bank of England (Base) Rate (or, if that rate has 
ceased to exist, the equivalent lending rate set by the Bank of England or by any 
central bank that has replaced it);5.1.2 to respond to changes in the law or the decisions of a court or ombudsman;
5.1.3 to meet relevant regulatory requirements;
5.1.4 to respond to new or amended statements or codes of practice designed to 
enhance consumer protection; or
5.1.5 to respond to changes in the costs legitimately incurred by us in conducting our 
mortgage lending activities, including the cost of funding those activities.
The increases in 2017 and 2018 were due to clause 5.1.1 and 5.1.5; that is, an increase in 
the base rate, and changes in the costs incurred by Coventry in respect of mortgage lending. 
But although the condition says the interest rate may change when base rate changes, it 
doesnt say it has to do so.
It isnt unusual for lenders to take changes in the base rate into account when reviewing their 
variable rate mortgage products, but that doesnt mean they have to unless that is part of the 
contract (which Ive already found wasnt the case here). The base rate is a reasonable 
indication of what interest rate a lender may be able to lend at, but it isnt the only 
consideration.
Coventrys costs increased in 2017 and 2018 when the base rate went up, and thus 
Coventry also increased the interest rate on this product by the same amount of percentage 
points. 
But it doesnt automatically follow that Coventrys costs decreased in March 2020 as the 
costs dont just relate to the base rate, nor do they just relate to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage in 
isolation. The base rate decreased, but Coventry incurred additional costs across its 
mortgage function due to the pandemic; costs such as mortgage payment deferrals meaning 
mortgage payments werent being made when expected, needing to move to a remote way 
of working, and making its branch network Covid-secure, for example. Coventry didnt have 
the same level of increased costs when the base rate was reduced previously so, even if 
those events were also unprecedented, theyre not comparable. Im satisfied Coventry has 
shown that the events of 2020 were different to those of 2017 and 2018, and Im satisfied 
that Coventry has shown that its costs increased in 2020 even though base rate fell.
Coventry needed to make some decisions about the best way to assist those people that 
needed help the most; it didnt feel able to reduce all its variable rates in line with the base 
rate reductions as its costs had increased and it was an unprecedented time of uncertainty. 
Coventry made the decision to reduce the interest rates for those borrowers that were on a 
much higher variable rate than Mr and Mrs R (customers were paying 4.99% on the 
standard variable rate, compared to the 1.89% Mr and Mrs R were paying). That seems a 
fair decision for Coventry to have made. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that the literature should state the rate doesnt get reduced, and that 
the product should be advertised as having a rate floor. Coventry couldnt advertise the 
product that way as neither are true. Theres no rate floor, and the rate can be reduced. It is 
unfortunate here that the base rate reduction came at a time Coventry suffered from 
increased costs so it wasnt able to reduce the products interest rate at that time. But the 
last three times the base rate had been reduced (going back to February 2009), Coventry 
had reduced the interest rate for the product by the same amount of percentage points.
The product Mr and Mrs R had allowed them the flexibility to switch to another interest rate 
product with Coventry at any time if they no longer felt the Flexx product offered value for 
money. Im satisfied that other interest rate products were available to Mr and Mrs Rs mortgage if they had wanted to switch to them and that there would have been no Early 
Repayment Charge (ERC) to pay or other contractual barrier that would have prevented this. 
They could also have shopped around and remortgaged to another lender, if they felt the 
interest rate products offered by Coventry werent competitive in the market. Mr and Mrs R 
have said they shouldnt have had to apply for another product with Coventry or another 
lender, and they didnt have to if they didnt want to. But if they didnt apply for another 
product  or redeem their mortgage with Coventry - then Mr and Mrs R would have remained 
on the 1.89% Flexx interest rate  which Coventry may or may not have varied, in line with 
the terms and conditions, in the future. 
From my wider knowledge of the mortgage market, I consider that the interest rate even 
remaining at 1.89% is competitive bearing in mind the level of flexibility the product offers. In 
any event, this point is moot as I understand Mr and Mrs R redeemed this mortgage in June 
2020.
Having considered everything, Im satisfied there were no practical or contractual barriers 
preventing Mr and Mrs R from coming out of this mortgage product if they wanted to look for 
another interest rate either with Coventry or elsewhere.
Whilst I acknowledge Mr and Mrs Rs frustration that their mortgage interest rate wasnt 
reduced to free up money for them to use elsewhere Im satisfied Coventry didnt act unfairly 
when it increased the interest rate in 2017 and 2018, but then didnt reduce the interest rate 
in line with the base rate reductions in 2020.
On a side note, Mr and Mrs R said A fair outcome would be to at least move the SVR back 
to where the mortgage was when we initially took the mortgage out. Im assuming this is an 
error on Mr and Mrs Rs part as the rate when they initially took the mortgage out was 
1.89%, and when they repaid the mortgage in June 2020 it was still 1.89%, so it seems they 
were already in the position they said theyd consider a fair outcome. Theyve also referred 
to taking the product out in March 2017 and put incorrect figures for the interest rate, again 
these all seem to be errors on the part of Mr and Mrs R.
Having considered everything very carefully, for all the reasons given I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint, however much Mr and Mrs R may want me to.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision before 6 September 2021. 
Julia Meadows
Ombudsman