DRN-2792450
The complaint
  Mr R has complained that 1Plus1 Loans Limited (1Plus1 Loans) lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
  Mr R was given a guarantor loan by 1Plus1 Loans. The details of this is given below:
Date taken Instalments Amount Repayments Total to repay
31/05/2018 60 £10,000 £381.25 £22,875
There is a balance on the loan that is still outstanding. Mr R has told our service that he is 
still currently repaying the instalment amount each month and, he says, this is causing him 
difficulty.
One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She thought 1Plus1 Loans had been 
wrong to provide Mr R with the loan. She concluded that although 1Plus1 Loans had carried 
out proportionate checks, it would have seen with the information it had in front of it, that Mr 
R was having problems at the time with his finances. So, she concluded, the repayments 
were not sustainable over the life of the loan, so it shouldnt have been granted. 1Plus1 
Loans didnt agree with the adjudicators assessment. As the complaint hasnt been settled, 
it has been passed to me to resolve the matter.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
  Weve set out our approach to considering unaffordable and irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website - including the key relevant rules, guidance, good industry 
practice and law.
And Ive considered this approach when deciding Mr Rs complaint.
I think there are some overarching questions I need to consider in order to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular complaint:
Did 1Plus1 Loans complete reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Mr R would be able to repay their loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately, did 1Plus1 Loans make a fair lending decision?
As the lender, 1Plus1 Loans should have taken steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr R 
irresponsibly.
The lender was required to carry out a borrower focussed assessment or affordability 
check. The checks had to be borrower focussed  so 1Plus1 Loans had to think about 
whether repaying the loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for 
Mr R.
1Plus1 Loans had to carry out reasonable and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that Mr R 
would be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that 1Plus1 Loans 
had to do, but it could consider a number of different things such as the loan amount, the 
length of the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall joint financial 
circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more 
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be 
greater and the customer is required to make payments for an extended period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for any particular application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. 
The loan payments being affordable on a pounds and pence basis, something 1Plus1 
Loans says was the case, might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make their 
repayments. But it doesn't automatically follow this is the case. This is because the relevant 
regulations define sustainable as being without undue difficulty  in particular without 
incurring or increasing problem indebtedness. The customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about whether 1Plus1 Loans did 
what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr R.
1Plus1 Loans on the occasion it lent to Mr R asked for information about his income and 
expenditure. It also says it verified his wages with an online verification tool and carried out a 
credit check. It then called Mr R to discuss his expenditure.
1Plus1 Loans say the checks it carried out were proportionate based on what it had 
gathered and the term and amount of the loan. The adjudicator also concluded the checks 
1Plus1 had carried out were proportionate. but I dont need to draw any conclusions about 
what it says it did at the time and whether it did carry out sufficient checks on this occasion. 
This is because like our adjudicator, on balance, I dont think 1Plus1 Loans made a fair 
lending decision on this loan and I will explain why.
Mr R asked for the loan on 31 May 2018 for £10,000 and when he did this, he told it about 
his income and expenditure. 1Plus1 Loans assessed this. It verified his income and then 
moved his monthly expenditure figure up to a higher amount based on what it had gathered. 
It also added a buffer amount for unexpected spend. When it did this, it concluded that Mr R 
had enough disposable income to afford the loan repayments. When I see its income and 
expenditure calculation I can see, on the face of it, Mr R had sufficient income to be able to 
afford the loan.But the lender was aware from the credit check information it had acquired that Mr R had 
defaulted accounts and other adverse credit data, that I think, should have shown it that he 
wouldnt have been in a position to make the loan repayments in a sustainable way. 1Plus1 
Loans could see from its search results that Mr R had been in arrears for several months on 
a hire purchase agreement for a van, and after further enquiries had found out that the 
lender had cancelled the agreement. Mr R had then returned the vehicle. Mr R also had a 
second hire purchase agreement this time on a car, and he was in arrears on this account 
also. In addition to this, Mr R was also in arrears on another guarantor loan and had 
defaulted some months previously on two accounts. I can see that on both of the defaulted 
accounts, Mr R had agreed a payment plan to make reduced payments on the amount owed 
and at the time he asked to borrow from it, was still paying the agreed amounts. 
When I look at this all of the adverse credit data in the round, I think it clearly shows, that Mr 
R was struggling to manage his finances. His agreements with finance providers were 
regularly breaking down and he was in arrears or in a reduced payment plan on five credit 
accounts in total. I think it would have been reasonable for 1Plus1 Loans to conclude that 
despite the disposable income calculation that it arrived at, Mr R was struggling to manage 
his finances and that more likely than not he wouldnt have been able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable way. Especially due to the fact this loan was due to be repaid over a term of 60 
months. So, it follows that I dont think 1Plus1 Loans made a fair lending decision on this 
occasion when it agreed to lend to Mr R.
I can see that our adjudicator has covered the other matters raised by Mr R including how 
1Plus1 had so far handled the repayment of this loan and the contact between them. I can 
see that these are no longer in dispute, so I dont need to make any further comments on 
them.
Putting things right
 I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr R to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he has had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest and charges on 
lending that shouldnt have been provided to him.
1Plus1 Loans should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges on the lending and treat all the payments Mr R 
made as payments towards the capital.
If reworking Mr Rs loan account results in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital borrowed, then 1Plus1 Loans should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled*.
If there is still an outstanding amount to repay, both parties will need to discuss an 
affordable payment plan for this. I would like to remind 1Plus1 Loans of its obligation 
to treat Mr R fairly when it does this. 
Remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Rs credit file in relation to the loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires 1Plus1 Loans to deduct tax from this interest. 1Plus1 
Loans should give Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
 
My final decision
Having considered all the evidence provided to me and reflecting on what is most likely to 
have happened in the circumstances, I uphold Mr Rs complaint. I direct 1Plus1 Loans 
Limited to put things right as I have outlined above. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 12 
August 2021.
 
Mark Richardson
Ombudsman