DRN-2878124
The complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain that they were given unsuitable investment advice by The Prudential 
Assurance Company Limited, referred to as the business.  
In short, theyre unhappy that despite the charges, their investment bond has gone down by 
13%.    
What happened
The business didnt uphold the complaint. In summary, it said the bond worked in the way 
that it was designed to and that it wasnt responsible for extreme market conditions caused 
by Covid-19. The documentation provided showed that investments can go up as well as 
down and that there were no guarantees.  
One of our investigators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld for 
much the same reasons as the business. In summary, he said that Mr and Mrs B were told 
that the investment could go up as well as down, and that there were no guarantees in terms 
of returns. The drop in the value was down to adverse market conditions which are beyond 
the control of the business. The business couldnt have been able to predict or control the 
impact of a global pandemic, for which it isnt responsible. 
He also said that the value of the bond was recovering, so its unlikely that Mr and Mrs B 
suffered a loss.  
Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the investigators conclusions and asked for an ombudsmans 
decision, providing it was at no cost to them. They provided no further points for 
consideration.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint. 
On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what Mr and Mrs B say, I cant safely 
say that the business is to blame for their bond going down by 13% or that the business 
made an unsuitable recommendation because of this.  
I should point out that our service doesnt generally consider complaints about investment 
performance alone, which can be dependent on a number of factors  including the 
stockmarket for example  which are outside the control of the business. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B have held their bond for over 20 years, and that it was 
steadily growing, and that they thought that it would continue to do so. This suggests that 
theres no likely correlation between the charges that have been applied over the years and 
the recent fall in value. 
I note that Mr and Mrs B were aware that the investment value could go up as well as down, 
and that no guarantees were given about the value. But Ive seen nothing to suggest that 
past performance was a guarantee of any future performance. The bond appears to have 
worked in the way that it was designed to work.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B thought that the value could fluctuate, but only by a few 
percent. But I cant say that the business told them or led them to believe that this would be 
the case. I appreciate their shock and disappointment after receiving the statement in 
November 2020 and discovering that their bond had gone down by 13 %, but I cant blame 
the business for this. 
Its likely the effects of a global pandemic has had some impact on how well the bond has 
done, but whatever the reason I cant safely say that the reduction in value means that the 
bond was mis-sold or unsuitable.  
Im aware that the bond had recovered/was recovering at the time of the investigators view, 
and hopefully it will continue to do so, but Mr and Mrs B must be aware that there are no 
guarantees that they might not get back less than they put in. 
My final decision
For the reason set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision before 18 August 2021.
 
Dara Islam
Ombudsman