DRN-4029829
The complaint
Ms N complains about the way UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance (UKI) 
dealt with a claim she made on her motor insurance policy.
What happened
Ms N was involved in an accident at the end of October 2022. She claimed on her motor 
insurance policy with UKI.
Six days after the accident, Ms N bought a replacement car for £6,495. Around two and a 
half weeks after the accident, UKI told Ms N that its engineers had valued her car at £5,428. 
A couple of days later, it wrote to her to say that it had sent her an initial settlement of 
£5,078, which took into account the £350 policy excess.
In the first week of December 2022, after Ms N complained, UKI increased its pre-accident 
valuation of her car from £5,428 to £5,948, and told her it would send an additional payment 
of £520.
Ms N says UKIs final valuation of £5,948 fell £547 short of the cost of the replacement she 
bought. She says her policy requires UKI to pay the cost of replacing her car with another of 
the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at the time of the accident. 
She says that as UKI told her it might take several weeks to settle her claim, and she 
couldnt afford to hire a car for weeks, she had no choice but to go ahead and buy another 
car. The car she bought was of the same make and model, but a year older than the car 
shed had, and of a lower specification. And it was listed as being £745 under market value. 
Ms N says she was told shed be given a courtesy car, but that when it turned out that her 
car couldnt be repaired, she was told she wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car after all. And 
when she asked UKI how long it would take to settle her claim, she was told there was a 
backlog in its engineering department, and that it couldnt give a timeframe. She says she 
was eventually told it could take more than 21 working days. She says she spent hours on 
hold on the phone to UKI, and wrote numerous emails. The situation caused her an 
enormous amount of stress and anxiety at what was already a difficult time.
In its final response to Ms Ns complaint UKI acknowledged that it had taken longer than it 
should have done to provide Ms N with a settlement figure. And it accepted that it had failed 
to respond to emails from Ms N, which had led to her phoning numerous times for updates. 
Nor had a manager called Ms N back within 48 hours, as promised. UKI apologised to Ms N, 
and said it would credit £200 to her bank account within three working days to reflect the 
delays and inconvenience shed experienced.
One of our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt think it should be upheld. In 
summary, he thought the value UKI had put on Ms Ns car was fair and reasonable. He said 
Ms Ns policy made it clear that she wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car if (as happened 
here) her car was written off. And he thought that UKIs offer of £200 compensation was in 
line with our approach. So he couldnt ask UKI to do more.
Ms N disagreed with the investigators view, so the complaints been passed to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N says that if UKI had valued her car promptly, and had pointed her to a car she could 
have bought for the value it placed on it, the whole situation could have been avoided. But 
UKIs notes of a phone conversation with Ms N a few days after the accident say that she 
told it she was looking to buy another car as shed been told her car was a total loss, and 
she couldnt wait for the engineer to ring her. She then bought the replacement car a couple 
of days later. And a few days after that, Ms N said, in an email to UKI, that the alternative 
would have been to hire a car for 10 days for £500, which she couldnt afford.
UKI has acknowledged that it took longer than it would normally have done to value Ms Ns 
car and offer her a settlement. But it seems to me that Ms N wanted to replace her car 
urgently. And on balance, I think that even if UKI had valued her car within its normal 
timescales, its most likely that shed already have gone ahead and bought a new car.
I acknowledge that Ms N says UKI told her on the phone that it should be safe to buy a 
replacement car of the same make and model as her car. But UKIs notes of the phone call 
say that when Ms N asked whether it would be safe to assume that the settlement would 
cover the cost of the new car, she was told that they couldnt promise that, and that UKI uses 
industry standard tools to reach a settlement figure. UKIs records also state that Ms N 
asked what would happen if she disputed the settlement figure and the dispute process was 
explained to her. Those calls took place a couple of days before Ms N bought her new car. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that Ms N was aware when she bought her 
replacement car that there was no guarantee that the settlement she eventually received 
would be enough to cover the cost.
The valuation
Deciding the market value of a car isnt an exact science. And its not my role to value 
Ms Ns car. My role is to decide if UKIs valuation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. We have a general approach to dealing with complaints about car valuations 
 details of which are on our website  and Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ns 
complaint.
My starting point is Ms Ns car insurance policy. This says if Ms Ns car is damaged, UKI will 
pay the cost of repairing or replacing it up to its market value. In other words, the market 
value is the maximum UKI will pay. And it defines the market value as the cost of replacing 
Ms Ns car with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition at 
the time of the accident or loss.
Our general approach to complaints about valuations is to look at the relevant trade guides 
for valuing second-hand cars. Ms N has pointed out that the investigator mentioned that the 
motor trade guides dont have access to actual retail sale prices. But we find the guides are 
generally more reliable than the prices cars are advertised for. That's because they use 
extensive research of likely selling prices for cars, whereas the price a car is advertised for 
isn't necessarily the price its sold for. These guides use advertised prices and auction prices 
to work out what likely selling prices would have been.
UKI got the following valuations from the trade guides:CAP: £5,625
Cazoo: £5,245
Glasses: £5,230
The valuations were based on the cars mileage at the time of the accident, and UKIs 
engineer has confirmed that the car was deemed to be in good retail condition. The value of 
£5,428 that UKI initially put on Ms Ns car was more than the average of those three figures. 
After Ms N complained, UKIs engineers looked at another database. They entered full 
details of Ms Ns car, including the Vehicle Identification Number, and found a car advertised 
for sale with very similar mileage to Ms Ns. The car was listed as an exact match for Ms Ns 
car, and was advertised for £5,495. They also found an advert for another car of the same 
age, make and model as Ms Ns for £6,499. UKI offered Ms N the average of £5,495 and 
£6,400, which worked out at £5,948. UKI acknowledges that in working out its increased 
offer of £5,948 it used a figure of £6,400 instead of the £6,499 in the advert it found. But it 
points out that £5,948 is still greater than the average of the prices shown in the three trade 
guides.
I understand that Ms N thinks our approach is unfair. I acknowledge that she says that no 
cars were available of the same make and model and similar age and condition to her car for 
the value that the guides placed on it. Shes pointed out that the replacement car cost her 
£6,495. That was almost exactly the same as the higher of the two figures UKI used to work 
out its revised valuation, and was based on an actual market example. And she believes that 
the valuation of £5,495 was based on a model of a lower specification than her car.
But Im satisfied that the approach that UKI took to valuing Ms Ns car was fair and 
reasonable, and was in line both with Ms Ns policy terms and conditions and with our 
approach to complaints about the valuation of cars. And as Ive said above, Im satisfied that 
Ms N was aware when she bought her replacement car that there was no guarantee that the 
settlement she ultimately received would be enough to cover the cost
Courtesy car
Ms N is unhappy that UKI initially told her that her car would be collected for repair and that 
shed be given a courtesy car, but then changed its mind, leaving her with no transport. But 
Ms Ns insurance policy states clearly that if her car was written off, she wouldnt be entitled 
a courtesy car. And having seen UKIs notes of its phone calls with Ms N, Im satisfied that it 
told her within a couple of days of the accident that her car was a total loss and, as a result, 
that she wouldnt be entitled to a courtesy car.
Service issues
UKI has accepted that it took longer than it should have done to offer Ms N a settlement for 
her claim, and its accepted that there were shortcomings in the customer service it provided 
to Ms N. But I consider the £200 its already paid Ms N to be fair to reflect that. So I dont 
think it needs to do anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint, as I consider the redress already paid 
by UK Insurance Limited trading as Churchill Insurance to be fair and reasonable.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms N to accept or reject my decision before 28 June 2023.
 
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman