DRN-2208199
The complaint
Mrs A believes The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited mis-sold her a Whole of 
Life Plan. She doesnt feel she needed the plan and just went along with the advice that was 
given to her from the advisor. 
A claims management company has brought the complaint on Mrs As behalf. But for ease 
Ill refer to Mrs A throughout. 
What happened
Our investigator didnt think the complaint should be upheld. He felt there wasnt enough 
evidence from the time of the sale in 1977 to show the policy wasnt suitable for Mrs As 
needs. So, he didnt think it would be reasonable to ask Royal London to return the 
premiums she had paid. 
Mrs A says the policy was recommended to her by the advisor and she went along with his 
advice. She added that the advisor had a duty under common law to act with reasonable skill 
and care and not to expose her to any unnecessary risks, costs, complexity or taxation. 
Instead she feels she didnt need a life policy at all and that a term assurance plan wouldve 
been a better choice instead to cover her life or a savings plan to cover funeral expenses. 
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusion as our investigator. And for largely the 
same reasons. I know Mrs A feels strongly about this complaint and this will come as a 
disappointment to her, so Ill explain why.
Where the evidence is incomplete, inconclusive, or contradictory, I have to make my 
decision on the balance of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more likely than not to 
have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mrs A says the policy was recommended to her and because she didnt know any better she 
went along with the advice and she didnt need the policy. But I dont have any evidence 
from the time of the sale to show me what her needs were because unsurprisingly theres a 
lack of information to tell us what happened in 1977. I dont think her recollection of what 
happened over forty years ago is enough for me to say the plan was mis-sold. And I think 
she is unlikely to have paid into the plan for thirty years if she didnt think the plan was 
necessary. 
If Mrs A was going to have life cover for funeral expenses a WOL policy with a modest 
premium and sum assured doesnt seem to me wholly unreasonable. I accept it doesn't 
necessarily follow she should've been advised to take this out and a WOL policy wasn't the 
only option. But there is no way of knowing what else the advisor may have advised 
Mrs A. Its certainly possible that the advisor discussed other ways Mrs A could mitigate any 
funeral expenses she may have had - such as a savings plan - and that she then chose the 
WOL plan. 
In summary there simply isnt enough evidence in this particular case for me to be satisfied 
that its more likely than not Mrs A was mis-sold the WOL plan. Given Mrs A has paid the 
premiums and has retained the plan whilst accepting the small endowment payments, I think 
its more likely than not the plan has been of benefit to her. In the circumstances, I don't think 
it would be fair or reasonable to ask Royal London to repay the premiums.
So, Im not going to ask Royal London to do anything more. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision before 2 November 2020.
 
Mark Dobson
Ombudsman