DRN-3699308
The complaint
Mrs P complains that Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim (FTR) failed to
pursue a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) claim.
What happened
In July 2019, Mrs P instructed FTR to pursue a mis-sold PPI claim with one of her lenders
Ill call H. Mrs P said she asked several times for an update about her claim and was told it 
was still being investigated. But was later told H hadnt been able to locate any accounts 
for her. Mrs P said shed sent evidence to FTR that showed shed a credit card account that 
shed been paying a PPI premium. Mrs P complained to FTR.
FTR said that theyd submitted Mrs Ps letter of authority (LoA) to H before the August
deadline. But H had told them in October 2019 that they couldnt locate any accounts for 
her. FTR said this hadnt been noted on her account. And they couldnt show that the 
evidence of PPI Mrs P sent to them had been passed onto H. In June 2021, FTR offered to 
submit a data subject access request (DSAR) to H to establish whether Mrs P would have 
received any compensation for her mis-sold claim. But H said Mrs P hadnt made a claim 
for mis-sold PPI before the deadline for making such claims had passed. Mrs P brought her 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator said Mrs P had lost the opportunity to have a mis-sold PPI claim 
investigated. And said FTR should compensate Mrs P £350 for this.
FTR accepted the investigators outcome. But Mrs P didnt agree she said FTR claimed the 
average amount of redress theyd been able to get for their customers was £2,500. To reflect 
this Mrs P said she should be compensated at least £1,000 for her loss of opportunity. Mrs P 
has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Im upholding this complaint. Ill explain why. 
Its not in dispute that FTR didnt progress Mrs Ps mis-sold PPI claim efficiently. And 
evidence that could have identified her accounts with H doesnt appear to have been 
passed on by FTR to H. This has meant Mrs P has lost the opportunity to have her mis-
sold PPI claim fully investigated by her lender. So, Im satisfied that FTR have acted unfairly, 
and that Mrs P should be compensated for this. What remains in dispute is the amount of 
compensation FTR should pay to put things right.
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) deemed 29 August 2019 as the deadline for mis-sold 
PPI claims to be made. Leading up to the August PPI deadline many claims management
companies, such as FTR amended their terms and conditions in recognition of the expected high
volume of claims. And reflected that lenders could investigate any claim based on a data subject
request, such as a LoA.  Any claim received after the 29 August 2019 deadline wouldnt have 
been accepted by the lender(s) unless there were exceptional circumstances for doing so.
Mrs Ps dispute centres around the potential redress she feels she could have got from a 
successful mis-sold PPI claim with H. I can see FTR sent the LoA, Mrs P signed in July 2019 
to H before the August 2019  deadline. But from the information on the LoA H hadnt been 
able to locate an account for Mrs P and in October 2019 they told FTR about this. 
I can see that Mrs P sent a 2002 statement to FTR that showed the type of credit card she 
had and that shed paid a PPI premium of £37.74. With the passage of time some lenders 
whod sold PPI are no longer in the market. This is the case with the lender for Mrs Ps credit 
card. Her lender at that time had since transferred their business over to H.
But where a lender couldnt locate an account, I would have expected FTR to look to obtain 
further details to help the lender to find an account if there was one. Mrs P had sent this 
evidence to FTR but I cant see that they sent this to H which meant H didnt investigate 
whether Mrs P had been mis-sold PPI as they hadnt found an account and so a mis-sold 
PPI claim wasnt made before the deadline passed. 
Im unable to speculate on whether s mis-sold PPI claim would have been upheld by H as 
there are several factors that H would have had to consider. While Mrs P has shown shed 
paid a PPI premium I cant know whether she would or wouldnt have received any redress. 
But by FTR failing to send the information to H Mrs P has lost the opportunity for her claim 
to be fully investigated. And I think FTR should compensate Mrs P for this.
Putting things right
Our investigator said FTR should compensate Mrs P the sum of £350 for loss of opportunity,
I think this is fair and reasonable. Mrs P thinks FTR should reimburse her in line with the 
potential compensation they advertised she might have received. So, I understand this isnt 
the outcome Mrs P was hoping for as she will probably feel this doesnt address her potential 
financial loss. But as I outlined above, I cant know if her claim would have been successful 
or not.My final decision
I uphold this complaint. And ask Quickly Finance Limited trading as Fast Track Reclaim to 
pay Mrs P £350 for loss of opportunity.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision before 8 November 2022.
 
Anne Scarr
Ombudsman