DRN-2484412
The complaint
Mr K and Miss M complain that Santander UK Plc didnt make the implications of a payment
arrangement clear to them. Their financial situation has been adversely affected as a result.
What happened
Mr K and Miss M held a mortgage with Santander for some time. In July 2019 Miss M called
Santander to discuss her and Mr Ks financial situation. Miss M was receiving statutory sick
pay, impacting their joint income and ability to maintain their contractual monthly payments
(CMP).
Miss M requested a payment holiday until September 2019. Santander said this wasnt an
option, but it could it consider a payment arrangement (PA). The PA was put in place for the
months of July and August whereby theyd not be required to make payments to their
mortgage. Miss M was returning to work in September and their intention was to reinstate
the full CMP at that time.
When the PA ended, Santander wrote to Mr K and Miss M asking them to get in touch to
discuss an arrangement to repay the arrears. A few days later Miss M called Santander to
reinstate the full CMP with effect from 26 September 2019 as intended.
Because a new arrangement to pay the arrears wasnt agreed until 1 October 2019, Mr K
and Miss Ms credit files show arrears in September 2019.
On 4 October 2019 Mr K and Miss M decided to pay the arrears balance in full, using funds
borrowed from a family member. They were concerned that the PA had impacted their credit
files and access to competitive rates.
Mr K and Miss M raised a complaint with Santander. They said that the impact of the PA
wasnt made clear to them and it wasnt made clear that when the PA ended, the amount
outstanding would be recorded as arrears on their credit files unless a new arrangement
agreed.
Santander didnt uphold the complaint. It said that when the PA was set up it was made clear
to them that the outstanding amount would show as arrears on their mortgage account until
repaid in full and any arrangement would appear on their credit files. It said their terms and
conditions made it clear that any formal arrangement or arrears may impact their credit file
and access to further borrowing and new rates.
Unhappy with Santanders response Mr K and Miss M brought their complaint to our service.
An investigator looked into things and thought the complaint should be upheld. She said that
in her opinion the implications of the PA werent made clear enough to Mr K and Miss M
during the initial call. Mr K and Miss M obtained funds from a family member to clear the
arrears in full. Our investigator felt that had Mr K and Miss M been provided with clearer
information from the outset, they would not have agreed to the PA but instead sourced the
funds to make July and Augusts payments from elsewhere.
As a result, she recommended that Santander remove the adverse information from Mr K
and Miss Ms credit files, allow access to competitive rates and refund them the difference
paid between such rate and the amount paid whilst on the SVR. She also awarded £350 for
the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr K and Miss M agreed with our investigators opinion, Santander didnt. It stood by its
opinion that the terms of the PA were made clear during the initial call. And, it said that it
tried to contact Mr K and Miss M when the PA ended to agree a further affordable
arrangement to repay the outstanding amount. Because it did not hear back from them,
arears were recorded. It says had an affordable arrangement been agreed, their credit files
would continue to show an arrangement instead of arrears. Santander further said that
during our investigation, Mr K and Miss M had since secured a more competitive rate with no
fees or an early repayment charge, as required, so they did not revert to the SVR.
This did not change our investigators opinion. Because an agreement wasnt reached, the 
matter was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision on 23 November 2020. 
An extract of my provisional findings is below.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In doing so Ive reached broadly the same outcome as our investigator. Ive listened 
to all the calls that took place between the parties involved since the PA was 
arranged to understand what happened. I dont think Santander provided clear 
enough information when the PA was set up or during the calls that took place when 
the PA ended. Ill explain why.
Miss M proactively called Santander in July 2019 to discuss her and Mr Ks situation.
Santander was empathetic to their circumstances and agreed a PA of £0 for two 
months. It explained that an arrears balance would show on the mortgage account, 
but because the PA had been agreed, it would appear as an arrangement on their 
credit files.
Miss M specifically asked during the call whether the PA would impact their 
creditworthiness. Santander did explain that an PA is arrears by agreement but it did 
not explain how this impacted them. Santander said the impact is reduced. But I 
dont think this was enough to make Miss M aware of the full implications, including 
their future access to rates. Miss M should have been provided with clearer 
information to allow her to make an informed choice about next steps.
Based on the information provided to Miss M she agreed to the PA. But I think if the
implications were better explained, its more likely Miss M wouldnt have agreed to the 
PA and would have made alternative arrangements. I say this because Mr K and Miss 
M were customers who had maintained a healthy mortgage account to date. They 
proactively made contact when their circumstances changed and needed temporary 
support with a clear plan moving forward to get their account back on track. Making it 
clear from the outset that their objective was to ensure they maintained their 
creditworthiness.
Its clear from what happened in the following months that Mr K and Miss M had other
means available to cover their mortgage payments. When they became aware of the 
impact on them, they decided to pay the arrears balance in full, using funds borrowed 
from a family member. So I think if they were aware of the full impact of the PA, they 
would have explored this option sooner to avoid any negative impact to their credit 
files.I also think Santander could have been clearer when explaining next steps when the 
PA came to an end and during following calls. Because this did not happen the PA 
lapsed, and arrears were reported in September 2019.
On 1 October 2019 Miss M called Santander to discuss her mortgage account. During 
their re-mortgage appointment she was told that their arrears had impacted their 
credit rating and access to rates. Miss M said that she was never told from the outset 
that the PA would impact them in this way. Santander said that they should have 
been told from the outset that the PA may impact their credit rating and access to 
rates. Miss M was offered the option of raising a complaint.
When Mr K and Miss M became aware of the impact on them, an arrangement to pay 
an additional £150 was immediately agreed and a few days later they instead decided 
to pay the arrears balance in full, using funds borrowed from a family member. But, by 
this point it was too late as the arrears had already been reported.
For the reasons Ive explained, I think Mr K and Miss M wouldve acted differently 
from the outset and sought an alternative way of covering their CMP for the two 
months in question. Therefore, the PA would not have been applied and no further 
consequences suffered, such as the arrears reported in September 2019 and the 
impact to their credit files.
The arrears balance was quickly cleared by Mr K and Miss M and they were 
subsequently able to switch to a variable tracker rate when their existing product 
ended in February 2020. Our investigator wasnt aware of this so she recommended 
that Santander should reimburse the difference between the SVR and a more 
competitive rate that theyd be eligible for, but for the arrears marker being applied.
Santander has said that the follow-on rate was recommended because Mr K and 
Miss M specifically wanted a product with no early repayment charge. Other lower 
rate products were available, but they did not meet their needs. But based on the 
information provided by Santander during our investigation, it appears there were 
other more competitive rates that Mr K and Miss M should have had access to (with 
no ERC), but for the PA. So, based on this I think Santander needs to do more to put 
things right.
For the reasons I have explained, my provisional decision is that I propose to uphold 
this complaint and require Santander UK Plc to:
Remove all adverse information from Mr K and Miss Ms credit files;
Tell us its best available rates that Mr K and Miss M should have been entitled 
to in February 2020 (with no ERC), but for the PA and readjust their mortgage 
account to reflect the extra interest paid from February 2020 to date;
Recalculate and pay Mr K and Miss M the difference in overpayments 
between the new rate and their existing one (including 8% basic interest);
Ensure any future access to rates isnt impacted as a result of the PA; and
pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused
Both parties responded to my provisional decision. Mr K and Miss M agreed, Santander 
didnt. In summary it said:
it followed its process correctly by letting Mr K and Miss M know the impact of having 
an arrangement in place;it would not discuss or refer to retention rates or lending policy as it cannot determine 
what an individual customers circumstances may be - other external factors may 
affect their banding; and
it contacted Mr K and Miss M on 3 September 2019 when the arrangement ended. 
Miss M called on 7 September 2019 to discuss the account. Santander said it 
needed to complete an I&E to establish an affordable repayment plan. Miss M 
agreed to call back around mid-September 2019 after knowing what her exact 
income would be, but it wasnt until October that payment of the arrears was 
discussed, leading to arrears being reported in the meantime.
Santander has provided the rates that would have been available to Mr K and Miss M but 
for the arrears being reported. 
I am now able to provide my final decision on the matter. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive also given careful consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my 
decision, including those in response to the provisional decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same conclusions as set out in my provisional decision 
and for the same reasons. Ill now address the specific point Santander has raised in 
response to the provisional decision.
Ive considered what Santander has said about how it explained the impact of having an 
arrangement in place. I appreciate its agents are instructed to follow a script in these 
circumstances. But, in this case, at the time of enquiring about the PA, Miss M 
specifically asked whether their creditworthiness would be impacted as a result of the 
PA. The rules state that when lenders communicate with customers it should provide 
clear, fair and not misleading information - in this case that would help Miss M make an 
informed decision about how to proceed. 
In its final response letter and during a call with Miss M on 1 October 2019, Santander 
explained that their terms and conditions state any formal arrangement or arrears will 
have the potential to affect your credit file and therefore affect your eligibility for 
additional borrowing and new rates. Id expect Santander to explain this to Miss M at the 
time of enquiring about the PA.
In my provisional decision I did note that I thought Santander had explained that an PA is 
arrears by agreement, but it did not explain how this impacted Mr K and Miss M. When 
Miss M asked the question Santander said, the impact is reduced. But I dont think this 
was enough to make Miss M aware of the full implications, including their future access 
to rates.
I also explained in my provisional decision why Im persuaded Mr K and Miss M wouldve 
acted differently, had they been told their credit file and access to future rates would 
likely be impacted as a result. 
Ive considered the information Santander has provided about what happened when the 
PA ended. But, because I think its more likely Mr K and Miss M wouldnt have agreed to 
the PA from the outset, Santander should put things right by putting them back in the position they would have been in had the PA not gone ahead. Which in turn makes what 
happened at the later stages of the process less relevant.  
Its clear that Miss M was keen to stick to the terms of the agreement. She reinstated the 
CMP as agreed and offered to make additional payments to clear the arrears. I appreciate 
she had agreed to call back around 17 September 2019 to establish an affordable amount. 
But due to the proximity of the September CMP, I think Santander should have made the 
implications of her not calling back clearer. Santander ended the call by saying hopefully 
you can call us thenif we know you can afford a little bit more, we can arrange that on 
17 September. There was no warning to make it clear that failure to set up an ongoing 
arrangement would lead to arrears being reported.
Following the call on 7 September 2019, their CMP had been reinstated as planned. I 
think had it been made clearer to Miss M at this point that she must call back before 
26 September 2019 to agree additional payments, or arrears would be reported, she 
would have done so. I say this because to date Miss M had kept in touch with Santander 
as agreed. They had the funds available to make the overpayments and would have 
taken the necessary steps to preserve their good credit history  as this had always 
been their main priority. 
Putting things right
For these reasons Im satisfied this complaint should be resolved by Santander UK Plc 
taking the following actions:
remove all adverse information from Mr K and Miss Ms credit files;
apply the best possible rate available in February 2020 with no ERC - 1.49% 
(2yr tracker BBR plus 0.74%) and readjust Mr K and Miss Ms mortgage 
account to reflect the extra interest paid from February 2020 to date*;
recalculate and pay Mr K and Miss M the difference in overpayments between 
the new rate and their existing one (including 8% basic interest**);
ensure any future access to rates isnt impacted as a result of the PA; and
pay £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
* this product comes with a £999 arrangement fee that Mr K and Miss M have agreed 
should be added to the mortgage balance.
** If Santander considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs (HMRC) to take off 
income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr K and Miss M how much its taken off. It 
should also give Mr K and Miss M a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can 
reclaim the tax from HMRC, if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Santander UK Plc to put things right as Ive set out above. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 February 2021.
 
Arazu Eid
Ombudsman