DRN-4348480
The complaint
Mrs C  complains Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited has handled her subsidence claim 
poorly. 
RSAs been represented b y agents fo r the claim. Fo r simplicity Ive generally referred to the 
agents actions as being tho se of RSA. 
What happened
In June 2020 Mrs C  made a claim for subsidence to her rental property. RSA felt  
. Mrs C says she was initially given an 18-month timescale to 
conclude the claim  from monitoring, removal of tree to repair. 
In Novembe r 2022 she complained to RSA about the prog ress, and its handlin g, of the 
claim. By that point, aroun d 30 months in, the tree had yet to be felled. She felt RSA was 
responsible for unnecessary delay - including by extending monitorin g, failing to apply for a 
 to be removed promptly and taking eight months to arrange for 
the trees removal. 
Mrs C  was also unhappy that RSA failed to make temporary repairs  leading to the loss of 
tenants and rental income. She said she had had to move back into the property as a result 
and ha s lost about £25,000 in rental income. She added she was now living in a poor 
condition property and experiencing significant distress and inconvenience. She complained 
she had to micromanage the claim as RSAs contractor has failed to progress it effectively. 
In January 2023 RSA issued a final response to M rs Cs complaint. It didnt agree to cover 
the loss of rent until resolution of the claim as she had requested. It said her moving back 
into the property invalidated the loss of rent claim. RSA added that the complexity of the 
claim, particularly removal of the tree, explained the timescales involved so far. But it did 
accept responsibility for some avoidable delay. It didnt, however, accept it was responsible 
for problems Mrs C  was having with a personal relationship . But it offered 
£400 compensation to acknowledge the distress and inconvenience it had caused. 
Mrs C  wasnt satisfied so came to this service. To resolve her complaint she said she would 
like RSA to confirm how the claim will proceed in terms of timescale, process and repairs, 
pay her for loss of rental income, provide Alternative Accommodation (AA) for her and settle 
her claim for an Aga.
Our Investigator considered the complaint. She recommended RSA provide Mrs C with AA, 
reimburse her for loss of rent during the period she has occupied the property up until it is 
suitable to be let  at £2,500 per month and pay her an additional £600 compensation. 
Mrs C  accept that outcome. But as RSA didnt the complaint was passed to me to decide. It 
said it didnt accept the property to be uninhabitable. It said the evidence supported many of 
the issues with the property being maintenance related  rather than resulting from 
subsidence. It didnt agree to cover AA costs for her. 
It said it was concerned Mrs C would profit from full loss of rent being paid whilst residing in 
the property. So it proposed that if it is to pay loss of rent that a deduction should be made 
for the rent she paid in her previous property.  
I issued a provisional decision. Its reasoning forms part of this final decision, so Ive copied it 
in below. In it I explained why I didnt intend to require RSA to provide Mrs C with AA. I said 
why I instead intended to ask it to pay her £2,500 per month loss of rent from September 
2022 - but allow a deduction of £1,500 per month and an £250 allowance. 
My provisional decision also sets out why I intended to find RSA should reimburse Mrs C 
£1,042 removal costs and pay a total of £1,000 (including any previously paid) compensation 
for distress and inconvenience. Finally I invited Mrs C  and RSA to provide any new 
comments or information they would like me to consider before issuing a final decision.
RSA responded in agreement with my provisional decision. Mrs C
 accepted in general but 
asked for some additional costs to be considered. Following that I explained that, as the 
policy terms didnt provide cover for various standing costs for the insured property, I didnt 
intend to require RSA to cover them alongside loss of rent if Mrs C moved out. 
I said I did intend to require RSA to pay £1,200 removal costs should Mrs C move out of the 
insured property before its in a suitable condition for reletting. I based that on the same 
reason s given, in my provisional decisio n, for requiring RSA to cover the moving in removal 
costs.  
Finally I explained why I intended to require RSA to pay Mrs C, should she move out of the 
insured property, £200 per month for a maximum of eight months. In summary I felt RSA had 
failed to explain to her, in August 2022, her loss of rent entitlement. I said had it done so she 
probably would nt have moved out of her rental pro perty  and so would nt be facing the 
prospect of paying as a high rent as she is likely to incur if she does return to equivalent 
rental property.
Mrs C  and RSA both provided responses to my latest proposals. I addressed those below. 
what Ive provisionally decided and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As this is an informal service Im not going to respond here to every point or piece of  
evidence Mrs C
 and RSA have provided. Instead Ive focused on those I consider to 
be key or central to the issue. But I would like to reassure both that I have considered 
everything provided.
Mrs Cs tenants left the property in September 2022. Im satisfied that the substantive 
reason for that was the subsidence related damage to, and condition of, the property. 
Mrs C  did serve notice on them  but that resulted from them not paying the full rent 
due to the propertys condition and M rs Cs concern she may face legal or 
enforcement issues from renting property in a poor condition.
The poli cy does cover loss of rent. It says if the property is made uninhabitable by 
subsidence RSA will p ay the re nt she would have received. RSAs disputed th at the 
property should be considered uninhabitable. Ive considered what it said. But I think 
its reasonable to say its uninhabitable . I accept its possible some problems, like the 
roof and windows, may not be directly caused by the subsidence (although Im not 
making a finding on this here). But even if they arent Mrs C makes a reasonable point that, because of the ongoing 
movement, she s been unable to have the relevant repairs made. Othe r issues, such 
as with the toilet, drai ns, rear door, cracks and uneven patio seem likel y to be 
subsidence related. 
In any event Im persuaded that there are enough issues with the property (either 
directly or indirectly caused b y the subsidence) that the prop erty ca nt be relet. RSAs 
accepted that its not feasi ble to make temporary repairs to ma ke it lettable. So its 
reasonable to consider the property as uninhabitable  and so RSA should cover 
loss of rent. So it seems its uninhabitable or unlettable until the post stabilisation 
repai rs are complete.
RSA paid some loss of rent up to the point the tenants moved out in September 
2022. Mrs C seems satisfied with that. So I havent considered that settlement here. 
She would like RSA to pay around £2,500 from that point until the property is 
repaired post stabilisation. 
The situation is complicated by the fact that Mrs C, when her tenants moved out, 
moved into the property. I understand that was to mitigate her loss. Without the rental 
income she was strugglin g to afford to pay for a property she wa s renting for her own 
household. Thats a reasonable decision. 
RSA has said as Mrs C is resident in the property loss of rent isnt payable under the 
policy. I think thats an unreasonable approach. Her living there is reducing the loss 
RSA is liable for. If she hadn t moved in Id probably require it to cover the full rent. I 
do accept RSAs argument, th at whilst shes residing in the property, its not 
reasonable to require it to pay the full rent she would otherwise have received. The 
property isnt, even theoretically, available to let. In addition Mrs C would potentially 
be better off - financially at least, although perhaps not in terms of lifestyle. 
So I intend to require RSA to pay Mrs C £2,500 per month loss of rent from 
September 2022 until the date the subsidence related damage has been repaired to 
a condition that would allow for it to be relet. But RSA can deduct £1,500 per month 
(the amount she was paying for the place she was renting) for the period she resided 
in the property.
RSA can deduct the same amount for any period she continues to reside in the 
property. However, if Mrs C chooses to move back to rented accommodation, at her 
own cost, it will need to pay her the full £2,500 per month. 
RSA should have agreed something along these lines from September 2022. As it 
didnt Mrs C  has unfairly been without the loss of rent payments. So I intend to 
require it to add simple interest at 8% to the settlement. This will be due from the first 
day of each month a payment is to be made for until the date of settlement.
For clarity the loss of rent I intend to award i s intended to be in addition to the 
payment previously offered for the period the tenants were still in residence.  
I accept Mrs C and her household have been, and may continue to, live in less than 
ideal conditions through their occupation of the property. This is an inconvenience to 
them in terms of lifestyle. It probably results in some distress and potentially some 
additional costs. As Ive said above it also reduces the loss RSAs liable for. So it seems reasonable for RSA to pay an allowance of sort to recognise the impact 
of the poor conditions and disturbance to M rs Cs life. I intend to require it pay £250 
for every month they have, and continue, to reside in the property. As this is a 
compensation payment, rather than replacing lost inco me, R SA wont need to add 
simple interest. 
Mrs C incurred costs when moving to the property. Again as the move reduced the 
loss to be covered by RSA its reasonable that it covers those costs of £1,042. Shes 
been without those funds since September 2022. So simple interest, at 8%, should 
be added from that date until the date of settlement. 
Our Investigator said RSA should cover the cost of AA for Mrs C, as well as pay loss 
of rent. I dont intend to require it to do that. It wouldnt be reasonable to require RSA 
to do so. Mrs C didnt occupy the property at the outset of the claim. Instead she 
gave up her own residence and moved in (for understandable reasons) in the middle 
of it. 
If RSA were to cover both costs Mrs C would be receiving the full rental income from 
her property whilst not paying any rent for own accommodation. That would result in 
her being significantly better off financially. However, as set above, if she wishes to 
move back to rented property, at her own cost, it would be reasonable for RSA to pay 
her the full loss of rent on her property.
There has been a dispute about an earlier offer of £6,000 for temporary repairs. I 
havent considered that as the claim has moved on. The proposed settlement was to 
allow the property to be repaired to lettable condition. Its since been accepted its not 
feasible to do that ahead of permanent repairs. So that offer is no longer relevant.
Mrs C seems to have accepted the Investigators view that its reasonable of RSA to 
only settle the Aga part of her claim when the property has stabilised. However, just 
in case its still in dispute, I agree its a reasonable decision. Her Aga was damaged 
by movement, so it wouldnt be appropriate to install a new one before the property is 
confirmed to be stable. 
Mrs C says delays with the claim caused her to miss out on a lower mortgage rate. I 
dont intend to require RSA to reimburse the losses she feels shes incurred. I accept 
RSA is responsible for some element of avoidable delay that is likely to extend to the 
claim by a period. But lending decisions are based on a range of factors. Im not able 
to say she most likely would have, without the delay, been offered a lower mortgage 
rate at some earlier point.  
Mrs C has made a few specific requests around the future conduct of the claim  for 
example shed like this service to require RSA to confirm timescales and the 
appointment of an expert to assess for a scope of works. Im not going to set out any 
specific requirements along these lines for RSA. Doing so would be getting too 
involved in the detail of the claim handling. I can see from a recent update that RSAs 
set out intentions to monitor the property until the Spring and to draw up a schedule 
of works once stabilisation is confirmed. It also seems to be trying to work with 
Mrs C to progress the claim effectively.
That seems a reasonable plan. I hope it results in the claim being satisfactorily 
resolved for Mrs C. But it doesnt absolve RSA of responsibility for historic avoidable 
delay. I accept its point that the claim is complicated by the involvement of third 
parties   However, without going into detail, RSA 
could at stages have progressed the claim more effectively than it has so far. This 
has no doubt increased the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mrs C 
during the claim.  
 
So having considered everything I agree with the Investigator that RSA should pay 
Mrs C  a total of £1,000 compensation (including the £400 offered in the January 
2023 final response and anything paid following the Investigators recommendation). 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what s fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start with the proposed £200 contribution towards M rs Cs likely increased cost of rent 
should she return to private rented property. RSA seemed unclear as to why this is being 
awarded. For clarity Im not requiring this to be paid under the terms of M rs Cs policy. I dont 
consider it an AA payment or contribution. 
Instead Im requiring it to be paid as she will face increased costs as a result of a failing by 
RSA  so outside of any policy entitlement. In the summer of 2022 it failed to respond in 
good time to he r enquiry about loss of rent entitlement. If it had replied it should have 
explained she would be entitled to lo ss of rent. And had that happened I conside r she 
probably would nt have relinquished her private rented accommodati on. She now wishes to 
return to provide rented accommodation. As I explained previously, she will likely incur 
higher costs  mainly due to loss of some protection fro m ma rket rental inflation deriving 
from her status as a sitting tenant. 
So the additional cost arose from RSAs mistake  not informing her of the loss of rent 
entitlement. So its fair that it covers that additional cost  or loss. Im not going to repeat 
here how I came to £200 fo r a maximum of eight months. Both parties are aware. 
RSA referred to my proposed £2,500 loss of rent payme nts for the insured property. It said 
this has already factored in rental inflation. It asked tha t I review that figure . I used that figure 
as that was the rental level, factoring in inflatio n, that RSA had already agreed to previously 
in the cla im. Im not to review it at this stage in the complaint. It s a separate matter to the 
£200 Ive more recently proposed.  
Regarding the £200 proposal Mrs C made some additional comments about comparability of 
her old rental property to her proposed new one. These havent persuaded me that I should 
increase that award. So I will require RSA to pay her £200 per month for a maximum of eight 
months in the event she does move out of the insured property.
RSA didnt dispute the proposed award of £1,200 removal costs for moving out of the 
insured property. Mrs C  felt this wasnt enough to cover all the costs. She provided a quote 
for around £2,000 (including VAT). She said the previous cost Id based my proposed award 
on only covered removal of large furniture  she had moved many items herself. I wasnt 
aware of that when I proposed the award. It may be that costs of a full removal service are 
higher than what I proposed. 
However, Im conscious that Mrs C is keen for this complaint to resolve to allow her to 
secure a tenancy. So Im going to prioritise reaching that point and avoid the further delay 
inevitable from allowing RSA time to respond to any change in the proposed award. If it 
wishes to voluntarily increase the payment for moving out it can  but Im not going to 
require it to do so. I will maintain my proposed award of £1,200 for moving out costs. 
Neither Mrs C or RSA objected to my finding on the requested standing costs for the 
insured property. So Im not going to require RSA to cover these alongside the loss of rent 
payments. 
Other than that set out directly above I havent seen anything to persuade me to change the 
outcomes proposed in my provisional decision. So I havent changed those  just added the 
two extra awards discussed here. 
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Limited to pay Mrs 
C:
£2,500 per month loss of rent from September 2022 until the date the subsidence  
related damage has been repaired to a condition allowing for relet. £1,500 per month  
can be deducted for the period she resided, or continues to choose to reside, in the  
insured property. Simple interest, at 8%, is to be added to the payments covering the  
period from September 2022 to the date of my final decision.
£250 allowance for each month she resided or continues to choose to reside in the  
insured property.
£200 per month contribution towards increased rental costs (for a maximum of eight  
months) should Mrs C move out of the insured property before its in a condition for  
relet.
£1,042 to cover the costs of moving to the property in September 2022 (simple  
interest is to be added to this at 8% from September 2022 to the date of settlement),
£1,200 to cover removal costs should she move out of the insured property before its  
in a condition for relet.
£1,000 (including the £400 offered previously and any paid following the  
Investigators recommendation) compensation in total for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 December 2023.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman