DRN-4340108
The complaint
W, a limited company complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc is unfairly refusing to pay money to 
its director and shareholder, Mr B
.
What happened
W used to hold a business bank account with HSBC. In July 2021, HSBC wrote to W to say 
that it had carried out a redress project which identified that W was due a refund of interest 
of around £140. Ws bank account had already been closed, so HSBC sent W a payment 
request form to complete.
HSBC received the completed form which asked for the money to be paid to Mr Bs bank 
account. HSBC told Mr B that as W was still active on the Companies House register, it 
could only make the payment to the account holder.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Ws complaint be upheld. She explained that HSBC 
could only pay the refund to an account in Ws name. If W is officially dormant, a subsidiary 
could access the money. But in Ws case, there is no subsidiary to receive the funds in Ws 
place and according to Companies House, W is not officially dormant.
Mr B is unhappy with the investigation outcome. He says hes asking HSBC to pay him the 
refund as the sole shareholder as W is currently dormant and wont be reactivated in the 
near future.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to disappoint W, but like the investigator, I dont uphold its complaint. When HSBC 
wrote to W to tell it about the refund, the letter made it clear that the account holder must be 
the individual or entity due the refund. In Ws case, Mr B as shareholder is not the individual 
or entity due the refund  that is W. So, I agree that HSBC doesnt need to pay the refund to 
Mr B, even though he is the sole shareholder. 
Although it might not be convenient  it would be possible for W to open a bank account in 
its own name to receive the refund. So, I cant fairly find that HSBC is refusing to make the 
payment.
HSBC has explained that where a company is dormant, it is possible to make the payment to 
a subsidiary company. In Ws case, it is still listed as active on Companies House and there 
is no subsidiary company for HSBC to pay as an alternative. So, I cant fairly require HSBC 
to make the payment to a different account.
Im satisfied that HSBC has explained to W what steps it would need to take to receive the 
refund. As I dont find HSBC has done anything wrong or treated W unreasonably, I dont 
have grounds on which to uphold Ws complaint.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask W to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 October 2023.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman