DRN-3733620
The complaint
Mr A complains about the call waiting times he experienced when contacting MBNA Limited. 
What happened
Mr A contacted MBNA Limited to discuss his ongoing claims. While on the call, Mr A 
complained about the length of time hed been waiting. The agent he spoke with offered     
Mr A £25 to resolve his complaint. Mr A declined and asked for £40  and this was then paid 
to Mr A. MBNA Limited followed this up in writing to confirm theyd resolved the complaint. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He thought MBNA Limiteds offer was 
reasonable and wouldnt be asking them to take any further action. Mr A disagreed so the 
matter has come to me for a decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided the steps already taken by MBNA Limited to resolve the 
complaint are fair and reasonable. So, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. I understand 
Mr A will be disappointed by this but Ill explain why I have made this decision. 
Ive looked at the service given to Mr A. The key facts about the complaint arent in dispute. 
During the call, Mr A explains his frustration at having to wait just under an hour for his call to 
be answered. The agent explains they can credit Mr As account with £25 for the 
inconvenience he experienced. Mr A then explains this isnt sufficient to address the impact 
on him and asks for £40 to resolve his complaint. The agent then asks if this will resolve    
Mr As complaint and he confirms it will. The agent explains theyll credit this to Mr As 
account in the next few days  and this was then paid. 
My role requires me to say how a complaint should be settled quickly and with minimal 
formality and so Ill focus on whether I think the offer is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Mr A explains he was left waiting for a significant period of time when he had 
other things to do and is unhappy about his call costs. Its not unreasonable to expect there 
might be times when a business will experience high volumes of calls which means call 
waiting times are unavoidable. 
That said, MBNA Limited accept Mr A was inconvenienced and have paid him compensation 
in line with the amount he requested. I acknowledge this was frustrating for Mr A, but I think 
the £40 paid is fair and reasonable in the circumstances and reflects the inconvenience 
caused to Mr A in having to wait just under an hour to speak to an agent. I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest there was any impact on Mr A beyond the inconvenience caused while 
waiting or that the call costs were higher than the £40 paid. So, taking this into account, I 
wont be asking MBNA Limited to take any further steps.  
My final decision
For the reasons I have given, it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 November 2022.
 
Paviter Dhaddy
Ombudsman