DRN-2420345
The complaint
Mr Ds complaint is that Tesco Personal Finance PLC gave him incorrect advice when his 
credit card was declined at an overseas car rental company terminal. He says this meant he 
needed to buy an insurance waiver at a cost of £140 and that this wouldnt have been 
necessary had the correct advice been provided.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mr D had pre-booked a hire car but when attempting to pay the security deposit with 
Tesco credit card, his card was declined. Information provided by Tesco showed the 
reasons for decline was the card being used before its application start date. Mr Ds 
card was active at the time which suggested there was an issue at the retailers end. 
Based on this, I didnt find that Tesco was at fault by declining the initial transaction.
Mr D contacted Tesco and was told that Tesco didnt transact with the car rental 
company Mr D was using. This information was incorrect. Tesco apologised for this 
and paid Mr D £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience this caused. 
But, the decline of his credit card meant Mr D had to acquire an insurance waiver at a 
cost of £140 so that he could have use of the hire car.
I considered what would have happened had the correct information been provided 
when Mr D contacted Tesco about his card being declined. Had he been given the 
correct reason for his card being declined I thought he could have attempted the 
transaction again or ensured the rental company had input the correct details. As he 
was told the rental company was one that Tesco didnt transact with this opportunity 
wasnt available to him. 
I couldnt say that if Mr D had been given the correct information and a further 
payment attempt had been made this would have been successful but noted that 
Tesco had confirmed there were no issues with Mr Ds card and Mr D said that other 
transactions were successfully taking place on the terminals. 
In summary, I didnt hold Tesco responsible for the initial problem for the transaction failing 
but I found that the advice Mr D received meant he couldnt take reasonable action to have 
his card accepted which resulted in him incurring additional costs. Because of this I upheld 
Mr Ds complaint and found the fairest resolution was for Mr D to be refunded the cost of the 
insurance waiver he acquired (which I understood to be £140). I said this payment should be 
additional to the £25 that had already been paid for the inconvenience Mr D experienced.
Mr D had no further information to add in response to my provisional decision. Tesco 
reiterated that the payment had been declined three times and it didnt accept that had Mr D 
challenged the rental car provider at the time and a further attempt was made this would 
have been successful. It noted that Mr D had said other customers were having problems 
with the terminals. It didnt accept any liability for the costs Mr D incurred. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional decision I do not hold Tesco responsible for the issue Mr D 
experienced when trying to make the security deposit payment on collection of the hire car 
he had pre-booked. And I note Tescos comments about the transaction being attempted 
more than once.
There is agreement that Mr D was provided with incorrect advice when he contacted Tesco 
about the payment issues he was experiencing. The outstanding issue in this complaint is 
the additional costs Mr D incurred.
I understand Tescos comments about the issues at the retailer and its belief that even if 
Mr D had been provided with the correct information and a further payment attempt been 
made this wouldnt have been successful. As I said in my provisional decision, I cannot say 
what the outcome would have been had a further payment attempt been made. However, I 
find, as I said in my provisional decision, that because of the incorrect information Mr D was 
provide with by Tesco, he wasnt given the opportunity to challenge the rental car provider. I 
find that Mr Ds actions of contacting Tesco when the payment was declined, showed he 
would have more likely than not attempted the transaction again had he been given correct 
information. At this point he would have been able to inform the rental car provider there 
were no issues with his card. This opportunity wasnt given to him as he was incorrectly told 
that Tesco didnt transact with the rental car provider.
So, while I note Tescos comments about the issues of failed transactions, in this case I find 
that Mr D would have made a further payment attempt and had this been successful he 
wouldnt have incurred the additional costs. Therefore, based on the individual 
circumstances of this complaint, I find the fairest resolution is for Mr D to be refunded the 
additional costs he incurred. This is additional to the £25 payment he has already received 
from Tesco for the distress an inconvenience he was caused. 
Putting things right
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should refund Mr D the cost of the insurance waiver he bought 
(which I understand cost £140 - evidence to be provided if needed) along with 8% simple 
interest from the date of payment to the date of settlement.
If Tesco considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr D a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Tesco Personal Finance PLC should take 
the actions set out above in settlement of this complaint.
. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 February 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman