DRN-3669725
The complaint
A complain that Santander UK Plc failed to correctly credit monies that were deposited 
through an Automated Teller Machine (ATM).
What happened
A was depositing cash (£550) from their business and used an external ATM at their local 
Santander branch. The ATM had difficulties accepting the cash and took some funds before 
trapping the remaining cash.
At this point it was just prior to the branchs normal opening hours and after a few minutes of 
observing the ATM to see whether it would return the cash, A knocked on the door of the 
branch to get some help with the problem. 
A has stated that they maintained a view of the ATM and no one else apart from an old 
gentleman was near the ATM. Staff at the branch opened the ATM and found £50 trapped in 
the machine which this was eventually credited to As account. There was no sign of any 
other surplus cash.
Santander continued to investigate the missing cash and also arranged for an engineer to 
carry out a more thorough examination of the inside of the ATM to check whether the 
missing cash had been trapped elsewhere. The engineer couldnt find any unaccounted for 
cash. Santanders records for the ATM showed that various other deposits were as expected 
and no further surplus funds were found. 
A complained to Santander about the issue and wanted the missing £500 depositing into 
their account. Santander looked into the complaint but didnt change their position as they 
didnt believe the missing cash was trapped in the ATM, so couldnt agree to refund A.
A was left unhappy with how Santander had dealt with their issue and brough the complaint 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service for an independent review. As complaint was looked 
into by one of our investigators who asked for supporting information from both parties. 
A again explained what had happened and provided accounting details showing the 
accumulation of cash through their business which is what was taken that day to be 
deposited into the ATM.
Santander provided details of their investigation and documents showing the operation of the 
ATM and what steps had been taken to look for the missing cash. There was no CCTV 
available covering the external ATM, nor were other (Council) CCTV cameras available to 
assist with what had happened.
Our investigator accepted that A had attempted to deposit the cash, but also that the ATM 
hadnt been found to contain the missing £500. The ATM only had an extra £50 which was 
believed to be a deposit from A. The complaint wasnt upheld, but A disagreed with the 
outcome and asked for a further review of their complaint. Its now been passed to me for a 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From looking at the records supplied by A, I dont doubt they attempted to deposit the cash 
at the ATM. Similarly, Santanders records seem to indicate that the missing cash wasnt 
retained in the ATM.
I appreciate A was concerned about the security of the ATM whilst it was being examined, 
but theres no evidence to show that the funds were in the ATM at the time it was examined, 
either by the branch staff on the day or by the engineer when he was called some days later.
The records from Santander show they were trying various avenues to investigate what had 
happened, which included the engineer visit to check that the cash hadnt got stuck in an 
unusual part of the machine. ATMs, by design, channel the funds into certain areas and 
have a procedure if cash gets stuck. Records are also produced which should match the 
activity on the machine. If excess cash (referred to as overage) is present, it usually goes 
into the purge bin which is specifically designed to capture cash when theres a problem with 
the notes or the machine.
Here, the purge bin only contained £50 and no other cash was found in the ATM. I think, on 
balance, the physical inspection (including the engineers examination) and the records of 
the ATM show that the £500 was never retained within it.
A has said that they kept an eye on the ATM whilst they called for assistance and spoke with 
the branch staff. I appreciate they dont think that anyone else could have removed the cash, 
but this appears to be the only reasonable explanation. If it wasnt in the ATM and A didnt 
remove it from the machine, it had to have gone somewhere. 
I understand theres a wall between the front doors and the ATM, so it remains a possibility 
that someone unobserved by A could have taken the cash without them realising. The 
relevant issue for me though is to determine if Santander can be held responsible for the 
loss of As cash. I dont think they can because theres no evidence that it was retained in 
the ATM. 
It's a difficult message to have to give A, but without evidence that the ATM retained the 
cash, I cant hold Santander liable for any refund.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision before 28 October 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman