DRN-3135525
The complaint
Mr K is unhappy with the service that he received when he visited a branch of National 
Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest).
What happened
Mr K visited a NatWest branch intending to withdraw £1,000 from his current account at a 
time when the Covid-19 pandemic meant that many businesses had restrictions in place in 
regard to customers entering their premises. Mr K was met at the branch door by a member 
of staff who asked Mr K to wear a mask before he would be allowed to enter. Mr K explained 
that he didnt have to wear a mask as he was medically exempt, at which time the staff 
member asked to see evidence from Mr K of his medical exemption. 
Mr K explained that there was no requirement for him to provide any evidence of medical 
exemption, and subsequently the staff member let Mr K into the branch following Mr K using 
sanitiser to clean his hands. However, it was intimated to Mr K that he still might not be 
permitted to use the counter facilities which meant that Mr K wouldnt be able to fulfil the 
objective of his going to branch  which was to withdraw an amount of cash larger than he 
would be able to withdraw from an ATM because of the ATM daily withdrawal limit. 
At this point, Mr K didnt feel comfortable with how he was being treated by NatWests staff 
member, and he left the branch without withdrawing any money. Mr K wasnt happy with how 
hed been treated or made to feel by NatWest, and so he raised a complaint.
NatWest looked at Mr Ks complaint. They explained to Mr K that their policy was to ask all 
customers entering a branch to wear a mask and that if a customer stated that they werent 
willing to wear because of, for instance, a medical exemption, then it may be the case that 
that customer would be asked to provide proof of that medical exemption. NatWest also 
confirmed that if a customer couldnt or was unwilling to provide proof of their medical 
exemption that they would then be allowed into branch, although the services that they could 
access may be restricted. Finally, NatWest apologised to Mr K if he had felt that their staff 
member had been confrontational in any way.
Mr K wasnt satisfied with NatWests response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they felt that it had been 
understandable, given the social circumstances in place at that time, that Mr K had been 
asked to wear a mask and had been challenged as to his stated medical exemption. So, 
they didnt uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Mr K remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can appreciate how it must have been frustrating for Mr K to have not been able to 
complete the cash withdrawal he had visited NatWests branch specifically to do. 
However, I do feel that it was reasonable, given the Covid-19 pandemic and the 
requirements in place for businesses such as NatWest to mitigate against potential viral 
transmission that were in place at that time, for NatWest to have asked Mr K to wear a mask 
before entering the branch. And I also feel that it was reasonable, following Mr K informing 
NatWest that he had a medical exemption, for NatWest to have asked Mr K to provide proof 
of that medical exemption.
I say this because it was incumbent on NatWest to protect not only the general public who 
visited their branches, but also their staff members who worked in branch. And as such it 
does seem reasonable to me that NatWest would make efforts to ensure that they didnt 
allow customers into branch who werent wearing a mask, and who therefore did encompass 
a heightened risk of potential viral transmission, unless such customers could demonstrate a 
valid reason for not doing so. And this is especially the case when its remembered that not 
all members of the public accepted the restrictions in place at that time and that some 
members of the public who didnt have a medical exemption were stating that they did have 
such an exemption so as to avoid having to wear a mask.  
Mr K has stated that there was no legal requirement for him to provide confirmation of his 
medical exemption. But it must be noted that this service isnt a Court of Law, and doesnt 
act as one, but rather that the remit of this service is to make an assessment of whether a 
fair outcome is considered to have occurred or not. 
And in this instance, while I appreciate Mr Ks frustration in being asked to provide 
confirmation of his medical exemption, I dont feel that I can fairly or reasonably censure 
NatWest for having a policy in place thats designed to protect its customers and its staff 
from potential viral transmission, as described above.
NatWest have confirmed that as per their policy it should have been the case that, following 
Mr K stating that he couldnt provide evidence of his medical exemption, that Mr K should 
have been allowed into branch, although it may have been the case that Mr K wouldnt be 
allowed to use the counter service under those circumstances. This appears to have been 
what happened in this instance, and again, given NatWests obligations to protect its 
customers and staff, I dont consider NatWests position on this matter to be unreasonable.
It also must be acknowledged that Mr K could have withdrawn the amount of cash he 
needed via an ATM if he had wanted to do so, albeit over multiple days and likely not in the 
specific denomination that Mr K wanted. 
However, if Mr K did want to withdraw the full amount that he needed in one transaction, and 
in the specific denomination of his choice, then he would need to have made that withdrawal 
over the counter in branch. And ultimately, if that was the case, then for the reasons already 
stated above, I dont think that it was unreasonable or unfair for Mr K to have been asked by 
NatWest to either wear a mask in branch or to provide confirmation of any medical 
exemption he may have had which exempted him from doing so. 
All of which means that I find it difficult to conclude that NatWest have acted unreasonably 
towards Mr K here, and Im satisfied that the response that NatWest have already issued to 
Mr K, including the explanation of NatWests position on this matter and NatWests apology if 
the actions of their staff member felt confrontational to Mr K in any way, already represents a 
fair resolution to what has taken place.While I appreciate that this wont be the outcome that Mr K was wanting, it follows that my 
final decision here will be that I wont be upholding this complaint or instructing NatWest to 
take any further action at this time. I hope that Mr K will understand, given all that Ive 
explained, why Ive made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 March 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman