DRN-1930620
 
The complaint
Miss W says she was mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) in 1998.
Its been agreed in this case that AXA France IARD (AXA) as the insurer should accept 
responsibility for the complaint.
What happened
In 1998, Miss W applied for a store card by completing an application form to finance a 
minor car repair. PPI was added to her account. She says this was done without her 
knowledge; she says she didnt need PPI because she was in good health, in full time 
employment, she would get sick pay and had some savings. She could also rely on her 
partner to pay the monthly repayments on her store card.
The policy cost was no more than £1.00 per £100 Miss W owed on her store card. The 
policy would have paid 15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss W 
couldnt work because she had an accident, was unwell or lost her job. The policy also 
provided life cover.  
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint. Miss W disagreed with our adjudicators 
view so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding this case. And having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Ws complaint. I know this will disappoint her, so Ill explain why.
I first looked at whether AXA made it clear the policy was an optional product. AXA 
produced a copy of Miss Ws store card application. I can see there was a tick box stating 
Yes, I want my account covered by Payment protection Insurance This box is ticked on 
Miss Ws application. She said this wasnt her tick, so I can reasonably assume the form 
was most likely completed by a member of staff. I noted she declined other offers on the 
application form - so I think the form was diligently completed and there was probably 
some sort of discussion about the things she wanted and didnt want. And as she signed 
the form, I can reasonably assume she checked the details were correct. So I think her 
signature means AXA probably made it clear the policy was optional and that she chose to 
take it out  although I can understand why she may not be able to remember this.
I can reasonably assume the premiums for the policy would have appeared on her 
statements  so if she hadnt agreed to the policy, or it had been added without either her 
knowledge or her consent, I think its reasonable to say she would have queried the 
premiums shortly after the policy was added. So taking all this into consideration, I think Miss 
W knew the policy was optional and chose to purchase it because she saw some value in it.
I dont think AXA advised Miss W to take out the PPI. This means AXA didnt have to make 
sure the policy was suitable for her, but it still had to provide her with clear information about 
the policy so she could decide if she wanted to take it out. 
I dont know exactly what information Miss W received about the policy at the time of the 
sale. But even if I accept that she wasnt given clear enough information about the policy, I 
dont think this would have affected her decision to take out the PPI for the reasons 
explained below.
Miss W was eligible for the policy and doesnt appear to have been affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations which may have made it difficult for her to make a claim  such as a 
pre-existing medical condition. She told us she was employed and in good health. Miss W 
says she would have received some sick pay if she was away from work due to illness. But 
the policy could have paid out in addition to Miss Ws employment benefits so could have 
proved useful to Miss W if she had an accident, became ill or lost her job. She could also 
have benefited from the additional life cover. 
Miss W said she could rely on her partner to make her card repayments. I do understand the 
point she is making. But there was no guarantee she could still rely on this help at some 
unknown point in the future. So I still think she could have found the PPI useful.
I dont know if AXA made the cost and benefits of the policy clear enough for Miss W to 
understand what the real cost of the policy was for her. But taking everything into account, I 
think if Miss W had properly understood the cost and benefit provided she would have 
thought the policy potentially useful. The policy would pay a 15% monthly benefit until the 
outstanding balance was cleared and the monthly cost did not seem to be unaffordable.
Taking everything into account, I think she knew she had a choice about taking the PPI and I 
think she would still have taken out the cover even if she had been given full details about it.  
Ive taken into account all of Miss Ws submissions, but they do not change my conclusion.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 August 2020.
 
Amrit Mangra
Ombudsman