DRN-3125225
The complaint
Mr C has complained about how AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under a 
commercial property insurance policy.
References to AXA include agents acting on its behalf.
  
What happened
A neighbours property had a water leak which caused damage to a property Mr C owned. 
Mr C contacted the managing agent for the block the property was in to make an insurance 
claim, but it was a few months before the claim was registered with AXA.
During the claim, Mr C raised a number of concerns with AXA about how it was progressing. 
When Mr C complained to AXA he said he was unhappy with the cash settlement offered. 
He also said AXA should pay the management fees and other costs he was continuing to 
pay for the property and that his son had to move to alternative accommodation, which the 
policy should have paid for.
When AXA replied, it said the cash settlement offered was in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. It also said the management fees and other expenses for the 
property would have been incurred anyway and couldnt be considered as part of the claim. 
It said Mr Cs son had moved out of the property a few months before the incident and not 
because of the water leak, so this wasnt covered by the policy.
When Mr C complained to this service, our investigator upheld the complaint. He said Mr Cs 
son needed to move back to the property part way through the claim and so AXA should pay 
the cost of alternative accommodation from that point. AXA had also not been able to show 
the scope of the damage or the reason for the cash settlement amount. He said AXA should 
settle the claim in line with the costs provided by Mr C. He also said AXA should pay £400 
compensation because of the delays in progressing the claim and AXA had also been 
unable to explain why it hadnt considered Mr Cs request for alternative accommodation 
when he asked for this for his son.
As AXA didnt agree, the complaint has been referred to me.
 
I issued my provisional decision on 20 September 2021. In my provisional decision, I 
explained the reasons why I was planning to uphold the complaint. I said:
This has clearly been a lengthy claim. Some of that seems to have been because the 
management company took some time to register the claim. However, I wont be considering 
that as it is outside the remit of this service. I will only be looking at what happened from 
when the claim was registered with AXA. Nonetheless, I can see that when AXA registered 
the claim there were a range of issues with progressing it and in AXA responding to 
requests, such as for alternative accommodation.
Mr C has said the cash settlement offered to him isnt enough to deal with the damage. AXA 
offered about £13,000 to settle the claim. But Mr C wanted about £30,000. Some of Mr Cs 
costs seem to be for items such as management fees for the property. But, I wouldnt 
normally expect an insurer to cover costs that would have been incurred anyway. Instead, 
Ive mainly focussed on costs that would normally be covered by a policy.
AXA has said that some of the work Mr C included in a schedule of works were 
unnecessary, such as a large part of the costs for replacing the kitchen. Ive looked at the 
preliminary report when AXA assessed Mr Cs property. This included photos of parts of the 
property and said the following:
[Mr C] alleges that the washing machine leaked in the flat above, and water ran down the 
walls and ceilings  causing damage to all walls, ceilings, skirtings, and floor coverings in all 
rooms of the flat. In addition to that, the bathroom electrics have gone, and wall and floor 
tiles are boast. Decoration will be required throughout. (As original)
Ive also looked at AXAs scope of works and this lists a wide range of work to repair the 
property. One of the main areas of difference between AXAs and Mr Cs costs seemed to be 
for replacing the kitchen. I asked AXA why it thought its costings were appropriate to restore 
Mr C to the position he was in before the claim. AXA replied and said Mr Cs quote for the 
kitchen wasnt reflective of the quality of the kitchen that was at the property. When I asked 
AXA to provide evidence of its assessment of the quality of the kitchen, it didnt reply.
Looking at AXAs initial report, in my view, it lacks detail about the level of damage. AXA also 
hasnt provided evidence to show why its costings are reasonable. So, I currently intend to 
say that AXA must settle the claim at the cost to Mr C of carrying out the work in order to 
ensure that a lasting and effective repair is carried out to Mr Cs property.
Mr C also provided a quote for some electrical work to replace some heating units. AXA 
confirmed this hadnt previously been included in its settlement offer and that if the heating 
units needed replacing, it could be included as an additional item in the settlement. From 
what Ive seen, Mr C had previously provided the quote to AXA, so I think it has had the 
opportunity to carry out any checks into that part of the claim. In the circumstances, I 
currently intend to say that AXA should pay the cost to Mr C of having the heating units 
replaced.
Mr C has also said that because of the time that has passed since he first made his claim, 
he is concerned that the quotes he has for the work wont reflect the cost to get the work 
carried out now. I can understand this concern. I currently intend to say that AXA must settle 
the claim at the amounts that Mr C has provided evidence of in the quotes. However, Mr C 
does have the opportunity to provide further evidence, including of any increase in costs in 
response to this provisional decision. I also intend to say that AXA must pay interest on each 
of the above amounts as Mr C lost the ability to make use of the money.
On a few occasions, Mr C also asked AXA to pay for alternative accommodation for his son, 
but AXA didnt respond to these requests. Mr Cs son was living elsewhere for at least some 
of the time before Mr C requested alternative accommodation, but he needed to return to the 
property full time when Covid-19 restrictions came into force. The loss of rent section said:
This extension will also cover, at the INSUREDs request at the time of any such claim, the 
reasonable additional cost of similar comparable accommodation for the benefit of any 
lessee sub lessee or occupier including temporary furniture storage costs and 
accommodation for domestic pets or other animals other than farm stock normally kept 
within the vicinity of the damaged PREMISES until the residential portion is habitable and 
accessible.From what Ive seen, Mr Cs son did seem to need to occupy the property during the claim 
and it also seems that the kitchen needed to be replaced and that there was a problem with 
the bathroom, including with the electrics. So, I think the property needed work to be carried 
out for it to be habitable. On that basis, I think this part of the policy did apply and that AXA 
therefore should have offered alternative accommodation. However, when Mr C contacted 
AXA to request this, I havent seen any evidence that AXA responded to the request.
When Mr Cs son needed to return to the property, he was living in accommodation 
elsewhere. Mr C has explained that because his son lost his job with immediate effect due to 
Covid-19 restrictions being brought in, his sons landlord also said he could leave his rented 
accommodation with immediate effect. However, he was unable to do so because Mr Cs 
property wasnt habitable. About a month later, Mr Cs son moved out of his rented 
accommodation anyway because he was concerned about risks around Covid-19 by 
remaining in the property. Given Mr Cs son would have moved out of his rented 
accommodation immediately if he had been able to return to Mr Cs property, Mr Cs 
property wasnt habitable at the time and Mr C contacted AXA to request alternative 
accommodation, I currently intend to say AXA should pay that months rent at a cost of 750 
Euros.
Mr C said his son then had to live in the damaged property for several months. Ive already 
said I dont think the property was habitable. So, I currently intend to say that AXA should 
pay a disturbance allowance for the period that Mr Cs son lived in the damaged property. 
AXA should pay a disturbance allowance for 123 days at a rate of £10 per day, so £1,230.
Mr Cs son then moved to a rental property as he didnt feel able to continue to live in Mr Cs 
property due to its condition. Mr Cs son paid £250 per month in rent and he is still in that 
rental accommodation. Im also mindful that Mr Cs son wont be able to return to Mr Cs 
property until the works are complete and that there might be a delay in the contractor being 
able to start the work and for it then to be completed. So, I also currently intend to say AXA 
should cover 18 months of rent to cover the period to date and to allow time for the works to 
be carried out. This is £4,500. I also intend to say that AXA should pay interest on any rent 
payments up until the date AXA settles the claim. This includes the 750 Euros.
Mr C has also asked for his legal costs to be covered because he appointed solicitors to help 
progress the claim. Ive considered this and I dont currently intend to say AXA should pay 
these costs. Using a legal representative wasnt covered under the policy, so Mr C wasnt 
automatically entitled to have these costs refunded. There also seem to have been issues 
with the management company, so I dont think all of these costs were necessarily directly 
related to AXA. But, even if they were, Im not currently persuaded that using a solicitor was 
such a key factor in progressing the claim that an exception should be made to pay their 
costs.
Ive also thought about compensation. Looking at what happened when the claim was 
reported to AXA, it seemed to take about a month for a loss adjuster to visit the property and 
then another month for them to produce their report. Despite repeated requests for 
alternative accommodation, these dont seem to have been dealt with at all. As a result, Mr 
Cs son had to live in the property, which seemed to be uninhabitable. Mr C has said that 
AXAs handling of these issues caused him considerable stress and worry, including 
because it strained family relationships. So, I think there have been a range of issues that 
have caused Mr C considerable stress and concern and also negatively affected his family 
relationships over a prolonged period of time. So, I currently intend to say that AXA should 
pay £800 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I asked both parties to send me any more information or evidence they wanted me to look at 
by 20 October 2021.Mr C agreed with the decision.
AXA said it had offered to repair the property for the amount quoted by its contractor or to 
cash settle the claim, both of which Mr C rejected. AXA said it would like to re-inspect Mr Cs 
property to assess the damage to the kitchen.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold the complaint and for the reasons given in my 
provisional decision. As part of that Ive considered AXAs comments. Im aware of what 
happened during this claim and took that into account when I made my provisional decision. 
In terms of AXA re-inspecting the kitchen, AXA already inspected the kitchen and the 
property more widely. While I was considering the complaint, I asked AXA to provide 
evidence of its assessment of the quality of the kitchen, but it didnt reply. Im not persuaded 
it would be fair to delay this case any further by allowing AXA to reinspect the kitchen.
  
Putting things right
AXA must pay Mr Cs costs for repairing his property and pay interest on that amount. It 
must also pay the alternative accommodation costs and pay interest on those amounts, as 
well as pay £1,230 in disturbance allowance and £800 compensation.  
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above and in my provisional decision, my final decision is that this 
complaint is upheld. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
Pay Mr Cs costs for repairing his damaged property, including the heating units, as 
evidenced by his quotes.
Pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date of the claim to the date on which 
settlement is made.
Pay the following amounts for the cost of alternative accommodation:
o750 Euros for one months rent
o£250 per month to cover 18 months rent
Pay 8% simple interest on any rent that has already been paid from the date on which 
each months payment was made up to the date AXA settles the claim.
Pay £1,230 in disturbance allowance.
Pay £800 compensation.
  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 November 2021.
 
Louise O'Sullivan
Ombudsman