DRN-3496349
The complaint
Xs complaint is about charges hes been asked to pay by Mercedes-Benz Financial 
Services UK Limited (MBFS).
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, whilst I know it will disappoint X, I agree with the investigators findings. Ill 
explain why.
X acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated consumer credit agreement 
and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
The terms of the finance agreement held X responsible for keeping the car in good condition. 
He would be responsible for any damage if the car wasnt returned in the correct condition.
The damage charges that remain
MBFS have their own vehicle return standards (VRS) but the industry guidelines for what is 
considered fair wear and tear when vehicles are returned at the end of their lease, is 
provided by the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing Association (BVRLA). I understand that 
MBFS arent members of the BVRLA but I think its only fair to consider that standard in 
tandem with the VRS when considering if the damage in the inspection reports can fairly be 
considered to be beyond normal wear and tear and chargeable.
MBFS have agreed to reduce charges to £1,073.98. X disputes those charges and has 
explained that he was able to track the movements of the car after it left him and that he 
noted it had travelled extensively before the second inspection was completed. Its his 
suggestion that at least some of the damage may have been incurred between the first and 
second inspection.
Im not persuaded thats most likely. I say that because I think its more likely that damage 
would occur in the two years X had the car than in the six days between inspections. 
Ill consider each area of damage and compare it to the standards.
Two damaged alloys needing refurbishment (£110 each)
The VRS says minor scuffing or damage under 25mm to the vehicle alloy or steel rim edge 
or wheel face is acceptable.
The BVRLA is more generous and says, Scuffs up to 50mm are acceptable.
The photographs of the damage show the scuffing is in excess of the more lenient BVRLA 
guidance and I therefore think the charges are fair.
Two alloys needing replacement (£232.77 each)
I think the damage is in excess of the BVRLA guidance Ive set out above. Its also more 
serious as I can see metal has been displaced. In those circumstances I think MBFS have 
been fair to charge to replace rather than repair the alloys.
MBFS were wrong to suggest the charge was for refurbishment of these alloys when they 
issued their final response to X. Its clear from the invoice and the inspection report that they 
were to be replaced.
I think the charge is reasonable, but I think MBFS should compensate X for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by the inaccurate information they provided. In the circumstances I 
would agree with the investigator that £100 is sufficient.
Wrong tyre (£149.22)
The VRS says that your vehicle must conform to the original specification of the vehicle. It 
must have matching tyres. 
I think thats in line with the BVRLA guidance and I therefore think the charge was 
reasonable.
Tyre gouge (£149.22)
The VRS says any gouge, crack cut, torn of plugged tyre side wall isnt acceptable.
I think thats also in line with the BVRLA guidance and I therefore think the charge was also 
reasonable.
Right hand front door dent (£90)
The VRS says the dent is acceptable if less than 13mm and the BVRLA is a little more 
lenient. It suggests dents up to 15mm are reasonable. 
I think the inspection reports show this dent to be in excess of both standards and therefore 
fairly chargeable.
Putting things right
So, I think the charges MBFS are now seeking payment for are fair, but I think theyll need to 
provide some compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I uphold this complaint in part and tell Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited to pay X £100 to compensate him for the distress and 
inconvenience caused.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask X to accept or reject my decision before 11 August 2022.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman