DRN-3891714
The complaint
Mr P has complained about Casualty & General Insurance Company (Europe) Ltd. He isnt 
happy that it turned down a claim under his pet insurance policy.
For ease of reading any reference to Casualty & General includes its agents.
What happened
Mr Ps pet received treatment from his vet in relation to pruritus and so he made a claim 
under his pet insurance policy with Casualty & General. But when it looked into the claim it 
turned it down.
Casualty & General referred to the veterinary history and said it felt Mr Ps pet suffered 
previous issues (itching) that it said Mr P didnt disclose when he took the policy out. And so 
it added an exclusion on all claims with respect to Skin Conditions. and allergies from 
the start date of the policy and turned down the claim as it felt the issue was pre-existing. Mr 
P wasnt happy about this, so he complained to Casualty & General and then this Service. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P and upheld his complaint. She didnt think 
Casualty & General had acted fairly in declining the claim or adding the exclusion to the 
policy. She explained to Casualty & General that it didnt ask Mr P any clear questions 
during the sales process about his pets history before the policy was taken out so she didnt 
think it was fair to add the exclusion and she didnt feel there was sufficient evidence to say 
the condition was pre-existing in any event. So she asked it to pay the claim in line with the 
remaining terms and conditions of the policy (plus 8% simple interest). And she asked it to 
remove the exclusions in respect of allergies and Skin Conditions.
As Casualty & General didnt agree, maintaining that the condition was pre-existing, the 
matter has been passed to me for review. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I think the complaint should be upheld, Ill explain why.
Casualty & General have declined Mr Ps claim as it feels his pets condition was pre-
existing and it thought that Mr P should have disclosed this when he took the policy out. And 
had he have done so it would have added an exclusion in relation to all claims with respect 
to Skin Conditions and allergies. 
However, I agree with our investigator that there isnt sufficient evidence to show the 
condition was pre-existing. Although there is some suggestion that Mr Ps pet itched from 
around the time he got his pet this certainly isnt unusual in a young pet like Mr Ps. The 
treating vet is clear that Mr Ps pet wasnt diagnosed with any pruritus issues until at least 
three months after the policy was taken out. And I find the treating vets opinion persuasive 
given they undertook a physical examination in forming their opinion highlighting that young 
pets like Mr Ps itch. Ultimately, I dont think there is sufficient evidence to suggest Mr Ps 
pet was doing anything more than itching (as pets do) before this and this wasnt linked to 
the present claim. 
Furthermore, as Casualty & General is aware, there is a need to ask clear and relevant 
questions if it wants information about a consumers pets history and any pre-existing 
conditions, so I dont propose to go over this in detail now. I say this as it is aware of our 
approach and that the relevant law here relating to misrepresentation is The Consumer 
Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). This sets out remedies an 
insurer has where a qualifying misrepresentation has been made at the point of application. 
Mr P wasnt asked a question that led him to make a qualifying misrepresentation  i.e. one 
which led to the insurer taking different action regarding the terms on which it would provide 
cover.
Put simply, the question Mr P was asked was a factual one about whether he wanted cover 
for pre-existing medical conditions  and he didnt. So, he answered this question correctly 
and the question didnt ask Mr P to detail any veterinary history or provide any further 
information about this. So, Mr P didnt make a misrepresentation and so Casualty & General 
isnt entitled to add a backdated exclusion to the policy or to decline the claim in line with 
this.
Given all of this I feel the fair and reasonable thing to do, in the particular circumstances of 
this case, is for Casualty & General to pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy adding 8% simple interest for the time Mr P has been without the 
money. I say this as it hasnt shown the condition was pre-existing or that Mr P made a 
qualifying misrepresentation in response to being asked clear and relevant questions about 
his pets history. 
My final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above, that I think Casualty & General Insurance Company 
(Europe) Ltd should pay the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions adding 8% 
simple interest from the date of claim until the date of settlement. And remove the exclusions 
it applied in respect of Skin Conditions and allergies.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 May 2023.
 
Colin Keegan
Ombudsman