DRN-2595774
Complaint
Mrs S has complained that Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano) rejected her claim against it under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. 
Background
Mrs S bought solar panels for her home in 2017. The purchase was funded by a loan from 
Ikano, and that business is therefore liable for the acts and omissions of the installer under 
the relevant legislation. In this case, that relates to the installer misleading Mrs S into 
believing that the panels would be self-funding, which they werent.
Mrs Ss complaint was considered by one of our investigators. She thought that the benefits 
of the panels were mis-represented to Mrs S, and that fair redress would be for the loan to 
be restructured to effectively make the panels self-funding. This restructure should be based 
on evidence of the actual performance of the panels, and a number of assumptions on future 
performance. Ikano didnt agree so the case was passed to an ombudsman. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano is familiar with all the rules, regulations and good industry practice we consider when 
looking at complaints of this type, and indeed our well-established approach. So, I dont 
consider it necessary to set all of that out in this decision.
I understand Ikano feels Mrs S could have carried out a simple calculation to figure out how 
the estimated benefit provided by the system would impact on her finance agreement. But I 
dont think its reasonable to expect a customer to review a body of paperwork and carry out 
calculations in the way Ikano has suggested. Mrs S sat through a lengthy sales meeting 
precisely so the sales representative could take her through the particulars of what she was 
being offered and I think its reasonable for her to rely on what she was told. I dont think its 
fair to expect customers to examine paperwork, compare multiple pieces of documents, and 
wade through numerous facts and figures to check if there is any evidence to either 
corroborate or cast doubt on the representations made by a sales representative
Additionally, as explained by our investigator, Mrs S was given two different estimated year 
one performance figures. The estimated returns document submitted isnt dated or signed 
and the figures do not correspond to her actual finance agreement. So, even if Mrs S had 
tried to do this, the documents she was given were not, in my view, sufficiently clear enough 
to enable her to do this.   
I understand Ikano also feels there isnt any evidence to show the sales representative made 
the claim that the panels would be self-funding. But Mrs S testimony is evidence and it has 
been consistent throughout, so I think her recollection of the sales meeting is reliable 
evidence. 
Having carefully considered everything provided, for the same reasons as those explained 
by the adjudicator, I uphold this case. In brief, that is because the evidence supports the 
conclusion that a misrepresentation took place and Mrs S was not given clear information to 
demonstrate that the solar panels would not be self-funding and would equate to an 
additional cost for her.
So, I think that Ikano didnt treat Mrs S fairly and she lost out because of what Ikano did 
wrong. And this means that it should put things right.
Fair compensation  what Ikano needs to do to put things right for Mrs S
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Ss complaint for Ikano to put things right by recalculating the original 
loan based on the known and assumed savings and income to Mrs S from the solar panels 
over the 10 year term of the loan so she pays no more than that, and she keeps the solar 
panel system, and any future benefits once the loan has ended. 
In the event the calculation shows that Mrs S is paying (or has paid) more than she should 
have Ikano needs to reimburse Mrs S accordingly. Should the calculation show that the 
misrepresentation has not caused a financial loss, then the calculation should be shared with 
Mrs S by way of explanation.  
If the calculation shows there is a loss, then where the loan is ongoing, I require Ikano to 
restructure Mrs Ss loan. It should recalculate the loan to put Mrs S in a position where the 
solar panel system is cost neutral over the 10-year loan term.
Normally, by recalculating the loan this way, Mrs Ss monthly repayments would reduce, 
meaning that she wouldve paid more each month than she shouldve done resulting in an 
overpayment balance. And as a consumer would have been deprived of the monthly 
overpayment, I would expect a business to add 8% simple interest from the date of the 
overpayment to the date of settlement. So, I think the fairest resolution would be to let Mrs S 
have the following options as to how she would like her overpayments to be used:
a) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
continues to make her current monthly payment resulting in the loan finishing early,
b) the overpayments are used to reduce the outstanding balance of the loan and she 
pays a new monthly payment until the end of the loan term,
c) the overpayments are returned to Mrs S and she continues to make her current 
monthly payment resulting in her loan finishing early, or
d) the overpayments are returned to Mrs S and she pays a new monthly payment until 
the end of the loan term.
If Mrs S accepts my decision, she should indicate on the acceptance form which option she 
wishes to accept
Ikanos contact notes suggest Mrs S has already settled her loan. If Mrs S has settled the 
loan, Ikano should pay Mrs S the difference between what she paid in total and what the 
loan should have been under the restructure above, with 8% interest.
If Mrs S has settled the loan by refinancing, Mrs S should supply evidence of the refinance to 
Ikano, and Ikano should: 
1. Refund the extra Mrs S paid each month with the Ikano loan.
2. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs S receives her refund.
3. Refund the extra Mrs S paid with the refinanced loan.4. Add simple interest from the date of each payment until Mrs S receives her refund.
5. Pay Mrs S the difference between the amount now owed and the amount she 
wouldve owed if the system had been self-funding
Im satisfied that there was sufficient information available at the time that Mrs S first 
contacted Ikano that means the claim should have been upheld. I direct that Ikano should 
pay £100 compensation for the trouble and upset caused.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, Im upholding Mrs Ss complaint. Ikano Bank AB (publ) 
should put things right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 5 May 2022.
 
Asma Begum
Ombudsman