DRN-3088945
The complaint
A company Ill refer to as E complains that Northern Bank Limited trading as Danske Bank 
(Danske) failed to prevent E from becoming a victim of fraud.
To put things right, E wants Danske to refund the £19,832.85 it lost.
E is represented by one of its directors, Mr G.
What happened
In short, E made a payment of £78,000 from its Danske bank account, after receiving an 
invoice it thought was from its supplier. Unfortunately, the invoice had been intercepted by a 
fraudster, who changed the account details to divert the funds. The key events happened all 
in the same day, so Ive set out below what both parties have told our service.
What E has told us
In May 2019, Mr G agreed to buy a new car through E. On 27 May 2019, Mr G received a 
call from his local dealer to confirm the car had arrived and was ready for collection. 
Collection was agreed for midday on 28 May 2019 and the dealer said it would need the 
purchase price of £78,000 to be cleared in its account before collection. After the call, the 
dealer emailed an invoice to Mr G with its bank details for the payment.
Es daily single transaction limit was £25,000, so it needed to be temporarily lifted. Mr Gs 
brother called Danske and was told he would need to go to branch to make the transfer. He 
did so and took a printed copy of the invoice with him, which the cashier took and gave to 
the branch manager. Mr Gs brother was given a form to sign that was headed Faster 
Payment/CHAPS/Bacs Request Form.
The cashier returned shortly after and completed the transfer at 10:40am. Mr Gs brother 
asked the cashier what time the funds would reach the destination account and was told it 
would be by the end of the day. Mr G says he now knows the payment was made by Faster 
Payment, which means it should arrive instantly.
Mr G arrived at the dealer at around midday to one oclock, but was told the money hadnt 
arrived yet. Mr G soon became concerned that the funds hadnt arrived and called a Danske 
relationship manager (RM) at 14:03, asking for an urgent call back. He called again at 15:02, 
at which point the RM said the delay wasnt abnormal given the payment was made by 
CHAPS, but said hed look into it. Mr G chased the RM again at 15:26 at which point the RM 
agreed to contact a few people to establish the cause of the delay.
At 15:51, the RM called Mr G and said the funds had definitely reached HSBC (i.e. the 
receiving bank). Mr G called the car dealer at 15:54 and says he became aware at 16:08 
that the dealer did not bank with HSBC. 
At 16:10, Mr G called the RM to confirm the problem, at which point Danske contacted the 
receiving bank to confirm the error and seek return of the funds. Danske was able to recover 
£58,167.15, which was returned to E. But the remaining £19,875.86 had been dispersed.
Mr G says he would have acted more quickly, had he been told the payment was made by 
Faster Payment and that it would therefore arrive instantly. He says Danske didnt take 
sufficient steps to protect E, and that Danske should have prevented the fraud.
What Danske has told us
Danske didnt accept responsibility for the lost funds. It said there was an onus on E to 
exercise caution when processing payments, and that E should have policies and 
procedures in place to ensure it doesnt become the victim of fraud in circumstances such as 
this.
Danske said E had failed to confirm the account details with the beneficiary on the phone, 
after receipt of the email. It said a Danske business manager had visited E in February 2019 
to discuss payment limits as an action to prevent fraud, and that it was common practice to 
discuss this exact type of scam during such a visit.
Danske provided a booklet that outlined its customers responsibilities. And noted that page 
2 of the form completed in branch detailed a number of fraud warnings, that Mr Gs brother 
didnt heed, including the following:
You should always independently verify with the intended receiver that the account number 
and sort code are correct. This is vitally important if you have recently been advised of a 
change of account details.
Ultimately, Danske said it had no reason to suspect the transaction was fraudulent. And that 
responsibility for the fraud lies with E, because it failed to carry out due diligence checks and 
confirm the bank details were correct before making payment.
Our investigator upheld Es complaint. He said Danske had told Mr Gs brother to expect the 
payment to arrive by the end of the day, but that the payment should in fact have credited 
the receiving account instantly. And that Mr G would have taken action sooner, had he been 
given the correct information on expected timings.
He thought the scam E had fallen victim to wasnt listed in Danskes literature, and thought 
the branch staff were better placed to prevent the scam than E. He said Danske should 
refund the sum of £19,832.85 plus interest at the rate associated with the account in 
question.
Danske didnt accept our investigators findings, so it asked for an ombudsman to review the 
matter afresh.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. And I have taken that into account when deciding what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.But that is not the end of the story. And, in reaching my decision, Ive taken into account the 
law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of practice and what I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
This is a finely poised case and I want to be clear that Ive made this decision in light of the 
particular circumstances of this case. Danske says it had no reason to suspect the 
transaction would be fraudulent, and that E didnt undertake proper due diligence to protect 
itself i.e. that it didnt check the account details after receiving the email. However, having 
thought about the arguments and evidence both parties have submitted, Ive reached the 
same outcome as the investigator, for broadly the same reasons.
The timeline Ive set out above is important to this case. And in reaching my decision, Ive 
assessed whether E acted reasonably in light of the circumstances of this case. Mr G says 
his brother was told to go into his local branch when he first called Danske to discuss the 
transfer. I dont have evidence to show what was said in that conversation, but Im satisfied 
with Mr Gs explanation and I havent seen anything that would explain why Mr Gs brother 
would attend branch, unless he had been told to do so.
At the same time Mr Gs brother was told to go to branch, he was also told Es payment limit 
of £25,000 would have to be temporarily lifted. Its not clear to me exactly why Mr Gs brother 
was told to go to branch, but given the nature of a transaction limit, Im of the view that Mr 
Gs brother (and Mr G) would have seen attending branch as a security measure on the part 
of the bank. And Im satisfied they felt they were being guided by Danske, at least to some 
extent.
When Mr Gs brother attended branch, he says he took the car invoice and bank details with 
him. He says he gave them to the cashier, who took them to the branch manager for 
approval given the size of the transfer (£78,000). Mr Gs brother says he wasnt asked how 
he received those details, and that he was given a transaction form to sign. 
Again, I havent seen evidence of what was said at that meeting, so Ive decided what I think 
is more likely than not to have happened, based on the information I have seen. And again, 
in the absence of evidence to the contrary, and because I find Mr G to be a credible witness, 
I accept Mr Gs explanation.
Mr Gs brother says he asked the cashier when the funds would arrive, and was told they 
would be with the recipient by the end of the day. This is important. The form Mr Gs brother 
signed was headed Faster Payment/CHAPS/Bacs Future Dated and the form gave no 
further clues as to how the payment would be made. So, it wasnt clear to E from the form 
what type of payment it had instructed Danske to make. And I accept it was reasonable for 
Mr Gs brother to rely on what he was told by the cashier.
The reason this is so significant is because of Mr Gs actions after the transfer was 
instructed. Its often the case with scams such as this that they go undiscovered for several 
days. But, as I set out in the background above, Mr G was active in pursuing confirmation of 
the payment. Despite being told the transfer could take all day, Mr G chased Danske several 
times in the space of a few hours. And he acted instantly when he eventually discovered 
hed used the wrong bank details.
Danske has since confirmed that the transfer was sent by Faster Payment. Danske says 
that, if the cashier did tell Mr Gs brother the payment would arrive by the end of the day, that 
would be correct, regardless of whether the payment was made by CHAPS or Faster 
payment. It says a definitive timeline for the payment to reach its destination cannot be 
guaranteed via either method beyond the guarantee that the payment will be executed on 
the same day if received before 4.30pm.However, I dont agree with the bank on this point. The Faster Payment website says:
Provided the sending and receiving bank/building society are Direct Participants of Faster 
Payments, payments are usually available almost immediately, although they can 
sometimes take up to two hours. 
These timescales can still apply if either the sending or receiving bank is not a Direct 
Participant of Faster Payments.
So, there are caveats to the time such a payment can take to arrive. But the headline here is 
that payments are usually available almost immediately and Im satisfied that this is what 
most people reasonably expect when they instruct a Faster Payment. And more importantly, 
given Mr Gs actions in chasing the payment so keenly when he thought it would go through 
by the end of the day, I take the view that he would have acted differently, had his brother 
been told that the payment was made by Faster Payment.
The transaction was incepted at 10:40 on the day in question. And the sum of £19,832.85 
was dispersed by the fraudster at 14:15. For the reasons Ive set out above, Im satisfied Mr 
G would have questioned the payment more swiftly and more vigorously, when he arrived at 
the dealer, had his brother been told the payment was made by Faster Payment. And Im 
satisfied that, had Mr G been aware of the correct payment type, the fraud would have come 
to light in the same (or similar) manner as it ultimately did, only before the funds were 
dispersed. Had that happened, the fraud could have been prevented.
I recognise what Danske says about Mr G failing to check the account details after receiving 
the invoice, particularly given E is a business customer. And Danske has referred to 
literature that outlines the danger of scams, as well as a meeting it says took place three 
months before E was scammed, in which it says E would have been reminded about 
common scams. And I agree that Mr Gs brother attending branch didnt absolve E of its 
duties.
However, Im satisfied Mr G and his brother acted in the manner I would expect to see of a 
reasonable person. This was a sophisticated scam. There was nothing unusual in the email 
and nothing that should, in these circumstances, have alerted Mr G to the fact he was being 
scammed. There were no typographical errors on the email or invoice, the email came in the 
name of the person Mr G had spoken to and included the car registration number. The only 
sign that the email wasnt right was that .uk was missing from the senders email address. 
But I dont find that Mr G ought reasonably to have picked up on that one discrepancy.
And, while I note the form Mr Gs brother signed contained a declaration that the account 
number and sort code had been checked, Im not persuaded that it would be reasonable to 
deny Es claim in part or in whole on that basis.
As Ive said above, I think Mr Gs brother would reasonably have felt guided to at least some 
extent by Danskes actions. And although Mr G hadnt called the dealer after receipt of the 
email to check the details, the email came through shortly after Mr G had spoken to the 
dealer on the phone. So, he was expecting it and I dont think it was unreasonable to 
proceed without calling the dealer again.
The warning on the payment form does say You should always independently verify with 
the intended receiver that the account number and sort code are correct. This is vitally 
important if you have recently been advised of a change of account details. But I accept what our investigator said on this point: i.e. that this scenario emphasises the 
situation whereby account details have been changed, which wasnt the case here. And for 
the reasons Ive set out above, Mr G had no reason to believe the account details were not 
accurate. 
Danske has said that, if the cashier or manager asked Mr Gs brother where he got the bank 
details from, he would have said Mr G. But I dont accept that. In those circumstances, I 
would expect the cashier or manager to be seeking to ascertain the origin of the details, and 
not the 2nd link in the chain. So I think its more likely than not that Mr Gs brother would 
either have said how Mr G got the details, or that the cashier or manager would (and should) 
have asked for the origin, had Mr Gs brother said what Danske suggested he would have 
said.
As Ive said, Danske has made some reasonable arguments in response to Es claim. But, 
having thought about everything its said, I think in this instance E was a victim of a 
sophisticated scam, and taking together all of the above, I dont think that Es actions can 
fairly be described as negligent. So, I am not persuaded that E should be asked to bear 
some liability.
To put things right, Danske must refund the money E lost, and pay interest on that sum from 
the date of the transaction to the date of payment.
My final decision
My final decision is that Northern Bank UK Limited t/a Danske Bank must pay E:
1. £19,832.85; and
2. Interest on the above sum at the rate of the account the money was in prior to the 
fraud, from 28 May 2019 to the date of payment.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask E to accept or 
reject my decision before 25 July 2022.
 
Alex Brooke-Smith
Ombudsman