DRN-2874664
The complaint
Mr G and Mrs B are unhappy with Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&Gs (L&G) 
handling of a claim made under their buildings insurance policy. Any references to L&G 
include its agents. 
What happened
In August 2019, Mr G and Mrs B found an escape of water in their bathroom. They contacted 
L&G, who arranged for a plumber to visit their home under their home emergency policy. 
However, the plumber said he wasnt able to stop the leak as the pipes were enclosed and 
the home emergency policy didnt provide cover to trace and access the source of the leak. 
Mr G said his policy docs showed he did have trace and access cover. He contacted L&G, 
who referred him back to the insurer providing the home emergency policy.
The leak continued so, to prevent further damage, Mr G and Mrs B shut off the water 
upstairs. They say this left them without heating or hot water. They say this was a difficult 
decision to make, as Mrs B suffers from a health condition which is managed in part by 
keeping their home warm. Mr G and Mrs B also discovered their downstairs toilet had a leak 
but were told by L&G that they wouldnt fix it as they still had one working toilet in the house. 
They turned the water on for a period of time each day, so they were able to shower. 
Mr G and Mrs B made complaints to both L&G and the insurer that underwrote their home 
emergency policy. They say neither company took responsibility for the situation they were 
in.
In autumn 2019, Mr G and Mrs B still had problems with their bathroom and downstairs 
toilet. They decided that they needed to try and take some steps to isolate and contain the 
leak. They appointed a tradesman to try and fix the leak rebuild the bathroom. 
Mr G and Mrs B are unhappy with L&Gs lack of action. They made a complaint to L&G in 
February 2020, about how the claim had been handled. They said they were looking for a 
compensation payment to take account of the impact this matter has had on them. Mr G said 
hed suffered from stress, depression and anxiety following this situation. Mr G and Mrs B 
indicated theyd been quoted in the region of £8,000 to carry out the repairs, which they also 
thought L&G ought to cover.  
L&G issued three final response letters. The first, issued in August 2019, directed Mr G and 
Mrs B to contact the insurer providing the home emergency policy. The second, issued in 
January 2020, indicated another insurer was responsible for underwriting the home 
emergency policy and said Mr G and Mrs B should direct their complaint about this matter to 
them. 
The third final response letter issued in March 2020 was in response to Mr G and Mrs Bs 
complaint about the handling of the claim. L&G said its conclusion was the original damage 
caused by the escape of water would be limited given how long it had taken Mr G and Mrs B 
to report the leak to it. On this basis, it stood by its offer of £1,317.25, less the excess to 
settle the claim. Mr G and Mrs B say this is considerably less than they have spent on the 
repair works. 
Unhappy with this, Mr G and Mrs B referred their concerns to this service. Our investigator 
agreed with L&Gs conclusion the early correspondence appeared as though Mr G and Mrs 
B were asking for help making a claim with the underwriter of the home emergency policy. 
And she was satisfied that L&Gs handling of the claim was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. As Mr G and Mrs B didnt agree with this, the file has been passed to me. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I realise Mr G and Mrs B have made extensive submissions  all of which I have carefully 
considered. In these submissions, theyve often referred to the regulator, however thats a 
different organisation and not the role of this service. My decision here sets out what I think 
is a fair and reasonable conclusion in respect of how L&G has handled their claim. In doing 
so my decision focuses on what I consider to the most relevant issues in this complaint. This 
isnt intended as a discourtesy to Mr G and Mrs B or their submissions, rather its a reflection 
of the informal nature of this service. 
Is the policy document clear?
Mr G says policy documentation is unclear. In particular, he says it is not clear he does not 
have trace and access cover under his home emergency policy. 
Having considered the policy documentation, I dont agree. Under the section of home 
emergency cover, it clearly states this policy is underwritten by another insurer. There are 
two pages setting out what is and what isnt covered by the home emergency policy, and 
nowhere is trace and access cover mentioned. Whereas when looking at the buildings cover 
section of the policy booklet, it says:
The buildings are insured against loss of damage caused by:
7...We also cover the costs involved in tracing the source of the escape of water 
and replacement or repair of any walls, floors or ceilings (including fixtures and 
fittings attached to them) inside the home where this occurs in the course of 
these investigations. We call this trace and access. 
We will pay up to £5,000 for trace and access for any one claim
Mr G says that because he pays his premiums to L&G, it should be accountable for the 
actions of the insurer that provides his home emergency cover. I dont agree as they are 
entirely separate companies. Im satisfied the policy terms and conditions clearly set out 
under which section of the policy trace and access cover was provided. Unlike Mr G, I do not 
consider it was L&Gs responsibility to contact the other insurer for details of the claim. It 
follows Im not intending to require L&G to take any further action in respect of this part of 
the complaint. 
Did L&G ignore Mr Gs contact?
Ive considered the early correspondence between Mr G and Mrs B and L&G. Mr Gs first 
letter to L&G specifically refers to his need to use the home emergency cover part of his 
policy. This letter doesnt set out what happened to cause Mr G to need to use the cover but 
does make it clear he was struggling to contact the other insurer. Mr G also said he had 
difficulty in logging this issue online with L&G. L&G responded, urging Mr G to contact the other insurer. And, having reflected on the 
content of Mr Gs first letter, I think this was an appropriate response. There was nothing in 
this letter which would have given L&G reason to think Mr G needed to make a claim under 
the buildings section of the policy.
Ive also considered the follow up letters Mr G sent in September and October 2019. Again, 
they dont specifically mention a need to make a claim with L&G. However I think there 
would have been an opportunity in response to the letter in October for L&G to clarify that 
the trace and access was provided under the buildings insurance policy, not the home 
emergency policy. However, as Ive already set out above, Im satisfied the policy 
documentation made it clear which section (and therefore, which insurer) provided trace and 
access cover under the policy. 
I appreciate there is some conflicting information about the calls Mr G made. L&G cant 
locate records of all the calls Mr G said he made but has provided recordings of two. I dont 
dispute Mr G made these calls, but at the same time, I cant be certain what was said. In one 
call Ive been provided with, Mr G clearly states that he is having problems with making a 
claim under his home emergency policy. I can understand his frustration, but there is nothing 
in the content of that call that ought to have alerted L&G that Mr G and Mrs B might have 
cause to make a claim under their buildings insurance policy. 
So while I am sorry to see how frustrating and difficult Mr G and Mrs B have found this 
matter, I havent seen they logged a claim with L&G during their early correspondence. It 
follows Im unable to conclude L&G should have done more in the face of the information 
provided to it before the claim was formally logged in January 2020.
How the claim was handled
Ill turn now to the handling of the claim and how L&G settled it. Based on everything Ive 
considered, Im satisfied the first point L&G ought to have been aware of the claim was when 
Mr G called it on 30 January 2020. 
Mr G and Mrs B have suggested that the loss adjuster instructed by L&G failed to properly 
inspect items removed from the bathroom. It may be the case that a further inspection could 
have been carried out, but I consider the bigger issue here to be the length of time between 
the damage being identified and reported to L&G.
Mr G and Mrs B identified the escape of water in the in early August 2019, but it wasnt 
reported to L&G until late January 2020.  I appreciate they may have taken the action they 
thought best in limiting the water used in the bathroom by turning it on and off, but this was 
not effective in mitigating the damage. Essentially, water continued to flow through the 
bathroom for almost six months after the leak was identified. As L&G identified in the final 
response letter issued in March 2020, this action, along with the instruction to have the 
bathroom removed prejudiced its position as it wasnt able to fully assess the damage at the 
point the leak was identified.
Im also mindful that the policy says:
We may not meet your claim, or settlement may be reduced, if you do not provide 
these details or if you do not tell us about the loss or damage as soon as reasonably 
possible.
In reaching the settlement figure, Im satisfied L&G considered both the scope of works 
devised by the loss adjuster, along with the information provided from Mr G and Mrs Bs 
tradesmen. They considered the information provided by the home emergency insurer, which set out the details of the leak, and provided some photographs of the bathroom. 
However, the loss adjuster makes what I consider to be a very valid point in that they didnt 
see the bathroom in its entirety. When they visited it had been stripped out and the leak had 
been occurring for several months. Therefore, it wasnt possible for L&G to determine at 
what point the damage could have been contained.  
Its not in dispute that during the course of stripping out the bathroom, Mr G and Mrs B took 
the opportunity to consider changes to the bathroom. However, in undertaking these works it 
was more challenging for L&G to identify which items should be replaced on a like for like 
basis. As a result, it relied on the early information provided by the home emergency insurer, 
and the information from the loss adjuster. While Ive considered Mr Gs recent comments 
that he thinks the loss adjusters acted inappropriately, Ive not seen anything in the 
supporting documents to support this suggestion.  
Based on the information provided, and the time that passed from the leak being identified to 
the claim being logged, Im satisfied the offer of £1,317.25 less the policy excess is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. Whilst I appreciate Mr G and Mrs B would like me to direct 
L&G to increase the figure, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to do so for the 
reasons Ive given.
However, in the final response letter from March 2020, L&G said it would make a payment 
for the VAT Mr G and Mrs B incurred. L&G calculated the total owed was £263.45. It made 
this payment to Mr G and Mrs B, when our investigator provided copies of receipts as part of 
her investigation. However, Mr G had already provided some of these receipts to L&G as far 
back as March 2020. So the refund of VAT could have been provided to Mr G and Mrs B 
much earlier. On this basis, Im intending to require L&G to pay Mr G and Mrs B simple 
interest on the VAT payment at 8%. 
In addition to this, Mr G and Mrs B made it clear they were concerned about their financial 
situation. They said they had further works that needed to be carried out in the house. Mr G 
and Mrs B were concerned about how they were going to pay for these works. This was 
clearly a worrying time for them, and I think they should have had access to the VAT refund 
sooner. On that basis, Im inclined to require L&G to pay Mr G and Mrs B £100 in recognition 
of the worry and upset caused because of the delay in receiving the refund promised to them 
some time ago. 
My final decision
I uphold this complaint. I require Fairmead Insurance Limited trading as L&G to pay Mr G 
and Mrs B:
Interest on the VAT refund at 8% simple from the date of payment(s) until the date of 
settlement1
£100 in recognition of the distress and inconvenience experienced
1If L&G considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from 
any interest paid, it should tell Mr G and Mrs B how much its taken off. If requested, L&G 
should also provide Mr G and Mrs B how with a certificate showing the amount deducted, so 
they can reclaim it from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr G to 
accept or reject my decision before 29 September 2021.
 
Emma HawkinsOmbudsman