DRN-4348040
The complaint
Mrs B and Mr B complain that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wouldnt refund money they lost 
in a scam.
What happened
What Mrs B and Mr B say:
Mrs B and Mr B are represented by a third-party firm of solicitors, but I will refer to them as 
the complainants.
Mr B took some money out of his pension fund to invest for his retirement. He had previously 
invested in another company which turned out to be a scam. Mr B researched the best way 
to invest online and in newspapers.
In August 2017, Mr B was cold called by someone purporting to be an employee (who I will 
call A) of an investment firm (which I will call C). Mr B says the person (A) may have got 
his contact details from his online research  he had submitted inquiries on online forms.
A explained he would email Mr B with examples of investment opportunities and the returns 
he could expect. A said Mr B could grow an investment of £20,000 to £26,000 in three years. 
He sent Mr B illustrations. A stayed in contact with Mr B and built a rapport with him. Mr B 
said A was polite and not pushy. Mr B said he looked at the investment companys (C) 
website and it seemed genuine. A said Mr B could log onto the website to see his investment 
and track its performance every six months.
A sent Mr B an invoice for £20,000 and he went to a branch of HSBC and made a payment 
for £20,000 on 8 December 2017.
Mr B stopped receiving updates and became suspicious. He went to London in December 
2019 to visit Cs offices but found it didnt exist. He then realised he was the victim of a 
scam.
Mr B says that when he made the payment, he wasnt provided with any warnings or asked 
any questions by staff. HSBC didnt ask him why he was making the payment, or if he knew 
the business he was paying. He says HSBC shouldve asked him more questions, and if 
they had, the scam wouldve been uncovered and he wouldnt have made the payment. He 
says HSBC should refund the money.
Mr B reported the scam to HSBC in August 2020. 
What HSBC say:
In their final response in August 2022, HSBC said they processed the payment in 
accordance with Mr Bs instructions. Given the passage of time since the payment, they 
didnt approach the recipient bank as there wasnt any chance of getting the money back.
Our investigation so far:
Mrs B and Mr B brought their complaint to us in August 2022. Our investigator said HSBC 
should refund £20,000 plus interest at a rate of 8% per annum simple. She looked at 
HSBCs operating instructions that were in place at the time. Although these didnt include 
significant questioning, she said HSBC should still protect customers and question unusual 
transactions. Because this was a high value payment, done in branch, there was an 
opportunity for HSBC to do that. Had they done so, she said HSBC wouldve realised this 
was a high-risk investment. HSBC could then have provided information on scams and 
advised Mr B that it might not be legitimate. She noted also that Mr B was cold called. She 
didnt think the promised returns of £6,000 over three years was unrealistic.
HSBC didnt agree. They said:
They questioned why the payment was made to an account in another name other 
than the investment company.
The documents provided by A about C shouldve been independently verified.
They couldnt see why Mr B took between December 2019 (when he realised he had 
been scammed) and August 2020 to contact HSBC. HSBC said a reasonable person 
wouldve reported it straight away.
There seems to be a genuine investment company operating with the same name.
The returns were too good to be true. The scammers documents promised between 
21% and 44%, which was very high.
The branch procedures in place at the time said HSBC should only ask about the 
purpose of the payment  and the branch must have done that. 
The standards required of banks at the time of the payment were less rigorous than 
later. They were only required to ask about the purpose of the payment  the 
standard of inquiries they were required to make in December 2017 were less than 
they were later.
Even if HSBCs staff had asked about the payment, it was likely that Mr B wouldve 
gone ahead. They noted Mr B had been impressed by the professionalism of the 
brochures provided, and he had carried out research; and there werent any 
published warnings about C. A return wasnt expected for 12 months. So  it wasnt 
clear what warnings HSBC couldve given him about the payment anyway.
There was a large cheque payment of £45,000 on 27 November 2017, so the 
payment in question wasnt out of line with that.
Mr B shouldnt receive any interest on the money  as he would likely have made an 
investment in another high-risk scheme (as he did in July 2018). And it didnt seem fair he 
should receive five years worth of interest  when he didnt bring his complaint forward until 
late 2022.
Because HSBC didnt agree, the complaint came to me (as ombudsman) to look at and I 
issued a provisional decision which said:
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected to process payments 
and withdrawals that a customer authorises it to make, in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account. In December 2017, there were some circumstances 
where a bank should have taken additional steps before processing a payment to help protect customers from the possibility of financial harm. For example, there were some 
guidelines which should have been followed when older or vulnerable customers asked to 
make unusually large cash withdrawals or where someone appeared to be telling them what 
to do.
In recent years, there has been an increase in sophisticated fraud and scams, leading to 
greater expectations of banks in terms of its role in preventing fraud. This started with a 
super complaint in September 2016. For example, the British Standards Institutes 
Protecting Customers from financial harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse  Code of 
Practice was published in October 2017. This recognised that banks should look to identify 
and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual or out of character transactions - that 
could involve fraud or be the result of a scam. 
It was later  that the expectations of banks were increased: with the Banking Protocol in 
2018; and the Financial Conduct Authoritys Banking Conduct of Business Sourcebook S 
5.1.10A (R) (since 13 January 2018) & 5.1.10B (G) (since 19 December 2018).
And the Contingent Reimbursement Model (CRM) Code, effective from 28 May 2019, was 
set up to provide protection for customers who fall victim to Authorised Push Payment (APP) 
scams, and also to reduce the occurrence of APP fraud.
Bearing all of this in mind, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its 
dealings with Mrs B and Mr B when Mr B requested the payment, based on the expectations 
of banks in 2017. I also need to consider whether HSBC did all that it ought to have done 
when Mr B reported that the payments were fraudulent. Having done so, Im not persuaded 
HSBC should refund Mrs B and Mr B the amount they lost. 
The British Standards Institution (BSI) code came into existence in October 2017  just 
before the scam payment in question. So thats relevant  as it was the main guidance in 
operation for banks at the time. This code of practice gives broad recommendations for how 
banks can protect customers from fraud and financial abuse, and it explains how to 
recognise consumers who might be at risk. It includes the following activities as examples of 
what might indicate fraud (I list the relevant ones in the context of this case):
A sudden increase in spending
A withdrawal or payment for a large amount 
A payment or series of payments to a new payee
I looked at HSBCs operating instructions in place at the time  December 2017.  They ask 
staff to ask the purpose of the payment, establish the customers identity, ensure there are 
sufficient funds to make the payment, and ensure theres no possibility of money laundering. 
Those instructions are much different to HSBCs obligations later. They do not, for example, 
require staff to ask open questions about a payment, or where the customers got the payee 
details from, how they were contacted, what the investment is for and its prospects, and 
what research was done. Those questions were mandated later.
So in summary, the obligations of HSBC regarding whether a payment was part of a scam, 
or not, were far less than they were later on.
I looked at Mrs B and Mr Bs account. 
Apart from day to day living expenses, there were some other large payments as follows:February 2017: £5,004.49  cheque
March 2017: £2,320  cheque
March 2017 - £2,250  cheque
April 2017 : £3,000  cheque
June 2017: £2,000  cash
June 2017 : £2,000  cash
July 2017:  £2,000  cheque
August 2017: £2,000  cheque
October 2017: £2,000  cash
November 2017 : £5,000 - bill payment
November 2017: £45,000  cheque
I think its reasonable to say that there were regular and fairly large payments from the 
account  although I accept not as large as the payment made in respect of the scam.
There was then a large credit for £150,090 on 20 November 2017  which I assume was the 
withdrawal from Mr Bs pension fund. There was then a cheque payment of £45,000 on 27 
November 2017. We asked Mr B what this was  and it was payment to a savings account. 
This cheque payment was just a few days before the payment in question. So I think its 
reasonable to say that on balance, the scam payment wasnt out of character with Mrs B and 
Mr Bs normal account activity. And this, added to the expectations of HSBC at the time, 
means that I dont think its reasonable to say that HSBCs staff shouldve questioned it.
Ive then gone onto to consider  what might have happened had HSBCs staff asked Mr B 
questions  and Im persuaded that he wouldve gone ahead anyway. I say that because:
In his testimony, he said he was impressed by the information given to him by A 
about C.
He had looked at the website and said it appeared genuine.
He had established a rapport with A and seemed convinced the investment was 
genuine.
The returns offered by the investment seemed (to me) to be reasonable  a return on 
an equity investment of circa 30% over three years, although high, wasnt out of the 
question.
Mr B had researched the market and was looking to make investments.
Mr B had experience of other investments in the past  he says he lost money on 
another scammed investment  so he must have been convinced that Cs was a 
good one.
I noted that he made several other investments before and after the scam payment. 
He invested £20,000 in July 2018 (and made another complaint to HSBC that that 
was also a scam). He made payments to savings accounts of £45,000, £30,000 and 
£20,000 in November 2017 and December 2017. So it seems reasonable to say that 
Mr B was planning to make several investments or savings account transfers, of 
which this was one. 
So on balance, I think that even if HSBC questioned him about the payment, its likely 
that he wouldve gone ahead anyway.Recovery:
When a scam is reported, we expect firms to contact the recipient bank to try to recover the 
money. HSBC said that as the scam took place in December 2017, and Mrs B and Mr B 
reported it to them much later - in August 2020 - there was very little chance of recovering 
any money, and therefore they took no action. I think thats a reasonable thing for HSBC to 
have done. Our experience with scams is that money is removed within hours, or even 
minutes of it being credited to the bank account.
Mr B has lost a lot of money and it was part of his retirement fund, so I appreciate the impact 
it has had on him and his wife. He will therefore be disappointed by my provisional decision, 
but Im not intending to ask HSBC to do anything here.
Responses to the provisional decision:
HSBC made no further comments, but Mrs B and Mr Bs representatives did. They said:
1. The investigator said HSBC should refund the money and HSBC were at fault.
2. HSBC shouldve been aware of emerging types of scams at the time of the payment 
on question.
3. They said that a one-off payment of £45,00 didnt mean the scam payment wasnt 
unusual, and questions shouldve been asked of Mrs B and Mr B. Had this 
happened, Mr B wouldve done more research, uncovered the scam and not made 
the payment.
I now need to consider these further comments and make a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Taking each point:
1. It is our process that if either party to a complaint disagree with the investigators 
view, then the complaint is passed to an ombudsman to look at and make a decision. 
That decision is based on everything being looked at afresh and independently of the 
investigator  and thats what Ive done here. I think Mrs B and Mr Bs representative 
will be aware of that.
2. It is the case that there were fewer obligations on all banks to identify potential scam 
payments at the time  in December 2017. Ive set that out in the provisional 
decision.
3. I set out the other large payments made by Mrs B and Mr B  and as I said, they 
were of lower value than the payment of £20,000. But  particularly given the lower 
obligations of banks at the time, I believe HSBC acted reasonably in not stopping the 
payment. 
I also set out in the provision decision  that I Im persuaded that even if HSBC had 
questioned the payment, Mrs B and Mr B wouldve gone ahead anyway. I also noted 
that Mr B had between August 2017 (when he was first contacted) and December 2017 (when the payment was made)  to carry out research into the company  
which was a reasonable amount of time to make an informed view on the scheme.
Therefore, my final decision is in line with the provisional decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs B and Mr B to 
accept or reject my decision before 11 October 2023.
 
Martin Lord
Ombudsman