DRN-2567102
The complaint
Mr S complains that Gresham Insurance Company Limited declined his claim against his  
contents insurance policy following loss of personal items whilst travelling. Reference to 
Gresham includes reference to its agents.
What happened
On 14 August 2019, Mr S took out an annual policy for contents, personal items and gadget 
cover.
Mr S says that he took a trip from 18 August 2019 to 10 October 2019. He says that he lost 
his hand luggage on his return flight. Ill refer in more detail below to what Mr S says about 
how the loss happened. Mr S made a claim against his policy in relation to the loss of 
various personal items including his iPhone, belt, wedding ring, clothing, sunglasses, watch 
and necklace. 
Gresham instructed claims investigators and later declined Mr S claim. It said that Mr S 
hadnt provided appropriate information to substantiate his loss. Mr S wasnt happy with that 
and pursued his complaint. 
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He didnt think that Gresham had 
treated Mr S unfairly in declining the claim. The investigator said that as Mr S hadnt 
provided receipts, proof of purchase or photos of the missing items he couldnt fairly say that 
Gresham acted unfairly. 
Mr S provided photos of him wearing some of the items included in his claim, proof of 
purchase of an iPhone and correspondence from the airline and airport. The investigator 
sent that information to Gresham, but it didnt change its position. It said that Mr S was 
unable to provide appropriate proof of ownership for the jewellery items and that it had 
concerns about the validity of the claim. It said that that the iPhone was blocked four weeks 
after the event.
The investigator said that without evidence to substantiate the loss, he couldnt ask Gresham 
to deal with the claim. Mr B asked that an ombudsman consider his complaint, so it was 
passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of the policy, the relevant parts of which 
provide as follows:  
9. Claims
Your duties
As soon as you are aware of an event or cause that is likely to lead to a claim under this 
policy, you must:
a. tell the police immediately if you have lost something or your claim results from a 
criminal act (eg theft or malicious damage) and get a crime reference number;
b. []
c. contact us as soon as reasonably possible and provide all the information and help 
we need to settle your claim;
[]
To help us settle your claim
It is your responsibility to prove any loss and therefore we may ask  you to provide receipts, 
valuations, photographs, instruction booklets and guarantee cards and any other relevant 
information, documents and assistance we may require to help with your claim.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Gresham has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Its not for this service to decide whether a loss or theft occurred  but I can look at whether 
Gresham treated Mr S fairly in declining his claim. I think it did and Ill explain why: 
  
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Gresham to conclude that 
Mr S hasnt proved ownership of certain items for which he claims. I appreciate that 
Mr S says that he paid in cash and hes provided photos showing some of the items. 
But without evidence of purchase  such as receipts and guarantee cards, its not 
unreasonable for Gresham to conclude that Mr S hasnt proved ownership of all the 
missing items.
I dont think that Gresham acted unfairly in deciding that it couldnt validate the claim. 
Greshams note of Mr S first notification of his loss says that Mr S reported that he 
lost his hand luggage on his return flight. He told Gresham that the airline staff told 
him to put his hand luggage under the seat and when he left the airplane he noticed 
that his bag had gone. But Greshams investigators notes say that Mr S said that a 
cabin crew member took the bag away from Mr S and put it in the overhead luggage 
space a few rows behind where Mr S was sitting. So, there are inconsistencies in 
what Mr S says happened.
Mr S says that he reported the matter to the cabin crew and was told to wait until 
everyone left, which he did. As his bag wasnt on the airplane, he reported the matter 
to lost/stolen baggage and had to wait 72 hours. After that time, he checked with the 
airport and it told him that his bag hadnt been found. But Mr S didnt report the 
matter to the police, as is required by the policy.Mr S told our investigator that his trip was from 18 August 2019 to 10 October 2019. 
Mr S says that he lost his hand luggage on his return flight to the UK, so on 10 
October 2019. But the e-mail from the airline is dated 9 September 2019 and doesnt 
specifically refer to the lost hand luggage. The e-mail from airport about his luggage 
is dated 16 September 2019. So, the e-mails from both the airline and the airport  
were before Mr S return flight.
Based on what Ive seen, I dont think that Gresham treated Mr S unfairly or 
unreasonably in deciding that it couldnt validate his claim and that Mr S hadnt 
proved his loss, as required by the policy. There are no grounds on which I could 
fairly ask Gresham to deal with Mr S claim.
My final decision
My final decision is  that I dont uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 29 March 2021.
 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman