DRN-3781772
The complaint
Mr R complains about the sale of certain investments to him by an appointed representative 
of Gallium Fund Solutions Limited. He said these investments were mis-sold and the risks 
not properly explained, and he has now lost all his money. 
What happened
In April, June and November 2017 Mr R invested a total of £56,250 in three, 3 year fixed 
monthly IFISA bonds with an interest rate of 6.12% p.a. with Basset & Gold Plc (B&G Plc). 
Some of this investment came from transferring his existing ISAs worth around £39,965.  
Sales of these bonds were dealt with by Basset Gold Limited (BG Ltd), a separate 
business from B&G Plc, the issuer of the bonds. BG Ltd arranged applications for 
investments in the bonds, through a website it operated. And it was responsible for 
advertising and marketing the bonds. Potential investors were also able to call BG Ltd to 
discuss the bonds. 
B&G Plc and BG Ltd were both appointed representatives of Gallium Fund Solutions 
Limited. B&G Plc and BG Ltd were appointed representatives of Gallium from 17 February 
2017 to 28 February 2018. 
Mr R visited BG Ltds website in April 2017 as he was looking to invest money currently held 
in cash ISAs to provide for his childs education and his retirement. As he was investing in 
ISAs, he believed they were tax free, low risk and supported by the government. Mr R said 
that he had no experience in investment and had only ever invested in ISAs  he didnt have 
any knowledge about non-readily realisable securities and considered himself risk averse at 
the time.
Subsequently most of the money invested in these bonds was used to lend to the short term 
and pay day lender, Uncle Buck. Following action from the FCA, Uncle Buck fell into 
administration and as it was no longer able to repay the funds lent to it by B&G Plc, the bond 
was no longer able to provide Mr R with the interest expected nor the original capital 
invested. 
The application process
Mr R applied online and also submitted a paper application to allow the ISA transfer to take 
place. 
I have seen screen prints of each stage of the online application process. 
These show the application journey that Mr R underwent. This consisted of two stages, 
designed to meet the regulatory rules restricting who the bond could be promoted to and on 
how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the potential investor. The first was 
certification, where Mr R as categorised as an everyday investor by BG Ltd. The second 
was the appropriateness test. 
I have also seen copies of the paper ISA application form. This was completed by Mr R and 
signed on 13 June 2017.
Galliums response to Mr Rs complaint
Gallium did not uphold Mr Rs complaint. It said Mr R had been given sufficient information 
and risk warnings about the investment. It then made further submissions once Mr Rs 
complaint was referred to us. I have considered the submissions in full. I have also 
considered what Gallium described as its position statement, which sets out general 
information on the background to complaints about B&G Plc bonds.
Our investigators view and Galliums response 
One of our investigators considered Mr Rs complaint and concluded it should be 
upheld. They said, in summary:
The application process  both in terms of the certification of Mr R as a 
restricted investor and the assessment of the appropriateness of the bond for 
him - was misleading and didnt gather sufficient information to comply with the 
FCAs rules.
The website and marketing material was misleading.
Overall, BG Ltd, on Galliums behalf, didnt comply with its regulatory 
obligations. Had it done so, Mr R wouldnt have decided to invest or BG Ltd 
should have concluded that it shouldnt allow Mr R to invest. For these 
reasons, both cumulatively and individually, it was fair to uphold the complaint 
and for Gallium to compensate Mr R for the loss he had suffered.
Gallium didnt agree with the investigators conclusions. In summary it said:
Our findings went beyond the scope of Mr Rs complaint. 
The website and marketing material was not misleading  Mr R was given sufficient 
infromation and risk warnings. 
Regardless of the label attached, Mr R was required to confirm that he met the 
requirements of a restricted investor and confirmed that he did. It is not fair or 
reasonable to conclude that the use of the word everyday contributed to Mr R giving 
an incorrect declaration, and it was reasonable for it to rely on the declaration.
The appropriateness test answers and these confirmations were sufficient for 
Gallium to satisfy itself that prospective investors had sufficient knowledge and 
experience of the bonds to understand the risks those bonds involved, as per the 
relevant rules. 
It was reasonable for Gallium to rely on the outcome of this test.
Mr R made the investment on the understanding it had risk associated with it, and did 
not chose to surrender it when receiving the email in 2019 which warned of the 
concentration risk. So he would have proceeded with the investment regardless. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to decide. What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am satisfied it is appropriate for me to consider all of the acts carried out by BG Ltd, on 
behalf of Gallium, in relation to the sale of the bond. 
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this complaint, I have 
taken into account relevant law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the relevant time.
The Principles for Businesses, which are set out in the FCAs Handbook are a general 
statement of the fundamental obligations of firms under the regulatory system (PRIN 
1.1.2G). I think Principles 6 (Customers interests) and 7 (Communications with clients) are 
relevant here. 
Principle 7 overlaps with COBS 4.2.1R (1) (A firm must ensure that a communication or a 
financial promotion is fair, clear and not misleading), which I also consider to be relevant 
here. 
As mentioned, the bond was non-readily realisable and therefore there were rules restricting 
who it could be promoted to and how to test whether the investment was appropriate for the 
potential investor. These rules were set out in COBS 4.7 and COBS 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3. I 
have considered the relevant rules in full  and I note the investigator has set them out in 
some detail in their assessment. 
I note Gallium has referred to the FCAs policy statement PS14/4, and the question and 
answer sessions with the FCAs Head of Investment Policy and UKCFA. I have considered 
these too.
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments I have reached the same 
conclusion as the investigator, for the same reasons. In summary:
BG Ltd, acting on Galliums behalf, misled Mr R into certifying himself as belonging in 
a category to which he did not belong (a restricted investor) by changing the term 
used in the rules to everyday investor and describing the category as being one 
anyone could fall into. This was not treating Mr R fairly or acting in his best 
interests. Had BG Ltd followed the rules and not misled Mr R, it is unlikely he would 
have certified himself as being a restricted investor.
The appropriateness test carried out by BG Ltd, on behalf of Gallium, did not meet 
the requirements of the rules. And, had it done so, it would have been apparent the 
bond was not an appropriate investment for Mr R. In the circumstances Mr R would 
either not have proceeded or, acting fairly and reasonably, BG Ltd should have 
concluded it should not promote the bond to Mr R.I note Mr R completed a paper ISA application form, which contained a few 
questions about investment knowledge and experience. But I am not persuaded 
that changes things. Mr R would not have been able to apply for the ISA had he 
not been certified as a restricted (everyday) investor and passed the 
appropriateness test. And the questions in the form were not posed for the 
purpose of classification or appropriateness testing (or at least not described as 
such), in any event. 
For these reasons  individually and cumulatively  my decision is that Mr Rs complaint 
should be upheld. I am also satisfied Mr R would either not have proceeded to make the 
investment or would not have been able to proceed, had Gallium acted fairly and 
reasonably to meet its regulatory obligations. And so I am satisfied it is fair to ask Gallium 
to compensate Mr R for his loss.
Putting things right
Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put 
Mr R as close to the position he would probably now be in if he had not been mis-sold 
these investments
I take the view that Mr R would have invested differently. It is not possible to say precisely 
what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied that what I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given Mr R's circumstances and objectives when he invested.
What must Gallium do?
To compensate Mr R fairly, Gallium must:
Compare the performance of each of Mr R's investments with that of the benchmark 
shown below.
A separate calculation should be carried out for each investment.
Gallium should also add any interest set out below to the compensation payable.
Pay to Mr R £350 for the distress caused to him by the loss of his investment; an 
investment he never should've been allowed to invest in.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr R in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment 
nameStatus Benchmark From (start 
date)To (end 
date)Additional 
interest
3 year fixed 
monthly 
income 
IFISA bond Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 6.12% p.a. 
(BG22600)not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance.  
3 year fixed 
monthly 
income 
IFISA bond 
6.12% p.a. 
(BG23495)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance.
3 year fixed 
monthly 
income 
IFISA bond 
6.12% p.a. 
(BG26175)Still exists 
but illiquidAverage rate 
from fixed 
rate bondsDate of 
investmentDate of my 
final decision8% simple per 
year from final 
decision to 
settlement (if 
not settled 
within 28 days 
of the business 
receiving the 
complainants 
acceptance.
For each investment:
Actual value
This means the actual amount paid or payable from the investment at the end date.
As the investment is illiquid (meaning it could not readily be sold on the open market), the 
actual value should be assumed to be zero. This is provided that Mr R agrees to Gallium 
taking ownership of the investment, if it wishes to. If it is not possible for Gallium to take 
ownership then it may request an undertaking from Mr R that he repays to Gallium any 
amount he may receive from the investment in future. 
Fair value
This is what the investment would have been worth at the end date had it produced a 
return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Gallium 
should use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous 
month. Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment should be added to the fair value calculation 
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distributions paid out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on. 
If there is a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Gallium totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end to determine the fair 
value instead of deducting periodically. If any distributions or income were automatically 
paid out into a portfolio and left uninvested, they must be deducted at the end to 
determine the fair value, and not periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method of compensation because:
Mr R wanted to achieve a reasonable return and I do not think he wanted to take 
significant risk.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure given Mr R's 
circumstances and objectives. It does not mean that Mr R would have invested only 
in a fixed rate bond. It is the sort of investment return a consumer could have 
obtained with little risk to their capital.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation money 
since the end date.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should pay the 
amount calculated as set out above.
Gallium Fund Solutions Limited should provide details of its calculation to Mr R in a clear, 
simple format.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision before 18 April 2023.
 
Alessandro Pulzone
Ombudsman