DRN-3682851
The complaint
Mr P is unhappy with the service he received from Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as 
Barclaycard, including that his account was defaulted for non-payment.
What happened
Mr P opened a Barclays credit account and selected a promotional interest rate offer from a 
number of such offers that were being offered by Barclays at that time. Mr P then completed 
a balance transfer from the account of approximately £2,500, which was completed inline 
with the promotional interest rate offer that Mr P had selected. 
The following day, Mr P contacted Barclays and explained that hed changed his mind in 
regard to the promotional interest rate offer hed selected and that he wanted a different offer 
to be applied to his account and to the balance transfer hed recently completed. Barclays 
explained that to do this, Mr P would need to recall the balance transfer and then attempt it 
again, but that they couldnt guarantee which promotional interest rate offers would be 
available when Mr P reattempted the recalled balance transfer. 
Mr P wasnt happy with Barclays position and asked to speak with a manager. The Barclays 
agent with whom Mr P was speaking told Mr P that a manager would call him back, but that 
call back never took place, despite Mr P chasing Barclays for the call on several occasions.
Mr P called Barclays again approximately three months after opening the account, unhappy 
that the promotional interest rate offer he wanted still hadnt been applied to his account, and 
asked what he needed to do to withdraw from and void the credit agreement. Barclays 
agent advised Mr P to send his request in writing to Barclays complaints team who would 
advise Mr P on how to proceed and what amount Mr P would need to pay to close the 
account. Mr P wrote a complaint letter to Barclays as advised but received no response. 
Shortly afterwards, Mr P stopped making payments towards the account, having written to 
Barclays again and advising that he wanted to withdraw from the credit agreement. As a 
result, Barclays considered the account as having fallen into arrears, and when Mr P didnt 
act to clear those arrears, Barclays later defaulted the account. Mr P wasnt happy about 
this, so he brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators liaised with Barclays, who acknowledged that Mr P hadnt received 
the standard of service from them that he should have done regarding his not being called 
back as hed been promised. Barclays apologised to Mr P for this and offered to pay 
compensation of £250 for the service issues that Mr P had experienced. However, Barclays 
felt that because Mr P hadnt made the minimum monthly payments required on the account 
that his account had fallen into arrears and that as such it had been defaulted correctly. Mr P 
wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, and referred his complaint back to this service. 
However, our investigator felt that the response that Barclays had already issued to Mr Ps 
complaint, including the offer of £250 compensation for the service issues that Mr P had 
experienced, already represented a fair and reasonable resolution to that complaint. And 
they didnt feel Barclays had acted unfairly by defaulted Mr Ps account as they had. Mr P 
remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P is unhappy that Barclays wouldnt apply the promotional interest rate offer he wanted to 
his account retrospectively, after he changed his mind which offer he wanted to benefit from, 
having initially selected a different offer and having made a balance transfer from his 
account which benefited from the initially selected offer.
When Mr P spoke with Barclays about this, he was told that it wouldnt be possible to change 
the offer on his account, and that a possible solution would be for Mr P to recall the balance 
transfer and then make the transfer again, but that Barclays couldnt guarantee what 
promotional interest rate offers would be available when Mr P made the balance transfer for 
the second time.
This seems reasonable to me, and I dont feel that Barclays should fairly be expected to 
have retrospectively applied the terms of the offer Mr P wished hed selected to the transfer 
hed made which had benefited from the offer hed actually selected. This explanation also 
makes sense to me, especially as it seems that there were understandable system 
limitations that prevented Mr Ps preferred scenario from taking place.
Mr P has said that Barclays offer was advertised as being available for 28 days, and that as 
such he should have been able to change his mind within 28 days, which he did. I dont 
agree, and I feel that while Mr P may have ad 28 days to select which offer he wanted to be 
applied to his account, once he had selected an offer  as he did  then that offer was 
selected and applied to the account  and it wasnt the case that Mr P could switch between 
offers until the 28 day period was up.
Mr P wasnt happy with the explanation provided to him by Barclays agent and asked to 
speak with a manager. It was then explained to Mr P that a manager would call him back, 
which never took place. This was clearly poor service from Barclays, which Barclays have 
acknowledged. However, given the reasonableness of Barclays position on this matter, as 
described above, I dont feel it was likely that Barclays would have changed their position on 
this matter, and I feel its probable that if Mr P had received a call from Barclays that it would 
in all probability have resulted in Barclays position being reaffirmed to Mr P by whichever 
manager he spoke to, with no change in outcome.
Mr P has also explained that, approximately three months after opening the account, he 
wrote a letter to Barclays, on the advice of one of Barclays agents, asking for the credit 
agreement to be voided. And Mr C feels that his consumer rights have been broken here 
because Barclays ultimately didnt void the credit agreement as he requested.  
It's important to confirm at this point that this service isnt a regulatory body or a Court of Law 
and doesnt operate as such. Instead, the remit of this service  which is an informal dispute 
resolution service  is based on fairness of outcome. This means that while I do take 
relevant laws and regulatory codes into account, it isnt within my remit to determine whether 
Barclays have breached a regulatory code or acted unlawfully. Such determinations are for a 
regulatory body or a Court of Law to make.
Ultimately, I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly by continuing to consider the credit 
agreement that Mr P signed and agreed to as being valid here. There are several reasons 
for this, including that while the terms of Barclays credit account do include a provision for an account holder to withdraw from the credit agreement, such a withdrawal must be enacted 
within 30 days of the credit account being opened. But Mr P asked Barclays to void the 
credit agreement after approximately three months, and therefore outside the timeframe 
provided by the account terms.
Additionally, when Mr P asked Barclays to void the account there remained a balance 
outstanding on the account, and I dont feel that it would be reasonable to expect a credit 
provider to consider voiding a credit agreement where the account holder hasnt repaid the 
credit that theyve benefited from up to that time. Furthermore, as explained above, I also 
feel that Barclays had already provided Mr P with a fair and reasonable response to the 
issue about which he remained unhappy, albeit not one which Mr P had accepted.
Mr P may argue that the Barclays agent he spoke with advised him to write to Barclays who 
would confirm in writing the amount that Mr P would need to pay to close the account. I can 
appreciate Mr Ps position here, to a degree. But I still feel that its highly likely that Barclays 
would have rejected Mr Ps request to void the credit agreement given that hed requested it 
after the 30 day period given in the account terms to do so had expired.
I also feel that, whatever Mr Ps level of unhappiness with Barclays may have been, it was 
incumbent on him to meet the contractual terms of the credit account until such time as his 
issues were resolved or it had been confirmed to him that he wasnt beholden to those 
contractual terms. And this includes making the minimum monthly payments required 
contractually on the credit account. 
As such, I dont feel that Barclays have acted unfairly towards Mr P by considering his 
account to have fallen into arrears when Mr P stopped making payments towards it, or by 
later defaulting the account when Mr P didnt clear those arrears.
Barclays have been able to demonstrate that they sent several letters to Mr P advising that 
his account was in arrears and notifying him of their intention to default his account if those 
arrears werent cleared. Mr P has stated that he didnt receive some of these letters. 
However, Im satisfied that they were correctly addressed by Barclays. And while this doesnt 
guarantee the successful delivery of those letters, this service wouldnt hold a business 
accountable for the non-delivery of correctly addressed letters by a postal service. 
Additionally, as the account holder, I feel that it was Mr Ps responsibility to have understood 
the ongoing position of his account. And given that Mr P had voluntarily stopped making 
payments towards the account, I feel that Mr P should reasonably have been aware of the 
potential consequences that his not making payments towards the account may have had, 
including that his account may have been defaulted for non-payment, as was the case. 
All of which means Im satisfied that the response that Barclays have provided to Mr 
regarding this complaint already represents a fair and reasonable outcome to what 
happened here. This includes the offer of £250 compensation that Barclays have offered 
specifically for the service aspect of Mr Ps complaint, and that Barclays havent acted 
unfairly by considering the account as having fallen into arrears when Mr P stopped making 
payments towards it or by later defaulting the account for continued non-payment.
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr P was wanting, but it follows from the above that I 
wont be upholding this complaint or instructing Barclays to take any further action here. I 
trust that Mr P will understand, given all that Ive explained, why Ive made the final decision 
that I have.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 December 2022.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman