DRN-3407515
The complaint
Ms H complained that Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) provided an unfair settlement for her 
claim under her home insurance policy.
What happened
Ms H made a claim on her policy when she identified leaking water coming through her 
kitchen ceiling from the bathroom above. Ms H used her own contractors to dismantle her 
bathroom to access the leak and fix it. Ms H paid a contractor just over £9,000 to have a new 
bathroom fitted and she incurred £177 in caretaker costs. Ms H wanted Aviva to reimburse 
these costs.
When Aviva reviewed the claim, it incorrectly rejected part of the claim as it thought it wasnt 
covered by the policy. It rectified this error and paid Ms H compensation as a goodwill 
gesture. However, Ms H is unhappy with the final settlement she has received. Aviva only 
paid Ms H a cash settlement equivalent to what it wouldve cost itself to do the works rather 
than what Ms H actually paid her contractor. This has left Ms H with a financial shortfall of 
just over £4,000. It also didnt reimburse the caretaker costs.
Our investigator decided not to uphold the complaint. She thought Aviva had been clear that 
it couldve done the rectification works. So, she thought Aviva had been reasonable in 
settling the claim in line with its terms and conditions by paying Ms H a cash settlement 
equivalent to what it wouldve cost itself to do the works. Ms H disagreed, so the complaint 
has been referred to an ombudsman.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this on 1 March 2022. I said:
Aviva agreed to settle Ms Hs claim, but Ms H was unhappy with the amount of cash 
settlement she was paid. So, Ive considered if I think this was fair in the circumstances of 
this complaint.
Aviva said it has settled Ms Hs claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. It 
said the policy sets out how it settles claims, which states:
We can choose to settle your claim by
 replacing
 reinstating
 repairing
 payment
Replacement will be on a like for like basis or based on the nearest equivalent available in 
the current market. If we are able to replace the property, but agree to make a cash 
settlement, we will only pay you what it would cost us to replace the item as if it were new.
 
Aviva said As we were in a position to undertake the reinstatement works, in line with the 
terms of the policy, we will pay you what it would cost us to return the property to pre-loss 
condition. Total settlement including the additional labour and materials is now £5,192.16.
Ms H thinks this is unfair, she said the policy doesnt state that the company is entitled to 
only pay the repairing/reinstating/workmanship cost at the cost it would be to them. I think 
its fair for Aviva to have offered Ms H a cash settlement based on its costs of doing the work 
provided Aviva made a clear option to Ms H of it being able to complete the works itself. If it 
didnt clearly offer Ms H this option, then Aviva needs to have fully indemnified Ms H for the 
claim, by paying the costs she has incurred in getting a contractor to do the works.
The circumstances of this complaint are important, as Ms H doesnt believe she was given 
the opportunity for Aviva to carry out the works to repair the damage. Ive listened carefully 
to the call of Ms H making her claim in November in 2020. This was a detailed call lasting 
around 60 minutes when Ms H talked through her circumstances methodically. At the start of 
the call, I did hear Aviva talk about the possibility of it carrying out the work and the 
possibility of them cash settling the claim.
At the time of the call, Ms H explained she had a leak somewhere in her wet room 
(bathroom) that was causing a water leak through her kitchen ceiling. However, Ms H 
couldnt see the damage the water had caused. The call agent was clear in saying if there 
was no evident damage, then Ms H wouldnt have a valid claim. Ms H said she had different 
plumbers visit who were unable to locate the leak as the source of the leak was obscured 
somewhere in the wet room system. The call agent explained to Ms H that if she 
demonstrates damage has occurred she would be covered for any trace and access costs 
and the costs for rectifying the damage.
Ms H explained that if the wet room was breached, the whole system would need 
replacing, so any attempt to find the leak would involve costs of re-fitting the entire 
bathroom. The call agent explained that the normal process would be for the policyholder to 
identify and stop the leak, and then the insurer would come and validate the damage and 
agree the process to have this rectified. Ms H explained to the call agent that she had 
secured a provisional booking with a plumber to break into the wet room system to identify 
and stop the leak, but then to remove the rest of the bathroom and re-fit it. The call agent 
agreed with the logic that the job needed to be done in one go for practical reasons, 
otherwise the bathroom wouldve potentially been out of action for several weeks or months.  
Avivas call agent reinforced the point, however, if no damage was found, Ms H wouldnt 
have a valid claim.
The discussion moved on about the process of Ms H getting her claim approved. She said 
she had a quote for the required works, and she asked if she needed three quotes. The call 
agent said she didnt need to provide other quotes, provided her quote had a breakdown of 
costs. Ms H asked several times what evidence she needed to provide to show the damage. 
She was told she needed to provide photographs.
These circumstances are important, as I think it is clear that practically getting one contractor 
to do the work was most logical, otherwise the bathroom couldve been out of action for a 
long period of time which in turn wouldve required Aviva offering alternative accommodation 
to those living in the property. It was a difficult situation for Aviva, as the damage hadnt been 
evidenced. It was also during the Covid-19 pandemic when access to materials and labour 
was difficult and prices were inflated.
However, I dont think Aviva provided Ms H with clear options after it fully understood the 
circumstances of the claim. The call agent spoke to his manager during the call and I dont 
think this provided any greater insight into the options Ms H had. Aviva are experts in claims management, so I wouldve expected it to have provided Ms H with a clearer direction of 
how the claim could play out. I think Ms H wouldve thought she was OK to proceed with her 
chosen contractor at the end of January 2021 based upon the quote she had. However, she 
wouldve known she needed to evidence damage with photographs for the claim to be 
fulfilled, which we know she did as Aviva has settled the claim.
However, Ms H was unhappy as the settlement value paid by Aviva left her with a financial 
shortfall. Ive looked at the timeline of events and Aviva only asked Ms H for her quote one 
week before the works were due to commence. Then, on the day the works took place it 
informed her that it thought the costs looked high. Aviva by email said, please confirm a 
means of obtaining full photographs before proceeding with any works in order for us to fully 
review the claim. I dont think Aviva have followed a reasonable process for this claim. Ms H 
told them she had a quote three months earlier  but it didnt question the costs until the day 
the workmen were due to start. Given it had taken Ms H three months before she could 
secure her plumber to do the works, she felt she had no option but to continue with the 
works. Therefore, I dont think its fair that Aviva hasnt honoured these costs.
Ms H provided Aviva with photos of the work. Based on these photos Aviva estimated what it 
wouldve cost itself to get the reinstatement works completed and it provided a cash 
settlement to Ms H for this amount. This left Ms H with a financial shortfall of over £4,000 on 
what she said she paid her plumber.
I have reviewed this complaint carefully and I dont think Aviva has followed a reasonable 
claims process or treated Ms H fairly. I think the use of a single contractor to do all the work 
was the logical solution  Aviva couldve offered to have contractors on stand-by to do the 
reinstatement works but it didnt. Aviva couldve offered alternative accommodation, but it 
didnt. I think the route taken was the logical one. From the information Ms H has provided 
and from the telephone call I have listened to, Im persuaded that if Ms H was told about a 
better route to get the work done, she would have followed the advice. I think Aviva 
shouldve pre-empted what was likely to have occurred and looked at Ms Hs quote earlier to 
see if the costs were reasonable. Im persuaded that Ms H wouldve got alternative quotes if 
they were needed. I dont think Aviva has provided reasonable justification of why it has 
declined Ms Hs costs she has submitted. Aviva didnt visit Ms Hs property at all to review 
the damage or to see the works that were required. It couldve arranged for a review to be 
done on the day the plumber was tracing the leak. I dont think its reasonable to decline the 
costs on the day the work is being done, without visiting the site, or without a detailed 
justification of why the cost were too high.
Therefore, I intend to uphold this complaint. I intend to require Aviva to settle the claim in line 
with the costs Ms H has incurred (based upon receipts as evidence of what she has paid). 
As Ms H has been financially out of pocket for some time, I intend to ask Aviva to pay 8% 
simple interest on the financial shortfall Ms H has faced from the time the initial settlement 
was paid to the date the full settlement is paid. I think the uncertainty of Ms H not receiving 
the full settlement will have caused her some distress as she would have been worried about 
the financial shortfall, so I intend to award £200 compensation for her distress and 
inconvenience.
Ms H said she incurred some caretaker costs. I dont think its fair that Aviva pay these costs. 
With any claim, there will be a level of inconvenience and in this case, I dont think Aviva has 
caused the requirement for Ms H to have a caretaker. Therefore, I dont think its reasonable 
to expect Aviva to reimburse these costs.
Responses to my provisional decisionBoth Ms H and Aviva has acknowledged receiving my provisional decision. Neither party has 
provided any further comments.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given neither party has provided any new information, I see no reason to change my 
provisional decision.
My final decision
My final decision is I uphold this complaint, I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Settle Ms Hs claim in line with the full costs she has incurred with her contractor 
(based upon receipts as evidence of what she has paid)
Pay 8% simple interest on the financial shortfall Ms H has faced from the time the 
initial settlement was paid to the date the full settlement is paid
Pay £200 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 April 2022.
 
Pete Averill
Ombudsman