DRN-4394098
The complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) wont refund the money he lost to a scam. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them all again 
here. Instead, Ill summarise the key points, and focus on giving reasons for my decision.
After falling victim to an investment scam a few years prior, Mr B was contacted by a third 
party which said it could help recover his loss. Unfortunately, this was also a scam. Mr B was 
tricked into making payments on the premise he had to pay to release cryptocurrency he 
was owed in relation to the earlier investment scam. 
Overall, Mr B paid just under £10,000 between November 2021 and January 2022. Please 
note, the investigator listed the last payment as £1,100 in his initial view, but it appears to 
have been for £950. This doesnt materially affect my outcome, and Mr Bs complaint 
submissions along with HSBCs fraud records show it considered the correct transactions. 
Mr B realised he had been scammed as the third party kept asking for more money, but he 
never received anything back. He reported the scam to HSBC. 
HSBC didnt agree to refund Mr B. It maintained this position when he subsequently 
complained. In summary, it said it wasnt liable as he had authorised the payments. And 
because he had sent the funds via his cryptocurrency wallet held with a legitimate merchant 
(C); they hadnt gone directly to the scammer. 
Mr B didnt agree, so referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into 
things but didnt uphold the complaint. They didnt think HSBC should have realised the 
payments were related to a scam at the time, and didnt think it could have recovered the 
funds when the scam was reported. 
Mr B disagreed. He said the proximity and pattern of the payments ought to have looked 
concerning as they were out of character for him. The investigator maintained their view, 
pointing out Mr B had previously made other payments around the same level.  
Following this, the investigator identified a call had taken place between Mr B and HSBC 
before the last few payments, in which there had been a discussion about the scam. The 
investigator ultimately concluded that, while HSBC could have done a bit more, that wasnt 
likely to have prevented Mr B from making the further payments  bearing in mind what was 
discussed and what Mr B knew at the time. 
Mr B disagrees with the investigator. He says, if HSBC had given him more warnings during 
the call, he wouldnt have made the further payments  as he was unaware it was a scam at 
that point. As no agreement has been reached, the case has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why.
In line with the Payment Services Regulations 2017, the bank is expected to execute 
authorised payment instructions without undue delay. While its agreed Mr B fell victim to a 
scam, its also agreed he authorised the payments. So the starting position is that he is liable 
for them. 
But there are some situations where we believe that bankstaking into account relevant 
rules, codes and best practiceought to have identified a fraud risk, so should have looked 
at the wider circumstances surrounding the transaction before making the payment. Ive 
considered whether HSBC should have done more here. 
I dont think the payment destination alone made it obvious Mr B was at risk from fraud. The 
payments didnt go direct to a known scammer; they first went to Mr Bs own wallet with a 
legitimate cryptocurrency merchant. 
I do appreciate the overall value of the scam payments was reasonably high  particularly 
the payments made over the first few days. But as our investigator highlighted, Mr B had 
made other payments for similar amounts in the months leading up to the scam. That made 
the value of the payments appear more in keeping with the expected activity.
There was also a gap of a day between the first payment and the next few, so it didnt 
appear Mr B was being put under immediate pressure to make a series of payments. There 
were further gaps between the later payments.  
Overall, Im not persuaded the payments were so unusual that HSBC ought to have 
identified a fraud risk and performed further checks. However, while Ive found it was 
reasonable that the payments alone didnt prompt fraud concerns, I have considered the 
wider context of the contact Mr B had with HSBC before making the last two payments. 
During the call, there was reference to an earlier call between Mr B and HSBC  but HSBC 
cant locate this Regardless, the timeframe given by Mr B makes it clear any prior contact 
would have been after the previous scam payments. So the contact is only relevant to 
considering the last two payments. 
Mr B explained he had done some trading previously, but then the company had 
disappeared. He had recently been approached and told the company had used his funds to 
purchase cryptocurrency, which he could reclaim for a fee. He understood he was dealing 
with a company, N, who is another legitimate cryptocurrency merchant. Mr B explained he 
had made payments to who he thought were N, via his C account  but hadnt received 
anything back. 
I agree with the investigator that HSBC could have done more to help Mr B in light of the 
recovery scam he was reporting. That said, I am conscious HSBC covered the following: 
It asked Mr B if he realised the person claiming to be N probably wasnt really them. 
Mr B responded that the emails looked genuine, but he now thought it was a scam.
HSBC explained it was probably linked to the earlier investment scam, as that 
company may have retained his details. 
It ended the call by reiterating that, based on what Mr B had described, it felt strongly 
this was the original investment scam company was trying to scam him again. It 
warned N wouldnt have contacted him in this way. While I agree HSBC should have gone a bit further during the call, I cant think what else it 
ought to have done which would have succeeded in preventing Mr Bs further loss. 
Mr B has said he didnt realise it was a scam when he spoke to HSBC, so further warnings 
would have dissuaded him. But at the time, he said he thought it was a scam. And HSBC did 
also warn him that it probably was.
As our investigator explained, Mr B seems to have proceeded as he then got a further 
response from N. But as well as discussing it being a scam, HSBC had also told him N 
wouldnt contact him in this way. As that didnt stop him from proceeding, Im not persuaded 
further warnings would have. 
I accept HSBCs argument it didnt have cause to think Mr B would continue making 
payments to the scam. The destination, timings and values of the payments didnt make it 
obvious they were part of the scam or otherwise of concern. I consider it reasonable that 
HSBC didnt block the further payments. 
Im also not persuaded HSBC could have recovered the funds. This is because they were 
sent directly to Mr Bs own wallet with C, before being transferred on to the scammer. So the 
transfers could not have been recalled. And chargeback claims wouldnt have succeeded for 
the card payments, as C provided the expected service by loading the funds to the 
wallet/converting it to cryptocurrency.
I appreciate this will be disappointing for Mr B, who has clearly been the victim of a scam. I 
understand why he therefore feels strongly about pursuing the matter, to try to recover his 
loss. But Im not persuaded failings by HSBC caused or contributed to this. And so I dont 
consider it fair to direct HSBC to reimburse him, or take other remedial steps (such as 
paying compensation) in relation to this complaint. 
My final decision
For the reasons given, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 November 2023.
 
Rachel Loughlin
Ombudsman