DRN-2789647
The complaint
Mr B complains about the decision of Clydesdale Bank Plc (T/A Virgin Money) to withdraw 
its online credit card management facility. Hes also unhappy with its decision not to accept 
his identification documents to unlock his account. Mr B additionally complains about how 
his subject access request and complaint was responded to.
What happened
Mr B holds a Virgin Money credit card. On 31 January 2021 Virgin Money withdrew its online 
web service. So, customers could no longer use its website to manage their card. Instead 
Virgin Money rolled out an App to replace its online credit card management facility.
Mr B said he used to manage his account via Virgin Moneys website. He also said he isnt 
able to use the App to do this instead because he cant recall password and login 
information that is needed to access the App. He says Virgin Moneys decision to withdraw 
its online web service is preventing him from managing his account.
On 1 February 2021 Mr B contacted Virgin Money to order a new card. While he passed 
standard telephone security, he was asked additional security questions which he failed to 
answer correctly. Virgin Money said the additional security questions were required before it 
could issue a new card. 
As a result of Mr B failing to pass enhanced security his account was locked. He was 
therefore unable to access information about his account balance. And Virgin Money told 
him, while it could take a payment, it couldnt discuss his account balance until his account 
had been unlocked. 
Mr B asked Virgin Money to log a subject access request (SAR) on his behalf to obtain the 
information it held for him on his account. But it declined to do so because it said it couldnt 
in circumstances where a customer had failed telephone security. It told Mr B that, if he 
wanted to unlock his account, hed need to supply two forms of ID from a designated list.
Mr B said Virgin Money wouldnt accept the ID documents he offered to provide. But it said 
they werent on the list of approved identification documents. So, Mr B complained.
When Virgin Money investigated Mr Bs concerns, it didnt uphold his complaint about his 
inability to access his account via its website. It said it had taken a business decision to 
withdraw its online web service and it outlined the alternative ways in which a customer 
could manage their account. Virgin Money also explained that it couldnt process Mr Bs SAR 
until he had provided satisfactory ID. And it stated that once ID had been provided it would 
remove the restrictions from his account. Virgin Money did, however, recognise that Mr B 
had spent a long time on the telephone when contacting it to make a payment. And it 
awarded him £25 compensation for the time hed spent.
Being dissatisfied with how Virgin Money had responded to his complaint Mr B referred it to 
our service. Our investigator empathised but didnt recommend upholding this complaint. 
They werent persuaded that Virgin Money had done anything wrong. So, they didnt think it 
needed to do anything else to resolve Mr Bs complaint. But Mr B rejected our investigators 
view of his complaint and requested an ombudsmans decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im aware that Ive summarised the events of the complaint. I dont intend any discourtesy by 
this - it just reflects the informal nature of our service. Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues. I can assure Mr B and Virgin Money that Ive read everything thats been 
sent. So if Ive not mentioned something its not because I havent considered it. Its just that 
I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach what I think is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
There are six parts to this complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal with them 
separately. 
Virgin Moneys decision to withdraw its online credit card management facility
Because Mr B isnt able to use his banking App to manage his account, I can appreciate why 
hed been reliant on using Virgin Moneys website to check on the status of his account. 
However, while I can understand how frustrated Mr B is bound to have been by Virgin 
Moneys decision to withdraw its online credit card management facility, this is a business 
decision that its entitled to make. And I agree with the investigator that its not a decision we 
can interfere with.
But sometimes where a business strictly follows its policies and procedures it can lead to a 
unfair outcome for an individual consumer. And this is something this service can look at. 
Ive therefore assessed whether this happened in Mr Bs case.
Taking into account everything Mr B and Virgin Money have said, I dont think Virgins 
decision to withdraw its online account management facility led to an unfair outcome for Mr 
B. Ill explain why.
I can see Mr B was given notice of Virgin Moneys intention to withdraw its online account 
management service. He was written to on 2 December 2020 and 12 January 2021 to 
explain that the online account management service would no longer be accessible. It 
follows that Im satisfied that Virgin Money took reasonable steps to keep Mr B informed of 
its intention to withdraw the online account management facility.
I can also see Virgin Money gave its customers alternative forms of banking so that if a 
customer didnt want to, or couldnt, use the App they could continue to manage their 
account in other ways. These methods were outlined to Mr B in correspondence Virgin 
Money sent him. So, Im satisfied he hasnt been left without alternative means of accessing 
his account as a result of Virgin Moneys decision to withdraw its online account 
management facility. 
Virgin Moneys refusal to confirm Mr Bs account balance or issue a new card
As Mr Bs account is currently locked the only way for him to obtain account specific 
information is to firstly unlock his account. To do this Mr B is required to provide satisfactory 
ID. I cant fairly find that this is an unreasonable requirement on the part of Virgin Money. I 
say this because banks have a duty to have robust strategies to safeguard customer accounts from fraudulent transactions. Preventing fraud is as important for the bank as it is 
for its customers. 
Here, its clear that Virgin Money had concerns about Mr Bs identity. This was based on his 
inability to satisfy additional security questions. Based on the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied Virgin Moneys decision to place restrictions on Mr Bs account pending the 
production of satisfactory ID was a reasonable security measure as part of its strategy to 
reduce fraud. This was just as much for Mr Bs protection as it was for Virgin Moneys.
I can see that Virgin Money has told Mr B and our service that once he satisfies its 
identification requirements it will discuss his account status with him and issue a new card. I 
think this is reasonable and fair. Crucially, this is not preventing Mr B from making payments 
to his card. So, Im satisfied there is no financial, or other, unfairness created by Virgin 
Moneys decision not to unblock Mr Bs account.
Virgin Moneys refusal to deal with Mr Bs SAR 
I understand that Mr B asked Virgin Money to log a SAR on his behalf on 1 February. He 
says its failed to respond to that request because it hasnt provided the information he 
requested. But Virgin Money states is prevented from complying with Mr Bs request until he 
satisfies its identification requirements. 
Mr B is asking Virgin Money to provide him with account specific information as a result of 
the SAR he asked it to log. So, I cant fairly find that its acted unfairly in declining to deal 
with Mr Bs request while satisfactory identification documentation remains outstanding. This 
is, again, a safeguarding measure designed to prevent customer accounts from becoming 
vulnerable to fraudulent transactions and unauthorised access.  
I can see that Virgin Money has information Mr B that once he satisfies its identification 
requirements it will action, and respond to, his SAR. Im satisfied that this reasonable and 
fair. Mr B can, of course, refer Virgin Moneys failure to deal with his SAR to the Information 
Commissioners Office should he wish to pursue this issue further. 
Virgin Moneys refusal to accept the ID Mr B has offered
Mr B has offered Virgin Money sight of a number of ID documents in efforts to unlock his 
account. These documents include his birth certificate, marriage certificate, DBS criminal 
records check and an expired passport. Mr B believes Virgin Money is acting unfairly in 
refusing to accept the ID documents hes offered. However, none of the documents hes 
offered feature on Virgin Moneys approved list of ID documents, which Ive seen. 
We arent the regulator of banks. So, our service cant tell Virgin Money what to accept as an 
ID document. Based on what Ive seen though, I can see Virgin Money has agreed to depart 
from its usual identification verification process by accepting emailed certified ID documents. 
But Mr B has declined to provide ID certified by a legal professional. And he also hasnt 
attended a branch to have his documents verified by branch staff there. So, Virgin Moneys 
departure from its usual process hasnt resolved the issues Mr B is complaining about.
I think Virgin Moneys offer to depart from its usual process demonstrates fairness and 
flexibility. I dont think it can reasonably offer any further assistance to Mr B here. And, as Mr 
B hasnt provided an acceptable form of photo ID or proof of address, I cant fairly conclude 
that Virgin Moneys decision not to accept the items Mr B has offered was unreasonable.
Was the compensation Virgin Money paid Mr B fair and reasonable?As I mentioned in the background to this complaint Virgin Money acknowledged that Mr B 
spent a prolonged length of time on the phone when trying to make a payment towards his 
account balance. It credited his account with £25 compensation to recognise his experience.
I understand that Mr B spent over 45 minutes on the telephone and was passed across a 
number of different departments when trying to make his payment. Having thought very 
carefully about the impact all would have had on Mr B, Im satisfied that the compensation 
already paid is fair and reasonable. Its in line with awards made by this service in 
comparable circumstances and its what Id have told Virgin Money to pay. So, I wont be 
ordering it to pay any more.
Complaint handling process
Finally, Mr B has expressed concerns about the content of the final response letter he 
received in response to his complaint. He said it didnt go into the detail he wanted or 
expected. And he doesnt think it dealt with all the complaint points he made. 
Strictly speaking, we dont have the power to look at how financial businesses deal with 
complaint handling  as its not a regulated activity under the legislation that governs our 
service. So, even if I did think Virgin Money hadnt done things well in this regard, I wouldnt 
be able to uphold that element of Mr Bs concerns or make an award. I cant act outside the 
law. So, I wont spend any time in this decision commenting on this part of Mr Bs complaint.
I know this wont be the response Mr B will want and I understand he feels very strongly 
about the issues raised in this complaint. But for the reasons given, my final decision is that 
Im not going to uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 June 2021.
 
Julie Robertson
Ombudsman