DRN-2507443
The complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) unfairly 
turned down their business interruption insurance claim after their business was forced to 
close due to the Covid-19 pandemic. 
What happened
Mr and Mrs H hold a business interruption insurance policy with RSA. Mr and Mrs H claimed 
on their policy after their business was required to close due to the Governments actions in 
response to Covid-19. 
RSA said that while the policy covered business interruption as a result of a notifiable 
disease at the premises, Mr and Mrs Hs business had closed as a result of the Government 
Act in response to the national pandemic. It also said the extension of cover for denial of 
access and loss of attraction didnt apply because Covid-19 hadnt caused damage to 
property in their businesss vicinity, as required by this extension. As a result, RSA turned 
down Mr and Mrs Hs claim. 
 
As Mr and Mrs H were unhappy with RSAs response and thought RSA should pay their 
claim, they brought their complaint to our service. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Hs complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. He 
thought RSA had turned down the claim in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. 
He thought the policy would only cover closure due to Covid-19 if there had been a case at 
the premises. And as Mr and Mrs H had confirmed the closure was due to the Government 
Act in response to the national pandemic, rather than because of a case of Covid-19 at the 
premises, they werent covered. He also didnt think Covid-19 had caused damage to 
property in the vicinity of Mr and Mrs Hs premises. 
Mr and Mrs H accepted that the extension for disease, murder, suicide, vermin and pests 
wouldnt provide cover but thought the extension for denial of access and loss of attraction 
should. They said denial of access was being considered as part of the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys (FCA) test case which might impact on the outcome of their claim. They thought 
that the closure could be considered as due to an accident which was an insured event. And 
that the definition of damage had been met, because theyd suffered loss.  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry to hear that the pandemic and the Governments related actions had an impact on 
Mr and Mrs Hs business. But for the same reasons the investigator set out, I wont be 
upholding their complaint. Ill explain why. 
Business interruption insurance offers protection from risks common to a business, but 
different policies can provide different types of cover. What is and isnt covered is set out in 
the policy terms and conditions. Ive therefore looked carefully at this particular policy to see 
if RSA has acted fairly, reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy 
when declining Mr and Mrs Hs claim.
As Mr and Mrs H accept that the extension for disease, murder, suicide, vermin and pests 
doesnt provide cover Ill focus my decision on the extension for denial of access and loss of 
attraction.
This extension covers:
Damage to Property in the vicinity of the Premises by any of the insured Events which
F) hinders or prevents the use of the Premises or access to them or
G) causes a fall in the number of customers attracted to the vicinity of the Premises 
whether the Property used by You for the purpose of the Business shall be 
Damaged or not
The policy defines damage as Accidental loss, destruction or Damage and defines property 
as Material Property but shall not include Data.
For this term to cover Mr and Mrs Hs claim there would need to be damage to material 
property in the vicinity of their premises caused by an insured event. The insured events 
include accident, which Mr and Mrs H feel should include the circumstances of their claim. 
However, I dont think I need to decide if the circumstances of the claim would meet the 
definition of accident. I say that because even if it did, it would still need to have caused 
damage to material property. And I havent seen anything to indicate that there has been 
loss, destruction or damage to material property in the vicinity of their business - as a result 
of the pandemic or the related Government actions.
Mr and Mrs H have also referred to the FCAs test case. However, I dont believe this case 
will impact Mr and Mrs Hs claim because the terms being considered are different to those 
in Mr and Mrs Hs policy. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr and Mrs H were hoping for, but having considered this 
matter very carefully, I dont think I can fairly ask RSA to pay the claim.  
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision before 16 February 2021.
 
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman