DRN-3846868
The complaint
Mrs N and Mr N complain Aviva Insurance Limited wrongly declined their claim for cover 
under their legal expenses insurance policy.
Aviva appoint claims handlers to manage their claims. Where I refer to Aviva in my decision, 
that includes the claims handlers who were involved in Mrs N and Mr Ns claim.
What happened
In June 2018 Mrs N and Mr N made a claim on their legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy, 
taken out with Aviva in around September 2017. They wanted cover to pursue a claim 
against their local parish council for failing to maintain their trees on land next to Mrs N and 
Mr Ns property. Aviva declined the claim straight away on grounds the dispute with the 
council had arisen before they took out the policy and cover was excluded in those 
circumstances. 
Mrs N and Mr N made a further claim on the policy, which had renewed, in March 2022 after 
the trees caused physical damage to an outbuilding. Aviva declined this claim under the 
same exclusion. Mrs N and Mr N complained. They felt the claim should be covered since 
the damage was new.
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint, so Mrs N and Mr N brought it to the Financial 
Ombudsman Service. Our investigator came to the view Aviva were right to decline the 
claim. She said the policy excluded cover where the initial dispute or series of incidents 
leading to a claim on the policy happened before cover started or after it came to an end. 
She said Mrs N and Mr Ns claim related to an ongoing issue which began before the policy 
started and fell within the exclusion.
Since Mrs N and Mr N disagreed, their complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under the relevant rules set out by the Financial Conduct Authority, we expect insurers to 
consider insurance claims promptly and fairly and not to decline claims unreasonably. The 
starting point for looking at this complaint is the wording of Mrs N and Mr Ns LEI policy. 
The policy provides cover for legal costs subject to the terms, conditions, exclusions and 
limit of indemnity set out in the policy for, amongst other things, disputes relating to the 
interference of Mrs N and Mr Ns use or enjoyment of their property or damage to the 
property. So, on the face of it, they have cover for the legal costs of the claim they wish to 
bring against the council. But that cover is subject to the following policy exclusion on page 
12:
We will not pay for 
d. claims where the initial dispute or series of incidents leading to a claim on this 
policy happen before this cover starts or after it comes to an end as shown on your 
schedule;
You can only make one claim for all disputes arising from the same incident.
The evidence shows Mrs N and Mr Ns dispute with the council has been going on for 
several years. For example:
A tree report prepared in 2010 set out recommended works the council should carry 
out to their trees on the land next to their property. 
A tree report carried out in 2015 said thered been a lack of maintenance to the trees. 
It said Mr N had told the author of the report that the trees were causing long 
standing issues; thered been a continuing lack of maintenance by the council; Mr N 
had reported branches falling into his garden; and it was likely two of Mrs N and      
Mr Ns fence posts had been displaced by root action.  
A council arboricultural officer visited Mrs N and Mr Ns property in August 2016 
apparently to discuss their concerns at the time. 
The claim form Mr N completed in June 2018 said he became aware of an issue 
when the council did not cut the trees next to his house that were in the rolling 
program and hed asked the council to take action several times. Mr Ns covering 
letter mentions the issues theyd had with debris falling on the property, blocked 
guttering, leaves and branches dropping into the guttering and onto cars and people.
Mr N told Aviva in March 2022 hed had an ongoing issue with the council which had 
failed to maintain the trees for at least seven years. 
Another tree report in 2022 refers, amongst other things, to previous suggestions 
being put to the council in 2015 about the way in which the trees could be managed, 
a history of complaints and previous damage to the fence.
I can appreciate Mrs N and Mr N feel the nature of the claim they wish to make against the 
council is different from the previous issues theyve raised with them given damage has 
recently been caused to an outbuilding. But the evidence suggests its not the first time 
physical damage may have been caused by the trees. And its clear from the evidence the 
new damage is part of an ongoing series of incidents that relate back to a dispute that      
pre-dates the policy. So, Im satisfied the exclusion applies. 
The exclusion is a common one in LEI policies. And we dont generally consider it to be 
unreasonable. LEI policies are intended to cover uncertain risks, not things that the 
policyholder is aware of before the policy started. Here Mrs N and Mr N were aware of the 
problems the trees were causing before the policy started and that a situation existed that 
might lead to a legal dispute, even if that wasnt definite. And I havent seen anything that 
would persuade me it was fair, in the particular circumstances of Mrs N and Mr Ns 
complaint, for me to ask Aviva to cover their claim.
Bearing everything in mind, whilst I understand Mrs N and Mr N will be disappointed, I dont 
uphold this complaint. Finally, Id note Mr Ns referred to the policy providing cover for 
outbuildings. From the extract hes provided, I think hes probably referring to his buildings 
cover rather than the LEI cover Im considering here. My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs N and Mr N to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 January 2023.
 
Julia Wilkinson
Ombudsman