DRN-2069959
The complaint
Mr L has complained about AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision to refuse to renew his 
private medical insurance policy. AXA made the decision because it believed hed tried to 
make a fraudulent claim.
What happened
Mr L held a private medical insurance policy with AXA.
In August 2018, Mr L asked AXA by email to provide cover for a full body health check. AXA 
replied to say this wasnt covered by his policy.
In September 2018, Mr L contacted AXA again by email and asked if it would provide cover 
for a basic health check by his GP. AXA responded to say that while the policy provided 
cover for private GP consultations, it didnt cover health checks. It advised that the policy did 
enable him to  get a 25% discount on a health check with certain private health providers.
In October 2018, Mr L submitted to AXA an invoice from his private GP for £885, comprising 
a charge of £280 for a basic medical and £605 for various diagnostic tests. AXA responded 
to say that it wouldnt cover the cost. It explained that the policy covered only treatment 
which was medically necessary and not routine preventative examinations and check-ups. It 
advised that the policy would offer up to £500 to cover the cost of private GP consultations.
Mr L told AXA that his appointment with the GP had been a private consultation. AXA said if 
any of the cost related to a private consultation, it would need to see a revised invoice 
confirming this.
Mr L submitted a revised invoice from his GP a few hours later. This was still for the amount 
of £885 but simply said it was for an initial private consultation.
AXA considered this was excessive for an initial consultation. It contacted the GP surgery 
which said that Mr L had undergone a full basic medical and that this should be recorded on 
the invoice.
AXA wrote to Mr L on 27 October 2018 to say that because he had submitted an invoice for 
an initial consultation with his GP for which the surgery had no record, it would be cancelling 
his policy with effect from the next renewal date of 1 December 2018.
Mr L complained to AXA about its decision. He said that both invoices were incorrect and 
that he had undergone a consultation in respect of a couple of issues and a check-up. He 
said that after AXA had initially declined the claim he had gone back to the GP surgery to 
ask for a corrected invoice. He also said that some of the communication with AXA and the 
surgery had been carried out by his assistant on his behalf.
After speaking again to the GP surgery, AXA issued a final response letter maintaining its 
decision. It said the surgery had confirmed no mistake had been made and the first invoice 
was correct. It was satisfied that it was fair for it to cancel the policy from the time it was due 
to renew.
Mr L was unhappy at AXAs decision which he considered was unfair. He referred his 
complaint to us. He said that he didnt want the policy to be reinstated or to receive any 
compensation. He simply wanted the record of the cancellation to be removed.
While the complaint was under investigation, AXA clarified that, contrary to the term it had 
used in its correspondence and internally, it had not cancelled Mr Ls policy but had simply 
refused to renew it.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld. He considered that Mr L 
had consulted the GP about certain issues and also had a health check. He believed there 
had been miscommunication between AXA and the GP surgery and noted that the surgery 
had told AXA that the basic medical was a consultation. He thought it was unreasonable for 
AXA to refuse to renew the policy on the grounds that Mr L had knowingly submitted a false 
invoice. He therefore considered that AXA should remove any record of this refusal. 
AXA didnt accept the investigators findings. It maintained that Mr L had submitted a false 
invoice and that it had been entitled under the terms of the policy to refuse to renew the 
policy. However, it suggested that Mr L give it consent to contact the GP surgery to get full 
details of what happened at his appointment.
Mr L didnt give his consent as he considered AXA already had sufficient information to show 
that it had acted unfairly.
In view of the continued disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider it is fairly clear from the first invoice provided by the GP surgery, and from the 
subsequent conversations between AXA and the surgery, that at the appointment in 
question Mr L underwent a basic medical health check and various diagnostic tests.
During the health check, Mr L may have taken the opportunity to ask the GP about specific 
health concerns. However, although the policy offers £500 a year towards the cost of private 
GP consultations and doesnt define what is meant by consultation, I dont consider this 
means Mr Ls appointment was eligible for this benefit. This is because the policy makes 
clear that it covers only treatment of acute medical conditions and doesnt cover preventative 
treatment or health screening. There is no evidence to show that any part of the overall 
invoice amount of £885 was attributable specifically to a consultation over a particular acute 
medical condition.
Im satisfied from the above that AXA was entitled to decline the claim. However, AXA went 
further than that. After Mr L submitted the revised invoice, it decided he had knowingly 
submitted a false invoice and therefore decided not to allow renewal of the policy.
The policy states that if a policyholder makes a claim which is false or fraudulent, AXA may 
take certain actions. These include refusing to renew the policy, cancelling the policy with 
immediate effect, or voiding the policy. I recognise that the refusal to renew is the least 
severe of these options but it still has a potentially serious impact. This is because the 
policyholder may be required to declare it on future insurance applications which could affect their ability to obtain cover and the terms of that cover. I therefore consider that AXA should 
exercise its discretion carefully when deciding to invoke this action.
In this case, if Mr L had forged a false invoice purporting to be from the GP surgery, then 
I consider that AXA would have clear grounds for accusing him of fraudulent behaviour. 
However, he didnt do this. To that extent, he didnt submit a false invoice. He submitted a 
genuine invoice, albeit one which AXA thinks falsely represents the treatment he received.
Mr L has admitted that he asked the GP to provide a revised invoice after AXA initially 
declined his claim. AXA spoke to the surgery and it acknowledged that it sometimes 
provided two versions of an invoice, one containing less detail than the other, usually for 
privacy reasons. It also referred to the basic health check as being a consultation. 
I consider that Mr L genuinely believed he had undergone a consultation with a private GP. 
He asked the GP surgery to provide a revised invoice hoping it would separate out the cost 
of this from the health check he underwent. The GP surgery didnt do this but simply put all 
the costs, including the diagnostic tests, under the heading of initial consultation. But this 
was the fault of the surgery rather than Mr L.
Mr L, or his assistant on his behalf, then forwarded the invoice to AXA. I consider that Mr L,  
even though he believed hed undergone a consultation, should have realised the revised 
invoice couldnt be correct because there were other costs, such as the diagnostic tests, 
which clearly should not appear under this heading. However, I consider his failure to go 
back to the surgery on this point is perhaps indicative of carelessness on his part rather than 
a deliberate attempt to mislead. As it was, the discrepancy was immediately obvious to AXA 
which is why it made further enquiries with the surgery and maintained its decision to decline 
the claim. However, I dont consider it was reasonable for AXA to accuse Mr L of knowingly 
submitting a false invoice. 
In summary, I consider that Mr L did not have a valid claim under the policy. However, I dont 
think that AXA has shown he knowingly sought to make a false claim. Instead, I think the 
situation arose because of confusion among Mr L, AXA and the GP surgery over what is 
meant by the term consultation and the misleading revised invoice produced by the 
surgery.
I therefore consider that AXA was wrong to refuse to renew Mr Ls policy. Mr L has 
confirmed that he no longer wants that policy reinstated, nor does he want compensation. 
However, he wants AXA to remove from the records any reference to its refusal to renew 
and I consider that AXA should do this.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA 
PPP Healthcare Limited to remove reference to having refused cover to Mr L from any 
internal or external records.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision before 12 November 2020.
 
David Poley
Ombudsman