DRN-2998461
The complaint
Mrs M complains that Valour Finance Limited trading as Savvy.co.uk was irresponsible in its 
lending to her.
What happened
Mrs M was provided with a £750 loan by Savvy.co.uk in June 2017. The loan was repayable 
over 12 monthly instalments of £125. Mrs M says that at the time of the loan she had other 
debts outstanding and that adequate checks werent carried out before the loan was 
provided.
Savvy.co.uk issued a final response letter in February 2021. It didnt uphold Mrs Ms 
complaint. It said that a full income and expenditure assessment was carried out before the 
loan was provided and that Mrs Ms monthly income was verified as being £1,700. It says 
her expenses including other credit commitments were £1,294 leaving enough disposable 
income to make the loan repayments and have funds remaining. Savvy.co.uk said a credit 
check was carried out and the reason for another recent loan was questioned. It says that 
based on its checks the loan was affordable.
Mrs M didnt agree with Savvy.co.uks response and referred her complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator upheld this complaint. He thought that the information gathered from the 
credit search showed Mrs M was having problems managing her money. He said she had 
defaults totalling around £16,000 and that two defaults were recorded in May 2017 and two 
in June 2017. He thought that on the affordability assessment call further questions should 
have been asked about the recent defaults. Given the information received he thought that it 
was unlikely Mrs M would be able to sustainably repay the loan.
Savvy.co.uk didnt agree with our adjudicators view. It said that reference to four accounts 
defaulting in 2017 was incorrect and that the defaults occurred in 2014. It said that as the 
defaults were historic it had acted reasonably by not questioning these further. It said it 
believed its checks before the loan was provided were proportionate and noted that Mrs M 
made her repayments on time and it wasnt advised at any point during the loan that Mrs M 
was struggling financially.
My provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Mrs M was only provided with one loan by Savvy.co.uk. Before the loan information 
about her income and expenses was gathered. I listened to the telephone call on 
which the affordability assessment took place and found it reasonable that the 
information gathered was relied on. Mrs Ms income was verified and based on the 
information she provided the loan appeared affordable.
A credit search was carried out. This listed defaulted accounts. Our adjudicator said 
in his view that two accounts defaulted in May 2017 and two in June 2017. However, 
Savvy.co.uk said that the defaults were not from 2017 but instead from 2014 which 
was when the accounts were noted as being finished. It contacted the credit 
reference agency and having considered the response provided I thought it more 
likely than not that the accounts defaulted in 2014 and where therefore historic. 
Based on this, I found the checks were reasonable and as the loan appeared 
affordable I did not uphold this complaint.
Neither party provided any new information in response to my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I explained in my provisional decision, we've set out our general approach to complaints 
about short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry 
practice - on our website.
Savvy.co.uk needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mrs M could repay the loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such as how much was being lent the repayment amounts and 
the consumer's income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Savvy.co.uk was required to establish 
whether Mrs M could sustainably repay her loan - not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC), defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make 
repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should realise, or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ms complaint. 
As I set out in my provisional decision, without further evidence to show that Mrs M had 
defaults recorded shortly before the loan I find it more likely than not that the defaults on her 
credit file were historic and based on this I think the checks carried out before the loan was 
provided were reasonable.
As the checks suggested the loan was affordable for Mrs M I do not find I have enough 
evidence to uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Valour Finance Limited trading 
as Savvy.co.uk.Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 20 September 2021.
 
Jane Archer
Ombudsman