DRN-3984233
The complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has dealt with 
a claim he made under section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75). 
Mr G is represented by a claims management company (the CMC).
What happened
On 20 April 2016, Mr G entered into a contract to purchase a solar panel system from a 
supplier. He paid for the system using a fixed sum loan agreement from Shawbrook which 
was repayable over 15 years. The credit agreement was signed by Mr G on 25 April 2016.
The CMC wrote to Shawbrook on 26 April 2022 to make a claim under s.75. The purpose of 
s.75 is to provide protection for consumers who pay for goods or services using credit. The 
creditor (Shawbrook) is jointly and severally liable with the supplier for any breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the supplier  subject to certain considerations being met. 
Mr Gs claim explained that the system had been misrepresented to him in that he was told 
the feed-in tariff (FIT) payments would more than cover the loan repayments, which they 
do not. 
Shawbrook took some time to respond and told Mr G he could contact the Financial 
Ombudsman Service if he was unhappy with the wait. The CMC then referred a complaint to 
us about Shawbrooks failure to uphold the claim. 
Our adjudicator looked at Mr Gs claim and concluded that it had been made outside of the 
time limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980. This meant that the supplier (and therefore 
Shawbrook) would not have any liability because the s.75 claim had been made too late. So, 
our adjudicator said that Shawbrook did not need to do anything further. 
The CMC disagreed. It said that the Limitation Act provided extra time to make the claim, 
since Mr G would not have known there had been a misrepresentation at the time of sale. 
And that it thought the claim had been made within the extended time limit, since he wouldnt 
have known he could claim until more than three years after the sale. The CMC also said 
that Mr G had a claim under s.140 of the Consumer Credit Act, which is about unfair 
relationships between creditors and debtors. 
Our adjudicator didnt change their mind. They didnt think the extended time limit gave Mr G 
any additional time. And they said that no claim under s.140 had been made, so Shawbrook 
cannot be expected to have considered such a claim. The CMC confirmed that Mr G would 
make a claim to Shawbrook under s.140, but in this case asked for an ombudsmans 
decision on the s.75 claim. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator  and Ill explain why. 
In this complaint Im considering whether Shawbrook has treated Mr G fairly in its response 
to his s.75 claim. I will not discuss s.140 since it was not raised as part of Mr Gs claim. 
There are a number of things Ive taken account of when reaching my decision, including the 
law, rules and regulations, good practice and the facts of Mr Gs complaint. In this decision 
Ill refer to those that I consider to be central to my conclusions. 
relevant considerations 
Mr Gs complaint is about a claim under s.75 and so naturally the appropriate parts of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974 are relevant. As Ive explained above, s.75 sets out why a claim 
can be made against Shawbrook and it can be held responsible for a purchase Mr G made 
using a fixed sum loan agreement. 
There are also high-level principles which apply to all firms authorised by the financial 
regulator (the FCA). Principle 6 of the FCA Principles states: 
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly. 
So Shawbrook should have treated Mr G fairly in not upholding his s.75 claim. The time 
limits set out in the Limitation Act 1980 are important, since if the claim was made outside 
those time limits, the supplier (and therefore Shawbrook) would have no liability for the claim 
 regardless of whether or not there had been a misrepresentation. 
The Limitation Act 
The Limitation Act is the law which sets out the time limits which apply to different causes of 
action that a party can pursue. As Mr Gs rights to claim against Shawbrook under s.75 are 
on the same basis of those he could make a claim against the supplier, and his claim is for 
misrepresentation, I consider the relevant time limits set out in the Limitation Act are: 
Section 2 which applies to causes of action founded in tort law  which includes 
claims for misrepresentation. 
Section 9 which applies to causes of actions for sums recoverable by statute. 
Section 14A which sets out when time limits are linked to when a claimant had the 
necessary knowledge and right to bring a claim. 
Misrepresentation 
s.2 of the Limitation Act states, An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the 
expiration of six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
For me to determine whether a claim was brought within six years, I have to decide when the 
cause of action, or damage, took place. The damage is the financial loss arising as a result 
of the misrepresentation. 
In this case, Mr G says the benefits of the system were the inducement that made him make 
the purchase. But his s.75 claim is largely that those benefits were misrepresented and so 
he entered a contract which wasnt the value for money he expected. Mr G says that, were it not for the misrepresentation about the potential benefits, then he wouldnt have entered the 
contract to purchase the system at all. 
So, Mr Gs financial loss occurred when he contracted to buy the system. He signed the 
contract on 20 April 2016, so the six years started then. 
Mr G raised his claim with Shawbrook on 26 April 2022, which is more than six years from 
when the damage occurred, and his cause of action accrued. 
Sums recoverable by statute law 
s.9 of the Limitation Act states, An action to recover any sum recoverable by virtue of any 
enactment shall not be brought after the expiration of six years from the date on which the 
cause of action accrued. 
Ive considered this section because the basis of Mr Gs claim against Shawbrook is under 
s.75 and so is a sum recoverable by virtue of enactment (statute law from an act of 
parliament). But I dont think this changes the position compared to the other provisions in 
the Limitation Act. s.75 makes the lender jointly and severally liable for a suppliers 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  effectively making Shawbrook step into the shoes 
of the supplier. 
This means that the limitation period under s.9 is the same as for misrepresentation and 
gives rise to effectively the same cause of action. 
s.14A Limitation Act 
Although the limitation time period is six years for cause of action as set out above, s.14A 
provides for a second period in which a claim can be made. That is, if later than the six-year 
period, three years from the earliest date on which the claimant had both the knowledge 
required to bring a claim for damages, and the right to bring such a claim. 
This is a relevant consideration for Mr Gs claim as Ive already explained he raised his 
complaint with Shawbrook was made more than six years from when the contract was 
entered, and damage suffered. So, applying s.14A in this instance Ive considered when 
Mr G knew, or ought to have known, that he had a claim for misrepresentation against the 
supplier. 
The allegation is that the FIT payments were not enough to cover the loan repayments and 
the CMC says Mr G wouldnt have known this until years after installation, since the FIT 
payments were expected to increase over time (the unit rate payable increases annually with 
RPI inflation). 
However, Ive looked at the quote Mr G was provided at the time of sale. This shows the FIT 
payments that can be expected in each year after installation. This is clearly shown as being 
£152.50 for year one. 
So, once Mr G had one years worth of FIT statements, he could compare the income 
received with the year one FIT income figure shown in the quote. If the income received was 
significantly less that the estimate, he could see that there had potentially been a 
misrepresentation and that he could claim. 
The CMC says the FIT payments were significantly less than Mr G was expecting, based on 
what he was told. So, he couldve compared what hed been told (even if that differed from 
what was shown in the quote) with what hed received.In either case, I think that Mr G had the knowledge required to bring a claim once he had 
one years worth of FIT statements. The CMC says it took a few months to start receiving 
FIT payments, which are paid quarterly. So, I think it wouldve been about 18 months after 
installation that Mr G had the knowledge required to bring a claim for damages. This does 
not extend the six years he had to bring the claim. 
So, it appears the claim was not made withing the time limits set out in the Limitation Act. 
Summary 
In this decision, I am considering whether Shawbrook has acted fairly when dealing with 
Mr Gs s.75 claim. It is for the courts to ultimately decide whether or not any right to claim 
against the supplier (and so Shawbrook) has expired under the Limitation Act. But given the 
information available and representations made by both parties, Im satisfied Shawbrook has 
not acted unfairly by not upholding Mr Gs claim. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 27 March 2023.
 
Phillip Lai-Fang
Ombudsman