DRN-3326937
The complaint
Mr A complains that National Westminster Bank Plc unfairly lodged a marker against him 
with CIFAS.
What happened
Mr As account was closed by NatWest in 2017. He later became aware that a marker had 
been lodged against him by NatWest with a fraud prevention organisation called CIFAS.
Mr A believed this was linked to the receipt of fraudulent funds into his account which hes 
said had nothing to do with him. Mr A explained that at the time, he was away from home 
studying and was living in shared accommodation. He believes that other students gained 
access to his private banking information and set up payments out of his account and used 
his debit card without permission. 
Mr A was interviewed by the police about the fraudulent funds, but they didnt pursue the 
matter.
Mr A believes the use of his account was to enable fraudulent funds to be paid into it without 
his knowledge. At the time the funds were paid into his account, NatWest had already 
started a review of the account activity and blocked access to it. This meant the funds were 
prevented from moving and shortly after they were received into the account, NatWest 
received information from the sending bank that the funds were the result of fraud. They 
were later returned to the sending banks customer.
Once Mr A finished his studies, he complained to NatWest about the marker and asked them 
to remove it because he wasnt involved in the receipt of fraudulent funds and knew nothing 
about them. NatWest declined to change their position and Mr A brought his complaint to the 
Financial Ombudsman for an independent review.
Mr As complaint was looked into by one of our investigators who asked for information and 
evidence from all the parties. Mr A gave his account about what happened and explained 
that because the police didnt pursue any action, this was evidence he wasnt involved in the 
receipt of the fraudulent funds. NatWest provided evidence of the fraudulent funds and other 
account activity they were concerned about.
Mr As complaint wasnt upheld, but Mr A was unhappy with how it had been handled. Mr As 
complaint was reinvestigated, and further information obtained, including Mr As recollection 
of what had happened at the time. Mr A thought that persons unknown had found his 
details, including his debit card, security number and online banking details which he often 
left on his desk or in his room where he was staying. Mr A explained that it was possible for 
others to have gained access to his room and obtained all these details. 
The second investigator didnt uphold the complaint, believing it unlikely anyone else had 
been involved in setting up online payments and identified Mr A was using his online account 
around the time the fraudulent funds were received. Mr A commented that the police 
believed it was only his card details that were used by these unidentified persons. He asked 
for a further review of his complaint, which has now been passed to me for a decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When NatWest received reports from the sending banks about the fraudulent funds, they 
believed they had sufficient evidence to lodge a marker with CIFAS. In order to do this, 
NatWest have to meet strict standards (known as pillars) laid down by CIFAS. The two 
most relevant pillars to this complaint are:
That there are reasonable grounds to believe that a Fraud or Financial Crime has 
been committed or attempted.
That the evidence must be clear, relevant and rigorous such that the member could 
confidently report the conduct of the Subject to the police.
NatWest received reports from the sending banks about the two fraudulent payments, which 
detailed the way the funds had been stolen and diverted to Mr As account. Im satisfied that 
once NatWest received these reports, they met the criteria of the first pillar.
Mr A has explained that he knew nothing about the fraudulent funds and also didnt 
recognise several small payments sent from his account to a series of new payees. These 
payees were set up using Mr As internet banking access. He also disputed a debit card 
payment made around the same time.
Mr A believed persons unknown to him had obtained all his banking details and his debit 
card from his room. They used the banking details to log in to his account and set up several 
new payees. Its Mr As case that his account was effectively taken over to enable the receipt 
of the fraudulent funds and because the police didnt pursue any action, this was evidence 
that he wasnt involved. 
Just prior to the receipt of the fraudulent funds into Mr As account, NatWest were already 
reviewing the way the account was operating and had decided to close it. This meant that 
online access was blocked, so when fraudulent funds were received into it, they were unable 
to be moved.
The crux of this complaint is whether Mr A was involved in any of the arrangements linked to 
the stolen funds or not. If, as hes explained, his account was used without his knowledge, 
then it wouldnt be appropriate for NatWest to hold him responsible for the suspicious activity 
on his account.
Mr A has stated that his details were taken without his knowledge. He described a situation 
where he left his debit card/Personal Identification Number (PIN) and various online banking 
security information in his room which was found by unknown persons. 
I appreciate Mr A couldnt remember specifically where hed left these details because it was 
several years ago. But, for anyone other than Mr A to have set up these online payments, 
they would have required a lot of very specific information about his account. I think its 
somewhat implausible that it was all available in his room for someone to find. I can 
understand how some information may have been left, for example his debit card  but not 
all the other information needed to access his account and set up new payees which also 
required additional security steps.When I examined the online audit of Mr As banking, its apparent that Mr A had a consistent 
device prior to the take over of his account, which was used before any suspicious account 
activity took place. It was that device that was logging into the account just prior to and just 
after the four new payees were set up. It seems unlikely that the same device Mr A usually 
used was also used by these unknown persons. In order to do that, they would need Mr As 
specific device, the details to open the device and the security details needed to access his 
online banking before returning it to him without his knowledge. So, I dont think it was 
anyone other than Mr A logging into his account with his normal device over this period.
There are other devices linked to the account which appear after the new payees were set 
up. I dont know if they were Mr As, but I think its more likely than not that he was aware of 
what was happening with his account because he was logging into it at the relevant times. 
So, even if other devices had logged into his account and were carried out by other 
persons  I think Mr A was more than likely aware of this.
There was a gap of about two weeks between setting up the new payees and receipt of the 
first fraudulent payment. If an unidentified third party was responsible for setting these up  
then it was a relatively long gap to when they received these funds. This meant there was an 
increasing likelihood that Mr A would notice these new payees. It seems quite a risk to take 
unless whoever else was involved in the fraudulent activity knew Mr As account was safe 
to receive these funds.
I think the relevance of these new payees is they were set up to prepare the account for the 
incoming fraudulent funds. The four new accounts each had £1 sent to them and this would 
have meant that any further outgoing payments  such as removing the fraudulent funds  
would have been treated as usual accounts, making them less likely to be subject to any 
further banking checks. But because NatWest already had concerns about the account, the 
funds were blocked as soon as they arrived in the account.  
Mr A commented that he was told by the police that these persons must have gotten hold of 
his debit card to enact the fraud. He said he was unaware of the online activity. I cant 
comment on any police enquiry, but its apparent that Mr As account was used to set up 
new payees  which as Ive explained above was, I think, integral to the incoming fraudulent 
payments. 
Mr A also denied making a payment with his debit card around the same time as the new 
payees were set up. I cant know for sure if it was him who made them, and its possible that 
his debit card and PIN were found by unknown persons and used without his knowledge. 
Although theres no record of any notice made to NatWest about the lost card, so I dont 
think that Mr A reported it to them. 
I dont think this is the likely explanation. It seems implausible that Mr As card was stolen 
around the same time suspicious activity was also taking place on his account. Ive already 
made a finding about Mr As involvement with setting up new payees, so I think it was more 
likely than not that it was also him or persons with his consent who used the debit card to 
make the disputed payment.
I understand Mr As point about the police choosing not to pursue any action  which hes 
said is evidence he wasnt involved in the fraudulent activity. But, thats not the criteria for 
lodging a marker with CIFAS. The criteria is that NatWest could report it, not that it must be 
reported. Its not clear who reported the circumstances to the police and for the purposes of 
this complaint against NatWest, I dont think its particularly relevant. Thats because Im 
satisfied NatWest met the second pillar and I wont be upholding this complaint.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against National Westminster Bank 
Plc.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision before 30 May 2022.
 
David Perry
Ombudsman