DRN-4349608
The complaint
Mr C and Mrs C have complained that they were mis-sold a home insurance policy by Post 
Office Management Services Limited (POMSL).
What happened
Mr C tried to claim on the buildings insurance policy he holds jointly with Mrs C when his 
neighbour accidentally damaged a garden wall. When the insurer advised that his claim 
wasnt covered because they didnt have accidental damage cover, Mr C complained that 
the policy had been mis-sold by POMSL.
Our investigator didnt recommend that the policy be upheld. Mr C appealed.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly though Im aware Ive summarised the background to this complaint. No discourtesy is 
intended by this. Instead, Ive focused on what I find is the key issue here. Our rules allow 
me to take this approach. It simply reflects the informal nature of our service as a free 
alternative to the courts. If theres something I havent mentioned, it isnt because Ive 
ignored it. Ive fully reviewed the file and having done so I agree with the conclusion reached 
by our investigator for the following reasons:
The Relevant regulatory rules, the Insurance: Conduct of Business Sourcebook 
(ICOBS) at ICOBS 6 requires firms to give customers appropriate information 
about a policy in good time and in a way that is easy to understand. This is so the 
customer can make an informed decision about the arrangements proposed. 
Appropriate information includes the information that must be set out in an 
Insurance Product Information Document (IPID) which gives customers an at a 
glance summary of their cover. This includes a summary of the insurance cover, 
including the main risks insured. The IPID showed that there was cover for accidental 
damage to bath, toilet, basin, ceramic hob and glass, underground pipes, drains and 
cables. But it made clear that there were optional covers you can purchase to 
increase the level of protection you have. These include cover for your possessions 
away from home, accidental damage and home emergency.
It is not in dispute that Mr C didnt select additional accidental damage cover when 
taking out this policy. He says he has not taken accidental damage cover over the  
last 25 years. His policy summary shows that accidental damage was not included. 
Under section B: Accidental damage to your buildings the policy document says: 
Youre only covered under this section of the policy if it says so on your Policy 
summary, which was sent to you when you bought this insurance. Im satisfied that 
this is clear.
Mr C says that the policy doesnt specifically exclude accidental damage caused by 
third parties and this is correct. Because of this he felt that the description of 
accidental damage he was given at the point of sale was misleading as it didnt refer 
to accidental damage caused by third parties. But the policy does clearly set out what 
it does cover - and if not listed then it is not something covered by the policy. This is 
not unusual; policies of this type list the insurance events that they cover.
I note that following the decline of his claim Mr C called POMSL to add accidental 
damage to building cover. This it did. Nevertheless, the cover wasnt selected when 
the policy was taken out, but I dont find that POMSL is responsible for the additional 
cover not being selected. It follows that I dont find it mis-sold the policy to Mr C and 
Mrs C.
My final decision
I recognise that this will come as disappointing news to Mr C and Mrs C, but I dont uphold 
this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision before 13 October 2023.
 
Lindsey Woloski
Ombudsman