DRN-4472522
The complaint
Mr G has asked his daughter (Ms G) to bring this complaint on his behalf. She complains 
that Lloyds Bank PLC didnt do enough to protect Mr Gs account(s). 
What happened
The circumstances that led to this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat 
them in detail here. But, in summary:
Mr G failed a mental capacity test in May 2021, so an Enduring Power of Attorney (EPA) 
was registered in June 2021 which appointed Ms G, her stepbrother (Mr G2) and Mr Gs 
wife as attorneys. Ms G was the only attorney to register the EPA with the bank, so the 
bank changed the correspondence address on Mr Gs account(s) to Ms Gs address. 
Mr Gs wife managed the account(s), with Mr G2s support, until her death in January 
2022. Ms G notified Lloyds about this, arranged for the EPA to be updated with the 
Office of the Public Guardian (OPG) and took over management of the account(s) and 
Mr Gs finances.
By June 2022 Mr Gs health had improved and further tests deemed he had regained the 
mental capacity to make his own financial decisions. Ms G shared this with Mr G2, but 
he formally disputed the outcome of the tests.
In August 2022 Mr G2 registered the EPA with the bank and asked for Mr Gs 
correspondence and residential addresses to be updated to his own address. Ms G 
discovered this, by chance, in September 2022 during a conversation with the bank. The 
bank refused to change the address back until it had consulted Mr G2. It took some time 
before Mr G2 replied and related conversations between the bank and Ms G had to be 
rescheduled a number of times. The addresses were reverted in mid-November 2022.
In December 2022 a new Lasting Power of Attorney (LPA) for finance and property was 
registered and the EPA was revoked. The LPA appointed only Ms G and her sister as 
attorneys. 
Ms G is unhappy with how Lloyds handled the matter, but our adjudicator didnt think the 
bank had acted unreasonably. Ms G disagreed, so the complaint has come to me.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same outcome as the investigator for much the same 
reasons. I note, in particular that:
I havent been provided with recordings of any of the calls that took place between Mr G2 
and the bank and I think these should be provided to Mr G if he (or Ms G on his behalf) 
requests them given that the calls relate to his account(s). But I think I can reach a fair 
decision without listening to those calls. 
While Ive not seen a copy of the EPA, Ms G hasnt disputed Lloyds assertion that it 
gives the attorneys power to make decisions and act independently.
Despite what Ms G says, I dont think the bank ought to have been suspicious when 
Mr G2 registered the EPA, advised that Mr G had moved in with him and asked for the 
addresses to be changed. I accept he did so some months after Ms G notified the bank 
about the EPA changes in January 2022. But, in my experience, it isnt unusual for one 
of the named attorneys to take control and/or act as the sole contact point and for 
arrangements between attorneys to change over time. Nor is there anything which 
suggests Ms G told the bank about Mr Gs improved mental health in July or that Mr G2 
disputed this. And the EPA which gave Mr G2 power to act as an attorney wasnt 
amended/revoked until December 2022. So as Ms G didnt flag any concerns with the 
bank about Mr G2 and/or his actions until after she found out hed registered the EPA 
and changed the addresses. In the circumstances, I dont agree that the bank ought to 
have undertaken any additional checks before changing the addresses.
Ms G says Lloyds should have sent notification about the change of address to the 
previous addresses. In my experience, this is often what financial businesses do to help 
guard against wrongful changes and/or mistakes. But theres no obligation to do so and I 
havent seen Lloyds internal processes in order to check they were followed. However, 
as Ive already said, I dont think it was wrong of the bank to change the addresses. And 
if it had sent a notification to the previous addresses this would only have resulted in 
Mr G and Ms G finding out about the change one month earlier. So the steps that were 
subsequently taken would simply have happed a little sooner. And, importantly, Ms G 
says Mr G2 made only two transactions from one of Mr Gs account(s) while the EPA 
was in place. But shes not specifically said those payments wouldnt otherwise have 
been made or that the people who received them werent entitled to the money. Shes 
provided no other evidence that suggests a financial loss has occurred, or for which the 
bank should be held liable.
I dont think it was unreasonable of the bank to check in with Mr G2 before amending the 
addresses again. At that point Ms G and Mr G2 were both still authorised to act as 
attorneys for Mr G and there seemed to be a dispute between them. So I think it was 
important for the bank to understand both parties positions before making any further 
changes. Mr G2 seems to have agreed to the addresses being reverted and its not for 
me (or the bank) to uncover Mr Gs motivation for changing the addresses or to say 
whether or not he was acting in Mr Gs best interests.
Ms G says the bank initially refused to confirm in writing the events that led to this 
complaint. But I can see the letter dated 21 February 2023 explained how the address 
changes came about. Ms G says the delay providing this information meant she couldnt 
take formal action against Mr G2 (presumably, with the OPG). But its clear that Ms G 
managed to get Mr G2s power to act as an attorney removed in December 2022. And, 
as Ive already said, she hasnt said that any financial losses resulted from Mr G2 having 
access to the account(s).
I appreciate Ms Gs strength of feeling and I dont doubt the impact this situation likely had 
on her and Ms G. But I can only instruct the bank to put things right for Mr G  which might 
include making an award of compensation  if I find it did something wrong. And, overall, Im 
not persuaded that Lloyds ought to have done things differently in this particular case.My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 December 2023.
 
Ruth Hersey
Ombudsman