DRN-1813519
 
The complaint
Mr H has complained that, without his knowledge, National Westminster Bank Plc 
(NatWest) changed its policy on transferring (porting) his mortgage interest rate product. 
Mr H says that, as a result, he has incurred an early repayment charge (ERC) of 
approximately £3,000, which he would like NatWest to reimburse.
What happened
Mr H had a residential mortgage with NatWest on a property that he was renting out, with the 
consent of the bank. The mortgage was on a two-year fixed interest rate product taken out in 
August 2018.
The mortgage contract said that if Mr H repaid the mortgage before 31 December 2019 hed 
have to pay an ERC of 2% of the outstanding balance, and if he repaid it before 
31 December 2020 hed have an ERC of 1% of the outstanding balance. But Mr H was also 
allowed to port the existing mortgage product if he was selling his property and buying a new 
one with a mortgage from NatWest. He had four months from the date of redemption of his 
old mortgage to complete his new mortgage.
Mr H decided to sell his property and on 30 November 2019 Mr H called the bank to see if 
his mortgage redemption had gone through. It had not at that stage completed. Mr H 
discussed porting the mortgage product and was told he had four months in which to do so.
However, NatWests porting policy had changed the day before, on 29 November 2019. 
NatWest now required Mr H to have submitted an application for a new mortgage before 
redeeming his existing mortgage. Mr H wasnt told about this, and assumed he still had four 
months from the date of redemption to arrange and complete on a new mortgage.
The mortgage was redeemed on 5 December 2019 and Mr H paid an ERC of about £3,000.
On 9 January 2020 Mr H spoke to NatWest again when he learned for the first time about 
the policy change and that he would not be entitled to a refund of the ERC because he 
hadnt started the application process before his old mortgage was redeemed.
Mr H complained to the bank. After listening to the call on 30 November 2019, NatWest 
accepted Mr H hadnt been given the correct information. In its final response letter dated 
5 February 2020 NatWest said it should have made an exception and booked Mr H in with a 
mortgage adviser at the time of his call on 9 January 2020. The bank said it would still have 
been willing to do this, but Mr H had told them that he had a mortgage offer from another 
lender. In the circumstances, it wouldnt be possible to refund the ERC.
Dissatisfied with NatWests response, Mr H complained to the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. An investigator looked at the complaint. She noted that NatWest had agreed that an 
exception should have been made so that Mr H could still have applied for a mortgage with 
NatWest and, subject to meeting lending criteria and completing by 4 April 2020, received a 
refund of the ERC. The investigator thought this was reasonable. She was also satisfied that 
the £300 compensation offered by the bank was fair.
The investigator also noted that by 4 April 2020 Mr H still hadnt completed on his new 
purchase.
Mr H asked for an ombudsman to review the investigators findings. He thought the 
investigators conclusions were totally unfair. Mr H said that he didnt recall seeing that part 
of the final response letter which said an exception should have been made. Mr H also 
explained that he didnt go back to NatWest after receiving the final response in February 
2020 because hed already started the process with a new lender. He felt that if he had 
stayed with NatWest, his mortgage would have completed within the four months. Mr H said 
that it was his new lender which was causing the delay in completion of his new purchase.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not disputed that NatWest made a mistake on 30 November 2019 when Mr H was told, 
incorrectly, that he had four months within which to apply for a new mortgage with the bank. 
As the banks policy had changed only the day before, I accept that this was human error.
Where a mistake has been made, we expect the business to put the consumer in the 
position hed have been in had the mistake not been made. If the bank hadnt made this 
mistake, Mr H would have been told on 30 November 2019 that he would need to begin his 
new mortgage application before redeeming his old mortgage. I dont think hed have been in 
a position to do this, given that the mortgage was redeemed just four working days later on 
5 December 2019. In those circumstances, Mr H would not have qualified for a refund of the 
ERC.
But NatWest offered to make an exception in  this case and told Mr H on 5 February 2020 
that he could still apply for a mortgage with the bank completing within the four month 
window (which ended on 4 April 2020) and receive a refund of the ERC.  Mr H didnt do this, 
and I find his reasons are contradictory. On the one hand, he says that he hadnt noticed this 
part of the final response letter and so didnt realise that the bank had made this offer. And 
on the other hand, he says that he decided not to take up this offer because hed already 
begun the application process with a new lender.
In any event, I think the banks offer was fair and would have put Mr H in the position of 
being able to receive a refund of the ERC if hed been able to complete on his purchase by 
4 April 2020. In the circumstances, I am not asking the bank to do anything further in relation 
to the ERC. The time limit within which Mr H could have applied for a new mortgage has now 
passed and I dont think it would be fair to the bank to extend this any further when Mr H 
made the choice to apply to another lender.  Its unfortunate Mr Hs new purchase hasnt yet 
completed, but thats not something for which NatWest is responsible.
NatWest has also offered Mr H £300 compensation for trouble and upset, which I think is 
fair. I appreciate Mr H feels aggrieved that he was given incorrect information, but he had the 
opportunity to mitigate his loss by applying for a mortgage with NatWest. Im not persuaded, 
therefore, that any further compensation should be paid.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint because Im satisfied that the offer of 
£300 compensation made by National Westminster Bank Plc is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances, for the reasons stated above. I simply leave it to Mr H to decide if he wants to accept the offer of £300 compensation for trouble and upset in full and final settlement of 
his complaint.
This final decision concludes the Financial Ombudsman Services review of this complaint. 
This means that we are unable to consider the complaint any further, nor enter into any 
correspondence about the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 4 August 2020.
 
Jan O'Leary
Ombudsman