DRN-3475860
The complaint
Mr O and Mrs O complain about Aviva Insurance Limited (Aviva) under their home 
emergency policy, about how long it would be before a plumber would attend to a leak at 
their property.
References to Aviva include their agents who provide services and deal with claims under 
the policy.
What happened
One morning in September 2021 Mr O and Mrs O heard a bang and the sound of water 
gushing. They found water coming out behind the sink in the bathroom. They turned off the 
stopcock to prevent more water escaping. They phoned Aviva to ask for a plumber to attend 
and fix the leak. Aviva said they wouldnt be able to book an appointment until the evening of 
the same day. Mr O and Mrs O werent happy at having to wait that long, given Mrs O was at 
home because she was unwell and theyd be without water or toilet facilities. Aviva said that 
unfortunately the appointment was the earliest they could offer.
Mr O and Mrs O then contacted a friend who was a plumber, who was able to attend shortly 
afterwards and found a pipe had burst under the bath. He was able to fix the leak, so Mr O 
and Mrs O contacted Aviva to say theyd been able to make their own arrangements so 
didnt need Avivas plumber to visit.
Unhappy at what had happened and Aviva not being able to send a plumber round more 
quickly, Mr O and Mrs O complained. They said theyd expected their home emergency 
cover to provide a better response (than having to wait between 8 and 13 hours for a 
plumber to attend).
Aviva didnt uphold the complaint. In their final response, Aviva said the appointment offered 
was within their service standards, referring to the terms and conditions of the policy, which 
provided for them to offer an appointment within a reasonable timescale. Aviva said theyd 
assess any invoice Mr O and Mrs O sent in from their own plumber in accordance with the 
policy terms and conditions. 
Unhappy at Avivas final response, Mr O and Mrs O complained to this service. The main 
point of their complaint - having had home emergency cover for many years  was that it 
wasnt acceptable to potentially be without water or toilet facilities for up to 13 hours. Nor did 
they think it acceptable for Aviva not to be able to offer assistance more quickly. They 
wanted Aviva to refund the premium theyd paid for the policy.
Our investigator didnt uphold the complaint, concluding Aviva didnt need to take any 
action. He noted the terms and conditions of the policy and thought that offering an 
appointment later the same day was reasonable, as they were likely to have had to 
respond to requests from other customers. Also, having turned off the water the 
damage was being contained. The investigator also thought it reasonable for Aviva to 
offer to assess any invoice from the plumber Mr O and Mrs O had engaged, in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr O and Mrs O disagreed with the investigators conclusions and requested an 
ombudsman review the complaint. They didnt think it was reasonable for Aviva to be 
unable to send a plumber for up to 13 hours, particularly as Mrs O was at home and 
was unwell. Having paid for home emergency cover for many years, they didnt think 
it reasonable they were treated as they had been by Aviva, and they shouldnt have 
had to obtain assistance from a friend.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id first want to reassure Mr O and Mrs O that I sympathise with the difficult circumstances 
on the day of the incident and being left without water and sanitation until their friend fixed 
the leak. I know it would have been distressing in normal circumstances, but particularly 
given Mrs O was unwell. Ive borne this in mind when deciding whether Aviva acted fairly 
towards Mr O and Mrs O.
The key issue in Mr O and Mrs Os complaint is that Aviva couldnt offer an appointment for 
(potentially) between 8 and 13 hours after Mr O and Mrs O contacted them. And that they 
had to call on the services of a friend who was a plumber, who was able to attend within an 
hour or so and fix the leak. Mr O and Mrs O say this isnt acceptable as a response when 
theyre paying for emergency cover (and have been for many years). For their part. Aviva 
say they offered an appointment on the same day and that this was reasonable and in line 
with the terms and conditions of the policy. Aviva have also said they would be willing to 
assess (in line with the terms and conditions of the policy) an invoice for the cost of Mr O 
and Mrs O engaging their own plumber to fix the leak.
Ive considered both views carefully, but on balance Ive concluded Aviva have acted fairly 
and reasonably, so I wont be asking them to take any further action. I know this will be very 
disappointing to Mr O and Mrs O, so Ill set out why Ive come to this view.
From what Mr O and Mrs O have said, together with Avivas case notes of the incident, it 
seems the leak was first reported to Aviva shortly after 9am on the day in question. The case 
notes indicate appointment time was recorded as shortly after 5pm the same day. 
Confirmation of the appointment was sent by email. The appointment is then recorded as 
cancelled shortly after 11am, as the fault had been rectified. This matches the sequence of 
events set out earlier. So, the key issue is whether it was reasonable for Aviva to have 
offered an appointment some eight hours after the initial call. This is the point on which Mr O 
and Mrs O disagree with Aviva.  Avivas final response refers to the policy terms and 
conditions that state:
When your claim requires us to visit your property, we will attend within a reasonable 
timescale. If something beyond our control makes that impossible to keep to  well 
let you know as soon as possible and give you another time when we can visit.
In addition, under a section of the policy document headed B. Policy Coverage and a sub-
heading What is Covered theres a reference to:
Response
If your incident is an emergency (including internal leaks which cannot be controlled) 
your claim will be given priority, otherwise an appointment will be made  While the term reasonable isnt defined, Ive considered the circumstances of the incident. I 
appreciate what Mr O and Mrs O have said about their circumstances and being without 
water and sanitation as theyd turned off the water. As the leak had been controlled, I think it 
was reasonable for Aviva to have offered an appointment later the same day, which is 
consistent with the above terms.
Ive also considered Mr O and Mrs Os points about having a policy for many years and that 
it wasnt reasonable for them to have to seek assistance from a friend. In the circumstances, 
I can appreciate their seeking assistance that could be provided more quickly than the 
appointment offered by Aviva, and thats understandable. Given their friend was able to 
attend and fix the leak more quickly, I think its reasonable for Aviva to offer to assess the 
cost in line with the terms and conditions of the policy (even though the terms and conditions 
include a General Exclusion for the costs of any work carried out by persons not authorised 
by Aviva in advance). In offering to assess the cost (through an invoice) of the friend fixing 
the leak, it appears Aviva are waiving this exclusion and I think thats fair and reasonable.
My final decision
For the reasons set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr O and Mrs Os 
complaint.  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr O and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision before 4 July 2022.
 
Paul King
Ombudsman