DRN-3236856
The complaint
Ms L opened a fee-paying URCA with Halifax in January 2013. Ms L says that during the 
sales call she was told that having the URCA was the only way to obtain an overdraft facility 
in the future.
What happened
Our adjudicator assessed the complaint and they didnt think Halifax had mis-sold the 
URCA. Because Ms L didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. 
And Ive used this approach to help me decide Ms Ls complaint. Having done so, I dont 
think that Halifax mis-sold the URCA. Ill explain why.
Firstly, I have considered whether Ms L was given a fair choice in taking out this account. Ms 
L says that she had held a fee free account with a different bank. So, I think she would have 
known that in general fee free accounts were available. 
Ms L says she was told that she had to take out the account in order to obtain an overdraft in 
the future. I can see though that she did not attempt to obtain an over for over a year from 
when she took out the URCA. If having an overdraft was the main reason she took out the 
account, I would really have expected an earlier application. Also, one of the benefits of the 
URCA at the time it was taken out was a £300 fee free overdraft buffer. Whereas free 
accounts at the time incurred a daily overdraft usage fee. So I think that what Ms L may have 
recalled is that she was told that she could get an fee free overdraft in the future, by having 
the URCA,  rather than it was the only way to obtain an overdraft at all. 
The main account benefits at the time it was taken out, apart from the overdraft buffer, were 
mobile phone insurance, travel insurance, breakdown cover and home emergency cover. I 
can see that Ms L registered a mobile phone handset under the mobile phone insurance 
policy shortly after the account was taken out. I can also see no reason as to why Ms L could 
not use breakdown cover, travel insurance and home emergency cover that the account 
came with. Overall, while I do appreciate what Ms L has said about the sale itself, on 
balance I think its more likely she agreed to the account because she was attracted to the 
overall package of benefits and not because she thought that it was the only way to get an 
overdraft.
I am satisfied that this was a non-advised sale and therefore Halifax did not need to ensure 
that the account was suitable for Ms L. It did though have to give Ms L enough information to 
decide this for herself. I think that the main benefits wouldve been outlined to Ms L to make 
the account seem attractive.
I accept that Ms L may not have been given all the information about all of the benefits of the 
account but I cant see anything specific that Ms L was not told that I think wouldve changed 
her decision to take out the account. 
On balance, I think Ms L agreed to upgrade the account, knowing that she didnt have to. 
And I think its more likely she did so because she was interested in the benefits on the 
account, although I accept that Ms L may no longer recall this.
I understand that this will be disappointing for Ms L. Its clear that Ms L feels strongly that the 
account was mis-sold and I can see that, with hindsight, the account may not have provided 
value for money. But I am only considering the sale itself and I dont think Halifax mis-sold 
the account to Ms L.
My final decision
I dont think Halifax mis-sold the URCA and I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision before 19 July 2022.
 
Charlie Newton
Ombudsman