DRN-1070152
 
The complaint
Mr S complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.) Limited has 
mismanaged his whole of life policy, levied unreasonable charges which are now double the 
premiums and that this has contributed to the low current value of the plan.
What happened
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint should be upheld. He said this 
service could not adjudicate on whether a business investment management of a plan i.e. 
whether the growth/returns were reasonable; but he noted that the cost of life cover 
inevitably rises as one gets older, impacting on the premium and/or the sum assured.
He noted that Mr S had declined to increase his premium or reduce the sum assured at 
previous review points, and this had resulted in money being taken from his invested pot to 
pay for the rising cost of the cover, which reduced the policys value. The fact that Mr Ss 
wifes policy had proved more valuable did not mean Sun Life had done something wrong in 
managing his plan. He did not think it was appropriate to look into why Mrs Ss plan 
appeared to be doing better in order to assess the merits of Mr Ss complaint.
Mr S did not agree, and said:
His wife is happy for her policy to be looked into as part of this complaint
He offered a compromise solution to Sun Life, and still believes this should be agreed 
to
If nothing is done, his policy will soon have no residual value, meaning he will have 
been paying premium for 35 years for nothing
Sun Life has never sent someone to explain the constant reduction in the policys 
values, merely sending out brief pro forma letters every year
Mr S also made various points about the initial advice process and how he had not been 
warned about the risk of these rises. The investigator said that as his initial complaint had 
not raised the suitability of the policy, this would need to be dealt with via a separate and 
fresh complaint  to Sun Life in the first instance.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator and for the same reasons. I have seen no evidence 
to suggest that Sun Life has not managed this policy, and the reviews, in line with the terms 
and conditions  and the way any other insurance provider would have done.
The policy was set up broadly on the basis that the monthly premiums paid for the actual 
cost to Sun Life of providing life cover for that month (including its charges)  with a small 
element being invested to help cover future insurance costs. The two potential drawbacks with these types of reviewable whole of life policies is that 
falling investment returns may result in no investment return (after the cost of the monthly 
cover) and the fact that the cost of providing that cover invariably starts to rise quite steeply 
after a certain age. This is because the risk of death that year becomes noticeably higher.
So, in my view, it was almost inevitable that Mr S would need to increase his premiums or 
reduced the sum assured in later life. The fact that women generally live longer than men is 
one reason why Mrs Ss premiums may be lower than Mr S; the risk of a female dying at, 
say, 70, being much lower than a male; hence a smaller premium at that age for the same 
amount of cover.
I do fully understand Mrs Ss real disappointment that after 35 years of paying premiums, his 
policy may soon lose any residual value. But I cant agree that he has paid for nothing. Like 
car or house insurance, life insurance provides protection on an ongoing basis while one 
pays the premiums. If no claim is made, it doesnt mean the policy was worthless. I accept 
that there is a key difference with whole of life policies where many customers wanted an 
assurance that they would continue to be affordable throughout their life, and rising 
premiums make this often impossible. But this is the way reviewable policies work.
I therefore do not believe there is evidence to conclude that Sun Life operated this policy 
wrongly. The issue of its suitability and whether the advisor explained how it would work is 
something to be considered in the new complaint Mr S had recently made. 
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 9 April 2020.
Tony Moss
Ombudsman