DRN-2243304
The complaint
Mrs I complains that UK Credit Limited (UKC) lent to her in an irresponsible manner.  
What happened
Mrs I was given two loans by UKC. She borrowed £3,000 in August 2018 that she agreed to 
repay in 36 monthly instalments. Mrs I refinanced that loan, and took some additional 
borrowing, by taking a loan for £5,000 in May 2013 that she agreed to repay over 60 months. 
Both loans were guaranteed by a friend. I understand that all of Mrs Is borrowing from UKC 
has now been repaid.
Mrs Is complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think that the 
checks UKC did before agreeing the first loan had been sufficient. And she thought that 
better checks would have shown that Mrs I wouldnt be able to repay the loan in a 
sustainable manner. So she didnt think that loan, or the subsequent loan that refinanced it, 
should have been given to Mrs I. Our adjudicator asked UKC to pay Mrs I some 
compensation.
UKC didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mrs I accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
  
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending complaints on our website 
and Ive kept this in mind while deciding Mrs Is complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time UKC gave these loans to Mrs I required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether she could afford to repay what she 
owed in a sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so UKC had to think about whether repaying the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse consequences for Mrs I. In practice this 
meant that UKC had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mrs I undue 
difficulty or adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for UKC to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any 
repayments on Mrs I. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan applications. 
In general, what constitutes a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the 
consumer (e.g. their financial history, current situation and outlook, and any indications of 
vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have 
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular level of income); 
the longer the period of time a borrower will be indebted for (reflecting the fact 
that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required 
to make repayments for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed a proportionate check 
shouldve been for a given application  including (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about whether UKC did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mrs I.
UKC gathered some information from Mrs I before it agreed the first loan. It asked her for 
details of her income, and her normal expenditure. It checked her credit file, and it appears 
to have asked her for copies of some recent bank statements. UKC discussed some of the 
items on the bank statement with Mrs I before it agreed the loan
Mrs I was entering into a significant commitment with UKC. She would need to make 
monthly repayments for a period of three years. So I think it was right that UKC wanted to 
gather, and independently check, some detailed information about Mrs Is financial 
circumstances before it agreed to lend to her. I think that the checks it did were proportionate 
and should have given UKC a full overview of Mrs Is finances. 
But simply performing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender needs to carefully 
consider the information shown by those checks. That might lead a lender to request further 
information from the consumer, or in some cases to decline a loan application outright. UKC 
hasnt provided me with the bank statements it received from Mrs I, but Ive looked at copies 
of her statements from that time. They contain the same information that UKC referenced 
when it spoke to Mrs I before the loan was agreed, so Im confident they fairly represent the 
information that was available to UKC.
UKCs credit check showed that Mrs I had a relatively large number of open credit accounts, 
in the form of secured and unsecured loans, credit cards, and other borrowing. Mrs I hadnt 
always managed her credit well, with many accounts showing late payments or being in 
arrears. I think the information from the credit file should have caused some concerns to the 
lender. It was aware that Mrs Is husband had a limited income and only made a small 
contribution to the household expenses. So the majority of the credit commitments would fall 
on Mrs I.
UKC looked at some of the items on Mrs Is bank statements. Those statements showed that 
she was heavily overdrawn, and making little, if any, progress at reducing her outstanding 
balance. From the statements I have seen Mrs I was also paying unauthorised overdraft 
charges suggesting she had exceeded her overdraft limit, and also charges for unpaid 
transactions. That clearly suggests that Mrs I was finding it difficult to manage her money.But those bank statements also show a significant monthly expense that UKC didnt identify 
or discuss with Mrs I. She was paying over £500 each month to a debt collection company in 
respect of some historic debts. That amount was greater than the disposable income that 
UKC calculated for Mrs I when it approved her loan. I appreciate that Mrs I didnt specifically 
bring that item to UKCs attention. But I dont think that absolves UKC from its responsibility 
to fairly review the information that had been provided through its checks.
So I think that the checks UKC performed showed that Mrs Is regular expenditure was at 
least equal to the income she received, even after taking account of any contribution she 
might receive from her husband. So I dont think it was reasonable for UKC to conclude that 
Mrs I would be able to repay any further borrowing in a sustainable manner.
The second loan that Mrs I took was partly used to refinance the first loan. Given that I have 
already concluded the first loan shouldnt have been agreed, I think it follows that the second 
loan shouldnt have been agreed either. For completeness I would note that the information 
I have seen doesnt suggest any improvement in Mrs Is finances. She was still borrowing as 
heavily across a range of credit accounts.
UKC has pointed out that Mrs I did manage to make the majority of her repayments without 
any apparent problems. It suggests that demonstrates that Mrs I was able to afford the 
loans. But UKC needed to ensure that Mrs I was able to meet her repayments in a 
sustainable manner  that is from income or savings, whilst meeting the other expenditure 
that she was already committed to paying. Mrs I has explained that she prioritised the 
repayments to UKC above other essential expenditure to prevent the guarantor being asked 
to make any repayments. So I dont consider that Mrs I making the repayments when they 
were due gives me any comfort that the repayments on the loans were made in a 
sustainable manner.
So, to summarise, I think the checks UKC did before agreeing the first loan should have 
demonstrated that the repayments werent likely to be sustainably affordable for Mrs I. So 
I dont think the loan should have been agreed. And since the second loan was used, in part, 
to refinance the earlier borrowing I think it reasonable to conclude that loan shouldnt have 
been lent either. So UKC needs to pay Mrs I some compensation.
  
Putting things right
I dont think UKC should have agreed to lend to Mrs I in August 2011 or May 2013. So for 
each loan UKC should;
refund all the interest and charges Mrs I paid on the loans 
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement
remove any adverse information recorded on Mrs Is credit file in relation to the loans.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires UKC to take off tax from this interest. UKC must give 
Mrs I a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
  
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Is complaint and direct UK Credit Limited to put things 
right as detailed above. 
  Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision before 31 March 2021.
 
Paul Reilly
Ombudsman