DRN-3164371
The complaint
Miss L complains because XL Catlin Insurance Company UK Limited (XL Catlin) hasnt paid 
a claim for a cancelled trip under her travel insurance policy. 
All references to XL Catlin include the agents it has appointed to handle claims on its behalf. 
Miss Ls complaint has been brought to us by a representative. Where relevant, all 
references to Miss Ls submissions include those of her representative. 
What happened
Miss L held an annual travel insurance policy, purchased on 1 February 2020. The insurance 
cover was provided by XL Catlin. 
Miss L was due to travel abroad on 28 March 2020, to participate in ski training/racing in two 
different countries. 
Unfortunately, on 15 March 2020, the government in one of the countries which Miss L was 
due to visit announced that all ski resorts would be closed with immediate effect due to the 
circumstances surrounding Covid-19. On 17 March 2020, the UKs Foreign, Commonwealth 
& Development Office (FCDO  formerly the Foreign & Commonwealth Office (FCO)) 
advised against all but essential international travel abroad. And, on 23 March 2020, the UK 
government announced wide-ranging restrictions on movement, commonly referred to as 
lockdown. The government announcement included an instruction to stay at home other 
then for a limited list of essential reasons. 
The organiser of Miss Ls ski training/racing subsequently cancelled the trip. The organiser 
said this was due to the UK and foreign governments travel restrictions, restrictions on 
movement and self-isolation requirements. 
Miss L made a claim under her policy with XL Catlin for the non-refundable costs of her trip, 
but XL Catlin said the claim wasnt covered. Unhappy, Miss L complained to XL Catlin before 
bringing her complaint to the attention of our service. 
One of our investigators looked into what had happened but said she didnt think she could 
fairly ask XL Catlin to accept Miss Ls claim. Miss L didnt agree with our investigators 
opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. Ive taken these rules into 
account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Miss Ls 
complaint. 
I understand the situation which Miss L found herself in was completely unprecedented and 
outside of her control. I also understand, when this insurance policy was purchased in 
February 2020, the circumstances that unfolded surrounding Covid-19 couldnt have been 
foreseen by either consumers or insurers. 
However, no insurance policy covers every situation and insurers are entitled to decide what 
level of risk they are prepared to accept in return for the premium charged. Its up to a 
policyholder to ensure that they have the level of cover which meets their individual needs. 
XL Catlins obligations under its contract with Miss L are limited by the terms, conditions and 
exclusions which are set out in her policy. 
The policy terms and conditions, at page 23 under the heading Cancellation and Curtailment 
 What is covered, set out the circumstances under which XL Catlin will pay a cancellation 
claim. These are: 
a) Your death or sustaining an Injury or becoming seriously ill.
b) the death, Injury or serious illness of Your Relative, partner, fianc(e), business 
colleague or any person with whom You had arranged to travel.
c) You or any person with whom You had arranged to travel being:
(i) quarantined or called for witness or jury service.
(ii) made redundant, provided that such redundancy qualifies for payment under the 
United Kingdoms Redundancy Payments Acts. 
(iii) called for emergency duty as a member of the armed forces, the defence or civil 
administration, the police force, or the fire, rescue, public utility or medical services. 
(iv) required to be present at Your home or place of business in Your Country of 
Residence following a burglary or major damage caused by storm, flood or fire within 
ten (10) days of departure.
Miss Ls trip was cancelled because of travel restrictions, restrictions on movement and self-
isolation requirements put in place by UK and foreign governments. These arent reasons 
which are insured or covered under the Cancellation and Curtailment  What is covered 
section of Miss Ls policy. 
Ive reviewed the remaining sections of Miss Ls insurance policy (including Section 11  
Catastrophe), but I dont think she held any cover which would pay a benefit in the 
circumstances she found herself in. 
In any event, Miss Ls policy, also at page 23, under the heading Cancellation and 
Curtailment  What we do not cover specifically excludes the following; 
7. any claim directly or indirectly consequent upon or contributed to by:
7.1 government regulations (other than in respect of compulsory quarantine) 
Im satisfied that this exclusion was clearly set out in Miss Ls policy documentation and, for 
the avoidance of doubt, I havent seen any evidence to suggest that Miss L was herself 
under quarantine restrictions and that this was the reason why her trip was cancelled. 
Instead, Im satisfied that restrictions imposed by UK and foreign governments due to the 
spread of Covid-19 are what led to Miss Ls trip being cancelled. So, not only are the 
reasons for the cancellation of the trip not covered as a listed, insured event under Miss Ls 
policy, I think the exclusion quoted above applies to the circumstances of her claim anyway. I understand Miss L followed FCDO advice by cancelling her trip and, if shed gone ahead 
and travelled regardless (if it had been possible to do so), its likely XL Catlin would have 
provided no cover whatsoever under her policy. However, this doesnt change my decision 
that Miss Ls claim isnt covered under the terms and conditions of the policy she holds. 
Based on the particular circumstances of this complaint (including exclusion 7.1 quoted 
above and the other relevant policy documentation), I dont think there are any reasonable 
grounds upon which I could fairly ask XL Catlin to pay this claim. 
Im sorry to disappoint Miss L, and I understand this claim is for a significant amount of 
money, but I wont be directing XL Catlin to do anything further. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ls complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 February 2022.
 
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman