DRN-2804440
The complaint
Mrs S complains that she was mis-sold a Platinum Account (PA) by Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds).
What happened
The details of this case are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again here. 
The facts are not in dispute, so I will focus on giving my reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I agree with the conclusions reached by our adjudicator.
Mrs S says that Lloyds made her take the PA. She says it was unsuitable for her and she 
has not used it.
I wasnt present at the sale so I can only look at the evidence available today. 
Before taking out the PA, Mrs S appears to have had considerable experience of running a 
business and conducting financial affairs. While I dont doubt her honest recollections, I think 
its more likely than not that Mrs S was not forced to take out the PA. I say this because if 
Lloyds had tried to do so, and she didnt want to, she would have looked around at what 
other bank accounts were available and found the fee free account she says she would have 
preferred. Lloyds has also provided evidence that it discussed all the accounts it had 
available including fee free ones with her at the time.
Mrs S also says that Lloyds told her that she needed to take out a PA to get a better credit 
rating for taking out a mortgage or loan. But Mrs S didnt take out any borrowing for more 
than 3 years after the sale, so I think its more likely than not that Mrs S didnt take out the 
PA for this reason.
Mrs S says the PA was unsuitable for her. Both parties agree that the PA benefits included 
worldwide family travel insurance, AA car breakdown cover, sentinel card protection, 180-
day purchase protection, discounted travel and holidays, and a £250 fee free overdraft (it 
didnt include mobile phone cover till later years).
Mrs S has said that she and her family did travel at the time of sale so they would have had 
that cover whenever they did so thereafter. And Mrs S says she had a car. Whilst I 
acknowledge that she says she had cover for her car through the business, this did not 
make the whole product unsuitable for her. And Mrs S couldve closed the account at any 
time but didnt do so for 17 years.
So, in my view I cant say the product was unsuitable for her when she took it out, and it was 
for her to close the account if she didnt want or use the benefits.
I think its more likely than not that Mrs S received enough information about the account as 
Lloyds was trying to sell it to her. And I dont think there was anything she wasnt told that 
wouldve put her off buying it.
So, I think its more likely than not that Mrs S chose to take out the PA, it was suitable for her 
and she had enough information to make an informed decision. It follows that I dont think 
that Lloyds did anything wrong in the sale of the PA.
My final decision
My decision is that I do not uphold Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 November 2021.
 
Richard Hill
Ombudsman