DRN-4120205
The complaint
Miss S complains that Moneybarn No.1 Limited irresponsibly granted her credit.
What happened
Miss S entered into a credit agreement with Moneybarn in January 2019 to acquire a used
car. The cash price of the car was £6,995 and the total amount owing under the
agreement (including interest and fees) came to £14,040. This was to be paid with an
advance of £1,647 followed by 59 monthly instalments of £210 (all figures rounded).
The credit to buy the car was granted by Moneybarn under a conditional sale agreement
meaning Miss S would own the car when the credit owing had been repaid. Moneybarn
was the owner until that point and Miss S was paying for the use of it.
Miss S had problems meeting her repayments and Moneybarn eventually terminated the
agreement. The car was collected in February 2022 and sold. The proceeds of the sale
were credited to Miss Ss account leaving an outstanding balance.
Miss S complained to Moneybarn that the credit was unaffordable for her and should not
have been agreed. Moneybarn accepted this and upheld Miss Ss complaint. It offered to
resolve things by paying Miss S an amount of £2,114.84. This was calculated by:
Reducing the outstanding balance on the account to zero; and
Refunding all payments Miss S made to the account, a total of £5,673.77; and
Deducting a charge of £3,730.67 for Miss Ss use of the car; and
Applying 8% simple interest per annum to the refund of £1,1943.10 bring the total 
refund to £2,114.84.
Miss S was unhappy with this resolution and referred her complaint to us. She didnt
think Moneybarn had offered her a fair amount as shed paid £5,673.77 in total under the
agreement and yet lost the car. She said It doesn't seem fair that I paid that amount and
still lost the vehicle when I had paid off what I initially borrowed which was £5,348.10.
One of our investigators looked into Miss Ss complaint. They found that Moneybarn
hadnt proposed a fair resolution and recommended that it kept only the capital lent to
Miss S, in other words £5,348.10, and that it refunded everything else to her along with
compensatory interest of 8% simple per annum. This included the proceeds from the
sale of the car, an amount of £4,800.
Moneybarn didnt accept this recommendation. It said this went beyond putting Miss S
back into the position she would have been in prior to the inception of the finance
agreement. Moneybarn asked for the complaint to come to an ombudsman to decide
and came to me.
I issued a provisional decision on 18 April 2023 explaining why I thought Miss Ss complaint 
should be upheld but also why I thought Moneybarns offer was a fair way to resolve things. 
Miss S didnt agree with my proposed redress. This is my final decision on the matter and 
will be legally binding on both parties if Miss S accepts it. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Id said in my provisional decision, Moneybarn has accepted that it shouldnt have 
entered into the agreement with Miss S so I wont revisit that lending decision as its no 
longer in dispute. Having reconsidered everything, including what Miss S said in response to 
my provisional decision, I remain of the view that Moneybarns offer to resolve things is fair. 
Ill set out again my reasons for this and will refer to Miss Ss response where appropriate.
The agreement began in January 2019 and the car was recovered in February 2022. The
car had covered almost 39,000 miles during the 35 months it was in Miss Ss possession.
Miss S paid a total of £5,673.77 to Moneybarn, including her deposit of £1,647. In other
words she paid just over 80% of the cash price of the car.
Our usual approach to putting things right when credit has been irresponsibly agreed is that
a borrower is generally liable to repay the money they borrowed as theyve had the use of it.
They shouldnt have to pay any interest or fees associated with the money borrowed. 
In this case, by the time the agreement was terminated, Miss S hadnt yet repaid the cash 
price of the car, which was £6,995. I appreciate that Miss S feels its unfair to have paid 
£5,673.77 and not have a car. However, at the time the agreement was terminated the car 
wasnt hers even considering that she shouldnt have had to pay any interest or fees under 
the agreement. I think its fair that the car remained the property of Moneybarn and so I cant 
find it was inherently wrong of it to have recovered and sold it.
When Miss S complained to Moneybarn she said that it hadnt treated her fairly when she
had problems meeting her repayments. It didnt, for example, stop charging interest under
the agreement. I can see from Moneybarns customer contact notes that Miss S first missed
a payment in June 2019. Moneybarn then agreed several repayment plans (based on
income and expenditure assessments) which Miss S didnt manage to keep to. In June 2021
Miss S signed a consent order which set out what she needed to pay each month in order to
keep the car. When this failed, Moneybarn repossessed the car, having had several
discussions with Miss S and, from what Ive seen, sent her the required notices. Altogether, I 
havent seen anything which suggests to me that Moneybarn treated Miss S unfairly when 
she had problems meeting her repayments.
As mentioned, Miss S has paid £5,673.77 to Moneybarn to hire the car for 35 months. I dont 
think its fair that shes had to pay that much, given that the monthly payments included 
interest. However do think its fair for her to pay something towards the use of the car for the 
time she had it. The car would likely have devalued in that time and Miss S managed to 
make considerable use of it. There isnt a specific calculation to work out what a fair usage 
charge would be and Ive borne in mind the mileage Miss S covered and the interest 
charged under the agreement, for example. 
In order to resolve the complaint, Moneybarn proposed that Miss S pays a total amount of
£3,730.67 which amounts to less than £110 a month. This seems a fair and reasonable
amount to me, bearing in mind Miss S would likely have paid something to stay mobile
during this time if she didnt have the car.Miss S said in response to my provisional decision that Moneybarn received the money she 
paid plus the amount of £4,800 from the sale of the car. If Moneybarn pays her a refund of 
£2,114.84 it retains £8,358.93 altogether and so gains £1,363.93. Miss S said that she 
doesnt think Moneybarn should be able to gain any profit when its already agreed that it 
acted irresponsibly in the beginning. Miss S also said that when the car was recovered she 
was unable to work for several months and so lost out financially as she needed the car for 
work. 
I can see from the statement of account that £4,800 were the gross proceeds from the sale 
and that Moneybarn incurred recovery and court costs. As Ive explained, I havent found 
that Moneybarn got something wrong in when it recovered and sold the car. The 
compensation Moneybarn offered is in recognition of its error in entering into the agreement 
in the first place, irrespective of whether it made an overall profit or loss in this matter. I can 
accept that the loss of the car caused some difficulty for Miss S as shed have had to put 
other arrangements in place. But I dont know enough about her circumstances to find that 
any loss of income was due solely to her not being able to work because of a lack of 
transport. 
I appreciate that this will be very disappointing for Miss S but having looked at everything 
again, Ive come to the final conclusion that in this case Moneybarn made a fair offer to 
resolve her complaint and I am not asking it to do anything more. 
Putting things right
In order to put things right for Miss S, Moneybarn should now carry out its offer if it hasnt 
already and:
Reduce the outstanding balance on the account to zero; and
Refund all payments Miss S made to the account, a total of £5,673.70, and deduct a 
fair usage charge of £3,730.67; and
Apply 8% simple interest per annum* to the balance of £1,943.10 to bring the total 
refund owed to Miss S to £2,114.84; and
Pay this amount to Miss S and remove any adverse information from her credit file 
relating to this account and report it as settled.
* If Moneybarn considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income
tax from the interest, it should tell Miss S how much its taken off. It should also give Miss S
a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive set out above, Im upholding Miss Ss complaint and require Moneybarn 
No. 1 Limited to put things right for her as Ive outlined.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June 2023.
 
Michelle Boundy
Ombudsman