DRN-4372385
The complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Mr J holds with The Mortgage Business Plc (TMB). The 
essence of the complaint is that during a defined period, the rates of interest TMB charged 
were higher than the mortgage contract allowed it to charge. Mr Js complaint is presented 
by a third party intermediary Ill refer to as H.
What happened
Mr Js mortgage started in 2006. Initially, the mortgage was on a tracker rate, which ran until 
31 December 2011. Since then, no interest rate product has been attached (TMB had 
become a closed lender and stopped offering new rate products in 2008) and instead 
interest has been charged at TMBs standard variable rate (SVR). Mr J repaid the mortgage 
in 2020.
In September 2021, H submitted a complaint on Mr Js behalf. The main points of the 
complaint were, in summary:
Mr J had been a mortgage prisoner since new affordability rules were introduced in 
2014, and therefore stuck with TMB on SVR; and
TMBs SVR was unfairly high, as the margin between it and Bank of England Base Rate 
had widened, in breach of an implied term in the contract limiting TMBs discretion to 
vary rates.
TMB rejected the complaint, and it was passed to our service. Our investigators opinion was 
that our remit was confined to looking into the six-year period leading up to the start date of 
the complaint. As the complaint had started on 7 September 2021, he explained that this 
meant his consideration of the complaint would run from 7 September 2015.
In the same document, the investigator also set out his reasons for not recommending either 
part of the complaint be upheld. H asked for Mr Js complaint to be referred to the 
ombudsman. 
By way of a jurisdiction decision dated 26 September 2023, I confirmed that my remit to 
consider the merits of this this complaint was confined to the interest charging events that 
took place after 21 September 2015.
What Ive decided  and why
Ill start with some general observations. Were not the regulator of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal processes or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). We deal with individual disputes between businesses 
and their customers. In doing that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations and reach our conclusions without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have to work within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules give us.
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As summarised above, there are two components to Mr Js complaint; Ill address them in 
reverse order, by considering first whether the rates TMB charged Mr J were fair. 
The starting point here is the agreement Mr J entered into for the interest rate product 
immediately preceding the mortgage going onto SVR. That was in November 2006, when 
Mr J accepted a tracker rate running until 31 December 2011. 
That agreement set out, under the heading Description of this mortgage, what would 
happen when the tracker product ended. It said:
Your loan reverts to TMBs Standard Variable Rate currently 6.990% after 31 December 
2011.
Meantime, TMB stopped offering new interest rate deals in 2008. That being the case, Im 
satisfied that the interest rate that TMB was permitted to charge under the terms of the 
mortgage during the period I can consider was its SVR.
One of the considerations that I am required to take into account is relevant law. I consider 
that the application of the Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations (UTCCRs) to the 
relevant terms in this case falls into that category of relevant law. The way the UTCCRs 
apply to the relevant terms of Mr Js mortgage contract is ultimately a matter for the courts. 
But they are a relevant consideration I must take into account when determining what is fair 
and reasonable in all of the circumstances of this case.
 
The crux of this is whether any of the terms, contrary to the requirements of good faith,
cause a significant imbalance in the parties rights and obligations arising under the contract,
to the detriment of the consumer. As part of this, relevant considerations are:
the extent to which the terms are sufficiently clear and transparent;
the extent to which there were any significant barriers to Mr J being unable to exit the contract.
As regards clarity and transparency, I accept that its possible a court may find the terms to 
be unfair under UTCCR but this in itself is not determinative of this complaint. I also need to 
consider whether the application of these terms has led to Mr J being treated unfairly. And 
for the reasons set out above, I dont think this is the case.  
Lastly, there was no early repayment charge applicable to Mr Js mortgage account at the 
point it reverted to SVR. So, if TMB had exercised its rights as set by the variation terms, 
and Mr J was unhappy with the decisions it made, he was free under the contract to seek a 
re-mortgage with another lender. In saying that, I am aware of the possibility that there may 
have been external factors that might have impacted on Mr Js ability to re-mortgage to 
another lender. But if there were, they will not have been imposed by TMB. 
At a general level, interest variation clauses such as those that applied to Mr Js mortgage 
have a legitimate purpose and are common in financial services consumer contracts, 
particularly those of long or indeterminate duration, such as mortgage agreements.
A fair variation term can benefit both consumers and lenders, by providing flexibility and a 
wider choice to consumers and enabling firms to provide competitively priced products, knowing they can vary the interest rates they charge to reflect changes in circumstances, 
particularly in their own cost of funding. A reversion rate also permits lenders to provide for 
future changes that justify increases in the rate, and a lenders own costs of funds are by 
nature difficult to foresee.
The time period Im looking at (21 September 2015 up to redemption in 2020) followed on 
from a time of significant change in the wider market as a result of the financial crisis in 
2008/09. This had impacted on the funding costs of businesses and was reflected in 
changes to a number of lenders interest rates charged across the market at the time and 
subsequently. 
Im also mindful that the FCA has noted the adverse impact the financial crisis had on 
lenders costs during that period, and that it hasnt seen that SVR variation terms have 
generally been relied on unfairly to cause widespread detriment to consumers (see for 
example the May 2018 Guidance Consultation GC18/2 Fairness of Variation terms in 
financial services consumer contracts under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 paragraphs 2.8 
to 2.10).
TMB has provided the Financial Ombudsman Service with detailed information about the 
reasons why it varied its SVR in the way that it did. The information TMB has given us is 
commercially sensitive, so can be treated as confidential. The information has been 
reviewed in line with TMBs mortgage documentation, relevant law and regulations. 
Ive considered whether TMB acted fairly overall. Having done so, Im satisfied it varied the 
SVR in line with the mortgage terms and conditions and that TMB exercised those terms 
fairly. This means that Im satisfied TMB did not overcharge interest on Mr Js mortgage 
account between 21 September 2015 and the redemption date.
Whilst the base rate had reduced significantly leading up to this period, the costs to lenders 
of funding their businesses changed, as did their prudential requirements. These are made 
up of several factors that are not directly linked to base rate. There was a substantial 
increase in risk to all lenders before and during that period, and that led to them having to 
mitigate that risk in different ways. So there are objectively justifiable reasons why TMB did 
not always reduce the applicable rate at the same level as the reduction in Bank of England 
base rate. 
Overall I am not persuaded there is any basis to say that the variations TMB made to its 
SVR resulted in Mr J being charged an unfairly high rate of interest on his mortgage during 
the period I can consider. Nor does the evidence lead me to conclude that the interest rate 
applied during that period was unfair for any other reason. 
That latter point brings me to the second element of the complaint is about whether TMB 
either:
placed obstacles in the way of Mr J getting a new rate; and/or 
failed to take reasonable steps to let him know this was a possibility for him to explore. 
As Ive already set out, TMB had become a closed lender whilst the tracker rate was 
running. That meant that there would not be an opportunity for Mr J to take a new deal with 
TMB, rather than go onto SVR, when the fixed rate ended on 31 December 2011. However, 
that in itself wouldnt have prevented Mr J from looking for a better deal by re-mortgaging to 
another lender.
Again, my remit is confined to what happened after 21 September 2015, but I must also 
consider if events prior to that date impacted on what happened after it.TMB told Mr J in 2008 that it would no longer be offering new rate deals, but that if he 
wanted to, he could speak to an advisor about the possibility of a new mortgage with another 
lender (which Ill refer to here as BM) in the same banking group.  However, in 
October 2011, shortly before Mr Js then current product was due to end, TMB wrote to say 
BM was no longer offering new deals either, and that if he wanted one Mr J should speak to 
an independent advisor about what other options might be available elsewhere.
In 2014, the FCA introduced the new, stricter, rules that Mr J says made him a mortgage 
prisoner unable to move to another lender. Around the same time, TMB reintroduced the 
option of borrowers stuck on SVR having the opportunity to apply for a new mortgage with a 
different lender (Ill call this one S) in the same banking group. However, it seems Mr J 
wasnt told about this until 2019 when a narrative to that effect was introduced into the 
annual statement.
What that leaves for me to decide is whether the 2014 omission to tell Mr J about the 
possibility of re-mortgaging to S, which I agree it should have done, is the sole or primary 
reason he remained with TMB on the SVR after 21 September 2015 until he repaid the 
mortgage altogether in 2020. On balance, after carefully considering all the circumstances, 
Im not persuaded I can safely reach that conclusion.
Much as the investigator concluded, if securing a lower rate than SVR was a priority for Mr J, 
then Id expect him to have responded immediately to the message in the 2019 statement. H 
has said the reason he did not was because he redeemed the mortgage in 2020  so would 
only have had a short period to benefit from a new rate  and no longer wished to be a TMB 
customer.
Ive thought hard about what H has said there, and overall I dont find it a wholly persuasive 
argument. First of all, if Mr J no longer wished to be a TMB customer, that would have been 
an incentive to explore the possibility of moving to S, not a reason not to. As for the 
mortgage being redeemed in 2020, the offer for the tracker rate from 2006 showed the 
mortgage as having around 24 years to run, which would mean it was scheduled to end in 
2030, not 2020. 
It follows from this that redemption in 2020 most likely came about because Mr J either 
re-financed with another lender completely outside the banking group of which TMB is a 
member, or sold the mortgaged property. Given his argument that being a mortgage prisoner 
ruled out the former, and noting that the address on his complaint form is different from the 
mortgaged property address on the 2006 offer, the latter seems the more likely of the two. 
That said, the outcome of the complaint isnt dependent on exactly how Mr J came to 
redeem the mortgage when he did.
Regardless of the means by which the mortgage was redeemed in 2020, I accept its 
possible that Mr J already had his plan in mind when he got the 2019 statement. But I have 
to keep in mind that in the period between 31 December 2011 and the change of rules in 
2014 that Mr J says made him a mortgage prisoner, he seemingly took no action to try and 
re-mortgage with another lender on better terms. 
Putting everything together, it seem to me that the same inertia, rather than knowledge of 
the impending redemption of the mortgage, is the more likely reason Mr J didnt explore new 
options when he became aware of them in 2019. Had he been made aware of those options 
in 2014, as he should have been, its hard to conclude that he would most likely have 
responded any differently. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision before 6 November 2023. 
Jeff Parrington
Ombudsman