DRN-4028773
The complaint
Mr H complains that Ikano Bank AB (publ) irresponsibly gave him a fixed sum loan 
agreement he couldnt afford.
What happened
In November 2019, Mr H applied for a loan with Ikano. His application was accepted and he 
was given £3,000 repayable with 24 monthly payments of around £150. The total repayable 
was £3,617.96. 
Mr H complained to Ikano in March 2022 to say that the loan shouldnt have been given to 
him. He said that adequate checks werent completed before lending. He said he had been 
unemployed since July 2019 and had suffered with mental health issues prior to taking out 
the loan. 
Ikano didnt uphold the complaint, it said it completed appropriate affordability checks. It said 
Mr H had declared he was employed full-time and earned an income of around £17,000 per 
year. He had declared he was living with his parents and it completed a credit check which 
showed he wasnt overly indebted elsewhere or had difficulty repaying credit. It said it had 
not been made aware of Mr Hs mental health issues and would have not known about them. 
Our adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. He thought the checks Ikano did 
were reasonable and proportionate in the circumstances and there was nothing in the 
checks it completed that would have suggested it made an unfair lending decision. 
Mr H didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before lending to Mr H, Ikano were required to ensure that any borrowing was affordable 
and sustainable. There isnt a set list of checks that needed to be undertaken, however, the 
rules required that checks were proportionate to the circumstances of the lending. What is 
considered proportionate will vary in each case. In deciding what proportionate checks ought 
to be, Ikano needed to take into consideration things such as (but not limited to): the amount 
borrowed, the total repayable, the size of the regular repayments, the term and the 
consumers circumstances. 
On the loan application Mr H declared he was employed full time earning around £17,000 
per year and that he lived with his parents. Ikano says it also completed a credit check 
although it hasnt provided us with a copy of those checks. Ive therefore relied on a copy of 
Mr Hs credit file that hes supplied us with. I think this gives a good indication of what 
information was likely to have been visible to Ikano at the time of the application. 
The credit report shows that Mr H held three current accounts which werent overdrawn and 
a recently settled communications account. So, it appears Mr H had no pre-existing credit 
commitments or any historic issues with repaying credit. Taking into consideration the 
financial aspects of the credit agreement and what Ikano knew about Mr Hs circumstances, 
I think the affordability checks it completed were broadly reasonable and proportionate. 
Having considered the information that was available to Ikano, I dont think there was 
anything available to it that would have suggested the lending was likely to be unaffordable 
for Mr H. I dont therefore think it made an unfair lending decision. 
Mr H says he had been made unemployed a few months earlier. While I dont doubt that, he 
told Ikano that he was still employed by his previous employer and in the specific 
circumstances here, I think Ikano was entitled to rely on what it had been told. Similarly, 
Mr H says he had been struggling with mental health issues prior to the application. 
However, Ive not seen anything that persuades me that Ikano knew about this or that they 
ought reasonably to have known. I therefore dont consider Ikano acted unfairly or 
unreasonably in granting the loan to Mr H. 
However, given what Mr H has now disclosed, I would expect Ikano to treat Mr H fairly with 
any ongoing financial difficulty he might have in repaying the loan, taking into account any 
impact his health issues might have on his ability to repay.
My final decision
For the reasons given above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 April 2023.
 
Tero Hiltunen
Ombudsman