DRN-3327783
The complaint
Mr M is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund the money hes 
lost to a fraudster.
Whats happened?
Mr M has fallen victim to a purchase scam.  In June 2021, he sent £140 via faster payment 
to buy a hi-fi unit from a seller hed found on a popular online marketplace. But the item he 
paid for was never received and the seller has now ceased contact with Mr M and blocked 
him on social media.
Mr M raised a fraud claim with Halifax. Halifax contacted the receiving bank to try to recover 
Mr Ms money, but no funds remained in the beneficiary account. And Halifax declined to 
reimburse Mr M under the Lending Standards Boards Contingent Reimbursement Model 
(CRM Code).
Mr M asked this Service to consider a case against Halifax. Our investigator looked into 
things and didnt think that Halifax had done anything wrong in this instance. Mr M asked for 
an ombudsmans final decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Halifax is a signatory of the CRM Code, which requires firms to reimburse customers who 
have been the victims of Authorised Push Payment (APP) scams, like the one Mr M has 
fallen victim to, in all but a limited number of circumstances. Halifax has argued that one of 
the exceptions applies in this case. It says that Mr M made the payment without a 
reasonable basis for belief that the payee was the person he was expecting to pay, the 
payment was for genuine goods or services and/or the business or person he was 
transacting with was legitimate.
In thinking about whether Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief, Ive considered what steps 
he took to reassure himself about the legitimacy of the transaction, and whether it was 
reasonable for him to proceed with the payment.
Ive seen evidence which suggests that the seller had priced the item at around half the 
market value for hi-fi units of this type. And they accepted an offer from Mr M to pay 70% of 
the asking price. So, I consider that the price Mr M paid for the item was too good to be true. 
And I wouldve expected Mr M, or anyone else, to be put on guard. 
I appreciate that the payment Mr M made was a low value transaction but, in the 
circumstances, I think its reasonable to expect him to have carried out some checks in order 
to protect himself from financial harm. But it doesnt appear that he did. When he raised a 
fraud claim with Halifax, he told the bank that he didnt know the seller and, although the 
advert didnt contain many pictures of the item, he didnt ask for more. He didnt suggest a 
more secure method of payment than bank transfer either, or check the sellers marketplace 
information as he was too busy (although he later told this Service that he did). The bank 
account Mr M was asked to transfer his payment for the item to belonged to someone with a 
different name to the seller, and Mr M says he just assumed the account belonged to the 
sellers partner without questioning this discrepancy.
Mr M appears to have proceeded with the payment based only on his perception that 
everything seemed legitimate when he spoke to the seller.
Overall, I dont think I can reasonably conclude that Mr M had a reasonable basis for belief 
on this occasion. So, Im not persuaded that Halifax should have reimbursed Mr Ms loss 
because of any obligation under the CRM Code.
Given the nature and value of the payment Mr M made, I wouldnt have expected the bank to 
have identified an APP scam risk. So, Im not persuaded that Halifax ought to have taken 
any further action to prevent the scam. And Ive seen that the bank took reasonable steps to 
recover Mr Ms funds when he raised a fraud claim with it, but no funds remained in the 
beneficiary account to recover. 
My final decision
For the reasons Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 10 October 2022.
 
Kyley Hanson
Ombudsman