DRN-2840249
The complaint
Mr T believes that Barclays Bank UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, lent to him irresponsibly 
by approving him for a credit card which should never have been provided to him.
What happened
In 2018, Mr T applied for a credit account with Barclays. Mr Ts initial application was 
rejected. However, a few days later Mr T received a new credit card in the post which had a 
£2,950 credit limit.
In 2020, Mr T raised a complaint with Barclays as he felt that the credit account should never 
have been provided to him. Mr T felt that, if Barclays had conducted checks into his financial 
position at the time of the credit application, it would have been apparent to Barclays that the 
credit account would be unaffordable for him.
Barclays looked at Mr Ts complaint, but they felt that they had conducted reasonable and 
proportionate checks at the time of Mr Ts credit application and that there had been nothing 
within these checks that had given them cause to consider that the credit account might be 
unaffordable for Mr T at that time. So, they didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mr T wasnt satisfied with Barclays response, so he referred his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators looked at this complaint, but they also felt that Barclays had 
conducted appropriate checks into Mr Ts financial position at the time of the application, and 
that these checks hadnt highlighted anything that should have given Barclays cause for 
concern. So, they also didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr T remained dissatisfied, so the matter was escalated to an ombudsman for a final 
decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its for a business to decide whether they will offer credit to a customer, and if so, how much 
and on what terms. What this service would expect would be that the business conducts 
reasonable and proportionate checks into the financial position of the customer at the time of 
the credit application so as to be satisfied that any amount of credit being offered to that 
customer is affordable for them.
Having reviewed the information and evidence available to me on this case, I feel that 
Barclays did that here. They took information from Mr T directly about his personal and 
financial circumstances, including information about his income and monthly expenses, and 
they also reviewed Mr Ts credit file in order to gain a better understanding of Mr Ts wider 
financial position.
Having considered the information that would have been available to Barclays having 
conducted these checks, Im satisfied that there was nothing resulting from these checks 
that should have given Barclays any cause to suspect that the credit account that Mr T was 
applying for wouldnt have been affordable for him at that time.
I say this because the checks that Barclays conducted confirmed that Mr T had disposable 
monthly income sufficient to be able to meet the potential monthly payments required by the 
credit account, and also because Mr Ts credit file didnt demonstrate any instances of 
historical poor credit management such that Barclays ought to have had concerns.
Mr T has stated to this service that his initial application for the credit account was declined, 
and he contends that this in and of itself means that he should never have been given a 
credit account. 
But Barclays have been able to demonstrate that Mr Ts initial credit application was indeed 
declined, but that Mr T made a second credit application one day later, which was approved 
on the basis that Barclays received further information that allowed them to undertake the 
checks necessary to approve the credit account.
Unfortunately, Barclays werent able to locate recordings of the telephone conversations 
pertaining to these applications, but it seems reasonable to conclude that Mr Ts initial 
application was declined, but that Mr T called back the next day and provided additional 
information that allowed Barclays to proceed and approve his application.
Im also aware that Mr T feels that Barclays acting to close his account in 2020 provides a 
clear illustration that the account was unaffordable for him and so should never have been 
provided. 
However, Barclays have been able to supply this service with a copy of Mr Ts initial 
complaint email to them, and within this email Mr T clearly requests himself that Barclays 
close his credit account  and Barclays have confirmed that Mr Ts account was closed as a 
result of that request made by Mr T.
All of which means that its very difficult for me to conclude that Barclays have acted unfairly 
or unreasonably toward Mr T in the manner that he states here. And I say this because Im 
satisfied that Barclays did conduct reasonable and proportionate checks into Mr Ts financial 
circumstances at the time of the credit account application, and that there was nothing 
resulting from these checks that should have given Barclays reason to believe that Mr T 
couldnt afford the credit account he was applying for.
I realise that this wont be the outcome that Mr T was wanting here, but it follows from this 
that I wont be upholding this complaint or asking Barclays to take any further action at this 
time. I hope that Mr T can understand, given everything Ive explained above, why I have 
made the final decision that I have.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision before 22 July 2021.
 
Paul Cooper
Ombudsman