DRN-1676734
 
The complaint
Mr H says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
 
What happened
This complaint is about a credit card PPI policy taken out in 1998. The policy was added to 
Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card. Its clear from Mr Hs application 
form that he applied for the card by post after receiving a mailshot.
Our adjudicator didn't uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint's been passed to me.
 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
 
Ive seen a copy of the credit card application form which Mr H completed and 
signed. It included equally prominent options to take or decline PPI. Mr H ticked the 
Yes option, indicating that he wished to take the cover. I think Barclays made Mr H 
aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it  although I can 
understand why he may no longer remember this, more than 20 years later.
 
Mr H applied for the credit card and PPI by post. Barclays didn't recommend the PPI 
to him so it didn't have to check if it was suitable for him. But it needed to give him 
clear enough information to enable him to decide for himself whether he wished to 
take PPI.
 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr H about the PPI wasn't as clear as it 
should have been. But Mr H chose to take out the policy. So he appears to have 
wanted this type of cover, even if hes understandably forgotten that now. The PPI 
would have protected his credit card monthly repayments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim for accident, sickness or unemployment. Mr H has told us he cant remember whether hed have been entitled to any sick pay from his employer at the 
time. But even if he was entitled to sick pay, I think its unlikely that hed have been 
entitled to full pay for 12 months. Whats more, the policy would have paid out in 
addition to any payments Mr H received from his employer. So he could have used 
those to meet other day-to-day expenses at what its likely would have been a difficult 
time. 
 
So taking everything into account, I think the PPI policy could have been useful to Mr 
H, especially as hes told us that aside from any payments from his employer, he 
didn't have any other means he could have used to make his monthly credit card 
repayments if he was off sick, or if he lost his job.
 
Based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, Mr H wasn't affected by 
any of the main things the policy didn't cover (such as unusual employment 
arrangements, or existing medical conditions). The policy was competitively priced 
and apparently affordable. And since Mr H was paying for it monthly, he could have 
cancelled it at any time if his circumstances changed, or if he decided he no longer 
wanted the cover.
 
Taking everything into account, I think its unlikely that Mr H would have made a 
different decision even if better information had been provided. On balance, I think 
hed still have taken out the policy.
 
 My final decision
For the reasons set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 April 2020.
Juliet Collins
Ombudsman