DRN-3109406
The complaint
Ms M complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link) is unfairly refusing to 
remove an account from her credit file. She would like Link to remove the account due to its 
age.
What happened
Ms M originally had a credit card account with a business I will refer to as B.  Link took over 
ownership of the account in 2016.
Ms M is unhappy that the account hasnt been removed from her credit file as it was 
defaulted more than seven years ago. Ms M doesnt understand why the account is still 
being reported after Link couldnt give her a copy of the credit agreement.
Links records indicate that Ms M has been making monthly payments of £29.31 since it took 
the account over in October 2016. This has reduced the outstanding balance from over 
£2,300 to just over £400. 
The investigator didnt uphold Ms Ms complaint. She explained that B had never defaulted 
the account. And that Ms M had agreed to continue making payments to Link once it took 
over the account in about October 2016.  The investigator didnt think it was unreasonable of 
Link to keep reporting the account to the credit reference agencies.
Ms M is unhappy with the investigators recommendation. Ms M says that she doesnt have 
any accounts on which shes made payments that havent defaulted. Ms M queries why B 
wouldve passed the account to Link without a default. She doesnt know how Link can 
access her credit report if she doesnt have an agreement with it. Ms M asked the 
investigator whether shed seen proof that shed never missed a payment. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems to me that Ms Ms main concern is whether Link can report the account she held 
with B to the credit reference agencies. So, this is what I will focus on in my decision.
Link says that it bought the outstanding debt from B in 2016. Although Link hasnt been able 
to give this service a copy of the notice of assignment that it sent to Ms M, I have a 
screenshot from its system which indicates that one was sent on 20 October 2016. So, Im 
satisfied that it was reasonable of Link - as the new owner of the account - to ask Ms M for 
payment.
I appreciate that Ms M thinks the account shouldve dropped off her credit file due to its age. 
I agree that this might be the case if the account had been defaulted more than six years 
ago. But B told Link that it hadnt applied a default to the account before it sold it. As Links 
records indicate that Ms M has since maintained her monthly payments, I dont see why Link 
wouldve had reason to default her account either. So, I cant find that Link is wrong to report 
Ms Ms account to the credit reference agencies.
Ms M wonders why B wouldve sold the account if it wasnt in default and she was making 
regular payments. I cant say why B took this step, but lenders sometimes prefer to get paid 
something by a debt buyer to then avoid the costs associated with administering the ongoing 
collection activity. I dont think that just because Link bought the debt, means that it mustve 
already been defaulted. 
Ms M is concerned about the lack of documentation relating to the account. Im satisfied that 
Link asked B for a copy of the credit agreement and B said it couldnt supply this. Link has 
told Ms M that the account is unenforceable as a result. But this doesnt mean that the debt 
doesnt exist or that Link cant continue to report the account to the credit reference 
agencies. 
I can only consider Ms Ms complaint as it relates to Link and not B. For all the reasons set 
out above, I dont think Link has done anything wrong. It took the steps I wouldve expected 
when it double-checked with B that the account hadnt already been defaulted. If Ms M still 
thinks that B defaulted the account before it was assigned to Link, she should raise her 
concerns with B.
Im sorry to disappoint Ms M but I dont require Link to take any steps in relation to her 
complaint. 
My final decision
My decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision before 13 January 2022.
 
Gemma Bowen
Ombudsman