DRN-4427435
The complaint
Mr S has complained about the length of time it took Helvetia Global Solutions Ltds 
breakdown recovery provider, who Ill refer to as N, to assist him after his car broke down 
and he made a claim under his Breakdown Recovery insurance policy. 
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here. The facts are not in dispute, so Ill focus on giving the reasons for my decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Industry rules set out by the regulator (the Financial Conduct Authority) say insurers must 
handle claims fairly and shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. As Mr Ss complaint is about 
a claim under Mr Ss Breakdown Recovery policy, Ive taken these rules and other industry 
guidance into account when deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of Mr Ss complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the conclusions reached by the investigator for these reasons:
It is clear from the notes provided that N struggled to find a garage who could send 
someone out to assist Mr S. And it took nearly three hours for someone to get to him in 
the first instance. 
After this amount of time had elapsed, I do not think it was appropriate for N to make    
Mr S wait another four hours for them to find a garage who could repair his car and get 
someone else to come out to take his car there. Especially, as Mr S told N he was cold 
and was feeling unwell. 
I appreciate the policy terms say N will not recover the customer to their destination of 
choice if a local garage can repair their car within 48 hours. And that this did happen with 
Mr Ss car. But I do not consider it was appropriate for N to stick rigidly to the policy 
terms when it was taking so long to find garages who could assist.
So, I think N should have recovered Mr S and his car to his chosen destination after it 
became clear his vehicle needed to be repaired and it wasnt possible to find someone 
quickly to get him to a garage that could do this.
This means I think N provided a poor level of service to Mr S and not the service he was 
entitled to expect. I think this caused him distress and inconvenience and that he should 
be compensated for this.
I agree with our investigator that the level of distress and inconvenience warrants a 
compensation payment of £200. If N has already paid Mr S the £20 it offered him, it can 
deduct this and pay him a further £180. 
Putting things right
For the reasons set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Ss complaint and make Helvetia 
pay him £200 in compensation for distress and inconvenience. Or £180 if it has already paid 
him the £20 it offered him. 
My final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint and order Helvetia Global Solutions Ltd to do what Ive set out 
above in the Putting things right section. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision before 7 December 2023.
 
Robert Short
Ombudsman