DRN-4096185
The complaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that Shelby Finance Ltd, trading as Dot Dot 
Loans (Shelby), lent to him irresponsibly. 
What happened
Mr M took four loans from Shelby and a brief loan table is set out here:
Loan Approved Amount Repayments 
each monthPaid
1 22 June 2019 £300 £160.68  term 
unknown30 September 2019
Gap in lending of eight months
2 31 May 2020 £350 £103.22 x 6 4 December 2020
3 26 December 2020 £200 £44.97 x 6 1 April 2021
4 6 June 2021 £400 £129.42 x 6 3 December 2021
Mr Ms representative commenced the complaint process and Shelbys final response letter 
(FRL) dated 12 October 2022 gave reasons why it considered it had done all the right 
checks before lending to Mr M and did not uphold his complaint.
Mr Ms representative referred the complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service where 
one of our adjudicators looked at it all and did not uphold his complaint.
Mr Ms representative forwarded to us Mr Ms comments and sent additional submissions 
together with copy bank account statements for the lending relationship. The submissions 
are as follows:
he was a prolific gambling addict throughout the whole period of borrowing. All loans 
were taken to fund his gambling addiction or repay other loans he has taken to fund 
his addiction. 
Any payments that you see on his bank statements to a [third party name] are him 
sending [third party] money to make bets for him as he had blocked himself from all 
gambling websites to try and stop his addiction but could not stop so was getting 
people to gamble for him.
Had the lender done a further check then they would have been able to see clearly 
that he should not have been given the loans. He would lie in all of his applications to 
lenders to get loans.
The unresolved complaint was passed to me to decide. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Shelby had to assess the lending to check if Mr M could afford to pay back the amounts hed 
borrowed without undue difficulty. It needed to do this in a way which was proportionate to 
the circumstances. Shelbys checks couldve considered several different things, such as 
how much was being lent, the size of the repayments, and Mr Ms income and expenditure. 
I think in the early stages of a lending relationship, less thorough checks might have been 
proportionate. But certain factors might suggest Shelby should have done more to establish 
that any lending was sustainable for Mr M. These factors include:
Mr M having a low income (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
The amounts to be repaid being especially high (reflecting that it could be more 
difficult to meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Mr M having many loans and/or having these loans over a long period (reflecting the 
risk that repeated refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was 
becoming, unsustainable);
Mr M coming back for loans shortly after previous borrowing had been repaid (also 
suggestive of the borrowing becoming unsustainable).
There may even come a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable for Mr M. 
Shelby was required to establish whether Mr M could sustainably repay the loans  not just 
whether he technically had enough money to make his repayments. Having enough money 
to make the repayments could of course be an indicator that Mr M was able to repay his 
loans sustainably. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
Industry regulations say that payments are sustainable if they are made without undue 
difficulties and, made on time, while meeting other reasonable commitments and without 
having to borrow to make them. If a lender realises, or ought reasonably to have realised, 
that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments without borrowing further, then it 
follows that it should conclude those repayments are unsustainable.
Ive considered all the arguments, evidence and information provided in this context, and
thought about what this means for Mr Ms complaint. And Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. I give my reasons here. 
Shelby has demonstrated that for each application Mr Ms income exceeded his outgoings.
Shelby increased his expenditure figures having obtained some information of its own 
through credit reference agency searches and using statistical data. All of this is a 
reasonable approach to take. So, the loans would have looked affordable.
The credit search results for each loan have been sent to us and they are detailed 
documents all of which Ive reviewed carefully. For loans 1 to 3 the overall indebtedness 
figure was not particularly high  between £3,000 and £5,600.  
I have seen that in January 2018 and February 2018 Mr M had three defaulted accounts but 
these would have been some time before Mr M applied for loan 1 and lenders such as 
Shelby would not have considered that to have been reasons to refuse the loan. It is used to 
lending to individuals with some adverse information on their credit history records. In addition, the loans were all low value. There was a significant gap in lending between 
paying off loan 1 and applying for loan 2 and so I consider these to have been two loan 
chains. That means that loans 2 and loan 3 would have been early in the second lending 
chain and usually I would have considered it enough for Shelby to have relied on what Mr M 
had informed it about on his applications.
But I do notice that loan 2 was just after the National Covid 19 pandemic lockdown had 
commenced. Ive evidence from Shelby that it verified his income but I think that in 2020 and 
2021 it ought to have double checked this as it may be that Mr M may have been furloughed 
or some other arrangements had taken place. However, the evidence from Mr M (his bank 
account statements) show me that even if Shelby had asked for additional income 
information then it would have been assured that Mr M was still employed and was earning 
broadly the figures hed set out in his application forms. Sometimes Ive seen that his net 
salary crediting his account was £400 or so higher than hed declared to Shelby.
For loans 2 and 3 his credit file showed no additional adverse information and so as the 
loans were still for relatively modest sums and were early in the second lending chain Id 
consider Shelby had carried out proportionate checks and would not have been in receipt of 
any information likely to have led it to decline the loan or to ask for additional information.
At loan 4, there was a change as Mr M had obtained around a £202,000 mortgage in 
March 2021  just three months before applying for loan 4. The repayments for that would 
have been factored into the assessment Shelby would have carried out as Ive seen that the 
mortgage is noted in its affordability document for loan 4. And often the approval of a 
significant line of credit such as a mortgage can enhance an individuals credit file record. 
Mr Ms application at loan 4 was still relatively modest at £400 and so I do not consider that 
Shelby needed to have carried out any additional checks over and above what it had already 
done.
Mr M has sent to me his bank account statements. Our adjudicator did not have those when 
he did his review. And Ive several points to make about those.
The first is that Id not necessarily have expected Shelby to have asked for and reviewed his 
statements. Id have considered that disproportionate in the circumstances.
The second is that despite Mr Ms submissions, they do not show extensive gambling. They 
do show the named third party which Mr Ms representative has described to us as a 
workaround the gambling website blocks he himself had set up. 
And so, with all that information I cant rationally conclude that Shelby ought to have known 
and realised that this was a set of transactions to cover up his gambling  even if it had 
reviewed his statements  when Mr M has admitted to us (through his representatives) that 
they were deliberately set up to achieve that aim  disguise the transactions. 
And I have no evidence that Mr M informed Shelby of his gambling at the time. 
And to address the final submission from his representatives, then Shelby would not be 
expected to have known that Mr M had lied on all his applications to obtain the credit. 
I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision before 21 August 2023.
 
Rachael Williams
Ombudsman