DRN-2558125
The complaint
Mrs M complains about how Marks & Spencer Financial Services Plc (M&S) has dealt with 
its Persistent Debt policy on her account.
What happened
Mrs M says she called M&S in February 2020 following a number of Persistent Debt letters it 
sent her. She says she agreed to increase the monthly repayments and wasnt in any 
financial difficulties. Mrs M says she assumed matters were sorted out but was then told in 
around September 2020 that her account would be suspended as she hadnt made contact 
with M&S. She says that was incorrect and M&S hasnt followed the correct procedure and 
that its up to her how she repays her debt. Mrs M says she has been caused inconvenience 
and distress dealing with this issue and would her account card reinstated.
M&S says it is obliged to follow the Persistent Debt rules and hasnt made a mistake. It says 
it sent a number of letters to Mrs M and made clear that she needed to agree one of the 
proposals contained it its letter. It also says Mrs M made clear that she didnt wish to 
consider any of those options and that its entitled to suspend an account in line with the 
terms and conditions.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us and our investigator didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought M&S had explained the Persistent Debt rules and referred Mrs M to the letter but 
accepted she hadnt been told increasing her payments or making a lump sum payment 
would not prevent the card suspension. The investigator also accepted that Mrs M had made 
contact with M&S but the delay in taking action was due to the pandemic position.
Mrs M doesnt accept that view and in summary says if M&S is correct, it should have 
cancelled the card use earlier. She says that suggested to her M&S had agreed with her 
proposal and it should have been clearer in its communication.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I dont uphold this complaint and am satisfied M&S is entitled to suspend 
account usage in these circumstances. I appreciate Mrs M will be disappointed by my 
decision.
I am sure Mrs M appreciates that M&S is not responsible for the Persistent Debt rules and is 
under an obligation to follow them. Im satisfied that is what took place here and that M&S 
did send the appropriate letters to Mrs M which set out clearly her options. I accept M&S 
could have explained to Mrs M when she called in February 2020 that her proposal would 
not avoid the rules and the next step being taken, which was account suspension. But Im 
satisfied M&S did refer Mrs M to its letter which made that clear and I think Mrs M made 
clear that she didnt want to take out a loan or repay the full amount. So, I dont think it likely 
the position would have changed even if M&S had been clearer during the call.
I accept that Mrs M did make contact with M&S and so its letter in around September 2020 
wasnt accurate. But I dont think that is the main issue here and also think the delay in 
restricting account usage was due to the agreement by the credit card providers caused by 
the pandemic.
The main part of the complaint is that Mrs M would like M&S to reinstate her account use. 
But Im satisfied in line with agreed account terms and conditions M&S is entitled to suspend 
or cancel such use and made that clear in its letters that it may do so here. Im also satisfied 
that its up to M&S when exercising its commercial judgement to decide with whom it has a 
business relationship and so I cant fairly order it to reinstate Mrs Ms account.
Overall, I find M&S could have communicated more clearly with Mrs M. I dont think that 
would have altered the outcome or that warrants an award of compensation or apology. And 
I find M&S was obliged under its regulatory duties to take the action it did.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 March 2021.
 
David Singh
Ombudsman