DRN-4328633
The complaint
Mr B has complained about the transfer of his defined benefit occupational pension to a 
personal pension, following advice he received from Alexander Forbes Financial Services 
(now JLT Consultants & Actuaries Limited). For ease of reference, I will just refer to JLT.
What happened
In February 2010 Mr Bs former employer wrote to him offering to increase the transfer value 
of his pension if he transferred it elsewhere. The transfer value of the pension was £47,732; 
but if Mr B transferred it the employer offered to pay an extra £4,773.20 into the new pension 
or pay an extra £3,698.53 directly to Mr B. The employer also offered to arrange and pay for 
financial advice to be given by JLT in respect of a transfer.
In a Personal Priorities Questionnaire Mr B outlined his current circumstances, his retirement 
provisions, his intention to take the £3,698.53 and his intention to use the money for home 
improvements.
On 25 March 2010 JLT sent Mr B its recommendation report. In summary, it recommended 
that Mr B not transfer his pension. This was because the Critical Yield (the amount the new 
pension needed to grow by in order to match the benefits of the defined benefit pension) was 
unlikely to be achieved and transferring would likely have a detrimental effect on Mr Bs 
retirement income.
On 20 April 2010 Mr B phoned JLT to get an update. He confirmed that hed received the 
report and that he understood the recommendation and that hed be worse off in retirement if 
he transferred. JLT confirmed that it didnt think Mr B should transfer and recommended that 
he follow that advice, but Mr B said he still wanted to transfer.
Following the call JLT wrote to Mr B. It re-iterated that it wasnt in Mr Bs best interest to 
transfer as his retirement benefits could be dramatically reduced. It therefore recommended 
that Mr B get further advice before he proceeded further. It nevertheless noted that Mr B had 
said he wished to transfer so it enclosed the relevant forms for him to complete.
The forms were completed and JLT arranged the transfer on an insistent client basis  
thats essentially where a client wants to take a different course of action from whats been 
recommended and they want the business to facilitate the transaction against its advice.
Mr B (through his representative) complained to JLT in 2023. The essence of the complaint 
was that he felt JLTs advice to transfer his pension was unsuitable. JLT felt its advice was 
suitable and pointed out the times it had told Mr B that transferring wasnt in his best interest. 
It did however note that the investment funds Mr Bs pension had been placed in were a 
higher risk than he was prepared to accept. It later calculated that Mr B hadnt suffered any 
loss because of this.
Our investigator thought the complaint should be upheld. In summary, he felt JLTs advice 
was suitable as Mr B was unlikely to improve on the benefits he was already entitled to from 
his defined benefit pension. However, he felt JLT treated Mr B unfairly in the way it provided 
the advice and in how it treated Mr B as an insistent client.
JLT disagreed. It said its advice focused solely on the merits of Mr B remaining in or 
transferring out of the defined benefit pension. And Mr B was clearly told that hed be worse 
off if he transferred. It felt Mr B had made his mind up after receiving the offer and 
recommendation report, he was driving the transfer as he wanted the cash offer, and he was 
going to transfer regardless of the consequences to his pension income.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
General observations
Mr Bs complaint was made on the basis that JLT had advised Mr B to transfer his pension. 
However, as outlined above, JLTs advice to Mr B was to not transfer his pension. 
Accordingly, most of the arguments presented in the complaint (eg JLT not following the 
regulator's starting position that transfers of this nature are unsuitable) ignore what actually 
happened.
The representative also made the complaint without being in receipt of JLTs file. This meant 
all they knew was what theyd been told by Mr B based on his recollection of events. Mr B 
told us that he doesnt remember much from the discussions at the time of the advice. And 
there are some discrepancies in the information hes provided. Ive already outlined one 
example above in respect of what advice JLT gave. Another example is that he said in the 
complaint that at the time of the advice he was single but the Personal Priorities 
Questionnaire he completed said he was married and the recommendation report (which 
Mr B didnt correct) also referred to him being married.
With the above in mind, Im not persuaded that Mr Bs recollection of events is reliable. So 
Ive largely ignored the arguments Mr B and his representative have presented and Ive 
focussed on what I think is relevant. And where theres a discrepancy in the information Ive 
been more persuaded by the documentary evidence from the time of the advice rather than 
by Mr Bs recollection of what happened.
The applicable rules and regulations
In 2010 there was no specific regulatory guidance for businesses to follow in respect of 
insistent clients. But there were Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) rules which 
required JLT to act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests 
of its client and to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading.
The advice itself
In its recommendation report JLT said the growth needed on the new pension to make the 
transfer financially viable wouldnt be achieved by investing the funds in a personal pension. 
And it said for this reason it didnt recommend that Mr B transfer out of his defined benefit 
pension. I agree with JLTs analysis ie it was more likely than not that Mr B would be worse 
off in retirement if he transferred.
Im not going to dwell on this point further though because (a) its not disputed by either party 
and (b) I dont think the outcome of the complaint turns on whether or not the advice was suitable. The important issue in my opinion is whether or not JLT treated Mr B fairly in 
facilitating the transfer of the pension having previously advised him to not transfer.
The advice process
An important consideration in this type of complaint is whether JLTs recommendation was 
sufficiently clear enough to allow Mr B to make an informed decision on whether to transfer.
I think there are issues in this case that go in JLTs favour in this respect. These are:
this wasnt a rushed transaction  it was roughly three months between Mr B completing 
the Personal Priorities Questionnaire and him completing the transfer documents; and I 
dont think JLT applied any pressure to Mr B to make a decision
the recommendation report didnt outline what Mr B needed to do if he wanted to transfer 
 so the message wasnt blurred by JLT saying something along the lines of we 
recommend that you dont transfer but if you want to heres what you need to do
it was Mr B who called JLT after the recommendation report was sent (rather than the 
other way round) to chase what was happening, and JLT only sent the relevant transfer 
forms to Mr B after this call
JLT told Mr B on at least four separate occasions that its recommendation was that he 
shouldnt transfer and doing so wouldnt be in his best interests and would mean hed be 
worse off in retirement.
But I think there are other issues that go against JLT. As Ive said above, JLT had to act 
honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with Mr Bs best interests and it had to 
provide Mr B with information that was clear, fair and not misleading. This meant its 
recommendation needed to be clear and Mr B would have needed to have understood the 
consequences of going against the recommendation.
Im not persuaded that JLT provided Mr B with sufficiently clear, fair and not misleading 
information so that he could make an informed decision on whether to transfer or so that he 
fully understood the consequences of going against the recommendation. I say that because 
although JLT recommended against transferring, it only focussed on whether the growth 
needed to match the original pension was achievable. There was no proper consideration of 
or investigation into:
Mr Bs objectives and reasons for transferring
oJLTs role was to establish Mr Bs wants and needs and why he wanted to 
transfer his pension and take the cash being offered
obut the only reference to this was in the phone conversation on 20 April when JLT 
asked Mr B why he wanted to transfer and Mr B simply said he wanted to transfer
othis in my view was wholly insufficient; as Mr B had previously indicated an 
interest in receiving the lump sum payment JLT should have interrogated Mr B 
more on this point to establish exactly what he wished to do with it and why
oif Mr B just wanted the money being offered  this wasnt an objective and JLT 
should have made this clear
oif Mr B wanted the money for home improvements  JLT should have considered 
whether this was a pressing need and, if it was, whether there were alternative 
ways of meeting this objective
Mr Bs capacity to absorb the loss of this pension
oaside from the state pension this was Mr Bs only source of retirement income
oI cant see that any analysis was done on whether Mr B could afford to lose the 
guaranteed benefits of the defined benefit pension he was giving up
the difference in costs between the existing and new pensionsono comparison was done between the cost of the existing pension and the cost of 
the personal pension
the difference in benefits between the existing and new pensions
oJLT used words like significantly and dramatically to describe how worse off 
Mr B might be if he transferred
obut it didnt do any comparison between the retirement benefits Mr B would 
receive from the defined benefit pension and the likely benefits he would receive 
from the personal pension
othe recommendation report outlined the annual pension Mr B was projected to 
receive from the defined benefit pension
obut it gave no information on the annual pension he might receive if he 
transferred  the only information given was in respect of death benefits and the 
tax-free cash he might receive
oso there was no real way for Mr B to see in numerical terms how worse off he 
might be or of what significantly or dramatically worse off meant eg there was 
no explanation along the lines of you might receive £3,700 (approximately) now 
but in retirement youll likely lose £x.
JLT said the advice only focused on the merits of whether Mr B should remain in or transfer 
out of the defined benefit pension and that the fee Mr Bs former employer paid didnt take 
account of any wider aspects of financial planning. I dont think the agreement JLT had with 
Mr Bs former employer has any relevance here. Thats because irrespective of the fee it 
received it provided financial advice to Mr B and it therefore had to act within the bounds of 
the regulators rules. If that meant JLT was underpaid for the work it needed to do that was 
an issue between JLT and the employer.
This is a finely balanced case because as Ive outlined above there are issues that go both 
for and against JLT. However, overall, I think the flaws in the advice process outweigh the 
things that go in JLTs favour. JLTs role was to establish what Mr Bs needs and wants were 
and why he wanted to transfer his pension. It wasnt to simply do what Mr B wanted without 
appropriate analysis and challenge of his motives. As Ive outlined above, Im not persuaded 
that JLT fulfilled its role in this respect.
In my view, JLT just telling Mr B that hed be worse off in retirement if he transferred wasnt 
enough to fulfil its requirement to act in his best interests or to provide information that was 
clear, fair and not misleading. The advice and information given to Mr B should have 
covered the overall picture. JLT only concentrating on the critical yield meant Mr B had little 
other information to consider in order to decide whether to go against its advice. And I dont 
think Mr B could reasonably be expected to make an informed decision about going against 
the recommendation when he wasnt in receipt of all the relevant information.
Overall, I dont think JLT can fairly rely on its recommendation and the warnings given as 
Mr B decided to proceed against the recommendation without having all the facts available.
Would Mr B have transferred regardless?
In 2016 the regulator issued guidance on its website and said its unlikely to be common for 
consumers seeking advice to disregard that advice. In other words, if a consumer seeks 
advice from a professional advisor its most likely that they will follow the advice theyre 
given. With that in mind, I think the fair starting point in answering this question is that Mr B 
most likely would have followed JLTs recommendation and not transferred if JLT had done 
a full analysis of his circumstances, recommended that he not transfer, and given him 
clearer and fairer information on why transferring wasnt in his best interest (as Ive 
discussed above).However, there are obviously occasions where consumers have a pre-conceived idea of 
what they want to do and will proceed against advice irrespective of the consequences. I 
think JLTs argument that Mr B had made his mind up and would have transferred 
regardless isnt entirely without merit. Given the nature of the phone calls I think theres a 
possibility that Mr B was keen to get his hands on the cash windfall of nearly £3,700. And, in 
a sense, thats not surprising as its exactly what the employers incentive was designed to 
do ie incentivise Mr B to transfer away from the defined benefit pension. But I dont think this 
possibility is enough to move from the starting position outlined above.
I say that because Mr B was an inexperienced investor with a cautious attitude to risk. But by 
transferring he was taking a significant risk of losing the guarantees from his defined benefit 
pension. There was also no clear reason identified for why Mr B needed either the cash 
incentive (the money was actually spent on day-to-day expenses and on his children) or to 
transfer of his pension (eg for an investment opportunity). So if JLTs advice had been 
suitably robust I think its more likely than not that Mr B would have remained in the defined 
benefit scheme.
Putting things right
A fair and reasonable outcome would be for JLT to put Mr B, as far as possible, into the 
position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice. As above, I conclude that Mr B 
would have most likely remained in the defined benefit pension if suitable advice had been 
given.
JLT must therefore undertake a redress calculation in line with the rules for calculating 
redress for non-compliant pension transfer advice, as detailed in policy statement PS22/13 
and set out in the regulators handbook in DISP App 4: 
https://www.handbook.fca.org.uk/handbook/DISP/App/4/?view=chapter. 
For clarity, Mr B plans to retire at age 60. So, compensation should be based on him taking 
benefits at this age.
This calculation should be carried out using the most recent financial assumptions in line 
with PS22/13 and DISP App 4. In accordance with the regulators expectations, this should 
be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of 
notification of Mr Bs acceptance of the decision.
If the redress calculation demonstrates a loss, as explained in policy statement PS22/13 and 
set out in DISP App 4, JLT should:
calculate and offer Mr B redress as a cash lump sum payment
explain to Mr B before starting the redress calculation that:
oredress will be calculated on the basis that it will be invested prudently (in line 
with the cautious investment return assumption used in the calculation), and
oa straightforward way to invest the redress prudently is to use it to augment his 
defined contribution pension
offer to calculate how much of any redress Mr B receives could be augmented rather 
than receiving it all as a cash lump sum
if Mr B accepts JLTs offer to calculate how much of the redress could be augmented, 
request the necessary information and not charge Mr B for the calculation, even if he 
ultimately decides not to have any of their redress augmented, and
take a prudent approach when calculating how much redress could be augmented, given 
the inherent uncertainty around Mr Bs end of year tax position.Redress paid to Mr B as a cash lump sum includes compensation in respect of benefits that 
would otherwise have provided a taxable income. So, in line with DISP App 4, JLT may 
make a notional deduction to cash lump sum payments to take account of tax that 
consumers would otherwise pay on income from their pension. Typically, 25% of the loss 
could have been taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to 
Mr Bs likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making a notional 
deduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this. 
Where I uphold a complaint, I can award fair compensation of up to £190,000, plus any
interest and/or costs that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £190,000, I may recommend that the
business pays the balance.
My final decision
Determination and money award: I uphold this complaint and require JLT Consultants & 
Actuaries Limited to pay Mr B the compensation amount as set out in the steps above, up to 
a maximum of £190,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount exceeds £190,000, I also recommend that 
JLT Consultants & Actuaries Limited pays Mr B the balance.
If Mr B accepts this decision, the money award becomes binding on JLT Consultants & 
Actuaries Limited. My recommendation would not be binding. Further, its unlikely that Mr B 
can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mr B may want to consider 
getting independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept any final decision.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision before 17 November 2023.
 
Paul Daniel
Ombudsman