DRN-4062054
The complaint
Mr G complains National Savings and Investments (NS&I) provided poor customer service 
on multiple occasions.
Mr G is represented by his father in bringing this complaint. But for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to any submission and comments he has made as being made by Mr G himself.
What happened
Mr G has premium bonds in his name with NS&I. A change of details form was sent on his 
behalf to NS&I as the address they held for him was out of date. Mr G says after a number of 
weeks he received a letter from them which stated his forename(s) on the application was 
different to what they held on their records and they asked him to complete the attached 
form. Mr G says this was misleading as it did not state whether the information was needed 
for him or his father, who acts on his behalf.
After the letter was sent back to NS&I, Mr Gs father rang them for an update after not 
receiving any acknowledgement that the process was successful, and he was advised the 
changes had been completed with the letters sent. Post was sent on Mr Gs behalf to allow 
his father to register for online and phone service. But NS&I sent a letter to him to say the 
application could not be completed because they needed his date of birth. But again, it was 
not clear whether they wanted Mr Gs date of birth or his fathers date of birth. The letter also 
stated that the same form needed to be completed again and the form needed to be signed 
in the presence of a witness, but the letter didnt state why it needed to be witnessed and 
this was not mentioned on the application form as a requirement.
Due to the unclear nature of the letter, Mr Gs father rang NS&I where he spent over an hour 
trying to ascertain what information was needed by NS&I and why, and he was placed on 
numerous hold periods while the call handler spoke to colleagues to obtain information. Due 
to Mr Gs fathers date of birth being incorrect on their systems, he was advised to complete 
the same form again and re-post this. He was also told by a manager on the phone that he 
couldnt explain why the form needed to be witnessed. Mr G made a complaint to NS&I. He 
says his father was promised a call back and this didnt happen and the telephone number 
on their letter asked him to dial back on a wrong telephone number.
NS&I did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. They said that they employ various security 
measures, which they dont discuss publicly, but these can sometimes include the 
verification of customer details and signatures, therefore they needed to be provided with a 
witnesses signature in order to continue with the request. NS&I said they changed Mr Gs 
address on their system and sent an acknowledgement of this on 28 April 2022. They said 
regarding the online and phone registration form, as Mr Gs application form (which was 
completed by a third party), showed his fathers date of birth to be different than the date of 
birth on the registration form, then they need a witness signature for them to update their 
records. Mr G brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator did not uphold Mr Gs complaint. She said the first issue occurred when Mr 
Gs address was to be changed. But she said the reply form which was attached confirmed 
this was for the account holders details. In relation to the online phone and registration form, 
our investigator said that after listening to the call, the call handler explained that the date of 
birth for Mr Gs father didnt match the one NS&I received when Mr Gs account was first 
opened, and they explained they needed a witness signature. Our investigator said she was 
unable to say it was unreasonable for NS&I to request additional verification, especially after 
they received conflicting details. She explained that Mr G is the eligible complainant here 
and not his father, even though a lot of the complaint relates to service issues his father had.
Mr G asked for an Ombudsman to review his complaint. His representative made a number 
of points. He said that given he was acting on behalf of Mr G who isnt able to manage the 
premium bond, he doesnt agree that the eligible complainant is Mr G as he believes he is. 
He said regarding the incorrect forename issue, as the letter was not clear in the first place, 
this should be sufficient evidence on its own to recommend NS&I change their wording on 
future letters of this nature to avoid further confusion for other customers.
He also said that his issue is that NS&I didnt ask for a witness signature as standard 
practice before the registration form was submitted for any request for online services as this 
was one of their security measures in place, and even the back office staff including 
management were not familiar with this requirement. He said our service should advise 
NS&I that they need to improve by clearly advising customers of their security requirement 
on their online services request form and to ensure staff are adequately trained on this 
subject. He also says they handled his complaint poorly, including an incorrect telephone 
number and they used derogative language in their response to the complaint and he was 
promised a call back and this didnt occur.
As my findings differed in some respects from our investigators, I issued a provisional 
decision to give both parties the opportunity to consider things further. This is set out below:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has made a number of points to this service and Ive considered and read everything 
hes said and sent us. But, in line with this services role as a quick and informal body Ill be 
focusing on the crux of his complaint in deciding whats fair and reasonable here.
Id like to explain to Mr G that it is not within this services remit to tell a business how to run 
their identification procedures and when they should ask for a witness signature. Im also 
unable to ask NS&I to change the wording on any of their letters or instruct training be given 
to their staff. It would be the role of the regulator  the Financial Conduct Authority, who 
have the power to instruct NS&I to make changes to their policies and procedures, if 
necessary. 
Ive considered what Mr Gs representative has said about how Mr G shouldnt be the 
eligible complainant. Before we can look at the merits of a complaint, or in other words, 
whether what has happened is unfair, we have to make sure that the complaint is one that 
our service is able to consider. Our service doesnt have a free hand to consider any 
complaint which is referred to us. We must follow the rules, which say what we can and cant 
look at. Our rules can be found in the Dispute Resolution Rules (DISP) section of the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook. Our rules state the eligible complainant must 
be a consumer and under DISP 2.7.6 of our rules it states:
To be an eligible complainant a person must also have a complaint which arises from 
matters relevant to one or more of the following relationships with the respondent:
1. The complainant is (or was) a customer, payment service user or electronic money holder of the respondent
So Im satisfied that Mr G is the eligible complainant here. That is because the account is in 
his sole name. And while Mr Gs father may be able to act upon his behalf, the fact remains 
the account is in Mr Gs name. So Mr Gs father would not be the eligible complainant here 
as he is not the account holder.
Ive considered the events of what happened here from when Mr Gs address was to be 
changed. NS&I responded to Mr G which stated his forename on the application was 
different to what they held on their records. But Ive had a look at the account application and 
the change of details form, and I cant find any differences between either Mr Gs name on 
both forms or Mr Gs fathers name on both forms, so its not clear why he was sent the letter 
to say that the forename is incorrect. NS&I have confirmed they shouldnt have asked for this 
here. Its clear that an error occurred here and the handler who checked the change of 
details form made a mistake in saying the forename didnt match. It is likely that they were 
looking at Mr Gs fathers details instead of Mr Gs details and thats why they mistakenly 
thought the forename didnt match. Mr Gs father then needed to fill out a new form and send 
this to NS&I. NS&I have said that the form which was attached was clear that it was asking 
for Mr Gs details and not his fathers forename. 
But as Mr G himself is the eligible complainant, I need to consider what, if any inconvenience 
or distress he had as a result of the actions with his father and NS&I. And Im not persuaded 
that Mr G himself suffered any inconvenience or distress on this point. I say this as he did 
not fill in any extra forms or speak to NS&I about what had happened here  it was his father 
who did this. Its not apparent if Mr G had the capacity to understand the issues at play and 
therefore he was unaffected emotionally by what happened here. And this is why Mr Gs 
father was managing the account on Mr Gs behalf. His father had effectively shielded him 
from any distress or inconvenience here.
Ive then considered what happened when Mr Gs father completed a form to register for 
online and phone services. NS&I said that the date of birth didnt match, but they didnt 
explain whose date of birth didnt match their system. But as the request was made by Mr 
Gs father then Im satisfied that the letter was referring to him. But in my opinion, this wasnt 
too important. I say this because the form asks for both dates of birth (his and Mr Gs). So 
the wording on his main letter made no difference in this instance in my opinion as both 
dates of birth would be required on the attached form.
Im satisfied that NS&I were reasonable to ask Mr Gs father to provide this information. I say 
this because the date of birth he included on the original form was different to his date of 
birth on the system. So NS&I would need to be sure that they had the correct date of birth for 
him. One of the ways they can do this is by getting a witness signature to confirm all of the 
details are correct. I know he feels this should be part of their process at the application 
stage, but as Ive already mentioned, it is not for our service to say what documents should 
need witnessing and when.
In terms of the error with the date of birth, this wasnt picked up on the change of details form 
as this only required Mr Gs date of birth and not his fathers. So this is why it wasnt picked 
up earlier. Mr Gs father would usually be asked his age and not his date of birth on the 
phone calls he had with NS&I. As the date of birth was a matter of days and not months 
apart, this is why this wasnt picked up. But NS&I have confirmed to me that there was a call 
on 28 April 2022, where he went through security and he gave his date of birth  which didnt 
match up with the system (based on the details of the application form) and they should 
have addressed this situation at this time with him. Had they of done so, then its possible a 
witness signature could have been obtained earlier than it was asked for.  In terms of NS&Is requirement to receive a witness signature, they have confirmed that this 
is correct and its their procedure in this instance. But he received conflicting information on 
the phone on 15 June 2022 as a call handler said they didnt have his signature and that is 
why there was a witness signature required, but a manager told Mr Gs father that they didnt 
know why the form had to be witnessed, so this created more doubt in Mr Gs fathers mind 
of what was correct and what wasnt correct. And he would be more likely to believe a senior 
member of staff such as a manager, especially when he had said he checked with back 
office staff. 
Mr Gs father has said he thought the response to his complaint was lacking and NS&I didnt 
cover off all of his points. He also thought the letter was derogatory to him. While Im not 
persuaded that the language used in the letter was derogatory, NS&I have admitted that 
they have let Mr Gs father down in how they handled the complaint. They have 
acknowledged that they offered a call back to him on 28 June 2022, but no call back was 
made and they have said they didnt address all of his points which were made. For the 
overall service failings, NS&I have offered him £50 compensation, but he has declined this 
as he wanted me to make a decision on the complaint.
But even if NS&I may have let Mr Gs father down on multiple occasions, I cant say that they 
have caused the eligible complainant  Mr G himself, any distress or inconvenience directly. 
As Ive already mentioned, its not apparent if Mr G had the capacity to understand the 
issues at play here and any impact in terms of distress and inconvenience would have been 
on Mr Gs father, rather than Mr G. So his father may wish to contact NS&I if he wishes to 
accept the £50 they offered him. But it follows that I dont intend to ask NS&I to do anything 
further.
I invited both parties to let me have any further submissions before I reached a final 
decision. NS&I did not respond to the provisional decision. Mr G responded to the 
provisional decision. He said that he was disappointed with the provisional decision, but he 
understood the reasoning of it. He also commented on procedural points with our service, 
which our investigator has responded to him on these points.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party have provided me with any further information to consider about the merits 
of this complaint, then my decision and reasoning remains the same as in my provisional 
decision.
My final decision
I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision before 1 May 2023.
 
Gregory Sloanes
Ombudsman