DRN-3823600
The complaint
Mrs D complains about British Gas Insurance Limiteds poor service following a claim under 
her home emergency policy.
What happened
Mrs D discovered a leak in her home and contacted BG. It sent an engineer who diagnosed 
that the leak was causing damp, was located under concrete and needed an engineer to 
repair, what he classed as a long duration job. The engineer told Mrs D that an engineer 
would come the next day. But this didnt happen, and an engineer didnt attend until around 
four days later and fixed the leak. 
Mrs D complained to BG as she felt that the delay in sending the second engineer caused 
further damage to her property.  In its final response, BG offered Mrs D £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. It said that the water damage was already present as the leak had been ongoing 
for a few days and had caused the damage. So, it advised Mrs D to claim on her home 
insurance. 
Mrs D was given her referral rights and referred her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered the complaint and thought it should be upheld. He said that 
essentially, it took BG longer than it ought to have done to attend and repair the leak, which 
was at its worst while Mrs D was waiting for BG. He recommended that BG needed to do 
more to address the impact this had on Mrs D, by increasing its compensation from £100 to 
£250.
BG accepted the view, Mrs D did not. She said that the damage that was caused would cost 
significantly more to repair than the £250 recommended. So, she asked for a decision from 
an ombudsman. 
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I will uphold this complaint, but for much the same reasons as our 
investigator. I understand that this may be a disappointment to Mrs D, but I hope my findings 
go some way in explaining why Ive reached this decision. 
I note that Mrs D has made a number of detailed points, which I have read and considered. I 
hope the fact that I dont respond in similar detail here wont be taken as a discourtesy. As 
an informal dispute resolution service, we are tasked with reaching a fair and reasonable 
conclusion with the minimum of formality. In doing so, it isnt necessary for me to respond to 
every point made, but to concentrate on the crux of the issue. And I think the main issue 
here, as BG has accepted the recommendations in the view, is the level of compensation 
that our investigator has recommended that BG pay. 
Mrs D found a leak and contacted BG whom she held a home emergency policy with. BG 
accepted that it sent an engineer who initially diagnosed a long duration job, as the leak was 
under concrete. BG didnt repair the leak until around four days later. And Mrs D said that 
this caused damage to her home.
Ive had a look at the policy terms and conditions to see what BGs obligations were. 
Especially as BG said that it wasnt responsible for the damage caused to Mrs Ds home. 
The policy states: were not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of 
property, furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or 
failing unless we caused it, for example damage caused by water leaks. I think the term is 
clear that BG wont be responsible for damage caused by water leaks. But as BG didnt 
attend and repair the leak sooner, I think the impact of this should be recognised in the level 
of compensation. 
Mrs D has provided water readings in support of her complaint. These show that the rate 
was higher than normal and particularly higher during the four days that she waited for BG to 
attend. So, whilst I think Mrs D would be responsible for the damage the original leak 
caused, Im satisfied that there was damage that was caused as a result of the delay in BG 
attending. 
I have considered the level of compensation. Initially BG offered £100 as a gesture of 
goodwill. It agreed with our investigator that it should increase the amount to £250. Whilst 
some of the damage was caused before BG attended (which Mrs D would be responsible 
for). Some of the damage was caused whilst Mrs D waited for BG to complete the repair. 
The policy terms state that BG wont be responsible for damage caused by delayed 
appointments. So, Ive taken this into account as well, as it could be argued that BG couldnt 
be held responsible for any damage caused due to the delayed appointment. Accordingly, I 
dont think its reasonable for BG to cover all of the damage expenses, but I do think that BG 
ought to recognise the distress that Mrs D was subjected to. And I  think its fair and 
reasonable that BG increase its original offer of £100 to £250, for the impact of the delay in 
not attending to the leak sooner. 
Taking all of this into consideration, I do think that Mrs D suffered distress and 
inconvenience and I do think that should be reflected in the compensation that BG ought to 
pay. So, I think its fair and reasonable for BG to pay a total of £250 to Mrs D, for the trouble 
and upset caused. 
Putting things right
To put matters right, I direct BG as outlined below.
My final decision
For the reasons given, I uphold Mrs Ds complaint. 
To put matters right, British Gas Insurance Limited to:
Pay Mrs D £250 compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the amount within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mr J accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on the 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.If British Gas Insurance Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
deduct income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should 
also give Mrs D a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision before 26 December 2022.
 
Ayisha Savage
Ombudsman