DRN-2922387
The complaint
Mr D complains Acromas Insurance Company Ltd hasnt dealt with his motorhome theft 
claim fairly.
What happened
Mr D insured his motorhome through Acromas. In February 2018, he decided to sell it, and 
took it to a dealer to do this  signing an agreement that the dealer would sell the 
motorhome for at least £33,000. He left his motorhome, and the keys, with the dealer.
Shortly afterwards, the dealer sold the motorhome but didnt tell Mr D  who only found out 
about the sale in May 2018 when he received change of ownership documents from DVLA. 
The dealer retained all of the money. Two months later, the dealership entered Liquidation.
Mr D submitted a theft claim to Acromas. However, Acromas declined the claim, saying that 
Mr D had willingly given the motorhome and keys to the dealer, and these particular 
circumstances were not covered under the policy  in other words, Acromas said there had 
been no theft. Mr D raised a number of arguments with Acromas regarding whether he had 
been the victim of theft by deception, but Acromas position remained the same.
Unhappy with this, Mr D brought his complaint to us  he was unhappy with the claim 
outcome and also the lack of communication received from Acromas. Our investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint. Referring to the terms of Mr Ds policy, our investigator said the theft 
condition of Mr Ds policy didnt apply, because hed willingly given the keys and motorhome 
to the dealer. And our investigator also thought Mr Ds claim was processed in a reasonable 
timeframe. Unhappy with this, Mr D asked for his complaint to be considered by an 
ombudsman, and the case was passed to me.
In the meantime, the company operating the dealership was investigated by the Insolvency 
Service, resulting in the director of the dealership signing a Disqualification Undertaking in 
relation to her conduct running the company. At the same time, she was subject to a Police 
investigation, which resulted in her being charged with certain theft offences.
Because of these developments, Acromas agreed that an act of theft, as covered by Mr Ds 
policy, had occurred. They settled Mr Ds claim and paid him £30,000 in March 2021, less 
£100 excess. Acromas also paid Mr D £100 compensation for customer service failings from 
January 2021 onwards.
However, Mr D remained unhappy with the way Acromas had acted throughout his claim 
journey, particularly being given differing reasons for the claim being denied. Hes also 
unhappy that interest hasnt been added to the settlement. He asked for these complaints to 
be considered further.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 11 June 2021 in which I said as follows: 
Firstly, I need to address the issue of whether Mr D has raised new complaint points, or 
these complaints are part of his initial complaint to Acromas. I say this because his initial 
complaint was about the way Acromas assessed/refused his claim, and the customer 
service problems he faced. Whereas the complaint now is also about the lack of interest 
awarded after settlement was made.
I asked Acromas for their comments on this, saying I thought it was pragmatic for Mr Ds 
current complaint points to be considered alongside matters to do with his initial claim. I 
didnt receive a response from Acromas. Notwithstanding, I think its appropriate for me to 
consider Mr Ds current complaint points, as they are inextricably linked to the first complaint. 
They all form part of the same claim journey, namely how Acromas dealt with Mr Ds claim 
for the theft of his motorhome, and how they calculated the amount to be paid to him as 
settlement.
The first thing I need to consider is whether Acromas should have settled the claim earlier 
than they did. And having considered all of the evidence, I think they should have. 
I acknowledge what Acromas said about why they thought no theft had taken place  initially 
that Mr D had willingly handed over his keys to the dealer, and that theft by deception isnt 
covered by Mr Ds policy. However, I think the way Acromas applied/considered these policy 
terms in Mr Ds particular circumstances didnt achieve a fair outcome for Mr D.
Mr D took his motorhome to the dealer in good faith and acting on the specific 
representations made by the dealer  that shed list it for sale with a view to paying him 
£33,000 as soon as it was sold  he handed over the keys specifically for that purpose. 
It became clear when reading the 2020 Disqualification Undertaking that, when the dealer 
made those representations, she had no intention of honouring what she said or what her 
sale contract with Mr D said. She admits in the Undertaking that from 2017 onwards she 
entered into sale agreements knowing that the proceeds she generated from each sale 
would be used to repay historic business liabilities from previous motorhome sale 
agreements. And her company (which operated the dealership) had been served with a 
compulsory winding-up petition in 2017 as well, six months before Mr D approached her.
I appreciate Acromas wouldnt have been aware of this at the time Mr D made his claim, as 
the Undertaking was only agreed in 2020 after an investigation had taken place.  
evertheless, the events at the time were, I think, sufficiently clear to show the dealer had in 
effect taken Mr Ds motorhome with no intention of ever paying him for it. She sold it for 
nearly £10,000 less than had been expected/agreed and didnt tell Mr D shed sold it  Mr D 
only found out when he received DVLA sale documents months later. So I think, in these 
circumstances, the fair thing for Acromas to have done would have been to accept the 
dealer had, effectively, stolen Mr Ds motorhome. And honour the claim at that point.Acromas also initially declined the claim on the basis Mr D didnt tell them hed moved the 
motorhome to a different address. Mr Ds policy says that:
 
It is most important that you tell us as quickly as possible of any changes that 
occurif you do not it is possible a claim will not be recovered [some examples 
being]change of address, including where your vehicle will be kept overnight
Its not in dispute Mr D didnt advise Acromas hed moved his motorhome to the dealers 
premises. But I think theres a difference between a policyholder not telling their insurer 
theyve either moved home or moved their motorhome to a new permanent storage location 
 these are long term changes to the risk address that an insurer needs to know about  as 
opposed to not telling the insurer theyve moved it to a secure well-established dealership for 
a short time for the purpose of selling it. And there is nothing in Mr Ds policy that specifically 
mentions not being covered if he moves his motorhome to a dealership for the purposes of 
selling it. So, I dont think it was fair in these circumstances that Acromas also relied on the 
new location exclusion as a reason to decline the claim.
So, taken together, I think it would have been fair and reasonable for Acromas to have 
settled the claim much earlier than they did. And I think, on balance, that time should have 
been shortly after Mr D first raised his theft claim. Mr D contacted Acromas to report the theft 
in June 2018, and so allowing a month or so for Acromas to properly investigate, Id have 
reasonably expected them to settle the claim by August 2018.
Mr D has already explained how this matter affected him  hes had to borrow money for a 
new car for instance, and the sale money was to help fund his retirement. Im satisfied Mr D 
has experienced a clear detriment here, and so I think its fair for Acromas to pay interest on 
the £30,000 settlement sum at a rate of 8% simple interest, using our standard interest 
calculation method, from 1 August 2018 to the date it is paid.
I also want to address the level of compensation Mr D has been paid. Acromas paid £100 to 
reflect customer service failings from January 2021 onwards  which I dont think is enough. 
At various times during his claim journey with Acromas, Mr D had to make multiple phone 
calls before speaking with an agent, send multiple emails before points hed raised were 
properly addressed, and hed been given confusing and differing reasons why his claim was 
originally declined. Mr D says these have together caused him significant distress, which I 
accept. And because of this, I think Acromas should pay Mr D a further compensation 
payment of £300 to fully reflect the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received a response from Acromas to my provisional decision. Mr D has 
responded, however, to confirm that he accepts my suggested outcome. So, in the absence 
of any further information from Acromas, and for the reasons set out in my provisional 
decision, I uphold Mr Ds complaint.
 My final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint against Acromas Insurance Company Ltd, and require them to do 
the following:
- Pay Mr D 8% simple interest on the £30,000 settlement theyve already paid him, 
calculated from 1 August 2018 until the date it is paid;
- Pay Mr D a further £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience  
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 11 August 2021.
 
Mark Evans
Ombudsman