DRN-4127203
The complaint
Mr D says that Oplo PL Ltd (who Ill refer to as Oplo) unfairly rejected his complaint about
the sale of a timeshare he financed through them.
Mr D has been represented by a professional representative throughout this claim, and hes
made the claim on behalf of himself and his wife, who entered into the timeshare agreement
with him. As the finance agreement is in Mr Ds sole name, Ill refer only to him in this
decision. I mean no disrespect to his wife or his representatives when doing so. 
What happened
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint last month. An extract from that 
provisional decision is set out below.
Mr D visited Malta and signed up for a timeshare product with a company Ill call Az in
September 2018 (the Time of Sale). Mr D funded the timeshare agreement through a fixed
sum loan with a company Ill call H  which was subsequently assigned to Oplo
He said he was told the points he was buying would be an investment, that Az would sell the
points for a substantial profit if he wished to sell at any time, and if he had any points he
couldnt use, he had the option to sell those on an annual basis and make a profit to cover
the finance repayments. He said that since hed made the purchase, he had found the points
couldnt be resold and that he was now stuck with the points and the debt. Mr D also
explained that Az had now gone into liquidation, and he said that meant that he couldnt
benefit from the purchase as the product no longer existed.
Mr D subsequently escalated his complaint to this service, and he enlarged on his complaint.
He said the finance was arranged in his absence, and that he hadnt been given an
opportunity to take the papers away and consider them. He also explained he was aware
another bank had compensated their customers for their claims against Az and he couldnt
understand why his claim would be different.
H said Mr D hadnt contacted them to withdraw within the 14-day cooling off period. They
said there was no mention of the timeshare being an investment in the contractual
paperwork that had been provided. They noted that the Membership Club Standard
Information that Mr D had signed, explained that a resale facility would be available in 2023
but Resale values or timeframes cannot be guaranteed and are subject to offer and
demand. They explained that although Az had been liquidated a new management
company V had been appointed and they were able to fully service Mr Ds timeshare
membership. So, Mr Ds rights hadnt been affected.
Our investigator didnt think there was evidence the agreement had been misrepresented to
Mr D, or that thered been a breach of contract. He explained that, as Mr D hadnt
complained about not having been present when the finance was arranged hed need to
raise that issue with the finance company before this Service could consider any escalation
of that complaint.
Mr D didnt agree with the investigator, and he therefore asked for a decision by an
ombudsman.
What Ive provisionally decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service cant usually consider the merits of new complaints if they havent been made to
the business first. On this occasion, I can see that Oplo (or H) have considered the merits of
some of the issues Mr D has raised since his initial complaint, and that they havent objected
to this service considering the complaint as a whole. And given its age, it seems to me to be
in everyones interest if I now deal with everything. I am, however, issuing a provisional
decision to allow both parties the opportunity to respond to the decision Im currently inclined
to make.
Im required by DISP 3.6.4R of the Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCAs) Handbook to take
into account the relevant, laws and regulations, regulators rules, guidance, and standards,
codes of practice and, when appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry
practice at the relevant time.
The Financial Ombudsman Service is designed to be a quick and informal alternative to the
courts under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA). Given that, my role as an
ombudsman is not to address every single point that has been made. Instead, it is to decide
what is fair and reasonable given the circumstances of this complaint. And for that reason, I
am only going to refer to what I think are the most salient points. But I have read all of the
submissions from both sides in full and I keep in mind all of the points that have been made
when I set out my final decision.
I understand that Mr D is frustrated that another bank has compensated customers of Az for
what he believes to have been similar misrepresentations. The circumstances of that case
were different than those Mr D has referred to us, and whilst Ive considered that case, Ive
not found the outcome, or the other banks position, to be helpful in the circumstances of
Mr Ds complaint.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA) 1974
When something goes wrong and the payment was made with a certain type of fixed sum
loan, as was the case here, it might be possible to make a section 75 claim. This section of
the CCA says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under a credit agreement has a
right to make the same claim against the credit provider as against the supplier if there's
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
From what I can see, all the necessary criteria for a claim to be made under section 75 have
been met.
It's not for me to decide the outcome of a claim Mr D may have under the CCA but Im
required to it into account when deciding whether Oplo have, or would be, reasonable to
reject his claims.
If Mr D was given a false statement of fact or law, and if that false statement was a
significant reason why he entered into the agreement I may think the agreement had been
misrepresented to him. In those circumstances I may think Oplo were unreasonable not to
consider and uphold a claim under section 75.Mr D says he was wrongly told the timeshare was an investment, but hes provided no
further evidence to support that assertion and I cant see that the contractual paperwork
explained that was the case either. Im not therefore persuaded that the timeshare
agreement was misrepresented to him on those grounds.
Neither am I persuaded that there was a false statement of fact made about the potential to
resell the points, or any unused points. The Membership Club Standard Information explains
that a resale facility will become available, but it doesnt guarantee that a resale will be
possible; only that it will subject to offer and demand.
When Mr D raised his claim with H I can understand his concern that Az were being
liquidated and that he wouldnt therefore be able to benefit from his membership. But shortly
after he raised his complaint, a new management company V were appointed, so, I dont
think theres been a breach of contract here as it appears Mr D is still able to benefit from his
timeshare agreement in the same way as he was before Azs liquidation.
The claim under section 140A of the CCA
Section 140A of the CCA looks at the fairness of the relationship between a debtor and
creditor arising out of the credit agreement. Mr D didnt explicitly make a claim to H or Oplo
under section 140A but elements of the claim he made can, I think, only reasonably be
considered under this section of the Act.
Section 56 of the CCA explains, in broad terms, that any negotiations between Mr D and Az
or the credit broker are deemed to have been conducted by Az or the credit broker as an
agent of the lender (now Oplo). This includes any representations made by Az or the credit
broker and any other dealings between them.
So, pre-contractual acts or omissions of Az or the credit broker will be deemed to be the
responsibility of Oplo, and this may be taken into account by a court in deciding whether an
unfair relationship exists between Mr D and Oplo.
The lengthy presentation.
We know it is common that these sales presentations often lasted for a number of hours.
Mr D has explained that they were subjected to a hard sell and were left exhausted, hungry,
and thirsty by the time they were asked to sign up for the timeshare agreement. Ive
therefore considered whether there is evidence that Mr Ds ability to exercise choice was
significantly impaired by those issues, or the suppliers failure to accommodate them.
I dont think Ive been provided with sufficient information to suggest Mr D didnt understand
he didnt have to say yes to the agreement, or that he didnt understand he couldnt walk
away without entering into it. He was also provided with a 14-day cooling off period and I
think, even with those issues in mind, that was sufficient time for him to ask for clarification,
reflect and if necessary, withdraw from the agreement and the loan
Overall, Im not persuaded that Mr Ds ability to exercise choice was  or was likely to have
been  significantly impaired.
Was the finance arranged in Mr Ds presence?
Mr D says he wasnt present when the finance was arranged, but hes signed the credit
agreement and he was given 14 days to consider it and withdraw from the agreement. So, I
dont think that the relationship between Oplo and Mr D was unfair for this reason. And as Ihavent seen enough to suggest that there are any other relevant considerations that might
mean the relationship between Mr D and Oplo was unfair, Im not persuaded thats the
conclusion a court would reach.
My provisional decision
For the reasons Ive given above Im not currently inclined to uphold this complaint.
Comments from the parties since my provisional decision
Oplo confirmed they had no further comments for me to consider, but Mr Ds representative 
did provide some further comments, saying:
The fact that (another bank) have paid out everybody for the same resort , same
company, leaves Mr D angry I do know however this is a points based system, however; it is 
still the same representatives whom sold Az and the same company so to say that they 
suddenly started selling this product Legitimately seems off to us and Mr D
I explained in my provisional decision that:
The circumstances of that case were different than those Mr D has referred to us, and whilst 
Ive considered that case, Ive not found the outcome, or the other banks position, to be 
helpful in the circumstances of Mr Ds complaint. 
Whilst I understand some of the same parties were involved I still think the circumstances 
were different, and Im not therefore minded to change my provisional decision.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision therefore becomes my final decision on this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons Ive given above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision before 16 June 2023.
 
Phillip McMahon
Ombudsman