DRN-3225767
The complaint
Mr W complains about how Vitality Health Limited dealt with a claim against his private
medical insurance policy.
What happened
The details of this complaint are well known to both parties, so I wont repeat them again 
here in full. In summary, Mr W has a healthcare plan with Vitality. He made a claim against 
his plan which was in place July 2019 to July 2020. The claim was for surgery for a 
prolapsed spinal disc. Under that years plan, no excess was payable.
On 9 June 2020, Vitality authorised spinal surgery for Mr W. Included in that authorisation 
was up to eight panel physiotherapy sessions, amongst other things. I understand that    
Mr W had surgery on 16 June 2020. Vitality paid for the first physiotherapy session which 
took place on 29 June 2020.
On 6 July 2020, Mr W renewed his policy and chose an excess of £250 per person, per 
claim in order to reduce the premium. Vitality subsequently told Mr W that hed need to pay 
invoices in relation to physiotherapy treatment which took place after the renewal date, as 
his plan has an excess of £250. Mr W wasnt happy about that. There was an additional 
issue about payment for the removal of stitches, which I understand was resolved.
Essentially, Mr W says that its unfair to apply an excess to an ongoing claim. He believed 
that his physiotherapy sessions were covered as they were part of the original 
authorisation. He wants Vitality to pay for the physiotherapy sessions it authorised, but 
which took place after renewal in July 2020.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He thought that Vitality should 
cover Mr Ws physiotherapy sessions in line with its original authorisation and pay
compensation of £50 in relation to distress and inconvenience.
Mr C agreed with the investigator, but Vitality didnt agree. It said:
Mr Ws plan is an annually renewable contract.
On renewal, it asked Mr W whether he had any ongoing treatment and he 
answered no, which was incorrect.
It doesnt dispute that the physiotherapy treatment is part of an ongoing claim, 
but the claim has moved into a new plan year with new terms and conditions.
It cant allow Mr W to add an excess on renewal to reduce his premium and then 
not apply that excess to treatment he knew was about the take place.
In its final decision letter, it addressed Mr Ws assertion that on renewal it told 
him that his excess wouldnt apply immediately.
The investigator considered what had been said but it didnt change his view. Vitality 
asked that an ombudsman consider the matter, so it was passed to me to decide.
Mr W raised a similar issue in relation to a claim for his son. The investigator explained 
that we couldnt look at that issue as part of this complaint, as Vitality hadnt had an 
opportunity to address it. In this decision, Im dealing with the issues raised by Mr W to 
which Vitality responded in its final decision letter of 12 August 2020. Thats because 
Vitality has had an opportunity to address those issues. If there are further matters Mr W 
wishes to complain about then, as the investigator has explained, he should take that up 
with Vitality in the first instance.
My provisional decision
On 24 November 2021, I sent both parties my provisional decision in this complaint. I 
indicated that I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint. I said:
the relevant policy terms and conditions
The starting point is the terms and conditions of Mr Ws plan, the relevant parts of which say 
as follows:
SUMMARY OF COVER AND EXCLUSIONS
[]
HOW LONG DOES THE PLAN LAST AND HOW CAN IT CHANGE?
Personal Healthcare is an annual insurance contract which means that the 
premiums, benefits, terms and conditions last for one year at a time, and can 
change at each annual renewal date.
PAYING PREMIUMS AND RENEWING YOUR PLAN
In this section we have set out the rules on paying premiums and also what happens at your 
plan renewal date.
[]
6.6 Your entitlement to benefit will end after the last day of the period covered by your final 
premium payment. In such circumstances, we will only be liable for the cost of eligible
treatment that takes place before that date.
6.7 Once your cover under this plan ends, no further benefit will be payable for any 
treatment received after that date by you or any of your insured dependents. This will be 
the case even if:
a claim started before your cover ended, or
you or any of your insured dependents are in the middle of treatment, or
you have previously notified us of further treatment that is due to take place 
after your cover has ended.3.6 GENERAL CLAIMS CONDITIONS
[]
If an excess applies under your plan, we will deduct this amount from the first invoice we 
pay (and the next invoice if any excess still remains). We will tell you when weve done 
this and you will then need to pay the excess amount to the relevant person, hospital or 
other facility that provided your treatment.
DEFINITIONS
[]
EXCESS  PER CLAIM
[]
The maximum amount you will have to pay each time you or your insured dependents
make a new claim for treatment covered by this plan. []
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant rules and industry guidance say that Vitality has a responsibility to handle 
claims promptly and fairly and it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
I dont propose to uphold Mr Ws complaint as I dont think that Vitality treated him 
unfairly. Ill explain why.
Each annual plan is a new agreement between Mr W and Vitality with new terms 
and conditions. That means that when treatment goes into a new plan year, its 
subject to the terms and conditions applicable at the time of the treatment. Thats 
confirmed by clause 6.7 which Ive outlined above and is a common term in most 
private medical insurance policies.
There was no excess payable under Mr Ws plan for July 2019 to July 2020. But 
Mr W agreed to pay an excess of £250 per person, per claim in relation to the   
July 2020 to July 2021 plan. So, Vitality was entitled to ask Mr W to pay for the 
physiotherapy treatment up to the excess in the July 2020 to July 2021 plan year, 
as that was in accordance with the terms Mr W had agreed to on renewal.
Ive listened to the phone call between Mr W and Vitality on renewal. Mr W wanted 
to reduce the premium. Vitality asked Mr W Where are we with any claims on the 
policy?. Mr W said that his claim was done and dusted. That wasnt in fact 
correct, as Mr Ws physiotherapy treatment was ongoing.
I appreciate that Mr W may have considered that the bulk of his treatment was 
complete but as he didnt answer accurately, Vitality lost the opportunity to explain 
to him what choosing an excess for the new plan would mean for his treatment 
after renewal.
Mr W has referred to other phone calls he had with Vitality in which he says it gave 
him conflicting information. Weve asked Vitality about this and it says that it has 
no additional call recordings in relation to the issue in dispute, so I havent heard 
any evidence to support what Mr W says about this.
Vitality says that in its final decision letter, it addressed Mr Ws assertion that on 
renewal, it told him that the excess wouldnt apply immediately. I cant see that it 
addressed that point in the final decision letter. But Ive seen nothing to support  
Mr Ws recollection that Vitality misled him about when the excess would apply.
For the reasons Ive explained, I dont think that Vitality treated Mr W unfairly in 
applying the excess due under the July 2020 to July 2021 plan.Responses to my provisional decision
Vitality said that it had nothing further to add. Mr W said, in summary:
He made numerous phone calls to Vitality about this issue and was given 
conflicting information on a number of occasions.
The remaining physiotherapy sessions werent a subsequent claim: this was an 
ongoing claim.
Vitality promised to return his calls on numerous occasions in order to discuss his 
complaint but didnt do so.
He cant understand how Vitality can now say there werent other phone calls. 
He agrees with the investigators view.
The excess he agreed to pay in relation to the July 2020 to July 2021 plan was to 
be applied to any new claims, not the ongoing claim.
When he said that his claim was done and dusted he was referring to the 
operation, not the physiotherapy. 
Hes concerned that Vitality says that there are no additional call recordings. 
Vitality treated him unfairly.
What Ive decided  and why
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Each annual plan stands alone, and the policy provides that theres no further benefit 
payable for treatment received after the end date of the plan, even if the insured is in the 
middle of treatment. So, when Mr W claimed for treatment which took place after the        
July 2019 to July 2020 plan had ended, I dont think that Vitality treated him unfairly in 
applying the excess which related to the July 2020 to July 2021 plan. 
This service asked Vitality for further call recordings, but it said that it doesnt have any that 
related to this dispute. I appreciate thats frustrating for Mr W but Im afraid it means that I 
cant safely conclude that Vitality misled him. Even if I was satisfied that Vitality provided    
Mr W with conflicting information, as Mr W alleges, it wouldnt necessarily mean that Id 
conclude that Vitality shouldnt apply the excess in this case: Id look at the effect of any 
misleading information on Mr W. 
Mr W is concerned about how Vitality handled his complaint. This service can only consider 
complaints about financial services. So, I cant consider the points that Mr W has raised 
about the handling of his complaint, because it isnt a regulated activity.
I appreciate that Mr W thinks that Vitality should deal with his physiotherapy sessions under 
the July 2019 to July 2020 plan, but thats not consistent with the plans terms and 
conditions.   
Ive considered what Mr W has said. Im sorry to disappoint him but I remain of the view that 
Vitality didnt treat him unfairly in applying the excess due under the July 2020 to July 2021 
plan. My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision before 14 February 2022. 
Louise Povey
Ombudsman